CENTRAL CITY, NEBRASKA
CODE OF ORDINANCES
2024 S-2 Supplement Contains:
Local Legislation current through Ordinance No. 1133, passed 9-9-2024
 
Published by:
AMERICAN LEGAL PUBLISHING
525 Vine Street, Ste. 310
Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
1-800-445-5588 www.amlegal.com
CHAPTER 1: CIVIL ADMINISTRATION
Article
   
I.   MAYOR AND CITY COUNCIL
   
II.   APPOINTIVE OFFICERS
   
III.   ADMINISTRATION
   
IV.   ORDINANCES
   
V.   FISCAL MANAGEMENT
   
VI.   POLICE DEPARTMENT
   
VII.   PLANNING COMMISSION
   
VIII.   BOARD OF HEALTH
   
IX.   CITY TREE BOARD
   
X.   LIBRARY
   
XI.   COMMUNITY REDEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY
   
XII.   ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM
   
XIII.   BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT
   
XIV.   MUNICIPAL CEMETERY
   
XV.   MUNICIPAL AIRPORT
   
XVI.   HOUSING AUTHORITY BOARD
   
XVII.   FAIR HOUSING
   
XVIII.   ELECTIONS
   
XIX.   PENSION PLAN
   
XX.   PARKS AND SWIMMING POOL
   
XXI.   PENAL PROVISION
   
XXII.   COMMUNICABLE DISEASES
   XXIII.   CITY-OWNED, CONTROLLED, AND LEASED PROPERTY
   XXIV.   LOTTERY
ARTICLE I: MAYOR AND CITY COUNCIL
Section
   
1-101   Corporate existence
   
1-102   City Council; selection and duties
   
1-103   City Council; organization
   
1-104   Mayor; duties and powers
   
1-105   Mayor; vacancy
   
1-106   President of Council; Acting President
   
1-107   Succession of control
   
1-108   Vacancies in city offices
   
1-109   Officers’ salaries
   
1-110   Compensation; city employees
   
1-111   Compensation; conflict of interest
§ 1-101 CORPORATE EXISTENCE.
   The city, having a population of more than 800, but less than 5,000, is
hereby declared to be a city of the Second Class and shall be governed in all
respects by the laws regulating cities of the Second Class.
§ 1-102 CITY COUNCIL: SELECTION AND DUTIES.
   The members of the City Council shall be elected and serve for a four-year
term. The City Council shall be the legislative division of the city government
and shall perform such duties and have such powers as may be authorized by law.
The Council shall have all powers granted under the laws of the state,
including, but not limited to, the following: power to pass ordinances to
prevent and remove nuisances; to prevent, restrain and suppress gambling and
disorderly houses; to license and regulate amusements; to establish and provide
for police protection; to prevent the spread of contagious diseases; to
regulate business; to erect, repair, construct and regulate public ways and
property; to maintain good government, public welfare and domestic
tranquillity; and to enforce all ordinances by inflicting penalties upon
inhabitants or other persons for violation thereof not exceeding the amount
permitted by state law for each offense, recoverable with costs, together with
enforcement by injunction where necessary.
§ 1-103 CITY COUNCIL; ORGANIZATION.
   (A)   The term of office of the City Council is four years. The election of
the Council members shall be held on the date of the statewide general
election.
   (B)   The Council members who were elected in the 1994 statewide primary
election shall hold their term of office until the first regular meeting of the
Council in December of 1998, with a successor to be elected at the statewide
general election of 1998 and every four years thereafter. The newly elected
Council members who have qualified as prescribed by law, together with the
members of the City Council holding over, shall assemble in a regular meeting
at the hour and place hereinafter prescribed and perfect the reorganization of
the City Council as herein provided, and all appointive offices in which the
terms of incumbents are expired shall be filled by appointment. After the said
meeting has been called to order, the City Clerk shall report to the City
Council the names of all Council members-elect who have qualified for their
respective offices and this report shall be spread upon the minutes of the
meeting preceding the roll call.
   (C)   Each ward of the city shall be represented by at least three Council
members. No person shall be eligible who is not at the time of his or her
election an actual resident of the ward for which he or she is qualified, and
should any Council member move from the ward from which he or she was elected,
his or her office shall thereby become vacant.
§ 1-104 MAYOR; DUTIES AND POWERS.
   (A)   (1)   The Mayor shall preside at all meetings of the City Council of a
city of the Second Class. The Mayor may vote on any matter that requires either
a majority vote of the City Council or a majority vote of all the elected
members of the City Council if:
         (a)   The Mayor’s vote is required due to the City Council members
being equally divided; or
         (b)   A majority of the City Council members or majority vote of all
the elected members cannot be reached due to absence, vacancy, or abstention of
one of more City Council members.
      (2)   For purposes of such vote, the Mayor is deemed to be a member of
the City Council. He or she shall have superintendence and control of all the
officers and affairs of the city and shall take care that the ordinances of the
city and all laws governing cities of the Second Class are complied with.
   (B)   The Mayor shall have the power to approve or veto any ordinance passed
by the City Council and to approve or veto any order, bylaw, resolution, award
of or vote to enter into any contract, or the allowance of any claim. If the
Mayor approves the ordinance, order, bylaw, resolution, contract or claim, he
or she shall sign it, and it shall become effective. If the Mayor vetoes the
ordinance, order, bylaw, resolution, contract or any item or items of
appropriations or claims, he or she shall return it to the City Council stating
that the measure is vetoed. The Mayor may issue the veto at the meeting at
which the measure passed or within seven calendar days after the meeting. If
the Mayor issues the veto after the meeting, the Mayor shall notify the City
Clerk of the veto in writing. The Clerk shall notify the City Council in
writing of the Mayor’s veto. Any ordinance, order, bylaw, resolution, award of
or vote to enter into any contract, or the allowance of any claim vetoed by the
Mayor, may be passed over his or her veto by a vote of two-thirds of all the
members elected to the Council. If the Mayor neglects or refuses to sign any
ordinance, order, bylaw, resolution, award of or vote to enter into any
contract, or the allowance of any claim, but fails to veto the measure within
the time required by this section, the measure shall become effective without
his or her signature. The Mayor may veto any item or items of any appropriation
bill, or any claims bill, and approve the remainder thereof, and the item or
items so vetoed may be passed by the Council over the veto as in other cases.
   (C)   The Mayor shall, from time to time, communicate to the City Council
such information and recommend such measures as, in his or her opinion, may
tend to the improvement of the finances, the police, health, security,
ornament, comfort and general prosperity of the city.
   (D)   The Mayor shall have the power, when he or she deems it necessary, to
require any officer of the city to exhibit his or her accounts or other papers,
and to make reports to the Council, in writing, touching any subject or matter
pertaining to his or her office.
   (E)   The Mayor shall have such jurisdiction as may be vested in him or her
by ordinance, over all places within five miles of the corporate limits of the
city, for the enforcement of any health or quarantine ordinance and regulation
thereof, and shall have jurisdiction in ah matters vested in him or her by
ordinance, excepting taxation, within one-half mile of the corporate limits of
said city.
   (F)   The Mayor shall have power to remit fines and forfeitures, and to
grant reprieves and pardons for all offenses arising under the ordinances of
the city.
(Ord. 977, passed 7-14-2014; Ord. 1103, passed 8-14-2023)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-110 through 17-114 and 17-117
§ 1-105 MAYOR; VACANCY.
   In the event of the vacancy of a Mayor by reason of resignation, death or
inability to perform the functions of Mayor, the City Council shall elect one
of its members as Mayor for the balance of the unexpired term.
§ 1-106 PRESIDENT OF COUNCIL; ACTING PRESIDENT.
   The City Council shall elect one of its own body each year who shall be
styled the President of the Council, and who shall preside at all meetings of
the City Council in the absence of the Mayor. In the absence of the Mayor and
the President, the Council shall elect one of its own body to occupy his or her
place temporarily, who shall be styled “Acting President of the Council”. The
President and Acting President, when occupying the place of the Mayor, shall
have the same privileges as other members of the Council; and all acts of the
President of the Council or Acting President of the Council, while so acting,
shall be as binding upon the Council and upon the city as if done by the Mayor.
§ 1-107 SUCCESSION OF CONTROL.
   (A)   In order to designate the succession of control of the city and to
declare and control a disaster or emergency when the Mayor is not present or is
unable to act as the principal executive officer of the city, then the
following is the procedure used to determine who is next in line to fulfill
those duties and responsibilities.
   (B)   If the Mayor is not present or is incapable of performing his or her
duties in order to declare a disaster or emergency and/or act as principal
executive officer in a disaster or emergency situation, then the President of
the City Council shall perform those functions and duties. Should the President
of the Council not be present or is unable to perform those functions and
duties, then the next most senior elected official shall perform those duties
and functions. The line of succession for the remaining elected officials shall
follow by seniority from the date originally elected. If more than one Council
member has the same date of seniority, then the most senior in age shall assume
control.
§ 1-108 VACANCIES IN CITY OFFICES.
   Vacancies shall be filled by the Council for the balance of the unexpired
term. In the event of vacancies on the Council, the Council shall give public
notice of the vacancy by causing to be published in a newspaper of general
circulation within the city, or posting in three public places in the city,
notice of the office vacated and the length of the unexpired term. Within 30
days after the regular meeting at which such notice of vacancy has been
presented, or after the death of the incumbent, the Mayor shall call a special
meeting of the Council, at which time he or she shall submit the name of a
qualified elector to fill the vacancy for the balance of the unexpired term.
The Council members shall vote upon such nominee, and if a majority of the
Council votes in favor of such nominee, the vacancy shall be declared filled.
If a majority fails to confirm such appointment, the nomination shall be
rejected and the Mayor shall, at the next regular meeting, submit the name of
another qualified elector to fill the vacancy. If the vote on the nominee at
such meeting fails to carry by a majority vote, the Mayor shall continue at
such meeting to submit the names of qualified electors of the city in
nomination and the Council shall continue to vote until the vacancy is filled.
The Mayor shall vote for or against the nominee in case of a tie vote of the
Council. All Council members present shall cast a ballot for or against the
nominee.
§ 1-109 OFFICERS’ SALARIES.
   (A)   All elected officers shall receive such compensation as the Council
shall fix by ordinance. The emoluments of appointive and elective officers of
this city shall be neither increased nor decreased during the term for which
elected or appointed, except by merger of offices or when there are other
officers elected or appointed to the Council and the terms of one or more
members commence and end at different times; the compensation of all members of
such Council may be increased or diminished at the beginning of the full term
of any member thereof. The officers’ salaries shall be as follows, effective
December 9, 2024:
      (1)   Mayor: $7,500 per year.
      (2)   Council member: $5,000 per year.
   (B)   The above sums shall be payable quarterly in the normal course of
business. Further, the Mayor and each Council member shall be paid an
additional $100 for each special or emergency City Council meeting.
   (C)   No person who shall have resigned or vacated any office shall be
eligible to the same during the time for which he or she was elected or
appointed, if during the same time the emoluments thereof have been increased.
In addition to the salaries herein provided, the various officers shall be
entitled to mileage and expenses, if and when claims therefore are filed,
audited and allowed. The Mayor and Council may by resolution authorize clerical
assistance in one or more offices when the same may be needed, and claims
therefore out of the proper funds may be presented, allowed, audited and paid.
All fees earned by an officer of this city in the performance of his or her
duties as such shall be considered the property of this city, and shall be
promptly paid over to the City Treasurer and by him or her credited to the
appropriate fund.
(Ord. 979, passed 7-14-2014; Ord. 1097, passed 2-6-2023)
§ 1-110 COMPENSATION; CITY EMPLOYEES.
   The ranges of compensation of non-elected officers and employees of the city
not already provided for in §
1-109 of this article shall be set by the Council and found in the Personnel
Policy Manual of the city. Such ranges of compensation will be evaluated
annually. Classification of all employees by job level shall be determined by
the City Administrator with approval by the Mayor. Employees will be annually
evaluated on performance and will receive salary increases based on such
evaluations. Such increases will be determined by the City Administrator with
approval by the Mayor and City Council. Employees may also receive salary
increases for completion of probationary work period and for pay comparability
if deemed necessary by the City Administrator and Mayor.
§ 1-111 COMPENSATION; CONFLICT OF INTEREST.
   (A)   For purposes of this section, OFFICER shall mean any member of any
board or commission of the city; or any appointed official if such official:
      (1)   Serves on a board or commission which spends and administers its
own funds; and
      (2)   Is dealing with a contract made by such board or commission or any
elected city official.
   (B)   Unless specified otherwise, volunteer firefighters and ambulance
drivers shall not be considered officers for purposes of this section, with
respect to their duties as firefighters and ambulance drivers.
      (1)   No officer or employee of the city, a member of that individual’s
immediate family, or business with which the individual is associated shall
entered into a contract valued at $2,000 or more in any one year with the city,
unless the contract is awarded through an open and public process which
includes prior public notice and subsequent availability for public inspection
during regular office hours at the City Clerk’s office. No contract may be
divided for the purpose of evading the requirement of this section. This
section shall not apply to a contract when a public official or employee does
not in any way represent either party to the transaction. Except as hereafter
provided, no officer of the city may have an interest in any contract to which
the city or anyone for its benefit is a party. The existence of such an
interest in any contract shall render the contract voidable by a decree of a
court of competent jurisdiction as to any person who entered into the contract
or took assignment of such contract with actual knowledge of the prohibited
conflict.
      (2)   The provisions in division (B)(1) above shall not apply if the
interested officer:
         (a)   Makes a declaration on the record to the City Council regarding
the nature and extent of his or her interest prior to official consideration of
the contract;
         (b)   Does not vote on the matter of granting the contract, except
that if the number of members of the City Council declaring an interest in the
contract would prevent the Council with all members present from securing a
quorum on the issue, then all members may vote on the matter; and
         (c)   Does not act for the city which is party to the contract as to
inspection or performance under the contract in which he or she has an
interest.
      (3)   An officer who will not receive a direct pecuniary fee or
commission as a result of the contract shall not be deemed to have an interest
within the meaning of this section.
      (4)   The receiving of deposits, cashing of checks and buying and selling
of warrants and bonds of indebtedness of the city by a financial institution
shall not be considered a contract for purposes of this section. The ownership
of less than 5% of the outstanding shares of a corporation shall not constitute
an interest within the meaning of this section.
      (5)   If an officer’s parent, spouse or child is an employee of the city,
such officer may vote on all issues of the contract which are generally
applicable to all employees or all employees within a classification and do not
single out his or her parent, spouse or child for special action.
      (6)   Any contract entered into with an interested officer or employee of
the city shall be subject to applicable competitive bidding requirements and
shall be fair and reasonable to the governing body.
      (7)   (a)   The City Clerk shall maintain, separately from other records,
a record containing the information required below about every contract entered
into by the city in which an officer has an interest as specified above for
which disclosure is made pursuant to Neb. RS 49-1401 et seq. or 49-14,103.01.
Such information shall be kept in the record for five years from the date of
the officer’s last day in office and shall include the:
            1.   Names of the contracting parties;
            2.   Nature of the interest of the officer in question;
            3.   Date that the contract was approved by the city involved;
            4.   Amount of the contract; and
            5.   Basic terms of the contract.
         (b)   The information supplied relative to the contract shall be
provided to the Clerk not later than ten days after the contract has been
signed by both parties. The record kept by the Clerk shall be available for
public inspection during the normal working hours of the office in which it is
kept.
      (8)   An open account established for the benefit of the city with a
business in which an officer has an interest, shall be deemed a contract
subject to the provisions of this section. The statement required to be filed
pursuant to division (B)(7) above shall be filed within ten days after such
account is opened. Thereafter, the City Clerk shall maintain a running account
of all amounts purchased on the open account. Purchases made from petty cash or
a petty cash fund shall not be subject to requirement.
      (9)   Any officer who knowingly violates any of the provisions herein
shall be guilty of a Class III misdemeanor and shall be punished accordingly.
Any officer who negligently violates any of the provisions herein shall be
guilty of a Class V misdemeanor and punished accordingly.
ARTICLE II: APPOINTIVE OFFICERS
Section
   
1-201   Appointive officers
   
1-202   Merger of offices
   
1-203   City Clerk; duties
   
1-204   City Treasurer; duties
   
1-205   City Treasurer; monthly report
   
1-206   City Treasurer; annual report
   
1-207   City Attorney; duties
   
1-208   City Police Chief; duties
   
1-209   City police officers
   
1-210   Reserved
   
1-211   Special Engineer
   
1-212   Water Superintendent
   
1-213   Electric Superintendent
   
1-214   Sewer Superintendent
   
1-215   Gas Superintendent
   
1-216   City Street Superintendent
   
1-217   Zoning Administrator
   
1-218   City Administrator; appointment, reservation of power; compensation
   
1-219   City Administrator; qualifications
   
1-220   City Administrator; duties
§ 1-201 APPOINTIVE OFFICERS.
   The City Council may, in its discretion, by ordinance combine and merge any
elective or appointive office or employment, except the Mayor or a City Council
member with any other elective or appointive office so that one or more of such
offices may be held by the officer or employee at the same time; provided, the
offices so merged and combined shall always be construed to be separate and the
effect of the combination or merger shall be limited to a consolidation of
official duties only; and, provided further, the salary of the combined office
shall not be in excess of the maximum amount provided by law for the salary or
compensation of the office, offices, employment or employments so merged and
combined.
§ 1-202 MERGER OF OFFICES.
   The City Council may, in its discretion, by ordinance combine and merge any
elective or appointive office or employment, except the Mayor or a City Council
member with any other elective or appointive office so that one or more of such
offices may be held by the officer or employee at the same time; provided, the
offices so merged and combined shall always be construed to be separate and the
effect of the combination or merger shall be limited to a consolidation of
official duties only; and, provided further, the salary of the combined office
shall not be in excess of the maximum amount provided by law for the salary or
compensation of the office, offices, employment or employments so merged and
combined.
§ 1-203 CITY CLERK; DUTIES.
   (A)   The City Clerk shall have custody of all laws and ordinances. He or
she shall keep a current journal of the proceedings of the City Council. He or
she shall also maintain a complete record of all outstanding bonds against the
city, showing the number and amount of each, for and to whom the said bonds
were issued and all other pertinent information in regard to said bonds. He or
she shall take possession of all books, papers and all other official records
of the city, and shall maintain said records in a safe place for the city. He
or she shall have custody of the seal of the city and all written official
papers of the city. The City Clerk shall attend the meetings of the City
Council and keep a minute record of the proceedings thereof.
   (B)   The City Clerk shall maintain an account of all of the appropriations
of the several funds of the city. He or she shall draw, sign and attest all
warrants ordered for the payment of money on a particular fund from which the
same is payable, and at the end of each month make a report of the amount
appropriated to each fund and the amount of warrants drawn thereon.
   (C)   The City Clerk shall further attest to the Mayor’s signature to be
attested and shall attach the city seal to all official documents. Whenever any
claim presented by any person has been disallowed by the City Council, the City
Clerk shall notify said claimant of said disallowance by the Council within
five days after such disallowance.
   (D)   The City Clerk shall account for all money received by him or her in
the normal course of city business and shall keep a proper record of all moneys
received by him or her, issuing a proper receipt to those parties making
payment to him or her to the account of the city. The City Clerk shall publish
all notices required in the performance of his or her duties and shall keep a
record of all published notices issued by him or her, and shall keep a record
of the publisher’s affidavit of said publication if said notices are published
in a legal newspaper.
   (E)   He or she shall maintain all books and public records of the city for
public inspection for any resident of the city during normal business hours. He
or she shall make a notation on all correspondence received by him or her of
the date of its receipt and shall, as soon as possible, convey said
correspondence to the appropriate official of the city. The City Clerk shall
keep and maintain all other legal papers required to be maintained by him or
her by these ordinances or by state law, and shall maintain a proper record
wherein shall be recorded all of the formal and informal actions of the Mayor
and City Council, and shall maintain an ordinance record which shall record
tire various ordinances and resolutions passed by the City Council.
   (F)   The City Clerk may charge a reasonable fee for certified copies of any
record in his or her office as set by resolution of the City Council. He or she
shall destroy city records under the direction of the state’s Records Board
pursuant to Neb. RS 84-1201 through 84-1220; provided, the City Council shall
not have the authority to destroy the minutes of the City Clerk, the permanent
ordinances, resolution books or any other records as classified as permanent by
the state’s Records Board.
   (G)   The duties of the City Clerk will be those set forth herein and as set
forth specifically in the job description separately adopted by the Mayor and
City Council.
§ 1-204 CITY TREASURER; DUTIES.
   (A)   The City Treasurer shall be custodian of all monies belonging to the
city; he or she shall deposit public funds which have come into his or her
hands in such depository bank or banks or in other eligible financial
institutions for depository purposes as designated by the Mayor and City
Council. He or she shall keep all money belonging to the city separate and
distinct from his or her own money.
   (B)   He or she shall keep a separate account of each and every fund or
appropriation and the debits and credits belonging to the city; he or she shall
give every person paying money into the treasury a receipt therefor, specifying
the date of payment and on what account paid. Copies of said receipts shall be
filed with his or her monthly reports made to the Mayor and City Council; and
the last copy of the said receipt shall be kept on file in the Treasurer’s
office. The City Treasurer’s book and accounts shall always be open for
inspection by any citizen of the city whenever any city fiscal record, audit,
warrant, voucher, invoice, purchase order, requisition, payroll check, receipt
or other record of receipt, cash or expenditure involving public funds is
involved. He or she shall cancel all bonds, coupons, warrants and other
evidences of debt against the city, whenever paid by him or her, by writing or
stamping on the face thereof, “Paid by the City Treasurer”, with the date of
payment written or stamped thereon. He or she shall collect all special taxes,
allocate special assessments to the several owners and shall obtain from the
County Treasurer a monthly report as to the collection of delinquent taxes. The
Treasurer’s daily cash book shall be footed and balanced daily, and he or she
shall adopt such bookkeeping methods as the City Council shall prescribe. He or
she shall invest and collect all money owed by, or owed to, the city as
directed by the City Council.
§ 1-205 CITY TREASURER; MONTHLY REPORT.
   He or she shall, at the end of each month and as often as may be required,
render a report to the Mayor and City Council showing, under oath, the
condition of the various accounts of the treasury at the time of such reports
and the balance of money in the treasury; he or she shall accompany such
accounts with a statement of all receipts and disbursements, together with all
warrants paid by him or her, which warrants with any and all vouchers held by
him or her shall be filed with his or her accounts in the City Clerk’s office.
He or she shall keep a record, in a book suitable for that purpose, of each and
every warrant paid and from what fund paid. He or she shall also produce
depository evidence that all city money is in a solvent and going bank in the
name of the city. If the City Treasurer neglects or fails, for a period of ten
days from the end of each and every month, to render his or her account, the
City Council shall by resolution declare the office vacant, and the Mayor and
City Council shall fill the vacancy by appointment.
§ 1-206 CITY TREASURER; ANNUAL REPORT.
   The City Treasurer is also required to publish or cause to be published in a
legal weekly newspaper published in or of general circulation in said city
within 60 days following the end of each fiscal year a report of the activities
of his or her office, which said report shall show in detail all receipts,
disbursements, warrants outstanding and the debit or credit balance of the
city.
§ 1-207 CITY ATTORNEY; DUTIES.
   The City Attorney, when appointed, shall be legal advisor to the Mayor and
the City Council and shall undertake all legal matters of the city as set forth
by state statutes. He or she shall commence, prosecute and defend all suits and
actions necessary to be commenced, prosecuted or defended on behalf of the
city, or that may be ordered by the Council. When requested, he or she shall
attend meetings of the Council and give it his or her opinion upon any matters
submitted to him or her either orally or in writing as may be required. He or
she shall draft or review for legal correctness ordinances, contracts,
franchises and other instruments as may be required, and he or she shall
perform such other duties as may be imposed upon him or her by general law or
ordinance. He or she shall prepare complaints, attend and prosecute violations
of the city ordinances when directed to do so by the City Council. The city
may, from time to time, hire a special prosecutor to prosecute violations of
the city ordinances. When such special prosecutor is appointed, the City
Attorney will be relieved of prosecuting such violations. In the event that a
special prosecutor is not retained by the city, the City Attorney shall appear
and prosecute all cases for violation of the city ordinances that have been
appealed to and are pending in any higher court. He or she shall also examine,
when requested to do so by the City Council, the ordinance records and advise
and assist the City Clerk as much as may be necessary to the end that each
procedural step will be taken in the passage of each ordinance to ensure that
they will be valid and subsisting local laws in so far as their passage and
approval are concerned. The City Council shall have the right to pay the City
Attorney compensation for legal services performed by him or her for it on such
terms as the City Council and attorney may agree and to employ additional legal
assistance and to pay for such legal assistance out of the funds of the city.
§ 1-208 CITY POLICE CHIEF; DUTIES.
   The city’s Police Chief shall direct the police work of the city and shall
be responsible for the maintenance of law and order. He or she shall act as
health inspector, except in the event the city appoints another person. He or
she shall file the necessary complaints in cases arising out of violations of
city ordinances, and shall make all necessary reports required by the city
ordinances or the laws of the state.
§ 1-209 CITY POLICE OFFICERS.
   The city police, whether regular or special, shall have the power to arrest
all offenders against the laws of the state or the city, by day or by night,
and keep the said offenders in the city jail or some other place to prevent
their escape until trial can be held before the proper official of the state or
the city. They shall have full power and authority to call on any person
whenever necessary to assist them in performing public duties, and failure,
neglect or refusal to render such assistance shall be deemed a misdemeanor
punishable upon conviction by a fine. Every city police officer shall be
expected to be conversant and knowledgeable with the city and state laws and no
law enforcement official shall have any interest in any establishment having a
liquor license. City police officers shall have the duty to file such
complaints and reports as may be required by the city ordinances and the laws
of the state. Any city police officer who shall willfully fail, neglect or
refuse to make an arrest, or who purposely and willfully fails to make a
complaint after an arrest is made shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and,
upon conviction, shall be fined. It shall be unlawful for the City Council to
retain any city police officer in that position after he or she shall have been
duly convicted of the willful violation of any law of the United States of
America, the state or any ordinance of the city, except minor traffic
violations. It shall be the duty of every city police officer making a lawful
arrest to search all persons in the presence of some other person, whenever
possible, and shall carefully keep and produce to the proper judicial official
upon the trial everything found upon the person of such prisoners. All personal
effects so taken from prisoners aforesaid shall be restored to them upon their
release. Suitable uniforms and badges shall be furnished to the city police by
the city. Any member who shall lose or destroy the same shall be required to
pay the replacement costs, and in the event that any member shall leave the
force, he or she shall immediately deliver his or her badge, uniforms and all
city-issued equipment to the Police Chief. The City Council may from time to
time provide the city police with such uniforms, equipment and transportation
as may be essential in the performance of their official duties.
§ 1-210 RESERVED.
§ 1-211 SPECIAL ENGINEER.
   The City Council may employ a special engineer to make or assist the City
Engineer in making any particular estimate, survey or other work. The special
engineer shall make a record of the minutes of his or her surveys and all other
work done for the city. He or she shall, when directed by the City Council,
accurately make all plats, sections, profiles and maps as may be necessary in
the judgment of the City Council. He or she shall, upon request of the City
Council, make estimates of the costs of labor and material which may be done or
furnished by contract with the city, and make all surveys, estimates and
calculations necessary for the establishment of grades, bridges or culverts and
for the building, constructing or repairing of any public improvement of the
city. All records of the special engineer shall be public records which shall
belong to the city and shall be turned over to his or her successor. He or she
shall, when directed by the City Council, inspect all works of public
improvement, and if found to be properly done, shall accept the same and report
his or her acceptance to the City Council. He or she shall estimate the cost of
all proposed city utilities and public improvements, together with any
extensions thereof which the City Council may propose to construct or improve.
§ 1-212 WATER SUPERINTENDENT.
   The city’s Water Superintendent shall have general supervision and control
over the city water system, and shall be primarily responsible for its economic
operation and prudent management. Included in the said water system shall be
the water plants, the pump houses, all machinery and appliances used in
connection with producing and distributing water to inhabitants of the city.
All actions, decisions and procedures of the Water Superintendent shall be
subject to the general directives and control of the City Council. The Water
Superintendent shall have the general control and supervisory authority over
all employees of the water system which the City Council from time to time may
hire to operate and maintain the said system. He or she shall be under the
direction and supervision of the City Administrator and shall report directly
to the City Administrator, who in turn shall report to the City Council, of the
condition of the said water system, of all mains, pipes, hydrants, reservoirs
and machinery and such improvements, repairs and extensions thereof as he or
she may think proper. No money shall be expended for improvements, repairs or
extensions of the said waterworks system except upon the recommendation of the
Water Superintendent and approval of the City Administrator. The Water
Superintendent shall perform such additional duties as may be prescribed by the
City Council.
§ 1-213 ELECTRIC SUPERINTENDENT.
   The city’s Electric Superintendent shall have the immediate control and
supervision over all the employees and property that make up the city electric
system, subject to the general control and directives of the City Council. He
or she shall be under the direction and supervision of the City Administrator
and shall report directly to the City Administrator, who in turn shall report
to the City Council on the condition of the electrical system, and shall direct
their attention to such improvements, repairs, extensions, additions and
additional employees as he or she may believe are needed along with an estimate
of the cost thereof. He or she shall have such other duties as the City Council
may delegate to him or her.
§ 1-214 SEWER SUPERINTENDENT.
   The city’s Sewer Superintendent shall have the immediate control and
supervision over all the employees and property that make up the city sewer
system, subject to the general control and directives of the City Council. He
or she shall be under the direction and supervision of the City Administrator
and shall report directly to the City Administrator, who in turn shall report
to the City Council on the condition of the sewer system, and shall direct
their attention to such improvements repairs, extensions, additions and
additional employees as he or she may believe are needed along with an estimate
of the cost thereof. He or she shall have such other duties as the City Council
may delegate to him or her. He or she shall issue permits for all connections
to the city sewer system and inspect and supervise all repairs made to the said
system.
§ 1-215 GAS SUPERINTENDENT.
   The city’s Gas Superintendent shall have the immediate control and
supervision of the city gas system, and of all employees and property that make
up the gas system, subject to the general control and directives of the City
Council. He or she shall be under the direction and supervision of the City
Administrator and shall report directly to the City Administrator, who in turn
shall report to the City Council on the condition of the gas system, and shall
direct their attention to such improvements, repairs, extensions, additions and
additional employees as he or she may believe are needed, along with an
estimate of the cost thereof. He or she shall inspect and supervise all repairs
made to the said system. He or she shall also have such additional duties as
the City Council may delegate to him or her.
§ 1-216 CITY STREET SUPERINTENDENT.
   The city’s Street Superintendent shall, subject to the orders and directives
of the City Council, have general charge, direction and control of all work on
the streets, sidewalks, culverts and bridges of the city, and shall perform
such other duties as the Council may require. It shall be his or her
responsibility to see that gutters and drains therein function properly and
that the same are kept in good repair. He or she shall, at the request of the
Council, make detailed reports on the condition of the streets, sidewalks,
culverts, alleys and bridges of the city, and direct their attention to such
improvements, repairs, extensions, additions and additional employees as he or
she may believe or need to maintain a satisfactory street system in the city,
along with an estimate of the cost thereof. He or she shall issue such permits
and assume such other duties as the City Council may direct.
§ 1-217 ZONING ADMINISTRATOR.
   The Mayor may appoint a Zoning Administrator in accordance with the zoning
regulations of the city.
§ 1-218 CITY ADMINISTRATOR; APPOINTMENT, RESERVATION OF POWER; COMPENSATION.
   (A)   There is hereby created and established the office of the City
Administrator, to be appointed by the Mayor with the approval of the City
Council; provided, no elective officer of the city shall hold the position of
City Administrator. The Administrator may be removed at any time upon notice by
the Mayor with the approval of the majority of the elected members of the
Council.
   (B)   The purpose of the office of City Administrator is to provide for the
day-to-day administration of the city. The City Administrator will remain under
the direction of the Mayor and Council and be responsible thereto for the
efficient conduct of the office.
   (C)   The City Administrator shall not participate in a local election that
affects the office of Mayor or City Council, or any other elective city
position or issue, except for the casting of an individual ballot.
   (D)   The Mayor and Council specifically reserve the right to make inquiries
of any personnel relative to city activities. Except for purpose of inquiry,
the City Council shall deal with the administrative services of the city
through the Administrator and neither the Council, nor its members, shall give
orders directly to any subordinate of the City Administrator. The Mayor will
keep the City Administrator informed and seek input on any proposed action.
   (E)   The salary of the City Administrator shall be established from time to
time by the City Council.
§ 1-219 CITY ADMINISTRATOR; QUALIFICATIONS.
   The City Administrator shall be chosen on the basis of executive and
administrative qualifications with special reference to actual experience or
knowledge of accepted practice in respect to the duties of the office. At the
time of appointment, the administrator need not be a resident of the city, but
during the term of office shall reside in the city.
§ 1-220 CITY ADMINISTRATOR; DUTIES.
   The City Administrator shall:
   (A)   Attend all meetings of the City Council and its committees unless
excused, with the duty of reporting on any matter concerning the city under the
Administrator’s direction; and to attend such other meetings of departments and
officials as the duties may require or as may be directed by the Mayor or
Council;
   (B)   Make investigation into all affairs of the city and to make
recommendations to the Mayor and Council for the adoption of such measures and
ordinances as are deemed necessary and expedient for good city government;
   (C)   Analyze the functions, duties and activities of the various
departments, divisions and services of the city, and of all employees thereof,
and to make recommendations regarding the same to the Mayor and Council; and to
faithfully carry out the directives and recommendations of the Mayor and
Council in coordinating the administrative functions and operations of the
various departments, divisions and services;
   (D)   Keep the Mayor and Council fully advised as to the financial condition
of the city and its needs. The Administrator shall be responsible for the
preparation of the annual estimates of revenues and expenditures of the
proposed budget for the presentation of a complete financial plan for the city
to the Mayor and Council prior to the consideration and adoption of the annual
appropriation ordinance by the City Council. With the adoption of the budget
and the passage of the appropriations ordinances by the Council, the City
Administrator shall be responsible for the supervision and control of the
budgeted expenditures;
   (E)   Prepare and submit to the Mayor and Council as of the end of the
fiscal year a complete report on the finances and administrative activities of
the city for the preceding year;
   (F)   Recommend to the Mayor the appointment, discipline, transfer or
dismissal of all city personnel over which the Administrator exercises
jurisdiction;
   (G)   Investigate or have investigated all complaints filed against an
employee, department, division or service of the city, and to report such
investigation with recommendation to the Mayor and Council;
   (H)   Act as the city’s liaison to state and federal economic/industrial
development agencies; actively pursue community grant funding and promote new
business and industrial development within the city; and
   (I)   Perform all other duties and exercise such other power as may be
required by ordinance or prescribed by resolution of the Mayor and Council.
ARTICLE III: ADMINISTRATION
Section
   
1-301   Corporate seal
   
1-302   Officers, bonds
   
1-303   Oath of office
   
1-304   Meetings; City Council
   
1-305   Meetings; order of business
   
1-306   Meetings; parliamentary procedure
   
1-307   Meetings; change in office
   
1-308   Meetings; organizational
   
1-309   Meetings; public
   
1-310   Meetings; attendance of members
   
1-311   Meetings; closed sessions
§ 1-301 CORPORATE SEAL.
   (A)   There shall be owned by the city, in the office of the City Clerk, a
common seal of the corporation, having engraved thereon the words “City of
Central City, Nebraska, Seal”.
   (B)   The City Clerk shall affix an impression of said seal on all papers or
documents issued by order of the City Council and countersigned by the City
Clerk.
§ 1-302 OFFICERS, BONDS.
   Official bonds of the city shall be in form, joint and several, and shall be
made payable to the city in such penalty as the City Council may set by
resolution; provided, the penalty amount on any bond shall not fall below the
legal minimum, when one has been set by the state, for each particular
official. All official bonds of the city officials shall be executed by the
principal named in such bonds and by at least two sufficient sureties who shall
be freeholders of the country, or by the official as principal and by a
guaranty, surety, fidelity or bonding company; provided, no city official,
while still in his or her official term of office, shall be accepted as surety
on any other official’s bond, contractor’s bond, license bond or appeal bond
under any circumstances. Only companies that are legally authorized to transact
business in the state shall be eligible for suretyship on the bond of an
official of the city. All said bonds shall obligate the principal, and sureties
for the faithful discharge of all duties required by law of such principal, and
shall inure to the benefit of the city and any persons who may be injured by a
breach of the conditions of such bonds. No bond shall be deemed to be given or
complete until the approval of the City Council, and all sureties are endorsed
in writing on the said instrument by the Mayor and City Clerk pursuant to the
said approval of the City Council. The premium on any official bond required to
be given may be paid out of the General Fund or other proper city fund, upon a
resolution to that effect by the City Council at the beginning of any fiscal
year. All official bonds meeting the conditions herein shall be filed with the
City Clerk for his or her official records, and it shall be the duty of the
City Clerk to furnish a certified copy of any bond so filed upon the payment of
a fee which shall be set by resolution of the City Council. In the event that
the sureties on the official bond of any officer of the city, in the opinion of
the City Council, become insufficient, the City Council may, by resolution, fix
a reasonable time within which the said officer may give a new bond or
additional sureties as directed. In the event that the officer should fail,
refuse or neglect to give a new bond or additional sureties to the satisfaction
and approval of the City Council, then the office shall by such failure,
refusal or neglect, become vacant, and it shall be the duty of the City Council
to appoint a competent and qualified person to fill the said office. Any
official who is reelected to office shall be required to file a new bond after
each election.
§ 1-303 OATH OF OFFICE.
   (A)   All officers of the city, whether elected or appointed, except when a
different oath is specifically provided herein, shall before entering upon the
duties of their respective offices declare and subscribe the following oath or
affirmation which shall be endorsed upon their respective bonds:
“I,                                 , do solemnly swear that I will support the
Constitution of the United States and the Constitution of the State of
Nebraska, against all enemies, foreign and domestic; that I will bear true
faith and allegiance to the same; that I take this obligation freely and
without mental reservation or for the purpose of evasion; and that I will
faithfully and impartially perform the duties of the office of
                                         according to law and to the best of my
ability. And I do farther swear that I do not advocate, nor am I a member of
any political party or organization that advocates the overthrow of the
government of the United States or of this state by force or violence; and that
during such time as I am in this position I will not advocate nor become a
member of any political party or organization that advocates the overthrow of
the government of the United States or of this state by force or violence. So
help me God.”
   (B)   This oath or affirmation so subscribed shall be filed in the office of
the City Clerk.
§ 1-304 MEETINGS; CITY COUNCIL.
   (A)   The meetings of the City Council shall be held in the meeting place of
the city. Regular meetings shall be held on the second Monday of each month at
the hour of 7:00 p.m. Special meetings may be called by the Mayor, or by three
members of the City Council, for the purposes of which shall be submitted in
writing to the Council members prior to said meeting. The call and object of
said meeting shall be entered upon the journal by the City Clerk as well as the
disposition of said meeting. No other business shall be transacted at such
meeting unless all members of the City Council are present and consent thereto.
On filing the call for a special meeting, the City Clerk shall notify the
Council members of the special meeting, stating the time and its purpose.
Notice of a special meeting need not be given to a Council member known to be
out of the state or physically unable to attend.
   (B)   Two-thirds of the members of the City Council shall constitute a
quorum for the transaction of business, but a smaller number may adjourn from
day to day and compel the attendance of the absent members; provided that, on
the request of any two members, whether a quorum is present or not, all absent
members shall be sent for and compelled to attend. At the hour appointed for
the meeting, the City Clerk shall proceed to call the roll of members and
announce whether a quorum is present. If a quorum is present the City Council
shall be called to order by the Mayor, if present; if absent, by the President
of the Council. In the absence of both the Mayor and the President of the
Council, the City Council shall elect a President Pro Tempore.
(Ord. 864, passed 4-11-2005)
§ 1-305 MEETINGS; ORDER OF BUSINESS.
   All meetings of the City Council shall be open to the public. Promptly at
the hour set by law on the day of each regular meeting, the members of the City
Council, the City Clerk, the Mayor and such other city officials that may be
required shall take their regular stations in the City Hall, and the business
of the city shall be taken up for consideration and disposition in the manner
prescribed by the official agenda on file at the office of the City Clerk.
§ 1-306 MEETINGS; PARLIAMENTARY PROCEDURE.
   The Mayor shall preserve order during meetings of the City Council and shall
decide all questions of order, subject to an appeal to the City Council. When
any person is called to order, he or she shall be seated until the point is
decided. When the Mayor is putting the questions, no person shall leave the
meeting room. Every person present, previous to speaking, shall rise from his
or her seat, clearly state his or her name and address himself or herself to
the presiding officer, and while speaking shall confine himself or herself to
the question. All resolutions or motions shall be reduced to writing before
being acted upon, if requested by the City Clerk or any member of the Council.
Every member of the Council who is present when a question is voted upon shall
cast his or her vote, unless excused by a majority of the City Council present.
No motion shall be put or debated unless seconded. When seconded, it shall be
stated by the Mayor before being debatable. In all cases where a motion or
resolution is entered on the minutes, the name of the member of the Council
making the motion or resolution shall be entered also. After each vote, a roll
call vote shall be taken and entered in the minutes upon the request of any
member of the Council. Before the vote is actually taken, any resolution,
motion or proposed ordinance may be withdrawn from consideration by the sponsor
thereof with the consent of the member of the Council seconding the said
resolution, motion or ordinance. When any question is under debate, no motion
shall be made, entertained or seconded except the previous question, a motion
to table and to adjourn. Each of the said motions shall be decided without
debate. Any of the rules of the City Council for meeting may be suspended by a
two-thirds’ vote of the members present. In all cases in which provisions are
not made by these rules, Robert’s Rules of Order is the authority by which the
City Council shall decide all procedural disputes that may arise.
§ 1-307 MEETINGS; CHANGE IN OFFICE.
   The change in office shall be made as follows: the Mayor and City Council
shall meet at the regular meeting in December each year and the outgoing
officers and the outgoing members of the Council shall present their reports,
and upon the old Council having completed its business up to the said time, the
outgoing members of the Council shall surrender their offices to the incoming
members, and the outgoing members shall, thereupon, each surrender to his or
her successor in office all property, records, papers and moneys belonging to
the same.
§ 1-308 MEETINGS; ORGANIZATIONAL.
   The newly elected Council shall convene at the regular place of meeting in
the city at the regular meeting in December each year immediately after the
prior Council adjourns and proceed to organize themselves for the ensuing year.
The Mayor elected for the new municipal year shall call the meeting to order.
The Council shall then proceed to examine the credentials of its members and
other elective officers of the city to see that each has been duly and properly
elected, and to see that such oaths and bonds have been given as are required.
After ascertaining that all members are duly qualified, the Council shall then
elect one of its own body who shall be styled as “President of the Council”.
The Mayor shall then nominate his or her candidates for appointive offices. He
or she shall then proceed with the regular order of business. It is hereby made
the duty of each and every member of the Council or his or her successor in
office, and of each officer elected to any office, to qualify prior to the
first regular meeting in December following his or her election. All appointive
officers shall qualify within two weeks following their appointments.
Qualification for each officer who is not required to give bond shall consist
in his or her subscribing and taking an oath to support the Constitution of the
United States, the Constitution of the state, the laws of the city and to
perform faithfully and impartially the duties of his or her office, said oath
to be filed in the office of the City Clerk.
§ 1-309 MEETINGS; PUBLIC.
   (A)   All public meetings as defined by law shall be open to attendance by
the public. All meetings shall be held in the public building in which the City
Council usually holds such meetings unless the publicized notice hereinafter
required shall designate some other public building or other specified place.
The advance publicized notice of all public convened meetings shall be
simultaneously transmitted to all members of the City Council and to the public
by a method designated by the City Council or by the Mayor if the City Council
has not designated a method. Such notice shall contain the time and specific
place for each meeting and either an enumeration of the agenda subjects known
at the time of the notice or a statement that such an agenda kept continually
current shall be available for public inspection at the office of the City
Clerk. The City Council shall have the right to modify the agenda at the public
meeting when convened. The minutes of the City Clerk shall include the record
of the manner and advance time by which the advance publicized notice was
given, a statement of how the availability of an agenda of the then-known
subjects was communicated, the time and specific place of the meetings and the
names of each member of the City Council present or absent at each convened
meeting. The minutes of the City Council shall be a public record open to
inspection by the public upon request at any reasonable time at the office of
the City Clerk. Any official action on any question or motion duly moved and
seconded shall be taken only by roll call vote of the City Council in open
session. The record of the City Clerk shall show how each member voted, or that
the member was absent and did not vote.
   (B)   Formal actions taken at any public meeting not in conformity with the
provisions of this section shall be deemed to be void. Any official who shall
violate the provisions of this section shall be deemed to be guilty of a
misdemeanor. Nothing herein shall be construed to apply to any preliminary
interview or recruitment of prospective officials or employees.
§ 1-310 MEETINGS; ATTENDANCE OF MEMBERS.
   All members of the City Council shall be required to attend Council meetings
regularly, and if any Council member fails to attend three consecutive meetings
his or her office shall be vacated and the City Council may fill the vacancy
created pursuant to §
1-108 herein; provided, however, the City Council may excuse said absences by
majority vote for just cause shown, in which event said Council member’s office
shall not be deemed vacated. Upon any member’s absence for three consecutive
meetings, the Mayor shall call for a vote on whether to excuse said absences or
not, which vote shall be duly recorded by the City Clerk.
§ 1-311 MEETINGS; CLOSED SESSIONS.
   (A)   Any public body may hold a closed session by the affirmative vote of a
majority of its voting members if a closed session is clearly necessary for the
protection of the public interest or for the prevention of needless injury to
the reputation of an individual and if such individual has not requested a
public meeting. Closed session maybe held for, but shall not be limited to,
such reasons as:
      (1)   Strategy sessions with respect to collective bargaining, real
estate purchases, pending litigation or litigation which is imminent as
evidenced by communication of a claim or threat of litigation to or by the
public body;
      (2)   Discussion regarding deployment of security personnel or devices;
      (3)   Investigative proceedings regarding allegations of criminal
misconduct; or
      (4)   Evaluation of the job performance of a person when necessary to
prevent needless injury to the reputation of a person and if such person has
not requested a public meeting.
   (B)   Nothing in this section shall permit a closed meeting for discussion
of the appointment or election of a new member to any public body.
   (C)   The vote to hold a closed session shall be taken in open session. The
vote of each member on the question of holding a closed session, the reason for
the closed session and the time when the closed session commenced and concluded
shall be recorded in the minutes. The public body holding such a closed session
shall restrict its consideration to matters during the closed portion to only
those purposes set forth in the minutes as the reason for the closed session.
The meeting shall be reconvened in open session before any formal action may be
taken. For purposes of this section, FORMAL ACTION shall mean a collective
decision or a collective commitment or promise to make a decision on any
questions, motion, proposal, resolution, order or ordinance or formation of a
position or policy, but shall not include negotiating guidance given by members
of the public body to legal counsel or other negotiators in closed sessions
authorized under division (A) above.
   (D)   Any member of the public body shall have the right to challenge the
continuation of a closed session if the member determines that the session has
exceeded the reason stated in the original motion to hold a closed session or
if the member contends that the closed session is neither clearly necessary for
the protection of the public interest or the prevention of needless injury to
the reputation of an individual. Such challenge shall be overruled only by a
majority vote of the members of the public body. Such challenge and its
disposition shall be recorded in the minutes.
   (E)   Nothing in this section shall be construed to require that any meeting
be closed to the public. No person or public body shall fail to invite a
portion of its members to a meeting and no public body shall designate itself a
subcommittee of the whole body for the purpose of circumventing the provisions
of this section. No closed session, informal meeting, chance meeting, social
gathering or electronic communication shall be used for the purpose of
circumventing the provisions of this section.
   (F)   The provisions of this section shall not apply to chance meetings, or
to attendance at or travel to conventions or workshops of members of a public
body at which there is no meeting of the body then intentionally convened and
there is no vote or other action taken regarding any matter over which the
public body has supervision, control, jurisdiction or advisory power.
ARTICLE IV: ORDINANCES
Section
   
1-401   Grant of power
   
1-402   Passage
   
1-403   Suspension of rules
   
1-404   Style
   
1-405   Effective date
   
1-406   Title
   
1-407   Emergency ordinances
   
1-408   Certificate of publication
   
1-409   Amendments and revisions
§ 1-401 GRANT OF POWER.
   The City Council shall have the responsibility of making all ordinances, by-
laws, rules, regulations and resolutions, not inconsistent with the laws of the
state, as may be necessary and proper for maintaining the peace, good
government and welfare of the city and its trade, commerce and security.
§ 1-402 PASSAGE.
   Ordinances, resolutions or orders for the appropriation of money shall
require for their passage the concurrence of the majority of the members
elected to the Council. Ordinances of a general or permanent nature shall be
fully and distinctly read on three different days.
§ 1-403 SUSPENSION OF RULES.
   In the event that three-fourths of the members of the Council present vote
to dispense with the rule that ordinances of a general or permanent nature be
fully read on three different days, such ordinances may be passed by reading
the title one time when introduced, read by title a second time after the rule
has been dispensed with, read by title a third time, and then put upon final
passage. Three-fourths of the Council may require any ordinance to be read in
full before final passage.
§ 1-404 STYLE.
   The style of all city ordinances shall be: “Be it ordained by the Mayor and
City Council of the City of Central City, Nebraska:”
§ 1-405 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   The City Clerk shall, within 15 days after the passage of any ordinances,
publish the same in a legal newspaper of general circulation in the city, or
post the ordinance in the normal three public places. The ordinance shall then
become effective upon publication.
§ 1-406 TITLE.
   No ordinance shall contain a subject not clearly expressed in its title.
§ 1-407 EMERGENCY ORDINANCES.
   In the case of riot, infectious or contagious diseases, or other impending
danger, failure of a public utility or other emergency requiring its immediate
operation, such ordinance shall take effect upon the proclamation of the Mayor,
and the posting thereof in at least three of the most public places in the
city. Such emergency notice shall recite the emergency and be passed by a
three-fourths’ vote of the Council, and entered upon the City Clerk’s minutes.
§ 1-408 CERTIFICATE OF PUBLICATION.
   The passage, approval and publication or posting of all ordinances shall be
sufficiently proven by a certificate under the city seal from the City Clerk
showing that the said ordinance was passed and approved and when, and in what
paper, the same was published, or when, and by whom, and where the same was
posted.
§ 1-409 AMENDMENTS AND REVISIONS.
   No ordinance or section thereof shall be revised or amended unless the new
ordinance contains the entire ordinance or section as revised or amended, and
the ordinance or section so amended shall be repealed.
ARTICLE V: FISCAL MANAGEMENT
Section
   
1-501   Fiscal year
   
1-502   Budget statement; filing
   
1-503   Budget hearing
   
1-504   Budget filing
   
1-505   Budget procedure
   
1-506   Annual audit
   
1-507   Appropriations
   
1-508   All-purpose levy
   
1-509   Contracts
   
1-510   Claims
   
1-511   Warrants
   
1-512   Transfer of funds
   
1-513   Special Assessment Fund
   
1-514   Sinking funds
   
1-515   General Fund
   
1-516   Deposit of funds
   
1-517   Investment of funds
   
1-518   Bond issues
§ 1-501 FISCAL YEAR.
   The fiscal year of the city shall commence on October 1 and extend through
the following September 30.
§ 1-502 BUDGET STATEMENT; FILING.
   The City Council shall, no later than October 1 of each year, on forms
prescribed and furnished by the State Auditor, prepare in writing and file with
the City Clerk a proposed budget statement containing the non-tax revenue which
was allocated to each of the several funds, the unencumbered cash balance of
each fund at the beginning and end of the prior fiscal year, the amount
received by taxation allocated to each fund, and the actual expenditures for
each fund. For the current fiscal year, the budget statement shall contain the
actual and estimated revenue from non-tax sources, the actual unencumbered cash
balance available at the beginning of the year, the amount to be received from
taxation allocated to each fund and the amount of actual and estimated
expenditures. For the immediate ensuing fiscal year, the budget statement
should include an estimate of the non-tax revenue from each source and which
fund it is to be allocated to, the actual or estimated unencumbered cash
balance for each fund which will be available at the beginning of the next
fiscal year, amounts proposed to be expended during the year, and the amount of
cash reserve which shall not exceed 50% of the total budget adopted exclusive
of capital outlay items. The amount to be raised from taxation, as determined
herein, plus the estimated revenue from sources other than taxation, and the
unencumbered balances shall equal the estimated expenditures, plus the required
cash reserve for the ensuing year.
§ 1-503 BUDGET HEARING.
   Subsequent to the filing of the proposed budget statement, the City Council
shall publish a proposed budget and conduct a public hearing on the proposed
budget statement. Notice of the place and time of the said hearing, as well as
a copy of the proposed budget, shall be published at least five days prior to
the date set for the hearing in a newspaper of general circulation in the city.
After such hearing, the statement shall be adopted, or amended, and adopted as
amended, and a written record shall be made of such hearing. If the adopted
budget statement reflects a change from that shown in the published proposed
budget statement, a summary of such changes shall be published within 20 days
after its adoption.
§ 1-504 BUDGET FILING.
   The City Council shall file with and certify to the levying board November 1
of each year and file with the State Auditor a copy of the adopted budget
statement, together with the amount of the tax to be levied and proof of
publication. The City Council shall not certify any tax that exceeds the
maximum levy prescribed by state law; provided, in certifying the amount to be
so levied, allowance may be made for delinquent taxes not exceeding 5% of the
amount to be levied, plus the actual percentage of delinquent taxes for the
preceding tax year.
§ 1-505 BUDGET PROCEDURE.
   The Manual of Instructions for City/Village: Budgets, prepared by the
Auditor of Public Accounts, State Capitol, Lincoln, Nebraska 68509 is
incorporated by reference for the purpose of proper budget preparation and
shall be followed wherever practicable.
§ 1-506 ANNUAL AUDIT.
   The City Council shall cause an audit of the city accounts to be made by a
qualified accountant or shall prepare an unaudited statement of cash receipts
and disbursements, in lieu of an audit, as expeditiously as possible following
the close of the fiscal year. If an audit is authorized by the City Council, it
shall be made on a cash or accrual method at the discretion of the City
Council, and shall be completed within six months of the close of the fiscal
year. In the event the city elects not to have an audit performed, the City
Treasurer shall prepare an unaudited statement of cash receipts and
disbursements in a form prescribed by the Auditor of Public Accounts, and shall
submit not less than three copies of the unaudited report to the City Council.
All public utilities shall be audited separately, and the results of such
audits shall appear separately in the annual audit report. The audit shall be
in a form that is in general conformity with accepted accounting principles and
shall set forth the financial position for each fund of the city as well as an
opinion by the accountant with respect to the financial statements. Two copies
of the annual audit report shall become a part of the public records of the
City Clerk’s office and will at all times thereafter be open for public
inspection. One copy shall be filed with the Auditor of Public Accounts.
§ 1-507 APPROPRIATIONS.
   (A)   The City Council shall, within the last quarter of each fiscal year,
pass an ordinance to be termed the annual appropriation bill, in which are
appropriated such sums of money as may be deemed necessary to defray all
necessary expenses and liabilities of the city, not exceeding in the aggregate
the amount of tax authorized to be levied. The said ordinance shall specify the
objects and purposes for which such appropriations are made and the amount
appropriated for each purpose. Any balance unexpended and unobligated at the
end of the fiscal year shall, unless reappropriated, lapse to the General Fund.
   (B)   The annual appropriation bill shall not be amended without a majority
vote of the City Council after a public hearing. Notice of the time and place
of the hearing shall be published at least five days prior to the date set for
hearing in a newspaper of general circulation within the city. The income
arising from the operation of proprietary functions shall be deemed especially
appropriated to the payment of the current expenses of and to the cost of
improvements, extensions and additions to such functions and shall not be
included in the annual appropriation bill.
§ 1-508 ALL-PURPOSE LEVY.
   The City Council has determined that the amount of money to be raised by
taxation shall be certified to the County Clerk in the form of one all-purpose
levy instead of certifying a schedule of levies for specific purposes added
together.
§ 1-509 CONTRACTS.
   The City Council shall not enter into any contract unless bidding
requirements set forth by state law have been fully complied with.
§ 1-510 CLAIMS.
   All claims against the city shall be presented to the City Council in
writing with a full account of the items, and no claim or demand shall be
audited or allowed unless presented as provided for in this section. No costs
shall be recovered against the city in any action brought against it for an
unliquidated claim which has not been presented to the City Council to be
audited, nor upon claims allowed in part, unless the recovery shall be for a
greater sum than the amount allowed, with the interest due. No order or warrant
shall be drawn in excess of 85% of the current levy for the purpose for which
it is drawn unless there shall be sufficient money in the city treasury for the
appropriate fund against which it is to be drawn; provided that, in the event
there exist obligated funds from the federal and/or state government for the
general purpose of such warrant, then such warrant may be drawn in excess of
85%, but not more than 100% of the current levy for the purpose for which said
warrant is drawn.
§ 1-511 WARRANTS.
   All warrants drawn upon the city treasury must be signed by the Mayor and
countersigned by the City Clerk, stating the particular fund to which the
warrant is chargeable, the person to whom it is payable, and the purpose of the
expenditure. No money shall be otherwise paid than upon warrants so drawn. Each
warrant shall specify the amount included in the adopted budget statement for
the fund upon which it is drawn, and the amount already expended of such fund.
§ 1-512 TRANSFER OF FUNDS.
   Whenever during the current fiscal year it becomes apparent due to
unforeseen emergencies that there is temporarily insufficient money in a
particular fund to meet the requirements of the adopted budget of expenditures
for that fund, the City Council may by a majority vote transfer money from
other funds to such fund. No expenditure during any fiscal year shall be made
in excess of the amounts indicated in the adopted budget statement, except as
authorized herein. If, as the result of unforeseen circumstances, the revenue
of the current fiscal year shall be insufficient, the City Council may propose
to supplement the previously adopted budget statement and shall conduct a
public hearing at which time any taxpayer may appear or file a written
statement protesting the application for additional money. A written record
shall be kept of all such hearings. Notice of a place and time for the said
hearing shall be published at least five days prior to the date set for the
hearing in a newspaper of general circulation in the city. The published notice
shall set forth the time and place of the proposed hearing, the amount of
additional money required, the purpose of the required money, a statement
setting forth the reasons why the adopted budget of expenditures cannot be
reduced to meet the need for additional money and a copy of the summary of the
originally adopted budget previously published. Upon the conclusion of the
public hearing on the proposed supplemental budget and approval by the City
Council, said Council shall file with the County Clerk and the State Auditor a
copy of the supplemental budget and shall certify the amount of additional tax
to be levied. The City Council may then issue warrants in payment for
expenditures authorized by the adopted supplemental budget. The said warrants
shall be referred to as “registered warrants” and shall be repaid during the
next fiscal year from funds derived from taxes levied therefor.
§ 1-513 SPECIAL ASSESSMENT FUND.
   All money received on special tax assessments shall be held by the City
Treasurer as a special fund to be applied to the payment of the improvement for
which the assessment was made, and such money shall be used for no other
purpose unless to reimburse the city for money expended for any such
improvement.
§ 1-514 SINKING FUNDS.
   The City Council, subject to the limitations set forth herein, shall have
the power to levy a tax not to exceed that prescribed by state law in addition
to the amount of tax which may be annually levied for the purposes of the
adopted budget statement of the city, for the purpose of establishing a sinking
fund for the construction, purchase, improvement, extension or repair of the
approved uses as authorized by state law. To initiate the said sinking fund,
the City Council shall declare its purpose by resolution to submit to the
qualified electors of the city the proposition to provide the improvement at
the next general city election. The resolution shall set forth the improvement,
the estimated cost, the amount of the annual levy, the number of years required
to provide the required revenue, the name of the sinking fund proposed and the
proposition as it will appear on the ballot. Notice of the said proposition
shall be published in its entirety three times on successive weeks before the
day of the election in a legal newspaper of general circulation in the city.
The sinking fund may be established after the election if a majority or more of
the legal votes were in favor of the establishment of the fund. The City
Council may then proceed to establish the said fund in conformity with the
provisions of the proposition and applicable state law. The funds received by
the City Treasurer shall, as they accumulate, be immediately invested with the
written approval of the City Council in the manner provided by state law. No
sinking fund so established shall be used for any purpose or purposes contrary
to the purpose as it appeared on the ballot unless the City Council is
authorized to do so by 60% of the qualified electors of the city voting at a
general election favoring such a change in the use of the sinking fund.
§ 1-515 GENERAL FUND.
   All money not specifically appropriated in the annual appropriation bill
shall be deposited in and known as the “General Fund”.
§ 1-516 DEPOSIT OF FUNDS.
   The City Council, at its first meeting in each fiscal year, shall designate
one or more banks of approved and responsible standing in which the City
Treasurer shall keep at all times all money held by him or her; provided, if
more than one bank in the city meets the requirements for approved banks as
herein defined, the said funds shall be deposited in each of them and the City
Treasurer shall not give a preference to any one or more of them in the money
he or she shall deposit. A bond shall be required from all banks so selected in
a penal sum which equals the maximum amount on deposit at any time less the
amount insured by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation or a pledge of
sufficient assets of the bank to secure the payment of all such deposits.
§ 1-517 INVESTMENT OF FUNDS.
   The City Council may, by resolution, direct and authorize the city treasurer
to invest surplus funds in the outstanding bonds or registered warrants of the
city, and other approved bonds and obligations as provided by law. The interest
on such bonds or warrants shall be credited to the fund out of which the said
bonds or warrants were purchased.
§ 1-518 BOND ISSUES.
   The City Council may, after meeting all the requirements of state law, issue
bonds, fund bonds and retire bonds for such purposes as may be permitted by
state law. The City Council shall have the authority to levy special
assessments for the payment of interest and principal on such bonds and may
spread the payments up to the maximum number of years permitted by state law.
ARTICLE VI: POLICE DEPARTMENT
Section
   
1-601   Power, duties, responsibilities
   
1-602   Reserve officer bond
   
1-603   Arrest jurisdiction
   
1-604   Discharge or discipline of police members
   
1-605   Appeal procedure for discharged or disciplined police officers
§ 1-601 POWER, DUTIES, RESPONSIBILITIES.
   The Police Department shall consist of the Chief of Police and such further
number of regular police officers as may be duly ordered by the Council. The
Chief of Police shall, subject to the direction of the Mayor, have control and
management of all matters relating to the Police Department, its officers and
members, and shall have the custody and control of all property and books
belonging to the Department. He or she shall devote his or her whole time to
the city affairs, interests of the city, and to the preservation of peace,
order, safety and cleanliness thereof. The Department shall execute and enforce
all laws and also the orders of the Mayor. It shall be the duty of the
Department to protect the rights of persons and property. There shall be a
proper police force at all fires. The Department shall take notice of all
nuisances, impediments, obstructions and defects in the streets, avenues,
alleys, business places and residences of the city. The Department shall
execute or cause to be executed the processes issued and shall cause all
persons arrested to be brought before the proper court for trial as speedily as
possible. The Chief of Police and all regular and special police officers shall
become thoroughly conversant with the laws of the city, and shall see that the
same are strictly enforced and shall make sworn complaints against any person
or persons for violation of the same.
§ 1-602 RESERVE OFFICER BOND.
   No appointment of a law enforcement reserve officer shall be valid until a
bond in the amount of $1,000, payable to the city, has been filed with the City
Clerk by the individual appointed, or a blanket surety bond arranged and paid
for by the City Council and bonding all such officers of the City Council has
been filed. Such bonds shall be subject to the provisions of Neb. RS Ch. 11,
Art. 1.
§ 1-603 ARREST JURISDICTION.
   (A)   The city’s Police Chief or any other city police officer shall have
the power and authority to enforce the laws of the state and the city or
otherwise perform the functions of that office anywhere within his or her
primary jurisdiction. Primary jurisdiction shall mean the geographic area
within the territorial limits of the city and two miles beyond such territorial
limits.
   (B)   The city’s Police Chief and any other city police officer who is
within the state, but beyond the territorial limits of his or her primary
jurisdiction, shall have the power and authority to enforce the laws of the
state or any legal ordinance of the city or otherwise perform the functions of
his or her office, including the authority to arrest and detain suspects, as if
enforcing the laws or performing the functions within the territorial limits of
his or her primary jurisdiction in the following cases:
      (1)   The city’s Police Chief or any other city police officer, if in a
fresh attempt to apprehend a person suspect of committing a felony, may follow
such person into any other jurisdiction in the state and there arrest and
detain such person and return such person to the officer’s primary
jurisdiction;
      (2)   The city’s Police Chief or any other city police officer, if in a
fresh attempt to apprehend a person suspected of committing a misdemeanor or a
traffic infraction, may follow such person anywhere in an area within 25 miles
of the boundaries of the officer’s primary jurisdiction and there arrest and
detain such person and return such person to the officer’s primary
jurisdiction;
      (3)   The city’s Police Chief or any other city police officer shall have
such enforcement and arrest and detention authority when responding to a call
in which a local, state or federal law enforcement officer is in need of
assistance. A LAW ENFORCEMENT OFFICER IN NEED OF ASSISTANCE shall mean:
         (a)   A law enforcement officer whose life is in danger; or
         (b)   A law enforcement officer who needs assistance in making an
arrest and the suspect:
            1.   Will not be apprehended unless immediately arrested;
            2.   May cause injury to himself or herself or others or damage to
property unless immediately arrested; or
            3.   May destroy or conceal evidence of the commission of a crime.
      (4)   If the city, under the provisions of the Interlocal Cooperation
Act, enters into a contract with any other municipality or county for law
enforcement services or joint law enforcement services, law enforcement
personnel may have such enforcement authority within the jurisdiction of each
of the participating political subdivisions if provided for in the agreement.
Unless otherwise provided in the agreement, the city shall provide liability
insurance coverage for its own law enforcement personnel as provided in Neb. RS
13-1802.
§ 1-604 DISCHARGE OR DISCIPLINE OF POLICE MEMBERS.
   Any police officer or the city’s Police Chief may be disciplined or
immediately discharged from duty for gross misconduct, neglect of duty or
disobedience of lawful orders of the Mayor or the City Council as a whole.
§ 1-605 APPEAL PROCEDURE FOR DISCHARGED OR DISCIPLINED POLICE OFFICERS.
   In the event of discharge for any of the causes set forth in § 1-604, the
police officer or city’s Police Chief shall have the right to appeal his or her
discharge or disciplinary action to the City Council. Such appeal shall be made
within 30 days of his or her discharge or disciplinary action by filing a
written application for a hearing before the Council. Such written application
shall be made to the City Clerk and, if such application is made, the Clerk
shall immediately notify the Mayor of the receipt of such application. Upon
notice of the filing of such application, the Mayor shall call a special
meeting of the City Council, within 20 days of receipt of the written
application, to consider such application. Both the police officer and the
individuals causing such disciplinary action or discharge shall have the right
at the hearing to be heard and to present evidence to the City Council for its
consideration. Not later than 30 days following the adjournment of the meeting
at which the hearing was held, the City Council shall vote to uphold, reverse
or modify the removal or disciplinary action. The failure of the City Council
to act within 30 days or the failure of a majority of the elected board members
to vote to reverse or modify the removal or disciplinary action shall be
construed as a vote to uphold the removal or disciplinary action. The decision
of the City Council shall be based upon its determination that, under the facts
and evidence presented at the hearing, the challenged removal or disciplinary
action was necessary for the proper management and the effective operation of
the Police Department in the performance of its duties under the statutes of
the state.
ARTICLE VII: PLANNING COMMISSION
Section
   
1-701   Planning Commission; members
   
1-702   Compensation of members
   
1-703   Members; organization
   
1-704   Funds and gifts
   
1-705   Plans for physical development
§ 1-701 PLANNING COMMISSION; MEMBERS.
   The City Council shall appoint the Planning Commission, which shall consist
of nine members who shall be residents of the city. The members of the
Commission shall serve a three year term of office unless reappointed.
§ 1-702 COMPENSATION OF MEMBERS.
   All members of the city’s Planning Commission shall serve as such without
compensation and may be required, in the discretion of the City Council, to
give a bond in a sum set by resolution of the City Council and conditioned upon
the faithful performance of their duties.
§ 1-703 MEMBERS; ORGANIZATION.
   (A)   No member of the City Council, or any other city official, except
where otherwise specifically provided, shall serve as a member of the Planning
Commission while serving any other term of office. No member of the Planning
Commission shall serve in the capacity of both the Chairperson and Secretary of
the Commission.
   (B)   At the time of the Commission’s first meeting in June of each year,
the Commission shall organize by selecting from its membership a Chairperson
and a Secretary. It shall be the duty of the Secretary to keep the full and
correct minutes and records of all meetings and to file the same with the City
Clerk, where they shall be available for public inspection at any reasonable
time. The Planning Commission shall be funded by the City Council from time to
time out of the General Fund. A majority of the Commission shall constitute a
quorum for the purpose of doing business. Special meetings may be held upon the
call of the Chairperson or any three members of the Commission.
   (C)   The term of the Chairperson shall be one year and he or she shall be
eligible for reelection. The Planning Commission shall adopt rules for the
transaction of business and shall keep a record of its resolutions,
transactions, finding and determinations, which record shall be a public
record.
§ 1-704 FUNDS AND GIFTS.
   The City Council may provide the funds, equipment and accommodations
necessary for the work of the Commission, but the expenditures of the
Commission, exclusive of gifts, shall be within the amounts appropriated for
that purpose by the City Council of Trustees and no expenditures, nor
agreements for expenditures, shall be valid or legal in excess of such amount;
provided, however, that, such Commission shall have the authority and the power
to accept and receive donations of cash or property, gifts, bequests and grants
and, with the approval of the City Council, may use such non-appropriated
assets as the Commission shall deem beneficial and advantageous to the city.
§ 1-705 PLANS FOR PHYSICAL DEVELOPMENT.
   It shall be the function and duty of the commission to make and adopt plans
for the physical development of the city, including any areas outside of its
boundaries but within its statute authority which, in the Commission’s
judgment, bear relation to the planning of the city. All actions by the
Commission shall be subject to the review and supervision of the City Council.
Recommendations from the Commission shall be received by the City Council
within 30 days after the Commission begins consideration of a matter relating
to the comprehensive development plan, capital improvements, building codes
subdivision development, the annexation of territory or zoning. The Commission
shall be responsible for making such reports and performing such other duties
as the City Council may, from time to time, designate.
ARTICLE VIII: BOARD OF HEALTH
Section
   
1-801   Members
   
1-802   Powers and duties
   
1-803   State health rules; incorporated by reference
   
1-804   Depositing or permitting deposit or accumulation of any substance
detrimental to health or offensive to smell; penalty
   
1-805   Tattoo/body piercing; license required
   
1-806   Application fee
   
1-807   Definitions
   
1-808   Health and sanitary requirements
   
1-809   Storing of instruments
   
1-810   Sterilizing of instruments
   
1-811   Use of instruments
   
1-812   Incineration of wastes
   
1-813   Records
   
1-814   Infections
   
1-815   Pigments and dyes
   
1-816   Bandages and surgical dressing
   
1-817   Certificate of inspection
   
1-818   Inspections
   
1-819   Tattooing and/or body piercing of minors
   
1-820   Hours of operation
   
1-821   Penalty
§ 1-801 MEMBERS.
   A Board of Health is hereby created, which shall consist of four members:
the Mayor, who shall serve as Chairperson; the City Police Chief, who shall be
Secretary and Quarantine Officer; a city physician who shall serve as the
medical advisor; and the President of the City Council. The members of the
Board shall serve a one-year term of office, unless reappointed or until their
successors have been appointed, and shall reorganize at the first meeting in
June of each year.
§ 1-802 POWERS AND DUTIES.
   A majority of the Board shall constitute a quorum and shall enact rules and
regulations to safeguard the health of the people of the city and shall provide
fines and punishments for the violations thereof. The Board is authorized and
directed to make all necessary rules and regulations relating to matters of
sanitation, including the removal of dead animals, and sanitary conditions of
the streets and alleys, and vacant grounds and of private and public stock
yards and all other buildings and places where filth, nuisances or offensive
matter is kept or is liable to and does accumulate. It shall suppress and
prevent the occurrence of nuisances and enforce all laws of the state and
ordinances of the city relating to the matters of sanitation of the city. It
shall keep a record of all matters transacted at its meetings and all actions
taken by it, which records shall be filed with the City Clerk and be part of
the public records of the city.
§ 1-803 STATE HEALTH RULES; INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE.
   Three copies of the Rules and Regulations Relating to Public Health,
published by the Department of Health of the state, as revised, adopted and
promulgated in pamphlet form, are hereby incorporated by reference insofar as
the same are applicable to cities, and they shall be incorporated herein, the
same as though copied at full length in this article.
§ 1-804 DEPOSITING OR PERMITTING DEPOSIT OR ACCUMULATION OF ANY SUBSTANCE
DETRIMENTAL TO HEALTH OR OFFENSIVE TO SMELL; PENALTY.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to deposit, or permit the deposit or
accumulation of any garbage, refuse of any kind or article or thing which is
detrimental to health or from which obnoxious or offensive odors arise, on the
streets, alleys or public grounds or on any private premises including
enclosures in which livestock is kept within said city, and any person who
violates this section and shall fail to remove such objectionable substances or
otherwise comply with the orders of the Board of Health with reference thereto
within 24 hours from the receipt of written notice thereof, upon conviction,
shall be fined not more than that amount permitted by state law, and the
offensive matter removed by or at the expense of the defendant and each 24-hour
failure to comply with the orders of the Board shall constitute a separate and
distinct offense.
§ 1-805 TATTOO/BODY PIERCING; LICENSE REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to engage in the business of operating a
tattoo and/or a body piercing establishment without first obtaining a license
to engage in such business in accordance with the provisions hereof.
§ 1-806 APPLICATION FEE.
   An application for a new or renewal license shall be filed with the City
Clerk accompanied by a fee in the amount of $100. Upon payment of the license
fee, receipt of the application and receipt of the certificate of inspection,
the City Clerk shall issue a license, valid for one year from the date of
issuance, to the applicant, which he or she shall keep displayed in his or her
place of business at all times. Any change of ownership of the business
licensed shall require a new application and license, with payment of fees
therefor.
§ 1-807 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this article, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BODY PIERCING. The act of penetrating the skin, excluding the earlobes, to
make generally permanent in nature, a hole, mark or scar.
   CERTIFICATE OF INSPECTION. Written approval from the appropriate local,
regional or state health inspection agency/service that said tattooing and/or
body piercing establishment has been inspected and meets all of the terms of
this article relating to operation, maintenance, physical facilities, equipment
and layout for operation of such business.
   HEALTH INSPECTION AGENCY. The local, regional or State Health Service
Department/ Agency, working on behalf of the city, which is responsible for
health inspection services of a tattooing and/or body piercing establishment.
   OPERATOR. Any individual, firm, company, corporation or association that
owns or operates an establishment where tattooing and/or body piercing is
performed and any individual who performs or practices the art of tattooing
and/or body piercing on the person of another.
   TATTOO. To any method of placing designs, letters, scrolls, figures, symbols
or any other marks under the skin with ink or any other substance resulting in
the coloration of the skin by the aid of needles or any other instruments
designed to puncture the skin.
§ 1-808 HEALTH AND SANITARY REQUIREMENTS.
   Each person who operates a tattooing and/or body piercing establishment
shall comply with the following requirements.
   (A)   The room in which tattooing and/or body piercing is done shall have an
area of not less than 100 square feet. The walls, floors and ceiling shall have
an impervious, smooth and washable surface.
   (B)   A toilet shall be located in the establishment and shall be accessible
at all times that the tattooing and/or body piercing establishment is open for
business. A separate lavatory will be accessible to the operator to wash his or
her hands prior to applying a tattoo or body piercing to a patron. The lavatory
shall be supplied with hot and cold running water, soap and sanitary towels and
shall be cleaned and sanitized at least daily.
   (C)   All tables and other equipment shall be constructed of easily
cleanable material, shall be painted or finished in a light color, with a
smooth washable finish and shall be separated from waiting customers or
observers by a panel at least four feet high or by a door.
   (D)   The entire premises and all equipment shall be maintained in a clean,
sanitary condition and in good repair.
   (E)   The operator shall wash his or her hands thoroughly with soap and
water before starting to tattoo and/or body pierce; the hands shall be dried
with individual, single-use towels. After washing his or her hands, the
operator shall rinse his or her hands in 70% alcohol (rubbing alcohol) or in an
antiseptic solution approved by the designated health inspection agency. The
operator will then don new surgical gloves, and shall wear them while in
contact with the customer. Upon completion of his or her work on each customer,
the operator shall dispose of the gloves by incineration or autoclave. The
operator shall not perform service on more than one person at a time; that is,
he or she shall commence and complete or terminate services with a customer,
prior to commencing work on another individual.
   (F)   No tattooing and/or body piercing shall be done on any skin surface
that has rash, pimples, boils, infections or manifests any evidence of
unhealthy conditions.
   (G)   No skin area shall be penetrated, abraded or treated with chemicals
for the purpose of removing, camouflaging or altering any blemish, birthmark or
scar; in the event a tattoo is changed, a record must be made and be kept in
the client’s record.
   (H)   Only disposable razors with a new, single-service blade shall be used
on each customer or patron and then shall be sterilized and disposed of as soon
as possible by incineration.
   (I)   The area to be tattooed and/or pierced shall first be thoroughly
washed for a period of two minutes with warm water to which has been added an
antiseptic liquid soap. A sterile single-use sponge shall be used to scrub the
area. After shaving and before tattooing and/or piercing is begun, a solution
of 70% alcohol shall be applied to the area with a single-use sponge used and
applied with a sterile instrument. Sponges shall be disposed of by
sterilization and incineration.
   (J)   Only sterile petroleum jelly in single-service disposable containers,
if available, or collapsible metal or plastic tubes, or its equivalent as
approved by the health inspection agency, shall be used on the area to be
tattooed and/or pierced and it shall be applied with sterile gauze which shall
then be discarded and disposed of by incineration or autoclave. Petroleum jelly
or an approved alternate substance shall not be applied directly with the
fingers.
   (K)   The use of styptic pencils, alum blocks or other solid styptic to
check the flow of blood is prohibited.
   (L)   Inquiry shall be made of each customer, and anyone giving a history of
jaundice, hepatitis, lymphadenopathy or lymphadenitis (swelling of lymph nodes)
aids (HIV+) positive, or a history of blood donation exclusion (for other than
hypertension and immediate illness) may not be tattooed and/or body pierced.
Inquiry shall be recorded on an appropriate form which shall be executed by the
customer and operator, and retained by the licensee for a period of not less
than three years.
   (M)   Single-service individual containers of dye or ink shall be used for
each patron, and the container therefor shall be discarded immediately after
completing work on a patron and any dye in which the needles were dipped shall
not be used on another person. Excess dye or ink shall be removed from the skin
with an individual sterile sponge or a disposable paper tissue which shall be
used only on one person and then immediately discarded and disposed of with
other hazardous medical waste. After completing work on any person, the
tattooed and/or pierced area shall be washed with sterile gauze saturated with
an antiseptic soap solution approved by the health inspection agency, or a 70%
alcohol solution. The tattooed and/or pierced area shall be allowed to dry and
sterile petroleum jelly from a single-service disposable container, if
available, or from collapsible metal or plastic tubes, shall be applied, using
sterile gauze. A sterile gauze dressing shall then be fastened to the tattooed
area with adhesive and/or the pierced area as needed.
   (N)   All tattoo and/or body piercing work shall be performed with a single-
service sterile needle, which shall be disposed of immediately after use on one
customer by sterilization and incineration. The operator shall not remove
tattoos, nor shall they be done over the site of obviously recent hypodermic
injections. A single-service tube should be used in conjunction with a new
needle. After use the tube shall be sterilized.
   (O)   Operator is responsible for issuing after-care instructions for each
body piercing.
   (P)   No animals may be kept or allowed in the place of business at any
time.
   (Q)   Private residences or dwelling units are prohibited in the place of
business unless the tattooing and/or body piercing operation is conducted in a
separate and distinct location from the normal living quarters of a residential
dwelling.
§ 1-809 STORING OF INSTRUMENTS.
   (A)   All clean and ready-to-use needles and instruments shall be kept in a
closed glass or metal case or storage cabinet while not in use.
   (B)   Such cabinet shall be maintained in a sanitary manner at all times.
§ 1-810 STERILIZING OF INSTRUMENTS.
   (A)   A steam sterilizer (autoclave) shall be provided for sterilizing all
needles and similar instruments before use on any customer, person or patron.
(Alternate sterilizing procedures may only be used when specifically approve by
the health inspection agency.) Sterilization of equipment will be accomplished
by exposure to live steam for at least 60 minutes at a minimum pressure of 15
pounds per square inch, temperature of 250°F or 121°C.
   (B)   (1)   Preparation of instruments for sterilization. After each tattoo
job, the tattoo machine shall be placed in an ultrasonic type machine to remove
the excess dye from the tubes and needle bars. When this process is completed,
the tubes and needle bars shall be removed from the tattoo machines. They shall
then be placed into a covered container for sterilization by autoclaving.
      (2)   Sterilizing of instruments. Steam sterilizers, approved by the
health inspection agency, shall be provided for each establishment. All needle
bars, grips, tubes and instruments which pierce the skin, directly and in
piercing the skin or come in contract with instruments which pierce the skin
shall be sterilized before using on each customer by autoclaving under 15
pounds pressure for 15 minutes. The temperature maintained in autoclaving shall
not be less than 250°F or 121°C.
      (3)   Storing of instruments. All tubes, grips and needle bars shall be
left in the wrappers used during the autoclaving process. These wrapped
articles shall be stored in a closed glass case or storage cabinet and shall be
maintained in a sanitary manner at all times. The wrappers shall not be removed
from the tubes, grips or needle bars until a tattoo and/or body piercing job is
begun.
§ 1-811 USE OF INSTRUMENTS.
   The needles and instruments required to be sterilized shall be so used,
handled and temporarily placed during tattooing and/or body piercing so that
they will not be contaminated. Each operator should have a minimum of eight
sets of tubes. (A set consists of one outliner, one shade).
§ 1-812 INCINERATION OF WASTES.
   All used items and equipment must be autoclaved at 15 psi and 250°F for 15
minutes and then discarded in double-lined plastic bags in clean closable
receptacle, and shall be incinerated as soon as possible after use.
§ 1-813 RECORDS.
   (A)   Permanent records for each patron or customer shall be maintained by
the licensee or operator of the establishment. Before the tattooing and/or body
piercing operation begins, the patron or customer shall be required personally
to enter, on a record form provided for such establishments, the date, his or
her name, address, age, driver’s license number or other acceptable photo
identification, and his or her signature. A copy of the driver’s license or
photo identification shall be attached to and retained with the permanent
record.
   (B)   Daily logs must be kept detailing sterilization of instruments.
   (C)   All such records required to be retained shall be kept by the operator
or licensee for a period of not less than five years. In the event of a change
of ownership or closing the business, all such records shall be made available
to the health inspection agency or law enforcement officer of the city upon
request.
§ 1-814 INFECTIONS.
   No person, customer or patron having any skin infection or other disease of
the skin or any communicable disease shall be tattooed and/or body pierced. All
infections resulting from the practice of tattooing and/or body piercing which
become known to the operator shall promptly be reported to the health
inspection agency by the person owning or operating the tattooing and/or body
piercing establishment and the infected client shall be referred to a
physician.
§ 1-815 PIGMENTS AND DYES.
   All pigments, dyes, colors and the like used in tattooing shall be sterile
and free from bacteria, virus particles and noxious agents and substances, and
the pigments, dyes and colors used from stock solutions for each customer or
patron shall be placed in a single-service receptacle and such receptacle and
remaining solution shall be discarded and disposed of after use on each
customer or patron.
§ 1-816 BANDAGES AND SURGICAL DRESSING.
   All bandages and surgical dressings used in connection with the tattooing
and/or body piercing of a person shall be sterile.
§ 1-817 CERTIFICATE OF INSPECTION.
   An applicant for license to operate a tattooing and/or body piercing
establishment shall first obtain a certificate of inspection from the health
inspection agency, indicated the establishment has been inspected and is in
compliance with the provisions of the article.
§ 1-818 INSPECTIONS.
   The health inspection agency shall conduct periodic inspections of any
tattooing and/or body piercing establishment for the purpose of determining
whether or not said establishment and the persons performing the art of
tattooing and/or body piercing thereon are in compliance with all applicable
health provisions contained within this article and other pertinent ordinances
at least once each calendar year. It shall be unlawful for any person or
operator of a tattooing and/or body piercing establishment willfully to prevent
or restrain the health inspection agency from entering any licensed
establishment where tattooing and/or body piercing is being performed for the
purpose of inspecting said premises, after proper identification is presented
to the operator.
§ 1-819 TATTOOING AND/OR BODY PIERCING OF MINORS.
   No person in the city shall tattoo and/or body pierce any unmarried minor
under the age of 18 years unless the parent, guardian or other person having
charge and custody of said minor shall first have given his or her written
consent to such tattooing and/or body piercing of such minor. The identity of
the consenting party shall be verified by driver’s license number or other
acceptable photo identification. The written consent must be signed at the
tattooing and/or body piercing establishment by the parent, guardian or other
person having charge and custody of said minor. A copy of the driver’s license
or photo identification shall be attached to and retained with the written
consent. The burden for ensuring compliance with this section shall be on the
operator.
§ 1-820 HOURS OF OPERATION.
   Operators of tattoo and/or body piercing businesses shall not commence new
tattoo and/or body piercing work after the hour of 11:00 p.m.
§ 1-821 PENALTY.
   In addition to the revocation and suspension of any license, any person
violating any provisions of the article shall be referred to the Nebraska
Department of Health and Human Services for each offense, and a separate
offense shall be deemed committed on each day during or on which a violation
occurs or continues.
ARTICLE IX: CITY TREE BOARD
Section
   
1-901   Members
   
1-902   Definitions
   
1-903   Term of office
   
1-904   Compensation
   
1-905   Duties and responsibilities
   
1-906   Operation
   
1-907   Street tree species to be planted
   
1-908   Spacing
   
1-909   Public tree care
   
1-910   Permits required
   
1-911   Compensatory payments
   
1-912   Tree topping
   
1-913   Pruning, corner clearance
   
1-914   Dead or diseased tree removal on private property
   
1-915   Removal of stumps
   
1-916   Interference with City Tree Board
   
1-917   Arborist’s license
   
1-918   Review by City Council
§ 1-901 MEMBERS.
   The Tree Board for the city shall consist of five members, citizens and
residents of the city, who shall be appointed by the Mayor and the approval of
the City Council.
§ 1-902 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this article, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   COMMUNITY FOREST MANAGER. The official representative of the Tree Board and
as such is responsible for administration of the community forestry program.
   PARK TREES. Trees, shrubs, bushes and all other woody vegetation in public
parks having individual names, and all areas owned by the city, or to which the
public has free access as a park.
   PRIVATE COMMUNITY FOREST. All trees within city boundaries, but not owned by
the city.
   PUBLIC COMMUNITY FOREST. All street and park trees, and other trees owned by
the city as a total resource.
   STREET TREES. Trees, shrubs, bushes and all other woody vegetation on land
lying between property lines on either side of all streets, avenues or ways
within the city.
§ 1-903 TERM OF OFFICE.
   The term of the five persons to be appointed by the Mayor shall be three
years; except that, the term of two of the members appointed to the first Board
shall be for only one year and the term of two members of the first Board shall
be for two years. In event that a vacancy shall occur during the term of any
member, a successor shall be appointed for a new three-year term.
§ 1-904 COMPENSATION.
   Members of the Tree Board shall serve without compensation.
§ 1-905 DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES.
   It shall be the responsibility of the Tree Board to study, investigate,
counsel and develop and/or update annually and administer a written plan for
the care, preservation, pruning, planting, replanting, removal or disposition
of trees and shrubs in parks, along streets and in other public areas. Such
plan will be presented annually to the City Council and, upon their acceptance
and approval, shall constitute the official comprehensive City Tree Plan for
the city. The Tree Board, when requested by the Council, shall consider,
investigate, make finding, report and recommend upon any special matter of
question coming within the scope of its work.
§ 1-906 OPERATION.
   (A)   The Tree Board shall choose its own officers, make its own rules and
regulation and keep a minute book of its proceedings.
   (B)   A majority of its members shall be a quorum for the transaction of
business.
§ 1-907 STREET TREE SPECIES TO BE PLANTED.
   The city shall maintain an extensive list of recommended trees for planting
in public areas. The purpose of this listing will be to maintain diversity in
the total tree population. This list shall be available to residents of the
city upon request to aid in the selection of trees for private and public
properties. The list of recommended trees shall be updated periodically to
reflect new developments or species that will affect the population of the
community forest.
§ 1-908 SPACING.
   Street trees may be planted in the tree lawn where there is more than six
feet between the edge of the sidewalk and curb of the street. Street trees
shall be planted no closer than three feet from a sidewalk, driveway or street.
No street tree shall be planted closer than 35 feet from any street corner,
measured from the point of the nearest intersection of curbs or curblines. No
street trees shall be planted closer than ten feet from any fire hydrant.
Special permission must be obtained from the Tree Board when planting street
trees within ten feet of any point on a line on the ground immediately below
any overhead utility wire.
§ 1-909 PUBLIC TREE CARE.
   (A)   The city shall have the right to plant, prune, maintain and remove
trees, plants and shrubs within the right-of-way or bounds of all streets,
alleys, avenues, lanes, squares and public grounds, as may be necessary to
ensure public safety or to preserve or enhance the symmetry and beauty of such
public grounds. The city may remove or cause or order to be removed any tree or
part thereof which is in an unsafe condition or which by reason of its nature
is injurious or potentially injurious to electric power lines or other public
improvements, or is seriously affected with any fatal disease.
   (B)   The abutting property owners shall have the right to perform normal
tree care on all street trees. When the Code Enforcement Officer, or the Tree
Board, determines that it is in the public interest, due to the possibility of
damage to electric lines or other public improvements, disease, age, damage or
other serious defect to remove a street tree, the tree shall be declared a
nuisance and the abutting property owner shall be given 30 days to remove the
tree. The abutting property owner may elect to request the city remove the
tree, but such removal shall not be performed until the property owner signs a
removal request that specifically waives any rights to claim compensation from
the city for damages to sprinklers, yards, sidewalks, driveways or any other
damages caused by such removal.
   (C)   The removal of street trees is to be performed as a courtesy to the
abutting property owner. During the process of removing street trees, the city
shall not be liable to the abutting property owner for any damages to
sprinklers, yards, sidewalks, driveways or any other damages caused by such
removal. The City Administrator may, at his or her discretion, compensate the
property owner for minor damages, such as a broken sprinkler head, if such
compensation appears justified. The owner may appeal to the City Council for
compensation for any damages, but the city shall not have any obligation to pay
said claims.
   (D)   The city may remove any street tree at any time, without prior notice,
if said tree creates an immediate threat to public safety.
(Ord. 1047, passed 9-14-2020)
§ 1-910 PERMITS REQUIRED.
   No person shall plant a street tree without first obtaining a permit from
the Tree Board. There will be no fee for such permit.
§ 1-911 COMPENSATORY PAYMENTS.
   No person shall remove any public tree without replacing such tree with a
tree or trees of equivalent dollar value in the vicinity of the removed tree.
The value of trees shall be determined by the Tree Board in accordance with
regulations considering the species, location, size and condition of trees
adopted by the Tree Board, if no suitable location exists in the vicinity of
the tree removed or if the replacement tree is of lesser value, the person
causing the tree to be removed shall make a compensatory payment to the city
equal of the difference in value between the tree removed and any replacement
tree. Such compensatory payment shall be paid into a fund established by the
Director of Finance and used solely for the purpose of enhancing the community
forest.
§ 1-912 TREE TOPPING.
   It shall be unlawful as a normal practice for any person, firm or city
department to top any street tree, park tree or other tree on public property.
TOPPING is defined as the severe cutting back of limbs to such a degree so as
to remove the normal canopy and disfigure the tree. Trees severely damaged by
storms or other causes, or certain trees under utility wires or other
obstructions where other pruning practices are impractical may be exempted from
this article at the determination of the city’s Tree Board. The topping of
private trees by persons or firms engaged in the business will not be
recommended by the city.
§ 1-913 PRUNING, CORNER CLEARANCE.
   Every owner of any tree overhanging any street or right-of-way within the
city shall prune the branches, so that such branches shall not obstruct the
light from any street lamp or obstruct the view of any street intersection, and
so that there shall be a clear space of eight feet above the surface of the
sidewalk and a clearance of 12 feet over streets and alleys. Property owners
are responsible for trees on their own property as well as trees on the public
way that abuts their property.
§ 1-914 DEAD OR DISEASED TREE REMOVAL ON PRIVATE PROPERTY.
   All trees that are in a diseased, dying or dead condition are declared to be
a public nuisance and shall be removed by the property owner from the private
property on which they are located. For the purpose of carrying out the
provisions of this section, the city’s Tree Board shall have the authority to
enter on private property to inspect the trees thereon. In the event that the
trees are diseased or dead, notice shall be given to the owner of the property
by mail or personal service, and such notice shall allow the said owner 60 days
to remove the said tree or trees. In the event that the owner is a non-
resident, notice shall be made by publication in a newspaper of general
circulation, or by certified mail if the name and address is known. The person
charged with the removal may enter into an agreement with the city that such
work be accomplished by the city, and the expense shall be declared to be a
lien upon such property from the time the same becomes due until paid, if the
owner fails, neglects or refuses to enter into such an agreement, or to remove
the trees, the city’s Tree Board may enter upon the property and proceed to
direct the removal of the trees and the cost thereof shall be chargeable to the
property owner. If the owner fails to reimburse the city after being properly
billed, the costs shall be assessed against the property and certified by the
City Clerk to the County Treasurer to be collected in the manner prescribed by
law. In the event the property owner is a non-resident of the county in which
the property lies, the city shall, before levying any special assessment
against that property, send a copy of any notice required by law to be
published by means of certified mail, return receipt requested, to the last
known address of the non-resident property owner. The last known address shall
be that address listed on the current tax rolls at the time such required
notice was first published.
§ 1-915 REMOVAL OF STUMPS.
   All stumps of street and park trees shall be removed below the surface of
the ground so that the top of the stump shall not project above the surface of
the ground.
§ 1-916 INTERFERENCE WITH CITY TREE BOARD.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to prevent, delay or interfere with the
city’s Tree Board, or any of its agents, while engaging in and about the
planting, cultivating, mulching, pruning, spraying or removing of any trees
within the public community forest or to prevent, delay or interfere with
access to private property by the city in the legal performance of any section
of this article.
§ 1-917 ARBORIST’S LICENSE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person or firm to engage in the business or
occupation of pruning, treating or removing trees within the city without first
applying for and procuring a license; provided, however, that no license shall
be required of any public service company or city employee doing such work in
the pursuit of their public service endeavors. Before any license shall be
issued, each applicant shall first file evidence of possession of liability
insurance in the minimum amounts of $50,000 for bodily injury and $100,000
property damage, indemnifying the city or any person injured or damaged
resulting from the pursuit of such endeavors as herein described. There shall
be no license fee required for an arborist’s license.
§ 1-918 REVIEW BY CITY COUNCIL.
   The City Council shall have the right to review the conduct, acts and
decisions of the city’s Tree Board. Any person may appeal any ruling or order
of the city’s Tree Board to the Council, who may hear the matter and make a
final decision.
ARTICLE X: LIBRARY
Section
   
1-1001   Operation and funding
   
1-1002   Books
   
1-1003   Rules and regulations
   
1-1004   Damaged and lost materials
   
1-1005   Item removal
   
1-1006   Library usage
   
1-1007   Money collected
   
1-1008   Library Board; appointment
   
1-1009   Library Board: officers; quorum; procedure; duties
   
1-1010   Librarian, assistants; by-laws
   
1-1011   Library reports
   
1-1012   Destruction of library property; violation, penalty
§ 1-1001 OPERATION AND FUNDING.
   The city owns and manages the library through the Library Board. The City
Council, for the purpose of defraying the cost of the management, purchases,
improvements and maintenance of the library, may each year levy a tax not
exceeding the maximum limit prescribed by state law on the actual valuation of
all real estate and personal property within the city that is subject to
taxation. The revenue from the said tax shall be known as the Library Fund and
shall include all gifts, grants, deeds of conveyance, bequests or other
valuable income-producing personal property and real estate from any source for
the purpose of endowing the library. The Library Fund shall at all times be in
the custody of the City Treasurer. The Board shall have the power and authority
to appoint the librarian and to hire such other employees as they may deem
necessary and may pass such other rules and regulations for the operation of
the library as may be proper for its efficient operation. All actions by the
Board shall be under the supervision and control of the City Council.
§ 1-1002 BOOKS.
   The Library Board may authorize the sale, exchange or disposal of any
surplus, damaged, defective, obsolete or duplicate books in the library.
Records shall be kept of any such surplus, damaged, defective, obsolete or
duplicate books so disposed of.
§ 1-1003 RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   The Library Board shall establish rules and regulations for the governing of
the library for the preservation and efficient management thereof. They shall
fix and impose by general rules, penalties and forfeitures for injury to the
library grounds, rooms, books or other property, or for failure to return a
book. All fees, penalties and forfeitures may be collected in civil action in
the event of failure, neglect or refusal to pay the said assessments.
§ 1-1004 DAMAGED AND LOST MATERIALS.
   Any person who injures or fails to return any materials taken from the
library shall forfeit and pay to the library not less than the value of the
item in addition to any replacement costs and penalty which the Library Board
may assess.
§ 1-1005 ITEM REMOVAL.
   It shall be unlawful for any person not authorized by the regulations made
by the library board to take an item from the library, without the consent of
the librarian or an authorized employee of the library. Any person removing an
item from the library without properly checking it out shall be deemed to be
guilty of a misdemeanor.
§ 1-1006 LIBRARY USAGE.
   The library shall be free for the use of the inhabitants of Merrick County.
The librarian may exclude from the use of the library and reading rooms any
person who shall willfully violate or refuse to comply with the rules and
regulations established for the government thereof. The Library Board shall
have the power and authority to set fines for overdue books and to set such
rules and regulations necessary to enforce the payment of such fines.
§ 1-1007 MONEY COLLECTED.
   Any money collected by the library shall be turned over monthly by the
librarian to the City Treasurer along with a report of the sources of the
revenue.
§ 1-1008 LIBRARY BOARD; APPOINTMENT.
   At the first regular or special meeting in December of each year, the Mayor,
by and with the consent of the Council or a majority of the same, shall appoint
persons to be chosen from the citizens at large for the managing of such public
library for a term of two years. Three Board members shall be appointed in odd
numbered years and two shall be appointed in even numbered years; provided,
however, if the Mayor shall fail or neglect to appoint such member as above
provided, the Council shall appoint such member by a majority vote of its
members. Neither the Mayor, nor any member of the City Council, shall be a
member of such Library Board. No director shall receive any pay or compensation
for his or her services as a member of such Board. In case of vacancies by
resignation, removal or otherwise, the Mayor and Council shall fill such
vacancy for the unexpired term. The Library Board shall consist of five
members. In receipt of county funding, one member of the Library Board may
reside outside city limits to provide representation for Merrick County. The
Library Board shall have the power, with the approval of the Mayor and Council,
to prepare and adopt such rules and regulations for the efficient management of
said library as they deem expedient.
(Ord. 957, passed 1-9-2012)
§ 1-1009 LIBRARY BOARD: OFFICERS; QUORUM; PROCEDURE; DUTIES.
   The members shall, at their first meeting of October of each year, organize
by electing from their number a Chairperson and a Secretary. Three of such
Board shall constitute a quorum; provided, however, any motion, resolution or
order passed by said Board, in order to be valid, shall require the vote or
assent of three members of said Board. They shall have the power to adopt such
by-laws, rules and regulations for their guidance and for the government of the
library as they deem expedient, subject to the supervision and control of the
Mayor and Council and not inconsistent with this article. They shall have
exclusive control of the expenditure of all the money collected or donated to
the credit of the Library Fund, and the exclusive control of all library
property and of the renting or construction of any library building and the
supervision, care and custody of the grounds, rooms or buildings constructed,
leased or set apart for that purpose.
§ 1-1010 LIBRARIAN, ASSISTANTS; BY-LAWS.
   The Library Board shall have power to appoint a suitable librarian and
assistants, to fix their compensation and remove their appointees at pleasure
and shall have power to establish such regulation for the government of such
library as may be deemed necessary for its preservation, and to maintain its
usefulness and efficiency they shall fix and impose by general rules, penalties
and forfeitures for trespass or injury upon or to the library building,
grounds, rooms, books or other property or for the failure to return any book
or for the violation of any by-laws or regulations, and shall have and exercise
such power as may be necessary to carry out the spirit and intent of this
article in establishing and maintaining a public library.
§ 1-1011 LIBRARY REPORTS.
   The Library Board shall, in October of each year, make a report to the Mayor
and Council of the condition of their trust on October 1 of each year, showing
all monies received and expended, number of books or periodicals purchased or
acquired by gift during the year, the number lost or missing, the number of
visitors attending, the number and characters of books loaned or issued, with
such statistics, information and suggestions as may be deemed of general
interest or as the City Council may require, which report shall be verified by
affidavit of the proper officers of said Board. The Library Board shall make
such other reports from time to time as the Mayor and Council shall request or
order.
§ 1-1012 DESTRUCTION OF LIBRARY PROPERTY; VIOLATION, PENALTY.
   Any person who shall willfully and maliciously write upon, injure, deface,
tear or destroy any book, newspaper, plats, engraving or any property or thing
of value belonging to the public library shall be deemed guilty of a
misdemeanor and, upon conviction, shall be fined in any sum not less than the
cost of replacement of such publication and the cost of prosecution.
ARTICLE XI: COMMUNITY REDEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY
Section
   
1-1101   Officers
   
1-1102   Director
   
1-1103   Funds
§ 1-1101 OFFICERS.
   Five persons shall constitute the Authority. The five members shall be
selected by the Mayor and approved by the City Council. At least one member of
the Authority shall be a duly elected member of the City Council. In the event
that such member’s term as City Council member expires, the Mayor shall appoint
a current member of the City Council to fill such vacancy. The Mayor shall
designate the term of office for each member, as provided in Neb. RS 18-
2102.01. The Authority shall select one of its members as Chair and one as Vice
Chair. A total of three members of the Authority shall constitute a quorum for
the transaction of business. The Authority shall adopt rules for the
transaction of its business and shall keep records of its resolutions,
transactions, findings and determinations, which records shall be made
available for public inspection during regular business hours.
(Ord. 969, passed 12-10-2012)
§ 1-1102 DIRECTOR.
   The Authority shall select a person to serve as the Director and ex officio
Secretary of the Community Redevelopment Authority, and that person shall
perform such duties as may be assigned by the Authority, including the
necessary administrative functions described in Neb. RS 18-2102-01 et seq.
§ 1-1103 FUNDS.
   All income, revenue, profits and other funds received by the Authority shall
be deposited with the City Treasurer as ex officio Treasurer of such Authority
without commingling such money with any other money under his or her control
and disbursed by him or her by check or draft only upon warrants, orders or
requisitions by the Chairperson of the Authority or other person authorized by
the Authority, which shall state distinctly the purpose for which the same are
drawn; and a permanent record shall be kept by the Authority of any such
activity.
ARTICLE XII: ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM
Section
   
1-1201   Adoption of program; funding
   
1-1202   Citizens Advisory Review Committee
§ 1-1201 ADOPTION OF PROGRAM; FUNDING.
   (A)   The Economic Development Program, as defined by the City Council on 3-
18-1997 and approved by the electors of the city at the special election held
on 5-20-1997, pursuant to the provisions of the Local Option Municipal Economic
Development Act, being Neb. RS 18-2701 et seq., is hereby adopted. The Economic
Development Program is published in pamphlet form and incorporated herein by
reference as though printed in full. At least one copy of the economic
development plan shall be kept on file with the City Clerk and made available
for inspection by any member of the public during office hours.
   (B)   The city shall provide funding for the economic development program
equivalent to 1/2¢ of the city sales tax collected by the city.
(Ord. 1056, passed 12-14-2020)
§ 1-1202 CITIZENS ADVISORY REVIEW COMMITTEE.
   There is hereby created a Citizens Advisory Review Committee consisting of
ten registered voters of the city to review the functions and progress of the
economic development program and to advise the City Council with regard to the
program. The Citizens Advisory Committee shall establish a regular meeting
schedule, but shall meet no less frequently than semi-annually. The Committee
shall at least once in every six-month period report to the City Council on its
findings and suggestions at a public hearing called for the purpose. The city’s
Economic Development Director shall serve as an ex officio member of the
Committee with responsibility for assisting the committee and providing it with
necessary information and advise on the economic development program.
ARTICLE XIII: BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT
Section
   
1-1301   Members
   
1-1302   Organization
   
1-1303   Funding; meetings; duties
§ 1-1301 MEMBERS.
   The City Council shall appoint members to the Zoning Board of Adjustment
pursuant to state law.
§ 1-1302 ORGANIZATION.
   The Board shall organize at its first meeting in November of each year and
elect from its membership a Chairperson and Vice Chair. It shall be the duty of
the Secretary to keep complete and accurate minutes of all Board meetings and
to file the same at the office of the City Clerk for examination at any
reasonable time by the public.
§ 1-1303 FUNDING; MEETINGS; DUTIES.
   The Board of Adjustment shall be funded from time to time out of the General
Fund by the City Council. Meetings of the Board shall be held at such times as
the City Council may designate, or at such other times as the Chairperson may,
in his or her discretion, call a meeting. Special meetings may be also held
upon the call of any three members of the Board. A majority of the Board shall
constitute a quorum for the purpose of doing business. It shall be the duty of
the Board to hear and decide appeals where it is alleged that there is error in
any order, requirement, decision or determination made by a city official based
on any zoning ordinance of the city; to hear and decide in accordance with the
provisions of any zoning ordinance, requests for interpretation of any map or
decision relating to zoning regulations; and authorize a variance from the
strict application of any zoning ordinance if it is found that a specific piece
of property, due to exceptional specifications existing at the time of passage
of the said ordinance would result in exceptional difficulties and undue
hardship; provided that, no variance shall be granted if the undue hardship
appears to affect the property in the district generally, or if the situation
of the property concerned appears to be so general or recurring in nature as to
make reasonably practicable, the formulation of a general regulation to be
adopted by the City Council as an ordinance. The concurring vote of four
members of the Board shall be necessary to reverse any order, requirement,
decision or determination made by a city official on any matter which was
governed by any city zoning ordinance.
ARTICLE XIV: MUNICIPAL CEMETERY
Section
   
1-1401   Operation and funding
   
1-1402   Cemetery Superintendent
   
1-1403   Cemetery Superintendent’s duties and responsibilities
   
1-1404   Lots
   
1-1405   Conveyance of lots
   
1-1406   Not used
   
1-1407   Destruction of property
   
1-1408   General regulations
§ 1-1401 OPERATION AND FUNDING.
   The city owns and manages the Municipal Cemetery. The Mayor and City Council
for the purpose of defraying the cost of the care, management, maintenance and
beautification of the cemetery may each year levy a tax not exceeding the
maximum limit prescribed by state law, on the actual valuation of all real
estate and personal property within the city that is subject to taxation. The
revenue from the said tax shall be known as the “Cemetery Fund” and shall
include all gifts, grants, deeds of conveyance, bequests, money, stocks, bonds
or other valuable income-producing personal property and real estate from any
source for the purpose of endowing the cemetery. The Cemetery Fund shall at all
times be in the custody of the City Treasurer. The Mayor and City Council shall
hire and supervise such employees as they may deem necessary and pass such
rules and regulations for the operation of the cemetery as may be proper for
its efficient operation.
§ 1-1402 CEMETERY SUPERINTENDENT.
   The Mayor and City Council shall have the authority to appoint a Cemetery
Superintendent who shall perform such duties and make such reports as the Mayor
and City Council shall direct. It shall be the duty of the Cemetery
Superintendent to coordinate all funeral activities at the cemetery.
§ 1-1403 CEMETERY SUPERINTENDENT’S DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES.
   (A)   All fees and money received by the Cemetery Superintendent must be
strictly accounted for and turned over to the city by the first day of each
month, together with an itemized statement thereof. The Cemetery Superintendent
shall perform no work, outside of his or her regular duties, for any person,
unless authorized by the Mayor, City Administrator or City Council. Parties
desiring work done on lots in the cemetery by the Cemetery Superintendent,
other than hereinafter mentioned, may have the same done and the work shall be
done by the Cemetery Superintendent, and he or she shall receive a reasonable
compensation for such work, giving a receipt therefor. All work of this class
shall be paid for in advance.
   (B)   The Cemetery Superintendent shall make record following each burial,
not only the location of the lot, but the location of the grave on each
individual lot. In addition, he or she shall so locate the grave on his or her
own cemetery chart and keep a property record of the same. It is hereby made
the duty of the Cemetery Superintendent to establish all boundary markers and
keep and maintain all landmarks and corner stones already established and to be
established in the cemetery.
   (C)   The Cemetery Superintendent, with the consent of the City
Administrator, shall have the right to remove from any lot or avenue any trees
or shrubs that may be detrimental to any adjacent lot or avenue or which, in
his or her judgment, may mar the general good appearance of the grounds.
   (D)   No grave or tomb shall be dug or opened for disinterment by any
persons other than the Cemetery Superintendent or an employee of the city under
the supervision of the Cemetery Superintendent and in full compliance with the
rules and regulations adopted by the state. The Mayor and City Council shall
establish such fees and charges from time to time as they deem necessary.
   (E)   The said Cemetery Superintendent shall keep a map in his or her
possession for public use, showing the vacant and unsold lots in the cemetery
together with their prices, and shall at all times give full information to
parties desiring to purchase lots. The placing of all monuments, where
permitted, shall be done only under the direct supervision of the Cemetery
Superintendent and in conformity with the rules of the cemetery.
   (F)   The Cemetery Superintendent shall have full supervision of the
cemetery and, in addition to duties aforementioned, shall maintain all roads,
boulevards and avenues, keep all lots and other cemetery property free from
weeds and rubbish, keep mowed all lots and grass avenues, trim all trees and
shrubbery and, as far as possible, care for all flowers and the like on
individual lots. He or she shall also care for all personal property of the
cemetery and not permit any personal property to leave the cemetery. The
Cemetery Superintendent shall assist the undertaker in directing and attending
all interments, unless relieved by one of his or her assistants.
§ 1-1404 LOTS.
   The price of lots shall be adopted by the City Council, subject to revision
as the City Council may see fit from time to time. A price list of lots shall
be kept both by the Cemetery Superintendent and the City Treasurer. All lots
and opening of graves shall be paid for in advance to either the Cemetery
Superintendent or Treasurer. The City Council reserves the right to refuse the
sale of any lot or lots where, in their opinion, the same is being purchased
for speculative purposes. Provisions shall be made for the sale to the county
of such lots as may be needed for the burial of destitute persons. Such persons
shall be buried without further charge other than the usual fee for opening
graves, to be paid by the county.
§ 1-1405 CONVEYANCE OF LOTS.
   The city may convey cemetery lots by certificate signed by the Mayor and
countersigned by the City Clerk and under the city seal, specifying that the
person to whom the same is issued is the owner of the lot described therein by
number for the purpose of interment. The certificate shall give a right in fee
simple to the proprietor, his or her heirs and assigns. The certificate shall
then be recorded in the office of the County Clerk.
§ 1-1406 NOT USED.
§ 1-1407 DESTRUCTION OF PROPERTY.
   Any person who shall willfully destroy, mutilate, deface, injure or remove
any tomb, monument or gravestone placed in the cemetery, or any fence, railing
or other work for the protection or ornamentation of the cemetery, or who shall
willfully destroy, cut, break or injure any tree, shrub or plant, or vandalize
anything in the cemetery, shall be deemed to be guilty of a misdemeanor for
each item vandalized, destroyed, injured or removed.
§ 1-1408 GENERAL REGULATIONS.
   (A)   No shrubbery, trees or plants will be permitted to be planted unless
approved by the Cemetery Superintendent.
   (B)   No mounds, buttresses, terracing, fencing or curbing will be permitted
anywhere in the cemetery.
   (C)   (1)   The erection of all monuments, headstones or markers may only be
done during regular business hours (8:00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m., Monday through
Friday) and shall be under the direct supervision of the Cemetery
Superintendent and in compliance with the rules of the cemetery. The Cemetery
Superintendent shall be notified at least 24 hours prior to the erection of all
monuments. The Superintendent must be notified after the wet cement is poured
for his inspection and approval. All monuments shall have a cement base built
up flush with the ground.
      (2)   The erection of all monuments, headstones or markers shall be under
the direct supervision of the Cemetery Superintendent and in compliance with
the rules of the cemetery. All monuments shall have a cement base built up
flush with the ground. Temporary markers may only be placed in the ground for a
period of no longer than one year. All monuments should face the west for
uniformity and general appearance. Any variation from this must first be
approved by the Cemetery Superintendent.
   (D)   No gravel, brick, stone, cement or any kind of artificial walks, or
any boxes, chairs or settees of wood, iron or cement, will be permitted on
lots, except on approval by the Cemetery Superintendent.
   (E)   Underground vaults may be built under the supervision of the Cemetery
Superintendent, but if allowed to come to the surface must be covered with
natural stone, in which case they shall have a six- inch cement apron built
entirely around the natural stone cover and level with the ground.
   (F)   The footings for all monuments shall be built in the following manner
and under the supervision of the Cemetery Superintendent.
      (1)   Any pre-cast concrete foundation used must have a wet cement
footing poured underneath it. If marker or monument is over 200 pounds, the
footing shall be at a depth to ensure the marker or monument will not tilt or
lean when ground settles. The monument company will be responsible for
determining the depth of these footings. It shall be the responsibility of the
monument company and/or the family of the deceased to straighten the marker or
monument should it start leaning or tilting. If, in the judgment of the
Cemetery Superintendent, the marker or monument becomes hazardous, dangerous or
mars the appearance of the cemetery, the family of the deceased and/or the
monument company will be notified. If, 30 days after notification to the family
and/or the monument company, the problem has not been corrected, the Cemetery
Superintendent shall remove the marker or monument. No footing will be required
for flat military markers; however, they will be required to have a base under
the marker no less than four inches in depth and have an apron of six inches in
width around the marker. It shall be securely fastened to the marker and must
be flat with the surface of the ground.
      (2)   The erection of all monuments, headstones or markers shall be under
the direct supervision of the Cemetery Superintendent and in compliance with
the rules of the cemetery. All monuments shall have a cement base built up
flush with the ground. Temporary markers may only be placed in the ground for a
period of no longer than one year. All monuments shall face the west for
uniformity and general appearance.
   (G)   Stone bases for monuments are permitted but no monument or head
markers will be allowed to be erected on sockets, and no curbing will be
allowed around graves. Only two monuments/markers may be placed on each grave,
only one of which may be above the ground, and this must be placed at the head
of the grave space. An additional marker may be placed at the foot of the grave
space, but must be placed flat and level with the ground. These requirements
become effective on 1-1-2000. An above the ground foot marker may only be added
if matching and existing family marker(s) that is located on the same lot.
   (H)   No hunting or shooting will be permitted or allowed on the grounds;
except that, the cemetery superintendent may discharge a firearm in the
execution of his or his duties.
   (I)   No persons shall be permitted to pick any flowers of any kind or to
break any twigs of trees, shrubbery or plants, or to remove any plants from any
grave or lot, except the owner of said lot allows the same, under penalty of
the law.
   (J)   Persons engaged in the erection of monuments or other structures are
prohibited from attaching any ropes to trees or shrubbery and from scattering
any material over adjacent lots, or leaving the same on the ground longer than
it is necessary to complete the work.
   (K)   Owners of lots are prohibited from leaving any rubbish in the streets
or alleys adjoining the lots.
   (L)   Heavily laden vehicles will not be allowed to enter the grounds in wet
weather, except under direction of the Cemetery Superintendent.
   (M)   All vehicles shall follow the established roads, boulevards or
avenues, and in no case will be permitted to cross lots or burial places.
   (N)   No transfer of lots by sale or otherwise, by a lot or space owner,
will be recognized where made without the notification of the Cemetery
Superintendent.
   (O)   The city will not act as an agent for any individual or organization
to sell cemetery plots previously purchased from the city by an individual or
organization. The city will not buy back any cemetery plots.
   (P)   Spaces, lots and/or plots may be sold in any quantity. However, all
single spaces sold will be in locations determined by the Cemetery
Superintendent, so as to provide adequate areas available for those who want
multiple sites.
   (Q)   Persons who have purchased or had cemetery property transferred to
them shall have the same recorded and kept on file at the County Clerk’s office
and the cemetery office.
   (R)   No monuments will be erected in the cemetery until the ground has
fully settled in the spring and is in proper condition.
   (S)   Mortuaries shall arrange the time of funerals so as to comply with the
duties of the Cemetery Superintendent. Established hours will be Monday through
Friday from 8:00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m. Funeral services may be held on Saturdays
during the same time period. There will be no funeral services or disinterments
on Sundays or holidays observed by the city. Also, no funerals will be held
before 2:00 p.m. on Monday, unless the cemetery superintendent is notified no
later than 12:00 p.m. of the preceding Friday.
   (T)   When funeral ceremonies are concluded, mortuary directors shall see
that sufficient help is provided for interment of the casket.
   (U)   No fires of any description shall be permitted within the boundaries
of the cemetery; except that, the Cemetery Superintendent may burn leaves,
limbs and other such rubbish in the execution of his or her duties.
   (V)   Gates of the cemetery will be open from 8:00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m. and at
the discretion of the Cemetery Superintendent. The gates may be locked at the
discretion of the Cemetery Superintendent. When the gates are locked, no person
may enter the cemetery, except by permission of the Cemetery Superintendent.
Cemetery patrons may not be in the cemetery after daylight hours.
   (W)   Between the dates of April 1 and October 31 of each year, flowers may
only be placed in permanent vases or cradles, except for on the following
holiday: Mother’s Day; Father’s Day; Easter; and Memorial Day, when flowers may
be placed in any, non-glass container, on or near any marker of monument. On
these holidays, decorations may be on the graves for a period not to exceed
seven consecutive days. On the eighth day, all decorations not in permanent
vases or cradles will be removed by the Cemetery Superintendent. Between the
dates of November 1 and March 31 of each year, flowers, wreaths and the like
may be placed in any non-glass container and securely anchored on or near any
marker or monument.
   (X)   All special markers/flag holders denoting service in the military,
volunteer fire department, clergy and the like must be mounted in the base and
as close to the upright or monument as possible.
   (Y)   All burials, other than cremations, shall be in a sealed cement vault.
No cement box or other type of containers that do not seal may be used, with
the exception of county burials.
   (Z)   Permanent vases may only be placed between markers or monuments or on
top of the markers or monuments. Vases will not be permitted in front or behind
a monument. No gravel, rocks, stone or any other material that may be harmful
to attendants may be used in vases.
   (AA)   No burial shall be permitted in any church yard or other place within
the limits of the city. Any person violating the provisions of this section
shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction, shall be fined in any
sum not exceeding that permitted by state law for violation of a municipal
ordinance, and required to disinter and bury in an established cemetery.
   (BB)   All graves must be paid for in advance.
   (CC)   The space and walks between all greaves remains the property of the
city.
   (DD)   Any person violating the provisions of this section shall be guilty
of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction, shall be fined in any sum not exceeding
that permitted by state law for violation of a municipal ordinance. Violation
of division (AA) above, also requires disinterment and burial in an established
cemetery.
ARTICLE XV: MUNICIPAL AIRPORT
Section
   
1-1501   Definitions
   
1-1502   Governing body to control
   
1-1503   Control, rules and regulations
   
1-1504   Federal regulations to prevail
   
1-1505   Parking regulations
   
1-1506   Permit, requirement; application for
   
1-1507   Permit, issuance; term
   
1-1508   Permittees
   
1-1509   Hangar rental
   
1-1510   Storage of inflammable materials
   
1-1511   Right of inspection
   
1-1512   Building permit required for construction
   
1-1513   Use of funds
§ 1-1501 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this article, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AIRCRAFT. Any aeroplane, airplane, blimp, flying machine, balloon, any
contrivance now known or hereafter invented, used or designed for navigation or
flight in the air.
   AIRPORT. The Central City Municipal Airport.
   BASED. The keeping of an aircraft for commercial aeronautical activity at
the airport.
   COMMERCIAL AERONAUTICAL ACTIVITY. The use of any aircraft for hire, aerial
photography, rental of space for aircraft storage, for crop spraying or
dusting, flight training activity, aircraft charter and taxi, air ambulance
service, aircraft engine and accessory maintenance, including sale of parts for
engines and airframes and sale of accessories, aircraft rental and sales, and
aircraft storage, gasoline and lubricant sales.
   INSPECTOR. The Building Official or agent who performs under any zoning or
building ordinances of the city.
   LANDING AREA. The area of airport used for the landing, taking off and
taxiing of aircraft.
   PERMIT. A permit issued under the authority of the city to carry on any or
all of the above commercial activities.
   STRUCTURE. Any objects constructed or installed by humans, including, but
without limitation, buildings, towers, smoke stacks, overhead transmission
lines and radio antennas.
§ 1-1502 GOVERNING BODY TO CONTROL.
   All of the regulations and controls as set forth in this article and permits
issued hereunder shall be under the control of the City Council.
§ 1-1503 CONTROL, RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   The airport shall be under the control of the City Administrator. The
airport manager is hereby charged with the duty of maintaining and operating
said airport, under the terms and provisions of resolutions adopted by the
Council. The City Administrator is hereby authorized to promulgate such rules,
regulations and policies as may be deemed necessary by the City Administrator
or the airport manager for the proper management, control and operation of said
airport. Said rules and regulations as are adopted shall be in full force and
effect upon the filing of copies of the same with the City Clerk and shall be
subject to the violation penalties of this article.
§ 1-1504 FEDERAL REGULATIONS TO PREVAIL.
   No aircraft shall be permitted to operate over the corporate limits of the
city, nor upon or from the airport, nor within any control zone thereof unless
the operation thereof is done within strict compliance of all federal rules and
regulations.
§ 1-1505 PARKING REGULATIONS.
   No vehicle or truck of any kind or type shall be allowed upon any area of
the airport, except in designated parking or unloading areas and as required
for maintenance or snow removal, or as otherwise expressly authorized in
writing by the City Administrator or airport manager.
§ 1-1506 PERMIT, REQUIREMENT; APPLICATION FOR.
   No person shall hereafter operate or conduct any commercial aeronautical
activity upon or from the airport for any commercial purpose or any purpose
whatsoever for hire by such person without first obtaining a permit for such
operation or activity from the city. No permit for any commercial aeronautical
activity will be issued until the person seeking such permit shall have
submitted to said city an application stating the applicant’s name, address,
complete description of the commercial activity and of the equipment to be used
in connection therewith, and, if the applicant be a non-resident of the city,
the person or persons he or she has designated to accept notice, services of
process and summons on his or her behalf, which designation shall continue
during the time any permit is in force. All permits and leases issued by the
city shall be done so as to comply with minimum federal and state rules and
regulations so far as the same shall apply.
§ 1-1507 PERMIT, ISSUANCE; TERM.
   The city shall, upon receipt of the fees in such sums as the Council shall
determine, issue to the applicant a permit to conduct commercial aeronautical
activity or activities. Said permit shall clearly state the aeronautical
activities in which the holder may engage. Permit shall be issued for a period
of one year and shall expire on December 31 of the year issued.
§ 1-1508 PERMITTEES.
   (A)   The following permits shall be required for operations based at or
originating from the airport and shall be issued on an annual basis: the fixed
base operator permit shall be $500 per year, plus the fees as set forth in
divisions (A)(1) through (A)(4) below:
      (2)   Airtaxi permit: $150 per year to carry on regular airtaxi
operations;
      (3)   Instructor’s permit: $150 per year to carry on pilot instruction;
      (4)   Crop spraying permit: $500 per year to carry on crop spraying
operations; and
      (5)   Aircraft sales and repair permit: $150 per year to repair and sell
aircraft.
   (B)   Any permit may be canceled by the Council for the violation of this
article or for the violation of any pertinent provisions of this code, State
Department of Aeronautics or Federal Aviation Administration rules and
regulations by the holder of said permit, his or her agents, employees or
servants upon 15 days’ written notice to the permit holder.
§ 1-1509 HANGAR RENTAL.
   The City Council will establish the monthly rental charge for each hangar
space. Such charge shall be paid to the city by each person who stores an
airplane in any city-owned hangar. Such charges may be amended by resolution of
the City Council. The rental shall be due and payable the first of each month
to the city; no refund shall be made because of abandonment or cessation of use
of space rented during the month.
§ 1-1510 STORAGE OF INFLAMMABLE MATERIALS.
   The storage of any gasoline or highly inflammable material in any hangar
located on the airport is expressly prohibited. All paints, dopes, varnishes
and solvents shall be stored and kept in accordance with appropriate fire and
safety rules and regulations. No gasoline may be sold or dispensed on the city
airfield, except from the city’s aboveground storage tanks through an approved
stationary gasoline pump; except that, trucks may be used to deliver gasoline
to aircraft parked in designated parking or unloading areas.
§ 1-1511 RIGHT OF INSPECTION.
   The city, through its designated officials, reserves the right to enter and
inspect any hangar or building located on the airport at the city’s discretion
and any and all leases shall have in their provisions an agreement permitting
such entry and inspection.
§ 1-1512 BUILDING PERMIT REQUIRED FOR CONSTRUCTION.
   No construction, building, alteration and the like in any manner or form or
any structure upon the airport shall be done or performed unless a building
permit shall have been obtained therefor from the Building Official. The places
where construction shall be allowed shall be as designated by the airport
master plan. A permit must be obtained for the location of any facility such
as, but not necessarily limited to, gasoline pumps, advertising signs and
similar facilities from said Building Official in the same manner and form as
building permits.
§ 1-1513 USE OF FUNDS.
   Proceeds from application and rental fees shall go into the Airport Fund.
ARTICLE XVI: HOUSING AUTHORITY BOARD
Section
   
1-1601   Housing Authority Commissioners
   
1-1602   Definitions
   
1-1603   Operations and management
   
1-1604   Rules and regulations
   
1-1605   Reports
§ 1-1601 HOUSING AUTHORITY COMMISSIONERS.
   (A)   The Housing Agency of the city shall consist of five members who shall
constitute the Housing Agency Board and such persons shall be called the
“Commissioners”. Each of such Commissioners shall be appointed for a five-year
term or until his or her successor is duly appointed. Each Commissioner’s term
shall be staggered so that not more than one Commissioner’s term shall expire
in any one year. In the event of the resignation, removal from the area of
operation, or death of any Commissioner, such Commissioner’s unexpired term
shall be filled by the Mayor with the confirmation of the City Council.
Commissioners shall receive no compensation for their duties.
   (B)   (1)   Three Commissioners shall constitute a quorum of the Housing
Agency for purposes of conducting its business, exercising its powers and for
all other purposes. Action may be taken by the Agency upon the vote of the
majority of the Commissioners present, unless in any case the by-laws of the
Agency shall require a larger number. The Commissioners shall elect a
Chairperson and Vice Chairperson from among the Commissioners and shall have
the power to employ an executive director who shall serve as ex officio
Secretary for the Agency. The Agency may also employ legal counsel or it may
call upon the chief law officer of the city for such services as it may
require. It may employ technical experts and such other officers, agents and
employees as it may require and shall determine their qualifications, duties,
compensations and terms of office.
      (2)   The Agency may delegate such other powers and duties to its agents
or employees, as it may deem proper. During his or her tenure, and for one year
thereafter, no Commissioner, officer or employee of the Housing Agency shall
voluntarily acquire any interest, direct or indirect, in any project or in any
property included or planned to be included in any project, or in any contract
or proposed contract relating to any housing project. If any such Commissioner,
officer or employee involuntarily acquires any such interest or voluntarily or
involuntarily acquired any such interest prior to appointment or employment as
Commissioner, officer or employee, he or she shall immediately disclose his or
her interest in writing to the Agency, and he or she shall not participate in
any action by the Agency relating to the property or contract in which he or
she has any interest; provided that, nothing herein shall apply to the
acquisition of any interest in notes or bonds of the Agency issued in
connection with any housing project, or to the execution of agreements by
banking institutions for deposit or handling of funds in connection with a
project or to act as trustee under any trust indenture, or to utility services,
the rates for which are fixed or controlled by a governmental agency.
      (3)   Furthermore, all Commissioners shall be subject to the same
disclosure and accountability guidelines and regulations as any City Council
member. The Mayor may remove a Commissioner for neglect of duty or misconduct
in office in the manner prescribed hereinafter. The Mayor shall send a notice
of removal to such Commissioner which notice shall contain a statement
containing the charges against him or her. Unless within ten days from the
receipt of such notice such Commissioner files with the City Clerk a request
for a hearing before the City Council, the Commissioner shall be deemed as
removed from office. If a request for a hearing is filed with the City Clerk,
the City Council shall hold a hearing at which the commissioner shall have the
right to appear in person or by counsel, and the City Council shall determine
whether the removal shall be disapproved or upheld. If the removal is
disapproved, the Commissioner shall continue to hold his or her position. The
Housing Agency shall keep an accurate account of all its activities and of all
its receipts and disbursements and shall make an annual report to the City
Council on all such information.
(Ord. 886, passed 7-10-2006)
§ 1-1602 DEFINITIONS.
   Except as otherwise specifically provided, the definitions and terms set out
in state statutes relating to housing authorities under the state’s Housing
Agency Law, being Neb. RS 71-1572, are hereby adopted by reference, as they now
exist or may hereafter be amended.
(Ord. 886, passed 7-10-2006)
§ 1-1603 OPERATIONS AND MANAGEMENT.
   The Agency shall at all times observe the following duties with respect to
rentals and tenant selection.
   (A)   It may rent or lease dwelling accommodations therein only to persons
of low income, elderly or handicapped persons of low income, and displaced
persons in need, with the exception of specific programs designed to serve
other target populations in housing units identified in that specific program.
   (B)   There shall be no discrimination in the eligibility or occupancy of
tenants on the basis of race, sex, religion, color, creed, national origin or
ancestry.
   (C)   The Agency shall not accept any person as a tenant in any dwelling in
the housing project if the applicant has an annual income which equals or
exceeds the amount which the Agency has conclusively determined to be
sufficient to enable one to secure safe, sanitary and uncongested dwelling
accommodations within the area served by the Agency and to provide an adequate
standard of living.
   (D)   The Agency may rent or lease to a tenant a dwelling consisting of a
number of rooms, which is deemed necessary to provide safe and sanitary
accommodations to the occupants without overcrowding.
   (E)   The Agency shall fix income limits for occupancy and rents after
taking into consideration:
      (1)   The family size, composition, age, physical handicaps and other
facts which might affect the rent-paying ability of the person; and
      (2)   The economic factors which affect the financial stability and
solvency of the project.
   (F)   The Agency may accept as a tenant any displaced person or persons in
need, regardless of income, but in no event shall such person or persons remain
as tenants of the Agency for more than a period of six months unless such
persons also qualify as persons of low income, elderly or handicapped persons
of low income.
   (G)   All persons of low income, elderly or handicapped persons of low
income, or displaced persons in need, shall be entitled to the benefits of this
article and the Agency may establish rules and regulations consistent with the
purpose of this article concerning eligibility and occupancy of the housing
project or such other shelter.
   (H)   Nothing herein shall prohibit the right of the Agency to inquire into
the financial condition, family composition, medical, personal and employment
history of any tenant or prospective tenant.
   (I)   The Agency shall prohibit subletting by tenants.
(Ord. 886, passed 7-10-2006; Ord. 983, passed 9-8-2014)
§ 1-1604 RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   The Housing Agency may establish from time to time rules and regulations
consistent with the purposes of this article concerning the priority of
eligible applicants for occupancy. The Agency may give preferential treatment
to applicants who are servicemen or veterans, relatives of servicemen or
veterans, to disabled servicepersons or veterans, the elderly or disabled,
those in urgent need of adequate housing or who have no adequate source of
income; provided that, in any such system of priority, displaced persons in
need shall have a priority ahead of all other persons; and, provided further,
no tenant in good standing then in occupancy and qualified for continued
occupancy shall have his or her tenancy terminated in order to provide dwelling
units for classes or categories of applicants as the Agency may establish.
(Ord. 886, passed 7-10-2006)
§ 1-1605 REPORTS.
   The Housing Agency shall keep an accurate account of all its activities and
of all its receipts and disbursements and shall make an annual report
summarizing the Agency’s activities. The report shall be filed with the City
Clerk prior to March 1 of the following year.
(Ord. 886, passed 7-10-2006)
ARTICLE XVII: FAIR HOUSING
Section
   
1-1701   Purpose
   
1-1702   Definitions
   
1-1703   Unlawful acts
   
1-1704   Handicapped person; discriminatory practices prohibited; design and
construction standards
   
1-1705   Transaction related to residential real estate; discriminatory
practices prohibited
   
1-1706   Multiple listing service; other service; discriminatory practices
prohibited
   
1-1707   Religious organization, private home; private club, or housing for
older persons; restricting use not prohibited
   
1-1708   Exemptions
   
1-1709   Information
§ 1-1701 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this article is to promote the general welfare of the
residents of the city by endorsing the provisions of the state’s Fair Housing
Act, Neb. RS 20-301 through 20-344, to the effect that there shall be no
discrimination in the city in the acquisition, ownership, possession or
enjoyment of housing in accordance with Art. 1, § 25, of the Constitution of
the state.
§ 1-1702 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this article, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AGGRIEVED PERSON. Any person who:
      (1)   Claims to have been injured by a discriminatory housing project; or
      (2)   Believes that he or she will be injured by a discriminatory housing
practice that is about to occur.
   COMMISSION. The Nebraska Equal Opportunity Commission.
   DWELLING. Any building, structure or portion thereof which is occupied as or
designed or intended for occupancy as a residence for one or more families and
any vacant land which is offered for sale or lease for the construction or
location thereon of any such building, structure or portion thereof.
   FAMILIAL STATUS. One or more minors being domiciled with:
      (1)   A parent or another person having legal custody of such individual;
or
      (2)   The designee of a parent or other person having legal custody, with
written permission of the parent or other person.
   HANDICAP. With respect to a person:
      (1)   A physical or mental impairment, excluding the current illegal use
of or addiction to a controlled substance as defined in Neb. RS 28-401, which
substantially limits one or more of such person’s major life activities;
      (2)   A record of having such an impairment; or
      (3)   Being regarded as having such an impairment.
   PERSON. One or more individuals, corporations, partnerships, associations,
labor organizations, legal representatives, mutual companies, joint-stock
companies, trusts, unincorporated organizations, trustees, trustees in
bankruptcy, receivers and fiduciaries.
   RENT. Lease, sublease, let and otherwise grant for consideration the right
to occupy premises not owned by the occupant.
   RESTRICTIVE COVENANT. Any specification limiting the transfer, rental or
lease of any housing because of race, creed, religion, color, national origin,
sex, handicap, familial status or ancestry.
§ 1-1703 UNLAWFUL ACTS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to:
      (1)   Refuse to sell or rent after the making of a bona fide offer,
refuse to negotiate for the sale or rental of or otherwise make unavailable or
deny, refuse to show, or refuse to receive and transmit an offer for a dwelling
to any person because of race, color, religion, national origin, familial
status or sex;
      (2)   Discriminate against any person in the terms, conditions or
privileges of sale or rental of a dwelling or in the provision of services or
facilities in connection therewith because of race, color, religion, national
origin, familial status or sex;
      (3)   Make, print, publish or cause to be made, printed or published any
notice, statement or advertisement with respect to the sale or rental of a
dwelling that indicates any preference, limitation or discrimination based on
race, color, religion, national origin, handicap, familial status or sex or an
intention to make any such preference, limitation or discrimination;
      (4)   Represent to any person because of race, color, religion, national
origin, handicap, familial status or sex that any dwelling is not available for
inspection, sale or rental when such dwelling is in fact so available;
      (5)   Cause to be made any written or oral inquiry or record concerning
the race, color, religion, national origin, handicap, familial status or sex of
a person seeking to purchase, rent or lease any housing;
      (6)   Include in any transfer, sale, rental or lease of housing any
restrictive covenants or honor or exercise or attempt to honor or exercise any
restrictive covenant pertaining to housing;
      (7)   Discharge or demote an employee or agent or discriminate in the
compensation of such employee or agent because of such employee’s compliance
with this article or the state’s Fair Housing Act, being Neb. RS 20-301 et
seq.; and
      (8)   Induce or attempt to induce, for profit, any person to sell or rent
any dwelling by representations regarding the entry or prospective entry into
the neighborhood of a person or persons of a particular race, color, religion,
national origin, handicap, familial status or sex.
   (B)   The protections afforded against discrimination on the basis of
familial status shall apply to any person who is pregnant or is in the process
of securing legal custody of a minor.
§ 1-1704 HANDICAPPED PERSON; DISCRIMINATORY PRACTICES PROHIBITED; DESIGN AND
CONSTRUCTION STANDARDS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to:
      (1)   Discriminate in the sale or rental of or otherwise make unavailable
or deny a dwelling to any buyer or rent because of a handicap of:
         (a)   The buyer or renter;
         (b)   Any person associated with the buyer or renter; or
         (c)   A person residing in or intending to reside in the dwelling
after it is sold, rented or made available.
      (2)   Discriminate against any person in the terms, conditions or
privileges of sale or rental of a dwelling or in the provision of services or
facilities in connection with a dwelling because of a handicap of:
         (a)   Such person;
         (b)   Any person associated with such person; or
         (c)   A person residing in or intending to reside in the dwelling
after it is sold, rented or made available.
   (B)   For purposes of this section, DISCRIMINATION shall include:
      (1)   A refusal to permit, at the expense of the handicapped person,
reasonable modifications of existing premises occupied or to be occupied by the
person if the modifications may be necessary to afford the person full
enjoyment of the premises, except that in the case of rental, the landlord may,
when it is reasonable to do so, condition permission for a modification on the
renter agreeing to restore the interior of the premises to the condition that
existed before the modification, reasonable wear and tear excepted;
      (2)   A refusal to make reasonable accommodations in rules, policies,
practices or services when such accommodations may be necessary to afford the
handicapped person equal opportunity to use or enjoy a dwelling; and
      (3)   In connection with the design and construction of covered multi-
family dwellings for first occupancy after 9-1-1991, a failure to design and
construct the dwellings in such a manner that:
         (a)   The public use and common use portions of the dwelling are
readily accessible to and usable by handicapped persons;
         (b)   All the doors designed to allow passage into and within all
premises within the dwelling are sufficiently wide to allow passage by
handicapped persons in wheelchairs; and
         (c)   All premises within the dwellings contain the following features
of adaptive design:
            1.   An accessible route into and through the dwelling;
            2.   Light switches, electrical outlets, thermostats and other
environmental controls in accessible locations;
            3.   Reinforcements in bathroom walls to allow later installation
of grab bars; and
            4.   Kitchens and bathrooms such that a handicapped person in a
wheelchair can maneuver about the space.
   (C)   Compliance with the appropriate requirements of the American National
Standards Institute standard for buildings and facilities providing
accessibility and usability for physically handicapped people, ANSI A117.1,
shall satisfy the requirements of division (B)(3)(c) above.
   (D)   For purposes of this section, covered MULTI-FAMILY DWELLINGS shall
mean:
      (1)   Buildings consisting of four or more units if such buildings have
one or more elevators; and
      (2)   Ground floor units in other buildings consisting of four or more
units.
   (E)   Nothing in this section shall require that a dwelling be made
available to an individual whose tenancy would constitute a direct threat to
the health or safety of other individuals or whose tenancy would result in
substantial physical damage to the property of others.
§ 1-1705 TRANSACTION RELATED TO RESIDENTIAL REAL ESTATE; DISCRIMINATORY
PRACTICES PROHIBITED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person or other entity whose business
includes engaging in transactions related to residential real estate to
discriminate against any person in making available such a transaction because
of race, color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status or national origin.
   (B)   For purposes of this section, TRANSACTION RELATED TO RESIDENTIAL REAL
ESTATE shall mean any of the following:
      (1)   The making or purchasing of loans or providing other financial
assistance:
         (a)   For purchasing, constructing, improving, repairing or
maintaining a dwelling; or
         (b)   Secured by residential real estate.
      (2)   The selling, brokering or appraising of residential real property.
   (C)   Nothing in this section shall prohibit a person engaged in the
business of furnishing appraisals or real property from taking into
consideration factors other than race, color, religion, national origin,
handicap, familial status or sex.
§ 1-1706 MULTIPLE LISTING SERVICE; OTHER SERVICE; DISCRIMINATORY PRACTICES
PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful to deny any person access to or membership or
participation in any multiple listing service, real estate brokers organization
or other service, organization or facility relating to the business of selling
or renting dwellings or to discriminate against any person in the terms or
conditions of such access, membership or participation on account of race,
color, religion, national origin, handicap, familial status or sex.
§ 1-1707 RELIGIOUS ORGANIZATION, PRIVATE HOME; PRIVATE CLUB, OR HOUSING FOR
OLDER PERSONS; RESTRICTING USE NOT PROHIBITED.
   (A)   Nothing in this article shall prohibit a religious organization,
association or society or any non- profit institution or organization operated,
supervised or controlled by or in conjunction with a religious organization,
association or society from limiting the sale, rental or occupancy of a
dwelling which it owns or operators for other than commercial purposes to
persons of the same religion or from giving preference to such persons, unless
membership in such religion is restricted on account of race, color, national
origin, handicap, familial status or sex.
   (B)   Nothing in this article shall prohibit a private club not in fact open
to the public, which as an incident to its primary purpose or purposes provides
lodgings which it owns or operates for other than commercial purposes, from
limiting the rental or occupancy of such lodging to its members or from giving
preference to its members.
   (C)   Nothing in this article shall prohibit or limit the right of any
person or his or her authorized representative to refuse to rent a room or
rooms in his or her own home for any reason or for no reason or to change
tenants in his or her own home as often as desired; except that, this exception
shall not apply to any person who makes available for rental or occupancy more
than four sleeping rooms to a person or family within his or her own home.
   (D)   Nothing in this article regarding familial status shall apply with
respect to housing for older persons. For purposes of this section, HOUSING FOR
OLDER PERSONS shall mean housing:
      (1)   Provided under any state program that the Commission determines is
specifically designed and operated to assist elderly persons or defined in the
program;
      (2)   Intended for and solely occupied by persons 62 years of age or
older; or
      (3)   Intended and operated for occupancy by at least one person 55 years
of age or older per unit.
§ 1-1708 EXEMPTIONS.
   This article does not affect the sale or rental of single-family houses by a
private individual if:
   (A)   The person owns three or fewer houses;
   (B)   A real estate broker is not used;
   (C)   Discriminatory advertising is not used;
   (D)   No more than one house in which the owner was not the most recent
resident is sold during any two-year period;
   (E)   Rooms or units in owner occupied multi-family dwellings for two to
four families are rented, and discriminatory advertising is not used;
   (F)   The sale, rental or occupancy of dwellings that a religious
organization owns or operates for other than a commercial purpose is limited to
persons of the same religion, if membership in that religion is not restricted
on account of race, color or national origin; and/or
   (G)   The rental or occupancy of lodging that a private club owns or
operates for other than a commercial purpose is limited to the club’s members.
This exemption does not allow discrimination if the reason is race.
§ 1-1709 INFORMATION.
   The City Clerk, upon inquiry, shall make available to an aggrieved person or
any other person information regarding the state’s Fair Housing Act, being Neb.
RS 20-301 et seq., and the state’s Equal Opportunity Commission without cost to
such individual.
ARTICLE XVIII: ELECTIONS
Section
   
1-1801   General municipal elections
   
1-1802   Election of Council members
   
1-1803   Voter qualifications
   
1-1804   Wards
§ 1-1801 GENERAL MUNICIPAL ELECTIONS.
   The city election shall be held in conjunction with the primary general
election conducted by the Merrick County Clerk. Such election shall be held
pursuant to state election laws and the County Clerk shall have charge of such
election and shall have the authority to deputize the City Clerk for municipal
election purposes.
§ 1-1802 ELECTION OF COUNCIL MEMBERS.
   The election of Council members shall take place by wards. Each nominee for
Council member shall be a resident and qualified elector of the ward for which
he or she is a candidate, and only residents of that ward may sign the
candidate’s nomination petitions.
§ 1-1803 VOTER QUALIFICATIONS.
   ELECTORS shall mean every person of the constitutionally prescribed age or
upwards, who shall have the right to vote for all officers to be elected to
public office, and upon all questions and proposals lawfully submitted to the
voters at any and all elections authorized or provided for by the Constitution
or the laws of the state, except school elections; provided, no person shall be
qualified to vote at any election unless such person shall be a resident of the
state and shall have been properly registered with the election official of the
county.
§ 1-1804 WARDS.
   (A)   The city shall redistrict as often as necessary using the most recent
Federal Census to insure that each ward is substantially equal in population.
   (B)   The city shall stand divided into the following wards as set forth
herein:
      (1)   First Ward: all that portion of the city within the corporate
limits lying south and west of a line running north on 17th Avenue to “C”
Avenue, northwest on “C” Avenue to 13th Street and west on 13th Street shall
constitute and be numbered the First Ward; and
      (2)   Second Ward: all that portion of the city within the corporate
limits lying north and east of a line running north on 17th Avenue to “C”
Avenue, northwest on “C” Avenue to 13th Street and west on 13th Street shall
constitute and be numbered the Second Ward.
ARTICLE XIX: PENSION PLAN
Section
   
1-1901   Pension Plan adopted
   
1-1902   Continuance and amendment of the plan
§ 1-1901 PENSION PLAN ADOPTED.
   The city has adopted a pension and retirement plan for its employees. Such
plan is presently on file with the City Clerk in the city office and shall be
available for inspection during regular city business hours by an employee of
the city. Such plan and its provisions are specifically adopted herein and made
a part hereof by reference. Such plan may be amended from time to time by the
Mayor and City Council.
§ 1-1902 CONTINUANCE AND AMENDMENT OF THE PLAN.
   (A)   The city may continue the retirement plan and the payments of the
contributions hereunder indefinitely, but the same is not assumed as a
contractual obligation of the city and the right is reserved by the city by
action of the City Council at any time to discontinue the plan and its
contributions hereunder. The contributions under the plan for employees of each
department of the city shall be paid only from funds appropriated for, or
otherwise duly available from the payment of such expenses of such department.
   (B)   Nothing in the pension plan, nor any amendments thereto, shall be
construed so as to permit any part of the contributions to the plan, or the
principal or income of the plan, to be used for or diverted to any purpose
other than for the exclusive benefit of members hereunder or their
beneficiaries.
ARTICLE XX: PARKS AND SWIMMING POOL
Section
   
1-2001   City parks; operation and funding
   
1-2002   City parks; injury to property
   
1-2003   City swimming pool; operation and funding
   
1-2004   City swimming pool; admission charge
   
1-2005   City swimming pool; rentals
   
1-2006   City swimming pool; rules and regulations
   
1-2007   Park hours
   1-2008   Parks, parking of vehicles
§ 1-2001 CITY PARKS; OPERATION AND FUNDING.
   (A)   The city owns and operates the city parks and other recreational areas
through the Parks and Pool Committee.
   (B)   The City Council, for the purpose of defraying the cost of the care,
management and maintenance of the city park may each year levy a tax not
exceeding the maximum limit prescribed by state law on the actual valuation of
all real estate and personal property within the corporate limits that is
subject to taxation.
   (C)   The revenue from the said tax shall be known as the “Park Fund” and
shall remain in the custody of the City Treasurer.
   (D)   The Committee shall have the authority to adopt rules and regulations
for the efficient management of the city parks and other recreational areas of
the city.
   (E)   The Committee shall not enter into a contract of any nature which
involves an expenditure of funds, except for ordinary operating expenses,
unless the contract has been approved by resolution of the majority of the
members of the City Council prior to the contractual agreement.
§ 1-2002 CITY PARKS; INJURY TO PROPERTY.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to maliciously or willfully cut down,
injure or destroy any tree, plant or shrub, it shall be unlawful for any person
to injure or destroy any sodded or planted area, or injure or destroy any
building, structure, equipment, fence, bench, table or any other property of
the city parks and recreational areas. No person shall commit any waste on or
litter the city parks or other public grounds.
§ 1-2003 CITY SWIMMING POOL; OPERATION AND FUNDING.
   The city owns and manages the city swimming pool. The City Council, for the
purpose of defraying the cost of the management, maintenance and improvements
of the swimming pool may each year levy a tax not exceeding the maximum limit
prescribed by state law on the actual valuation of all real estate and personal
property within the city that is subject to taxation. The revenue from the said
tax shall be known as the “Swimming Pool Fund” and shall include all gifts,
grants, deeds of conveyance, bequests or other valuable income-producing
personal property and real estate from any source for the purpose of endowing
the swimming pool. The Swimming Pool Fund shall at all times be in the custody
of the City Treasurer. The City Administrator, working in conjunction with the
Parks and Pool Committee, shall provide overall supervision of the swimming
pool. The City Administrator shall have the power and authority to hire and
supervise the swimming pool manager and such employees as he or she may deem
necessary and shall pass such rules and regulations for the operation of the
swimming pool as maybe proper for its efficient operation. All actions by the
City Administrator shall be under the supervision and control of the City
Council.
§ 1-2004 CITY SWIMMING POOL; ADMISSION CHARGE.
   (A)   The Parks and Pool Committee may, for the purpose of defraying the
expenses involved in maintaining, improving, managing and beautifying the
swimming pool, make a reasonable admission charge for the use by any person of
the city swimming pool. The said charges shall be on file at the office of the
City Clerk and shall also be posted in a conspicuous place at the swimming pool
for public inspection.
   (B)   Such rates may be structured for classes of persons in a reasonable
manner; provided that, nothing herein shall be construed to permit or allow
discrimination on the basis of race, creed, color or national origin in the
classification of persons for admission charges.
§ 1-2005 CITY SWIMMING POOL; RENTALS.
   The City Administrator shall have the authority to rent the city swimming
pool to such organizations and other persons as they may, in their discretion,
see fit, subject to the review of the City Council. The Parks and Pool
Committee shall prescribe rules and regulations for such rentals and shall
require an appropriate number of qualified lifeguards to be in attendance
during the rental period. Such fees and other costs shall be on file at the
office of the City Clerk and posted in a conspicuous place at the swimming
pool.
§ 1-2006 CITY SWIMMING POOL; RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   The Parks and Pool Committee shall have the power and authority to enact by-
laws, rules and regulations for the protection of those using the swimming pool
and for the efficient management thereof. They may provide suitable penalties
for the violation of such bylaws, rules and regulations subject to the review
and supervision of the City Council.
§ 1-2007 PARK HOURS.
   City parks shall be closed between the hours of 11:00 p.m. and 5:00 a.m.
unless specific permission is granted by the City Council for use during those
hours.
(Ord. 937, passed 1-11-2010)
§ 1-2008 PARKS, PARKING OF VEHICLES.
   No vehicle shall be parked in a city park overnight. No semi-truck shall be
parked in any city park at any time without authorization by the Mayor.
(Ord. 1091, passed 12-12-2022)
ARTICLE XXI: PENAL PROVISION
Section
   
1-2101   Violation; penalty
§ 1-2101 VIOLATION; PENALTY.
   Any person who shall violate or refuse to comply with the enforcement of any
of the provisions of this chapter set forth at length herein or incorporated by
reference shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof,
shall be fined not more than that amount permitted by state law for violation
of a municipal ordinance. A new violation shall be deemed to have been
committed every 24 hours of such failure to comply.
ARTICLE XXII: COMMUNICABLE DISEASES
Section
   
1-2201   Authority
   
1-2202   Definitions
   
1-2203   Findings
   
1-2204   Directed health measures
   
1-2205   Procedure
   
1-2206   Order
   
1-2207   Notice
   
1-2208   Enforcement
   
1-2209   Cooperation and coordination
   
1-2210   Reporting
§ 1-2201 AUTHORITY.
   (A)   These regulations are enacted pursuant to Neb. RS 71-501 and 71-1626
et seq. and apply to the exercise of authority by the Department to order
directed health measures necessary to prevent the spread of communicable
disease, illness or poisoning.
   (B)   Nothing in these regulations precludes the Department from requesting
voluntary compliance with beneficial health measures.
   (C)   Nothing in these regulations precludes the Department from referring a
matter covered by these regulations to the state’s Public Health Department at
any time.
(Ord. 889, passed 7-10-2006)
§ 1-2202 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this article, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CHIEF MEDICAL OFFICER. The state’s Chief Medical Officer appointed pursuant
to Neb. RS 81-3115, if the state’s Public Health Department Director is not a
medical doctor.
   COMMUNICABLE DISEASE, ILLNESS or POISONING. An illness due to an infectious
or malignant agent, which is capable of being transmitted directly or
indirectly to a person from an infected person or animal through the agency of
an intermediate animal, host or vector, or through the inanimate environment.
   DECONTAMINATION. The removal or neutralizing of contaminating material, such
as radioactive materials, biological materials or chemical warfare agents, from
a person or object to the extent necessary to preclude the occurrence of
foreseeable adverse health effects. DECONTAMINATION includes remediation or
destruction of sources of communicable disease or biological, chemical,
radiological or nuclear agents.
   DEPARTMENT. The Central District Health Department.
   DIRECTED HEALTH MEASURES. Any measure, whether prophylactic or remedial,
intended and directed to prevent or limit the spread of communicable disease or
to prevent or limit public exposure to or spread of biological, chemical,
radiological or nuclear agents.
   DIRECTOR. The Director of the Central District Health Department, or a
person acting on behalf of the Director as his or her designee.
   HEALTH CARE FACILITY. Any facility licensed under the Health Care Facility
Licensure Act, being Neb. RS 71-401 et seq., and shall include such additional
clinics not licensed under that act as may be identified in specific orders
issued pursuant to these regulations.
   HEALTH CARE PROVIDER. Any credentialed person regulated under the Advanced
Practice Registered Nurse Act, being Neb. RS 38-201 et seq., the Emergency
Medical Services Act, being Neb. RS 38-1201 et seq., the Licensed Practical
Nurse-Certified Act, being Neb. Admin. Code Title 172, the Nebraska Certified
Nurse Midwifery Practice Act, being Neb. RS 38-601 et seq., the Nurse Practice
Act, being Neb. RS 38-2201 et seq., the Occupational Therapy Practice Act,
being Neb. RS 38-2501 et seq., the Uniform Licensing Law, being Neb. RS 38-3101
et seq., or Neb. RS 71-7907.
   ISOLATION. The separation of people who have a specific communicable disease
from healthy people and the restriction of their movement to stop the spread of
that disease.
   LOCAL PUBLIC HEALTH DEPARTMENT. A local public health department as defined
by Neb. RS 71-1626 and its governing officials.
   PERSONAL PROTECTIVE EQUIPMENT (PPE). Equipment ordered or used to protect an
individual from communicable disease, illness or poisoning.
   PREMISES. Land and any structures upon it.
   PUBLIC HEALTH AUTHORITY. Any individual or entity charged by law with a duty
or authority to enforce or carry out a public health function.
   QUARANTINE. Directed to identified individuals or defined populations means
the restriction of, or conditions upon, the movement and activities of people
who are not yet ill, but who have been or may have been exposed to an agent of
communicable disease, illness or poisoning and are therefore potentially
capable of communicating a disease, illness or poison. The purpose is to
prevent or limit the spread of communicable disease, illness or poison.
QUARANTINE of individuals or defined populations generally involves the
separation of the quarantined, from the general population.
   QUARANTINE and ISOLATION. These terms both include restriction of, or
conditions upon, the movement and activities of people to prevent or limit the
spread of communicable disease, illness or poisoning. In circumstances where
animals are agents of communicable disease, illness or poisoning, either term
may apply to such animals.
   QUARANTINE OFFICER. The statutorily established quarantine officer for a
municipality or county, usually the chief executive or top law enforcement
officer.
   QUARANTINE OF PREMISES. Restriction of the movement of all people upon, into
or out from those premises to prevent or limit the spread of communicable
disease or to prevent or limit public exposure to or spread of biological,
chemical, radiological or nuclear agents.
   STATE PUBLIC HEALTH DEPARTMENT. The Nebraska Department of Health and Human
Services Regulation and Licensure or its successor.
(Ord. 889, passed 7-10-2006)
§ 1-2203 FINDINGS.
   (A)   When the Director receives information from the following that a
member or members of the public have been, or may have been exposed to a
communicable disease, illness or poisoning by biological, chemical radiological
or nuclear agents, the Director will review all information under the following
provisions to determine if any directed health measure should be ordered:
      (1)   The United States Department of Health and Human Services Centers
for Disease Control and Prevention;
      (2)   The state’s Public Health Department;
      (3)   Any other local Public Health Department;
      (4)   Communicable disease surveillance conducted by the Central District
Health Department; or
      (5)   Treating health care providers or health care facilities.
   (B)   Before ordering a directed health measure, the Director:
      (1)   Must find both:
         (a)   A member or members of the public have been, or may have been
exposed; and
         (b)   Directed health measures exist to effectively prevent, limit or
slow the spread of communicable disease or to prevent, limit or slow public
exposure to or spread of biological, chemical, radiological or nuclear agents.
      (2)   Must find one or more of the following:
         (a)   The exposure presents a risk of death or serious long-term
disabilities to any person;
         (b)   The exposure is wide-spread and poses a significant risk of harm
to people in the general population; or
         (c)   There is a particular subset of the population that is more
vulnerable to the threat and thus at increased risk.
      (3)   May make further finding, in assessing the nature of the risk
presented:
         (a)   Whether the threat is from a novel or previously eradicated
infectious agent or toxin;
         (b)   Whether the threat is or may be a result of intentional attack,
accidental release or natural disaster; and
         (c)   Whether any person(s) or agent(s) posing the risk of
communicating the disease are non-compliant with any measures ordered by a
health care provider.
   (C)   (1)   If affirmative findings are made pursuant to division (B) above
and the Director further finds that a delay in the imposition of an effective
directed health measure would significantly jeopardize the ability to prevent
or limit the transmission of a communicable disease, illness or poisoning or
pose unacceptable risks to any person or persons, the director may impose any
of the directed health measures set out in §
1-2204 of this article.
      (2)   The Director’s findings will be reported to the state’s Public
Health Department Communicable Disease Control program.
      (3)   The Director may refer the findings to the Director of the state’s
Public Health Department and defer to that Director for the imposition of
measures under the state’s Public Health Department’s authority.
(Ord. 889, passed 7-10-2006)
§ 1-2204 DIRECTED HEALTH MEASURES.
   (A)   Directed health measures which may be ordered by the Director are:
      (1)   (a)   Quarantine:
            1.   Of individuals;
            2.   Of defined populations;
            3.   Of buildings and premises, or of defined areas, public and
private; or
            4.   Of animals.
         (b)   The methods of quarantine may require the individual or
population to remain within defined areas or to restricted activities, which
may include “work quarantine” restricting individuals or defined populations to
their residence or workplace.
         (c)   In the event that the quarantine of affected premises posing an
immediate threat to the public health and safety is determined to be incapable
of effective enforcement, the Department may act alone or in concert with any
local jurisdiction having condemnation and nuisance abatement authority, to
carry out measures effective to remove the threat, including safe demolition of
the premises.
      (2)   Isolation of individuals:
         (a)   At home; or
         (b)   In a health care facility, or In another designated area.
      (3)   Decontamination; and
      (4)   Such other protocols or measures as may be identified as effective
against public health threats by the American Public Health Association, the
United States Department of Health and Human Services Centers for Disease
Control and Prevention or other similar authority.
   (B)   Any of the directed health measures may include, and are not limited
to, any of the following:
      (1)   Periodic monitoring and reporting of vital signs;
      (2)   Use of PPE for the performance of specified tasks or at specified
premises; and
      (3)   Specific infection control measures including cleaning and disposal
of specified materials.
   (C)   Any order of the Director may include temporary seizure or
commandeering of personal or real property for public health purposes.
   (D)   Directed health measures may be directed to an individual, group of
individuals or a population, or directed to the public at large with regard to
identified premises or activities and may also include health care providers,
health care facilities, health care authorities and public and private property
including animals.
(Ord. 889, passed 7-10-2006)
§ 1-2205 PROCEDURE.
   (A)   In making the finding under §
1-2203 of this article and determining the measures under §
1-2204 of this article, the Director will consult with the medical consultant
of the Central District Health Department, and with the state’s Chief Medical
Officer or other medical and communicable disease control personnel of the
state’s Public Health Department. The Director may make use of the expertise
and observations of any health care provider who has treated a person subject
to consideration for a directed health measure. The Director will also consider
the directives and guidelines issued by the American Public Health Association
and the United States Department of Health and Human Services Centers for
Disease Control and Prevention.
   (B)   In determining the nature, scope and duration of the directed health
measure ordered, the Director, based on the information available at the time
of the determination, will:
      (1)   Assess the situation and identify the least restrictive practical
means of isolation, quarantine, decontamination or imposition of other directed
health measures on persons or property that effectively protects unexposed and
susceptible individuals;
      (2)   When isolation or quarantine is ordered, select a place that will
allow the most freedom of movement and communication with family members and
other contacts without allowing disease transmission to others and allow the
appropriate level of medical care needed by isolated or quarantined individuals
to the extent practicable;
      (3)   For communicable diseases, order that the duration of the Directed
Health Measure should be no longer than necessary to ensure that the affected
individual or group no longer poses a public health threat;
      (4)   Give consideration to separation of isolated individuals from
quarantined individuals. However, if quarantine or isolation is possible in the
affected individual’s(s’) home, individuals may be isolated with quarantined
individuals; and
      (5)   Give consideration to providing for termination of the order under
the following circumstances:
         (a)   If laboratory testing or examination is available to rule out a
communicable condition, the order may provide proof of the testing or
examination negative result will be accepted to terminate a directed health
measure; and
         (b)   If treatment is available to remedy a communicable condition,
the order may provide that proof of successful treatment will be accepted to
terminate a directed health measure.
(Ord. 889, passed 7-10-2006)
§ 1-2206 ORDER.
   (A)   Upon a finding pursuant to §
1-2203 of this article and determination pursuant to §
1-2204 of this article, the Director will issue an order directed to the
affected individual, individuals, entity or entities.
   (B)   Prior to issuing any order, the Director will, as required by Neb. RS
71-1631(10), obtain approval of the directed health measure ordered by the
state’s Public Health Department.
   (C)   Orders of the Director imposing directed health measures are effective
immediately.
   (D)   Orders will contain the finding and determination and will order the
affected person or persons to comply with the terms of the order, and will also
include the following:
      (1)   Orders of isolation will contain the following:
         (a)   Name and identifying information of the individual(s) subject to
the order;
         (b)   Brief statement of the facts warranting the isolation;
         (c)   Conditions for termination of the order;
         (d)   Duration of isolation period;
         (e)   The place of isolation;
         (f)   Required conditions to be met for treatment;
         (g)   Required conditions to be met for visitation if allowed;
         (h)   Instructions on the disinfecting or disposal of any personal
property of the individual;
         (i)   Required precautions to prevent the spread of the subject
disease; and
         (j)   Individual’s right to an independent medical exam at his or her
own expense.
      (2)   Orders of quarantine will contain the following:
         (a)   Name, identifying information or other description of the
individual, group of individuals, premises or geographic location subject to
the order;
         (b)   Brief statement of the facts warranting the quarantine;
         (c)   Conditions for termination of the order;
         (d)   Specified duration of the quarantine;
         (e)   The place or area of quarantine;
         (f)   No contact, except as approved by the Director or designee;
         (g)   Symptoms of the subject disease and a course of treatment;
         (h)   Instructions on the disinfecting or disposal of any personal
property;
         (i)   Precautions to prevent the spread of the subject disease; and
         (j)   Individual’s right to an independent medical exam at his or her
own expense.
      (3)   Orders of decontamination will contain the following:
         (a)   Description of the individual, group of individuals, premises or
geographic location subject to the order;
         (b)   Brief statement of the facts warranting the quarantine;
         (c)   Instructions on the disinfecting or disposal of any personal
property; and
         (d)   Precautions to prevent the spread of the subject disease.
(Ord. 889, passed 7-10-2006)
§ 1-2207 NOTICE.
   (A)   Orders directed to individuals will be delivered in a manner
reasonably calculated to give the individual actual notice of the terms of the
order consistent with the threat of communicable disease. Service may be made
by law enforcement personnel or any other person designated by the Director.
Personal delivery may be attempted, except in cases when personal delivery
would present a risk of spread of disease or exposure to agents that cannot be
avoided by measures reasonably available. Electronic transmission by e-mail or
telefacsimile will be sufficient; provided that, any available means of
determining and recording receipt of such notice will be made. If electronic
transmission is impossible or unavailable under the circumstances, oral
communication by telephone or direct transmission of voice will be sufficient,
and such communication will be memorialized at the time it is delivered.
   (B)   Orders directed to groups of individuals or populations may be
disseminated by mass media.
   (C)   Orders directed to quarantine premises or geographic locations may be
disseminated by mass media and will be posted at or near the premises or
geographic location in order to be visible and effective to achieve the
intended purpose. Copies of the orders will be delivered to the owners or
others in control of the premises, if known, in the same manner as orders
directed to individuals.
   (D)   Copies of all orders will be provided to the chief elected official(s)
of the jurisdiction(s) in which the order is implemented.
   (E)   The Central District Health Department will send a copy of the order
to the state’s Public Health Department Communicable Disease Control program by
telefacsimile, e-mail or the Health Alert Network system.
(Ord. 889, passed 7-10-2006)
§ 1-2208 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   The Department may seek the assistance of the appropriate quarantine
officer to enforce any order.
   (B)   Department personnel assigned to enforcement of any order will promote
the need for the directed health measure and encourage individuals to comply
with all aspects of the order.
   (C)   Any individual subject to an order may at any time present evidence to
the Director to show that the order should be modified or terminated. The
Director may or may not modify or terminate the order in his or her sole
discretion.
   (D)   Any person subject to an order under these regulations who does not
comply may be referred to the County Attorney for prosecution or injunctive
action under Neb. RS 71-506 or 71-1631.01.
(Ord. 889, passed 7-10-2006)
§ 1-2209 COOPERATION AND COORDINATION.
   (A)   The Department may assist or seek the assistance of the state’s Public
Health Department, quarantine officers, other local Public Health Departments
and other public health authorities authorized or required by law to carry out
directed health measures in carrying out those measures.
   (B)   The Department may enter into inter-local cooperation agreements in
furtherance of the provisions of this article, however, the absence of any such
agreement will not preclude the Department from exercising its authority
pursuant to these regulations.
   (C)   Treating health care providers must follow and aid affected
individuals and populations in compliance with ordered directed health
measures.
(Ord. 889, passed 7-10-2006)
§ 1-2210 REPORTING.
   Treating health care providers, health care facilities and other persons
must report any information known to them concerning any individual or entity
subject to an order of quarantine, isolation or other directed health measure
that is not in compliance with the order. The report must be made to the
state’s Public Health Department and local law enforcement.
(Ord. 889, passed 7-10-2006)
ARTICLE XXIII: CITY-OWNED, CONTROLLED, AND LEASED PROPERTY
Section
   
1-2301   Control of access to city-owned, controlled, and leased property
§ 1-2301 CONTROL OF ACCESS TO CITY-OWNED, CONTROLLED, AND LEASED PROPERTY.
   (A)   Consistent with decisions of the U.S. Supreme Court, public access to
areas within enclosed facilities owned, controlled, and leased by the city may
be restricted depending upon whether such areas are classified as “designated
public forum,” “limited designated public forum,” or “nonpublic forum.” How
areas within enclosed facilities owned, controlled, and leased by the city are
classified is based upon their intended use. For example, there are certain
areas which are intended primarily for the use of city employees in the conduct
of their business; there are certain areas which, while primarily intended for
the use of city employees in the conduct of their business, may from time to
time be utilized for the convening of public meetings; there are certain
limited areas which may be open to the public while engaging in legitimate
business with city officers or employees; and there may be certain areas which
are primarily intended for the convening of public meetings.
   (B)   The City Administrator is hereby authorized to manage public access to
enclosed city- owned, controlled, and leased property. In the performance of
such responsibilities, the City Administrator shall have the authority to
identify which areas are to be considered designated public forum, limited
designated public forum, or nonpublic forum.
   (C)   Upon the classification of areas within enclosed city-owned,
controlled, and leased property, the City Administrator is hereby authorized,
subject to the availability of appropriated funds, to employ whatever means he
or she deems necessary and appropriate to separate designated public forums
from nonpublic forums, including, but not limited to the use of physical
barriers and signage. The City Administrator shall also have the authority to
develop and implement procedures to regulate and control public access within
city-owned, controlled, and leased property to provide for the security and
privacy of public visitors; to provide for the security and privacy of city
employees and officers; and to minimize potential disruptions to the work of
city government. Any person who engages in conduct that causes disruptions to
the work of city government shall be deemed to no longer be present within the
city-owned, controlled, or leased property on legitimate public business.
   (D)   The City Council chambers and conference rooms in the City Hall are
hereby declared to be nonpublic forums unless or until a public meeting is
convened in such areas pursuant to public notice. All city employee work areas
within City Hall which are designated by appropriate signage as work areas
shall be considered as nonpublic forums. Members of the public are prohibited
from entering city employee work areas without being escorted by a city
employee. All other areas of the City Hall are hereby designated as limited
public forums and only persons who are present to engage in legitimate public
business with city officers or employees shall be authorized. It shall be a
violation of article to be within a nonpublic forum or a limited public forum
without authorization. Unauthorized persons found by the City Administrator or
his or her designee to be within a nonpublic forum or a limited public forum
and who refuse to leave the premises upon request shall be considered a
trespasser. Law enforcement, at its option, at the request of the city may
issue a trespass warning notice for this conduct.
   (E)   Except within the City Council chambers, conference rooms, and other
locations in which a public meeting is being conducted pursuant to a public
notice, it shall be unlawful and a violation of this article, to photograph,
record video and/or sound within city-owned, controlled, and leased property,
without the consent of all persons whose voice or image is being recorded. This
prohibition shall not apply to any law enforcement activities. In addition to
being a violation of this article, if anyone who is observed to be recording
video and/or sound within city-owned, controlled, or leased property, without
the consent of all persons whose voice or image is being recorded, and such
person refuses to cease activity after being advised that such activity is
prohibited under this article, such refusal shall be considered to be a
disruption to the work of city government. Therefore, such persons shall be
deemed to no longer be present within the city-owned, controlled, or leased
property on legitimate public business. The City Administrator and his or her
designees are hereby authorized on behalf of the city to request any person who
refuses to cease the unconsented video and/or sound recording to immediately
leave the premises. Any person who refuses to cease the unconsented to video
and/or sound recording, and refuses to immediately leave the premises following
the request of the City Administrator or his or her designee, shall be
considered as a trespasser. Law enforcement, at its option, at the request of
the city may issue a trespass warning notice for this conduct.
   (F)   The City Administrator and his or her designees may have cause to
remove any person they determine:
      (1)   Acts in any manner which violates or is reasonably suspected to
violate any federal, state or local law, ordinance, rule or regulation; or
      (2)   Acts in any manner which violates any city rules or policy; or any
directive on any sign or notice at the public property.
      (3)   The City Administrator and his or her designees are hereby
authorized on behalf of the city to warn persons of this prohibited activity
and request such activity to cease. Law enforcement, at its option, at the
request of the city may issue a trespass warning notice for these violations of
conduct.
   (G)   The City Administrator and his or her designees are hereby authorized
on behalf of the city to warn persons who have entered into or remain in areas
where they are not authorized to be, and to request such persons to depart. The
City Administrator, and his or her designees, are hereby authorized to call
upon law enforcement to treat as trespassers any persons who refuse to depart
after such a request has been made. Law enforcement, at its option, may enforce
any person’s refusal to depart by means of Nebraska Statutes or issue a
trespass warning notice.
   (H)   Facility rules. The following conduct is prohibited within the
interior spaces of all city- owned, controlled, and leased buildings of the
city:
      (1)   Engaging in any conduct prohibited by federal, State of Nebraska,
or city law.
      (2)   Possessing any weapons, except as specifically permitted by law.
      (3)   Smoking, chewing tobacco, use of e-cigarettes or vaping devices, or
carrying any lighted or smoldering pipe, cigar, or cigarette.
      (4)   Disruptive, harassing or unsafe behavior, including conduct which
interferes with city employees or city officials in the performance of their
duties, or interferes with the proper use of the city facility by others.
      (5)   Abusive or harassing behavior, including use or display of obscene
language, gestures, or graphics.
      (6)   Blocking entrances, exits, fire exits, access areas, or otherwise
interfering with the provision of services or the use of city property.
      (7)   Entering or remaining in nonpublic areas without authorization.
Areas inside city buildings, including offices, hallways, stairways, and
elevators are open to the public only to the extent necessary to attend to city
business, or attending a city-authorized function, event, or activity to which
the person is an invitee, or attending a duly noticed public meeting.
Otherwise, such areas are deemed nonpublic areas.
      (8)   Any act which could result in substantial risk of harm to persons
or property.
      (9)   Disrupting city business, events, or other city-sponsored or
authorized activities.
      (10)   Leaving unattended packages, backpacks, luggage, or other personal
items. Any such items are subject to immediate confiscation.
      (11)   Laying down or sleeping in chairs, benches, or otherwise.
      (12)   Possession of illegal drugs.
      (13)   Posting or affixing to city property without permission from the
City Administrator, or his or her designee, any signs, leaflets, posters,
flyers, pamphlets, brochures, and written, pictorial or graphic material of any
kind.
      (14)   Tampering with or unauthorized use of building or facility systems
or devices, including electrical, plumbing, locks, doors or cameras.
      (15)   Audio and/or video recording, or photography, anywhere inside of
city buildings except during duly noticed public meetings, or as otherwise
approved by the City Administrator, or his or her designee. Except as otherwise
approved by the City Administrator, or his or her designee, audio and/or video
recording, or photography, may only be conducted within the City Council
chamber, and any room, or office within which said activity has been authorized
by law. Any person found to be conducting audio and/or video recording, or
photography, except as authorized by herein, must cease doing so immediately if
any visitor, city employee or city official expresses his or her desire not to
be recorded. This rule does not apply to audio and/or video recording, or
photography, performed by authorized law enforcement personnel engaged in the
performance of their official duties. Audio and/or video recording, or
photography, of public meetings must be undertaken in a quiet and orderly
manner so as not to interfere with the conduct of the meeting, block the view
of any person attending the public meeting, or block any aisle, row, ingress or
egress.
      (16)   Remaining in a city building after posted hours of operation or
after the conclusion of an authorized “after hours” public meeting or event.
      (17)   Failure to cease conduct specifically prohibited in division (H)
(1) through (H)(16) above immediately after a request by city staff to do so.
      (18)   A copy of the foregoing facility rules shall be posted in close
proximity to all public entrances of city-owned, controlled, and leased
buildings.
(Ord. 1095, passed 2-6-2023)
ARTICLE XXIV: LOTTERY
Section
   
1-2401   Participation; restrictions
   
1-2402   Sales outlet locations; approval required; qualification standards
§ 1-2401 PARTICIPATION; RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   No person under 19 years of age shall play or participate in any way
in the lottery established and conducted by the municipality.
   (B)   No owner or officer of a lottery operator with whom the municipality
contracts to conduct its lottery shall play the lottery conducted by the
municipality. No employee or agent of the municipality, lottery operator, or
authorized sales outlet location shall play the lottery of the municipality for
which he or she performs work during such time as he or she is actually working
at such lottery or while on duty.
   (C)   Nothing shall prohibit the following persons from playing the lottery
conducted by the municipality as long as such person is 19 years of age or
older:
      (1)   Any member of the governing body, a municipal official, or the
immediate family member or official; or
      (2)   An owner or officer of an authorized sales outlet location for the
municipality.
   (D)   No person, or employee or agent of any person or municipality, shall
knowingly permit an individual under 19 years of age to play or participate in
any way in the lottery conducted by the municipality.
(Ord. 1100, passed 3-13-2023)
Statutory reference:
   State provisions on participation restriction, see Neb. RS 9-646
§ 1-2402 SALES OUTLET LOCATIONS; APPROVAL REQUIRED; QUALIFICATION STANDARDS.
   (A)   The lottery operator with whom the governing body contracts to conduct
its lottery shall not operate the lottery at a sales outlet location other than
the location of the lottery operator without prior approval of the sales outlet
location by the governing body. The governing body shall approve or disapprove
each sales outlet location and the individual, sole proprietorship,
partnership, limited liability company, or corporation which desires to conduct
the lottery at its sales outlet location solely on the basis of the
qualification standards prescribed in division (B).
   (B)   Any individual, sole proprietorship, partnership, limited liability
company, or corporation which seeks to have its location approved as an
authorized sales outlet location shall:
      (1)   Obtain a retail liquor license for consumption on the premises
pursuant to Neb. RS Ch. 53, Art. 1;
      (2)   Not have been convicted of, forfeited bond upon a charge of, or
pleaded guilty or nolo contendere to any offense or crime, whether a felony or
a misdemeanor, involving any gambling activity or fraud, theft, willful failure
to make required payments or reports, or filing false reports with a
governmental agency at any level;
      (3)   Not have been convicted of, forfeited bond upon a charge of, or
pleaded guilty or nolo contendere to any felony other than those described in
division (B)(2) within the ten years preceding the filing of this application;
      (4)   Not have had a gaming license revoked or canceled under the
Nebraska Bingo Act, the Nebraska County and City Lottery Act, the Nebraska
Lottery and Raffle Act, or the Nebraska Pickle Card Lottery Act; and
      (5)   Be fit, willing, and able to properly provide the service proposed
in conformance with all provisions and requirements of the Nebraska County and
City Lottery Act and the rules and regulations adopted and promulgated pursuant
to the act.
   (C)   If the person seeking to have its location approved as an authorized
sales outlet location is a partnership, limited liability company, or
corporation, the qualification standards shall apply to every partner of such
partnership, every member of such limited liability company, every officer of
such corporation and every stockholder owning more than 10% of the stock of
such corporation.
   (D)   The municipality shall notify the Department of Revenue of all
approved lottery locations within 30 days of approval.
(Ord. 1100, passed 3-13-2023)
Statutory reference:
   Requirements for sales outlet locations, see Neb. RS 9-642.01
CHAPTER 2: MISDEMEANORS
Article
   
I.   MISDEMEANORS
   
II.   CURFEW
   
III.   DOGS AND CATS
   
IV.   ANIMALS AND FOWL
   
V.   NUISANCES
   
VI.   PENAL PROVISION
   
VII.   SEX OFFENDER RESIDENCY
   
VIII.   GRAFFITI
ARTICLE I: MISDEMEANORS
Section
   
2-101   Drinking on streets, in public places or on public property; permits
for; application
   
2-102   Excessive noise control
   
2-103   Littering
   
2-104   Reserved
   
2-105   Climbing on buildings
   
2-106   Dropping objects
   
2-107   Soliciting on public property
   
2-108   Definitions
   
2-109   Food vendor permit; general rules
   
2-110   Street vendors; general rules
   
2-111   Farmers market
   
2-112   Rules applicable to all
   
2-113   Use of sirens or loud speakers
   
2-114   When concessions granted to others
   
2-115   Violations
   
2-116   Discharge of firearms
§ 2-101 DRINKING ON STREETS, IN PUBLIC PLACES OR ON PUBLIC PROPERTY; PERMITS
FOR; APPLICATION.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to drink alcoholic liquor of any
kind on the streets or alleys, or upon property used or owned by the government
of the United States, the State of Nebraska or any governmental subdivision
thereof, or in theaters, dance halls or in any other place open to or
frequented by the public within said city, unless such premises are licensed
for such purposes by the state or unless a special permit has been granted for
the same by the City Council.
   (B)   Upon application for a special permit for the consumption of alcoholic
liquor on public streets or other public places, the City Council may permit
such consumption on such terms and conditions as it may determine. For such
permit to be issued, written application must be made to the City Clerk and the
same must be acted upon at a special or regular meeting of the City Council.
The terms and conditions for issuance of a special permit shall be set forth in
the minutes of the meeting at which such application is considered.
§ 2-102 EXCESSIVE NOISE CONTROL.
   It is hereby determined to be unlawful to operate industrial equipment,
heavy machinery, jack hammer and other industrial equipment or any sound
equipment, including boom boxes, emitting loud noise or to race automobile
engines within the city between the hours of 10:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m., in such
a manner so as to disturb the comfort, repose, peace and quiet of residents of
the city unless such activity has been approved in advance by the City Council.
§ 2-103 LITTERING.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to throw, cast, lay or drop on any
public way or property any paper, scrap material or other waste whatsoever.
§ 2-104 RESERVED.
§ 2-105 CLIMBING ON BUILDINGS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to climb upon or to be upon the roof,
window ledges or projections of any building within the corporate limits of the
city without having first obtained permission from the owner or occupant of
such building.
§ 2-106 DROPPING OBJECTS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to injure, endanger or annoy any person
walking or in any other manner proceeding along a street, alley or other public
place in the city by throwing or dropping, or threatening to throw or drop, any
material or substance of any kind from the roof or upper part of any building
upon, at or near such person walking or proceeding along said street, alley or
public place.
§ 2-107 SOLICITING ON PUBLIC PROPERTY.
   It shall hereafter be declared unlawful for any persons, firm or corporation
to offer for sale or sell, barter or trade any article, commodity or thing of
any nature whatsoever upon any of the streets, sidewalks, curbs or other public
property within the city, exclusive of community rooms or facilities designated
for such purposes, except by special permit of the City Council according to
the terms and conditions in §§
2-108 to
2-114 of this article. These sections shall not apply to the sale of tickets or
token of appreciation on the sidewalks adjacent to philanthropic institutions.
(Ord. 986, passed 7-13-2015)
§ 2-108 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of §§
2-108 through
2-114 of this article, the following definitions shall apply unless the context
clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   FOOD VENDOR. Any person, firm or corporation who engages in the sale of food
or drink in which such food or drink is prepared, packaged, served and/or sold
by such person, firm or corporation from a temporary or mobile facility, and is
sold or offered for sale on the streets, alleys, easements or other public or
private property in the city. The sale or offer of sale of freshly grown whole
produce shall be exempt from this definition.
   STREET VENDOR. Any person, firm or corporation who engages in the sale of
merchandise or commercially prepared, pre-packaged, non-potentially hazardous
food or drink on the streets, alleys, easements or other public property in the
city.
(Ord. 986, passed 7-13-2015)
§ 2-109 FOOD VENDOR PERMIT; GENERAL RULES.
   All food vendors shall make application, pay a permit fee and obtain a
permit from the Central District Health Department prior to the sale of food or
drinks on any street, alley, easement, or other public or private property in
the City of Central City. The additional regulations shall apply:
   (A)   All food vendors shall make application to the City Clerk, pay a
permit fee and obtain a permit prior to using the streets, alley, easements, or
other public or private property in Central City to operate under the terms and
conditions in §
2-108.
   (B)   The owner of each company making application for a food vendor permit
shall show proof of identity with a photo identification card, and shall pay a
nonrefundable application fee to the City Clerk in accordance with the fee
schedule and division (C) below at the time of making such application.
   (C)   Food vendor permits shall be in effect for up to five consecutive days
from the date of issuance as requested by the vendor and upon payment of the
applicable permit fee of $40 for the first day and $25 for each additional day
up to five days in total. No permit shall take effect until 48 hours after an
application has been received by the City Clerk. The permit fee may be waived
by a majority vote of the City Council. A vendor who has been granted ten or
more permits in any calendar year may apply for a three-month blanket permit,
to include one day per week, for a non-refundable fee of $100 and may apply for
three-month renewals on the same terms unless otherwise terminated by a vote of
the City Council.
   (D)   No food vendor permit shall be approved for business within any city
park or recreational area without the prior approval of the City Council.
   (E)   Food vendors may conduct business only between the hours of 8:00 a.m.
and 9:00 p.m. unless additional hours are approved by the City Council.
   (F)   A food vendor operating on a city street shall vend from the side of
the vendor’s truck away from moving traffic and at the curb or edge of the
roadway and shall vend only when the vendor’s truck is lawfully parked or
stopped.
   (G)   A temporary or mobile facility qualifying under the definition of food
vendor may be exempt from the provisions of this section if said facility is
operated on property owned or leased by the operator. Any lease must have a
duration of at least 90 days and evidence of said lease must be presented to
the City Clerk. The City Council may grant such exemption if, in their
judgment, a market-based lease on a suitably sized parcel would effectively
support the business, its traffic and parking needs.
   (H)   A food vendor permit may be issued to a local vendor for a blanket
duration of up to 90 days and the fee for said permit may be waived by a
majority vote of the Council. A “local” vendor is defined as an owner/operator
who maintains their primary residence within the city limits or within three
miles of said city.
   (I)   A mobile food vendor shall not sell nor offer to sell food from a
location within 200 feet of a permanent food establishment's property line,
unless each such permanent food establishment within such area has provided
written consent.
(Ord. 986, passed 7-13-2015; Ord. 1039, passed 12-9-2019; Ord. 1079, passed 3-
14-2022; Ord. 1133, passed 9-9-2024)
§ 2-110 STREET VENDORS; GENERAL RULES.
   (A)   All street vendors shall make application to the City Clerk, pay a
permit fee and obtain a permit prior to using the streets, alleys, easements or
other public property in the city to sell merchandise or commercially prepared,
prepackaged food or drinks.
   (B)   The owner of each company making application for a street vendor
permit shall show proof of identity with a photo identification card, and shall
pay a non-refundable application fee to the City Clerk in accordance with the
fee schedule at the time of making such application.
   (C)   Street vendor permits shall be in effect for 30, 90 or 365 consecutive
days from the date of issuance as requested by the vendor and upon payment of
the applicable permit fee of $5 for a 30-day permit, $10 for a 90-day permit
and $15 for a 365-day permit.
   (D)   Street vendors may conduct business only between the hours of 8:00
a.m. and 9:00 p.m.
   (E)   A person shall vend only from the side of the vendor’s truck away from
moving traffic and at the curb or edge of the roadway and shall vend only when
the vendor’s truck is lawfully parked or stopped.
(Ord. 986, passed 7-13-2015)
§ 2-111 FARMERS MARKET.
   FARMERS MARKET means a designated area where, on designated days and times,
growers and producers may sell directly to the public, in accordance with city
regulations. The city shall have the right to relocate or discontinue the
market, to specify the days and times of its use and to stipulate what goods
may be sold. Any person may offer for sale articles for human consumption, such
as fruits, vegetables, edible grains, nuts and berries, apiary products, maple
sugars, syrups, jams and jelly, eggs, cheese products, sausage or non-edible
articles such as cut or potted flowers, which articles have been raised or
prepared by the grower or producer, by members of their family or by persons in
their employ. All articles offered for sale by the grower or producer must be
grown or processed in the state.
(Ord. 986, passed 7-13-2015)
§ 2-112 RULES APPLICABLE TO ALL.
   The following rules shall apply to all persons conducting business in
accordance with this article.
   (A)   A valid permit shall, at all times, be in the possession of the person
authorized to operate such business, and shall be subject to inspection upon
request.
   (B)   Vendors may use any of the streets in the city, except those streets
which have been designated as highways or arterial streets.
(Ord. 986, passed 7-13-2015)
§ 2-113 USE OF SIRENS OR LOUD SPEAKERS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person engaged in any business pursuant to this
article while traveling about the city by motor vehicle or other conveyance, to
use sirens or loudspeakers for the purpose of advertising such business.
(Ord. 986, passed 7-13-2015)
§ 2-114 WHEN CONCESSIONS GRANTED TO OTHERS.
   (A)   (1)   No person shall engage in sales of food or drink at any city
park or recreational facility without first obtaining permission from the City
Council.
      (2)   The City Council shall have authority to limit the number of street
vendors or food vendors doing business at any city park or recreation facility
and the manner and time that such sales are conducted.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person authorized to do business under
this article to carry on such business at any city park or recreation facility,
baseball or football game, or any athletic contest where an exclusive
concession to carry on a similar business has been granted by the city.
(Ord. 986, passed 7-13-2015)
§ 2-115 VIOLATIONS.
   It shall be the duty of any police officer of the city to enforce the
provisions of this article against any person found to be violating the same.
Any violation of the provisions of this article may result in the immediate
seizure of such permit by the Police Department, and may result in prosecution.
(Ord. 986, passed 7-13-2015)
§ 2-116 DISCHARGE OF FIREARMS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to discharge firearms.
   (B)   The provisions of division (A) above shall not apply to:
      (1)   Police officers or members of the armed forces who are engaged in
the discharge of their duties as such;
      (2)   Persons exercising their rights of self defense, defense of others
or defense of property; and/or
      (3)   Shooting galleries, gun clubs and others which hold a permit issued
by the Council for shooting in fixed localities and under specific rules. Such
permits shall be in writing attested by the Clerk conforming to such
requirements as the Council shall demand, and the permit thus issued shall be
subject to revocation at any time by action of the Council.
   (C)   As used in this section, the term FIREARMS shall mean any instrument
used in the propulsion of shot, shell or bullets or other harmful objects by
the action of gunpowder exploded within it, or by the action of compressed air
within it, or by the power of springs and including what are commonly known as
air rifles and B-B guns, and shall also include sling shots, wrist rockets and
bows and arrows, the latter having a pull in excess of 20 pounds.
(Ord. 899, passed 7-9-2007; Ord. 986, passed 7-13-2015)
ARTICLE II: CURFEW
Section
   
2-201   Definitions
   
2-202   Curfew hours
   
2-203   Issuance of citation
   
2-204   Parties liable
   
2-205   Notification of parents
§ 2-201 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this article, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   MINOR CHILD. Any person who is less than 18 years of age.
   WEEK NIGHTS. Commencing at 10:30 p.m. on Sunday and concluding at 6:00 a.m.
on Friday.
   WEEKENDS. As commencing at 6:00 a.m. on Friday and concluding at 10:30 p.m.
on Sunday.
§ 2-202 CURFEW HOURS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person less than 18 years of age to
loiter, idle, wander, stroll, play or be in or upon the public streets, public
places and public buildings, places of amusement and entertainment, vacant lots
or other unsupervised places, or to ride in or upon, drive or otherwise
operate, any bicycle or any vehicle, in, upon, over or through said streets,
alleys or other public places or unsupervised places of the city from 10:30
p.m. to 6:00 a.m. on week nights or between 12:01 a.m. and 6:00 a.m. on
weekends, unless such person is accompanied by a parent, guardian or other
adult person having the legal care and custody of such minor child; provided,
however, that, should any minor person show that said minor person is upon an
emergency errand as direct by his or her parent, guardian or legal custodian,
he or she shall be permitted to promptly complete such emergency errand.
Additionally, should the minor person show that he or she is attending a
special and adult supervised function conducted by any school, church or
fraternal organization which continues beyond 10:30 p.m., said minor child’s
curfew shall be extended by one-half hour after the closing of such special
function. It is further provided that a minor child traveling to, from or
during lawful employment shall be exempt from the provisions hereof; provided
that, he or she follows the most direct route to, from or during such
employment.
   (B)   Provided further, it shall be unlawful for any person less than 14
years of age to loiter, idle, wander, stroll, play or be in or upon the public
streets, public places and public buildings, places of amusement and
entertainment, vacant lots or other unsupervised places, or to ride in or upon,
drive or otherwise operate any bicycle or any vehicle in, upon, over or through
said streets, alleys or other public places or unsupervised places of the city
from 10:30 p.m. to 6:00 a.m. on week nights or weekends, unless such child is
accompanied by a parent, guardian or other adult person having the legal care
and custody of such minor child; provided, however, that, should any minor
person show that said minor person is upon an emergency errand as directed by
his or her parent, guardian or legal custodian, he or she shall be permitted to
promptly complete such emergency errand. Additionally, should the minor person
show that he or she is attending a special and adult supervised function
conducted by any school, church or fraternal organization which continues
beyond 10:30 p.m., said minor child’s curfew shall be extended by one-half hour
after the closing of such special function. It is further provided that a minor
child traveling to, from or during lawful employment shall be exempt from the
provisions hereof; provided that, he or she follows the most direct route to,
from or during such employment.
§ 2-203 ISSUANCE OF CITATION.
   Every law enforcement officer within the city is hereby authorized to issue
a citation to the minor and/or parent, guardian or person with the legal care
and custody of any minor child in violation of the provisions of this article
within the officer’s discretion.
§ 2-204 PARTIES LIABLE.
   It shall be unlawful for the minor, parent, guardian or other adult person
having the legal care and custody of a minor child under the ages described
above to allow or permit such minor child to do any of the things or acts
prohibited by §
2-202 of this article between the hours set out therein.
§ 2-205 NOTIFICATION OF PARENTS.
   It is further ordained that no minor person, arrested under the provision of
this article, shall be placed in confinement until he or she has been taken
home or the parents, guardian or legal custodian notified, and the arresting
officer has ascertained whether or not such minor person is within the control
of his or her parent, guardian or legal custodian; and if such parent, guardian
or legal custodian shall state that the minor child cannot be controlled by
him, her or them, then such minor may be proceeded against, otherwise the
parent, guardian or legal custodian may be proceeded against.
ARTICLE III: DOGS AND CATS
Section
   
2-301   Definitions; general provisions
   
2-302   Licensing of dogs and cats
   
2-303   Wrongful licensing
   
2-304   Removal of tags
   
2-305   Unlicensed dogs or cats
   
2-306   Barking and offensive dogs prohibited
   
2-307   Dogs and cats running at large
   
2-308   Dangerous dogs on owner’s property; confined
   
2-309   Dangerous dogs off owner’s property; restrained
   
2-310   Dangerous dogs; failure to comply
   
2-311   Dangerous dogs; impoundment, destruction
   
2-312   Rabies vaccination; proof
   
2-313   Rabies suspected; impoundment
   
2-314   Rabid animals; capture impossible
   
2-315   Rabid dogs; proclamation
   
2-316   Fighting dogs
   
2-317   Killing and poisoning
   
2-318   Interference with Animal Control Officer
   
2-319   Right of entry
   
2-320   Dogs and cats; personal property; owner liability for damages
   
2-321   Kennel: permit required
   
2-322   Kennel: terms and requirements
   
2-323   Unlicensed kennels; nuisance
   
2-324   Shelter
   
2-325   Impoundment of dogs and cats
   
2-326   Animal wastes
   
2-327   Penalty
§ 2-301 DEFINITIONS; GENERAL PROVISIONS.
   For the purpose of this article, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ADEQUATE SHELTER. A physical structure available for use by an animal so
that when factors related to the age, size, physical condition, medical
condition, species and breed disposition are considered, the animal’s well-
being is not endangered by weather or environmental conditions.
   ANIMAL CONTROL AUTHORITY. The Chief of Police, the City Zoning Administrator
and a person to be appointed by the Mayor.
   ANIMAL CONTROL OFFICER. Any police officer and any person authorized by law
or employed or appointed for the purpose of aiding in the enforcement of this
section or any other law or ordinance relating to the licensing of animals,
control of animals or seizure and impoundment of animals.
   ANTI-ESCAPE. Any housing, fencing or device which a dog cannot go over,
under, through or around.
   AUTHORIZED DISTRIBUTOR. Any licensed veterinarian authorized to issue
licenses by the City Council. This authority shall be conferred by a simple
majority vote of the Council.
   COMMERCIAL KENNEL. Any premises where more than six, but not more than ten
dogs over the age of six months are owned, kept or harbored; provided, however,
this definition shall not apply to zoos or to animal hospital operated by
veterinarians duly licensed under the laws of the state.
   DANGEROUS DOG.
      (1)   Any dog that:
         (a)   Has killed or inflicted severe injury on a human being on public
or private property;
         (b)   Has killed a domestic animal without provocation while the dog
was off the owner’s property; or
         (c)   Has been previously determined to be a potentially dangerous dog
according to this article and such dog subsequently bites, attacks or endangers
the safety of humans or domestic animals. Under divisions (1)(c)1. and (1)(c)3.
below, the dog shall not be considered a DANGEROUS DOG if the conduct of the
dog in question is directed at a person:
            1.   Who, at the time, was committing a willful trespass or any
other tort upon the property of the owner of the dog;
            2.   Who, at the time, was tormenting, abusing or assaulting the
dog;
            3.   Who has, in the past, been observed or reported to have
tormented, abused or assaulted the dog; or
            4.   Who, at the time, was committing or attempting to commit a
crime against the person, against public peace or relating to property.
      (2)   The following breeds shall be considered DANGEROUS DOGS in addition
to those defined above: Staffordshire bull terriers; American pit bull
terriers; American Staffordshire terriers; Rottweilers; and any mixed breed
dogs predominately of these breeds.
   KEEP or HARBOR. To have charge, custody or control of an animal or fowl, or
permitting the same to habitually remain or be lodged or fed within the house,
store, yard, enclosure or place of the owner or occupant of the premises.
   OWN. To own, keep, harbor or have charge, custody or control of an animal or
fowl.
   OWNER. Any person, firm, organization, association or corporation owning,
possessing, keeping, harboring or having charge, custody or control of any
animal or fowl.
   POTENTIALLY DANGEROUS DOG.
      (1)   Any dog that when unprovoked:
         (a)   Inflicts a wound on a human or injures a domestic animal either
on public or private property; or
         (b)   Chases or approaches a person upon streets, sidewalks or any
public grounds in an outward appearance of aggressive or dangerous behavior.
      (2)   Any dog with a known propensity, tendency or disposition to attack
when unprovoked, to cause injury or to threaten the safety of humans or
domestic animals.
   RESIDENTIAL KENNEL. Any premises where more than three, but not more than
six dogs over the age of six months are owned, kept or harbored; provided,
however, this definition shall not apply to zoos or to animal hospital operated
by veterinarians duly licensed under the laws of the state.
   RUN AT LARGE.
      (1)   Any animal that is not under the actual control of its owner.
      (2)   An animal shall not be considered under the actual control of its
owner unless on a leash, cord or chain which is securely fastened or picketed
in a manner sufficient to keep the animal on the premises where picketed, or on
a leash, cord or chain of six feet or less in length physically held by the
owner or confined within a receptacle, enclosed vehicle, fenced enclosure or
shelter or within the real property limits of the owner and in the owner’s
presence and under direct and effective voice control.
(Ord. 828, passed 8-11-2003; Ord. 858, passed 11-8-2004)
§ 2-302 LICENSING OF DOGS AND CATS.
   (A)   (1)   Any person who shall own, keep or harbor a dog or cat over the
age of six months within the zoning jurisdiction of the city shall, within 30
days after acquisition of the said dog or cat, acquire a license for each such
dog or cat annually by or before May 1 of each year.
      (2)   The said tax shall be delinquent from and after June 1; provided,
the possessor of any dog or cat brought into or harbored within the corporate
limits subsequent to May 1 of any year shall be liable for the payment of the
dog or cat tax levied herein and such tax shall be delinquent if not paid
within ten days thereafter.
      (3)   The City Council may, as it deems necessary, provide public notice
to the residents of the city about the licensing requirements of this
provision. Licenses shall be issued by the authorized distributor upon this
provision.
      (4)   Licenses shall be issued by the authorized distributor upon the
payment of a license fee of $3 for each neutered male dog or cat and spayed
female dog or cat and $5 for each un-neutered male dog or cat and un-spayed
female dog or cat. When issued, such license shall not be transferable and no
refund will be allowed in case of death, sale or other disposition of the
licensed dog or cat.
      (5)   The owner shall state at the time the application is made and upon
printed forms provided for such purpose, his or her name and address and the
name, breed, color and sex of each dog or cat owned and kept by him or her.
   (B)   (1)   Evidence of vaccination for rabies shall be presented with the
application for a license and shall be certified by a city veterinarian. No
license shall be issued until such rabies vaccination certificate has been
presented to the authorized distributor.
      (2)   (a)   Upon presentation of the rabies vaccination certificate, and
payment of the license fee, the authorized distributor shall issue to the owner
of a dog or cat a license certificate and a metallic tag for each dog or cat so
licensed. The metallic tag shall be properly attached to the collar or harness
of any dog or cat so licensed and shall entitle the owner to keep or harbor the
said dog or cat until April 30 following such licensing. In the event mat a
license tag is lost and upon satisfactory evidence that the original plate or
tag issued in accordance with the provisions herein, the authorized distributor
shall issue a duplicate or new tag for the balance of the year and may charge
and collect a fee of $0.50 for each such duplicate or new tag so issued.
         (b)   All license fees and collections shall be immediately credited
to the General Fund.
      (3)   It shall be the duty of the authorized distributor to issue tags of
a suitable design that are different in appearance each year.
(Ord. 828, passed 8-11-2003; Ord. 915, passed 10-13-2008)
§ 2-303 WRONGFUL LICENSING.
   It shall be unlawful for the owner, keeper or harborer of any dog or cat to
permit or allow such dog or cat to wear any license, metallic tag or other city
identification than that issued by the authorized distributor for dogs or cats,
nor shall the owner, keeper or harborer wrongfully and knowingly license an un-
spayed female dog or cat with a license prescribed for a male or spayed female
dog or cat.
(Ord. 828, passed 8-11-2003; Ord. 915, passed 10-13-2008)
§ 2-304 REMOVAL OF TAGS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to remove or cause to be removed the
collar, harness or metallic tag from any licensed dog or cat without the
consent of the owner, keeper or possessor thereof.
(Ord. 828, passed 8-11-2003; Ord. 915, passed 10-13-2008)
§ 2-305 UNLICENSED DOGS OR CATS.
   All dogs and cats found running at large upon the streets and public grounds
within the zoning jurisdiction of the city without a license tag affixed as
required in this article are hereby declared a public nuisance.
(Ord. 828, passed 8-11-2003; Ord. 915, passed 10-13-2008)
§ 2-306 BARKING AND OFFENSIVE DOGS PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to own, keep or harbor any dog which by
loud, continued or frequent barking, howling or yelping shall annoy or disturb
any neighborhood or person, or which habitually barks or chases pedestrians,
vehicles or riders of horses or bicycles while they are on any public
sidewalks, streets or alleys within the zoning jurisdiction of the city;
provided, the provisions of this section shall not be constructed to apply to
any city dog shelter.
(Ord. 828, passed 8-11-2003)
§ 2-307 DOGS AND CATS RUNNING AT LARGE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to suffer or permit any dog or cat to
run at large within the zoning jurisdiction of the city, and every dog or cat
found running at large in violation hereof is declared to be a public nuisance
and may be picked up and impounded by the Animal Control Officer.
(Ord. 828, passed 8-11-2003; Ord. 915, passed 10-13-2008)
§ 2-308 DANGEROUS DOGS ON OWNER’S PROPERTY; CONFINED.
   While unattended on the owner’s property, a dangerous dog shall be securely
confined in a humane manner, indoors or in an anti-escape locked pen or
structure suitably designed to prevent the entry of young children and to
prevent the dog from escaping.
(Ord. 828, passed 8-11-2003)
§ 2-309 DANGEROUS DOGS OFF OWNER’S PROPERTY; RESTRAINED.
   No owner of a potentially dangerous dog or a dangerous dog shall permit the
dog to go beyond the property of the owner unless the dog is restrained
securely by a chain or leash.
(Ord. 828, passed 8-11-2003)
§ 2-310 DANGEROUS DOGS; FAILURE TO COMPLY.
   Any potentially dangerous dog or dangerous dog may be immediately
confiscated by any Animal Control Officer if the owner is in violation of this
article, and said officer may enter upon private property in order to
confiscate the animal. In lieu of confiscation, the Animal Control Officer may
immediately destroy a dangerous dog if it poses a threat of harm to said
officer or any other person or property. The owner shall be responsible for the
costs incurred by the Animal Control Authority for the care and boarding of a
potentially dangerous dog or a dangerous dog confiscated by an Animal Control
Officer for the destruction of any dangerous dog if the owner violated this
article.
(Ord. 828, passed 8-11-2003)
§ 2-311 DANGEROUS DOGS; IMPOUNDMENT, DESTRUCTION.
   In addition to any other penalty, the Animal Control Authority shall order
the city animal shelter to dispose of a dangerous dog in a humane manner.
Notice of impoundment of all animals, including any significant marks or
identification, shall be posted at the office of the Central City Veterinary
Clinic, Lone Tree Veterinary Services or other authorized impound facility, as
public notification of such impoundment. The Animal Control Authority shall
schedule the matter to be heard at a special or regular meeting of the Animal
Control Authority, within seven days of impoundment, at which time the owner
must present clear and convincing evidence that the dog will not present a
present nor future threat to the safety of the public or to public property.
The Animal Control Authority shall not be bound by the Nebraska Rules of
Evidence. Upon such proof to the satisfaction of the Animal Control Authority,
the dog may be returned to the owner after the owner pays all costs of
confinement, board, medical treatment, food and care for the dog. If the
foregoing costs are not paid within seven days of the hearing, the dog shall be
destroyed.
(Ord. 828, passed 8-11-2003; Ord. 858, passed 11-8-2004)
§ 2-312 RABIES VACCINATION; PROOF.
   (A)   (1)   Every dog or cat three months of age and older shall be
vaccinated against rabies pursuant to state law. Puppies and kittens shall be
vaccinated within 30 days after having reached three months of age.
Unvaccinated dogs and cats acquired or moved into the zoning jurisdiction of
the city must be vaccinated within 30 days after purchase or arrival, unless
under three months of age as specified above.
      (2)   The provisions of this article with respect to vaccination shall
not apply to any dogs or cats owned by a person temporarily residing within the
city for less than 30 days, any dog or cat brought into this city for show
purposes, or any dog brought into the city for hunting purposes for a period of
less than 30 days; such dogs and cats shall be kept under the strict
supervision of the owner.
   (B)   The owner or person in possession of any dog or cat or any other
member of the feline or canine families shall, when requested to do so by an
Animal Control Officer of the city, furnish proof that the animal has received
anti-rabies vaccine which is currently effective. The proof to be furnished
shall be a certificate from a licensed veterinarian identifying the animal and
stating the date on which it was vaccinated, the kind of vaccine used and the
period of its effectiveness.
(Ord. 828, passed 8-11-2003)
§ 2-313 RABIES SUSPECTED, IMPOUNDMENT.
   (A)   Any dog or other animal suspected of being afflicted with rabies or
any dog not vaccinated in accordance with the provisions set forth above which
has bitten any person or has caused an abrasion of the skin of any person shall
be seized by any law enforcement officer of the city and shall be impounded
under the supervision of a licensed veterinarian for not less than ten days.
   (B)   If, upon examination by a veterinarian, the dog or other animal has no
clinical signs of rabies at the end of such impoundment, it shall be released
to the owner upon said owner paying the costs of said impoundment or, in the
case of an unlicensed dog, shall be disposed of in whatever manner deemed best
by the Animal Control Officer. If the owner of said dog has proof of
vaccination, it shall be confined by the owner or some other responsible person
for a period of at least ten days, at which time the dog shall be examined by a
licensed veterinarian. If no signs of rabies are observed, the dog may be
released from confinement.
(Ord. 828, passed 8-11-2003)
§ 2-314 RABID ANIMALS; CAPTURE IMPOSSIBLE.
   The Animal Control Officer shall have the authority to kill any domestic
animals with the characteristics of rabies which make capture impossible
because of the danger involved.
(Ord. 828, passed 8-11-2003)
§ 2-315 RABID DOGS; PROCLAMATION.
   It shall be the duty of the City Council whenever, in its opinion, the
danger to the public safety from rabid dogs is great or imminent, to issue a
proclamation ordering all persons owning, keeping or harboring any dog to
muzzle the same, or to confine it for a period of not less than 30 days or more
than 90 days from the date of such proclamation, or until such danger is past.
The dogs may be harbored by any good and sufficient means in a house, garage or
yard on the premises wherein the said owner may reside. Upon issuing the
proclamation, it shall be the duty of all persons owning, keeping or harboring
any dog to confine the same as herein provided.
(Ord. 828, passed 8-11-2003)
§ 2-316 FIGHTING DOGS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, by agreement or otherwise, to set dogs
to fighting, or by any gesture or word to encourage the same to fight.
(Ord. 828, passed 8-11-2003)
§ 2-317 KILLING AND POISONING.
   It shall be unlawful to kill, administer or cause to be administered poison
of any sort to a dog or cat, or in any manner to injure, maim, destroy or in
any manner attempt to injure, maim or destroy any dog or cat that is the
property of another person, or to place any poison or poisoned food where the
same is accessible to a dog or cat.
(Ord. 828, passed 8-11-2003; Ord. 915, passed 10-13-2008)
§ 2-318 INTERFERENCE WITH ANIMAL CONTROL OFFICER.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to hinder, delay or interfere with any
Animal Control Officer who is performing any duty enjoined upon him or her by
the provisions of this article, or to break open or in any manner directly or
indirectly aid, counsel or advise the breaking open of the animal shelter, any
ambulance wagon or other vehicle used for the collecting or conveying of dogs
to the shelter.
(Ord. 828, passed 8-11-2003)
§ 2-319 RIGHT OF ENTRY.
   For the purpose of discharging the duties of this article and to enforce the
provisions of this article, any Animal Control Officer is empowered to enter
upon any premise upon which an animal is kept or harbored and demand exhibition
of such animal by the owner or the licensee for any dog or cat. It is further
provided that any city police officer may enter the premise where any animal is
kept in a reportedly cruel or inhumane manner and demand to examine such animal
and take possession of such animal if, in his or her opinion, it is required.
(Ord. 828, passed 8-11-2003; Ord. 915, passed 10-13-2008)
§ 2-320 DOGS AND CATS; PERSONAL PROPERTY; OWNER LIABILITY FOR DAMAGES.
   (A)   Dogs and cats are hereby declared to be personal property for all
intents and purposes, and the owner or owners of any dog or dogs shall be
liable for any and all damages that may accrue:
      (1)   To any person, other than a trespasser, by reason of having been
bitten by any such dog(s) or cat(s); and
      (2)   To any person, firm, or corporation by reason of such dog(s) or cat
(s) killing, wounding, injuring, worrying or chasing any person or persons or
any sheep or other domestic animals belonging to such person, firm or
corporation.
   (B)   Such damage may be recovered in any court having jurisdiction of the
amount claimed.
(Ord. 828, passed 8-11-2003; Ord. 915, passed 10-13-2008)
§ 2-321 KENNEL: PERMIT REQUIRED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to have or maintain a kennel
within the zoning jurisdiction of the city without first having obtained such a
permit.
   (B)   (1)   Any person wanting to operate a kennel shall make application to
the Animal Control Authority for a kennel permit. The following shall be
submitted with the application:
         (a)   Proof of current licenses and rabies vaccination for each dog to
be kept or harbored on the premises; and
         (b)   A drawing or plan showing the location and dimensions of the
premises, dog runs or pens and distances to neighboring properties.
      (2)   (a)   The permit fee for a residential kennel shall be $50, in
addition to required licensing fees for each dog as required in §
2-302 of this article.
         (b)   The permit fee for a commercial kennel shall be $200, in
addition to required licensing fees for each dog as required in §
2-302 of this article.
   (C)   Only one permit per premises shall be issued.
(Ord. 828, passed 8-11-2003)
§ 2-322 KENNEL: TERMS AND REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Permit is not transferable to another person or premises.
   (B)   The permits shall expire December 31 of each calendar year for which
issued. All permits shall be renewed by January 1 of the following year.
   (C)   A permit holder shall notify the Animal Control Authority of any
changes in ownership or death of dogs, property or any other changes which may
affect the status of said permit and shall keep the Animal Control Authority
apprised of any change in name or location of the permit holder’s kennel.
   (D)   The kennel permit holders shall limit dog reproduction to no more than
one litter of offspring per license year per adult female dog.
   (E)   All dogs shall be kept confined on the permit holder’s premises.
   (F)   The minimum lot size shall be one acre for any premises in which a
commercial kennel is to be located.
   (G)   It shall be unlawful to have indoor or outdoor housing facilities,
pens, enclosures or shelter closer than 25 feet to a neighboring residence and
no closer than ten feet to a neighboring property line. The city may require
additional setbacks, fencing, screening or sound-proofing requirements as
deemed necessary to ensure the compatibility of the kennel with the surrounding
neighborhood. Factors to be considered in determining such capability are as
follows:
      (1)   Statements regarding approval/disapproval of surrounding neighbors
relative to maintenance of a kennel at the address applied for;
      (2)   Past history of animal control complaints relating to the dogs of
the applicant at the address for which the kennel is applied for;
      (3)   Facility specifications/dimensions in which the dogs are to be
maintained; and
      (4)   Animal size, type and characteristics of breed.
   (H)   Noise or barking from the dogs shall not interfere with an adjoining
property owner’s use and peaceful enjoyment of his or her property.
   (I)   Any odor or unsanitary conditions caused by the dogs shall not
interfere with an adjoining property owner’s use and peaceful enjoyment of his
or her property.
   (J)   It shall be unlawful to operate a residential or commercial kennel in
an area within the zoning jurisdiction of the city not properly zoned for that
use.
   (K)   It shall be unlawful to keep or harbor more than ten dogs over six
months of age within the zoning jurisdiction of the city.
   (L)   Failure to maintain the premises in compliance with the law, or
failure to make payment of the permit fee, or failure to maintain proof showing
that each dog has been properly licensed or vaccinated against rabies shall
result in the immediate termination of the kennel permit.
   (M)   Any permit holder shall allow an Animal Control Officer to inspect or
investigate the premises. Failure to permit an Animal Control Officer to
investigate or inspect may result in the termination of the kennel permit.
(Ord. 828, passed 8-11-2003)
§ 2-323 UNLICENSED KENNELS; NUISANCE.
   It is hereby declared that it is and shall be a nuisance for any person,
corporation, partnership or other entity to maintain, keep, conduct or operate
any kennel within the zoning jurisdiction of the city without first obtaining a
permit therefor.
(Ord. 828, passed 8-11-2003)
§ 2-324 SHELTER.
   Every owner shall provide adequate shelter for animals kept within the city.
(Ord. 828, passed 8-11-2003)
§ 2-325 IMPOUNDMENT OF DOGS AND CATS.
   Except for dangerous dogs, dogs and cats impounded by the Animal Control
Officer shall be released to the owner upon proof of current rabies vaccination
and license and payment of impoundment fees. Any dog or cat not so released to
its owner after seven days shall be deemed abandoned and a public nuisance and
may be destroyed.
(Ord. 858, passed 11-8-2004; Ord. 915, passed 10-13-2008)
§ 2-326 ANIMAL WASTES.
   No owner of an animal shall permit the deposit of animal excrement on public
property or the property of others, nor to allow excrement to accumulate on his
or her own or rented property. The public streets, alleys, parks, ball fields
and any other public property are within the scope of this section and any
deposit of excrement by animals, even if accidental, shall be the
responsibility of the owner or caretaker of the animal to immediately remove
and deposit in an appropriate manner. The public storm sewer system being
specifically mentioned as a prohibited depository of such excrement.
(Ord. 828, passed 8-11-2003)
§ 2-327 PENALTY.
   Penalty for violation of §
2-307 of this article, and any fees pursuant to §
2-325 of this article shall be $30 for the first offense, $50 for the second
offense and $100 for each subsequent offense.
(Ord. 828, passed 8-11-2003; Ord. 874, passed 8-8-2005)
ARTICLE IV: ANIMALS AND FOWL
Section
   
2-401   Prohibited animals
   
2-402   Cruelty to animals
   
2-403   Enclosures
   
2-404   Fowls; running at large
   
2-405   Roosters banned within corporate limits
   
2-406   Damage by domestic animals; liability of owner
   
2-407   Impounding
   
2-408   Number of animals; limits; area requirements
   
2-409   Animal shelter
§ 2-401 PROHIBITED ANIMALS.
   (A)    It shall be unlawful for any person to keep, maintain or confine any
domestic farm animals, split-hoofed or exotic animals or snakes within the
corporate limits of the city, except as allowed for as non-conforming uses
within the city’s zoning regulations.
   (B)   For the purpose of this article, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      DOMESTIC FARM ANIMAL. Any equine family (horse and the like) or offspring
thereof.
      EXOTIC ANIMAL. Any llama, ostrich, emu or animals other than a domestic
farm, split-hoofed animal or offspring thereof.
      SNAKE. Any poisonous snake or constrictor type.
      SPLIT-HOOFED ANIMAL. Any member of the bovine family (cow and the like),
swine family, sheep, goats or offspring thereof.
(Ord. 1104, passed 10-9-2023)
§ 2-402 CRUELTY TO ANIMALS.
    No person shall cruelly or unnecessarily beat, overwork or insufficiently
shelter, water or feed any animal within the city.
(Ord. 1104, passed 10-9-2023)
§ 2-403 ENCLOSURES.
   (A)   All pens, cages, sheds, yards or any other area or enclosure for the
confinement of animals not specifically barred within the corporate limits
shall be kept in a clean and orderly manner so as not to become a menace or
nuisance to the neighborhood in which the said enclosure is located.
   (B)   All enclosures and restraints which are used to confine rabbits,
birds, or chickens shall be at least 15 feet from any privately owned property
abutting the owners property. All enclosures for the keeping of chickens shall
be constructed or repaired to prevent rats, mice, or other rodents from being
harbored underneath, within, or within the walls of the enclosure.
   (C)   All feed and other items associated with the keeping of chickens that
are likely to attract or to become infested with or infected by rats, mice, or
other rodents shall be protected as to prevent rats, mice, or other rodents
from gaining access to or coming into contact with them.
   (D)   The owner of any chickens shall, in a sanitary manner, remove or
dispose of all offal, manure, and waste material accumulating from such
chickens.
(Ord. 1104, passed 10-9-2023)
§ 2-404 FOWLS; RUNNING AT LARGE, PROHIBITION.
   (A)    It shall be unlawful for any person to allow poultry, chickens,
turkeys, geese or any other fowls to run at large within the corporate limits,
except in enclosed places on private property.
   (B)   In the event of a public health emergency, as determined by the Mayor,
a prohibition against keeping, housing, selling, or auctioning of wild or
domestic chickens, ducks, geese, or any other fowl within the primary policing
jurisdiction of the city may be enacted. The prohibition shall be made in
writing by the Mayor and posted at City Hall. The prohibition shall stay in
effect until such time that the
Mayor, in writing, lifts the prohibition.
(Ord. 887, passed 6-12-2006; Ord. 1104, passed 10-9-2023)
§ 2-405 ROOSTERS BANNED WITHIN CORPORATE LIMITS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to own, keep, harbor, or maintain
any rooster within the corporate limits of the city. The unlawful owning,
keeping, maintaining, or harboring of roosters is declared to be a public
nuisance. This section specifically bans the owning, keeping, maintaining, and/
or harboring of roosters only and not other fowl as elsewhere defined in this
chapter.
   (B)   The prohibition of owning, keeping, maintaining, or harboring of
roosters shall not apply to those roosters owned, kept, harbored, or maintained
by the following:
      (1)   Governmental entities, persons participating in a heath
surveillance conducted by a governmental entity, animal shelters and humane
societies, licensed veterinary clinics, non-profit educational facilities, and
commercial establishments who offer live fowl or chickens for retail sale.
      (2)   Registered participants in local youth 4-H and Future Farmers of
America (FFA) programs from April through August of each calendar year.
Evidence of registration with said organizations shall be provided to the
Zoning Administrator no later than April 30 of each calendar year. Said
organizations will compile a list to be given comprising of: the child's name
owning the rooster, the address and contact information of the owner, and the
address where the rooster will be housed.
   (C)   Entities and individuals falling into the exceptions listed in
division (B) shall still comply with all other city regulations concerning fowl
when dealing with roosters.
(Ord. 1104, passed 10-9-2023)
§ 2-406 DAMAGE BY DOMESTIC ANIMALS; LIABILITY OF OWNER.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to allow a domestic animal owned, kept
or harbored by him or her, or under his or her charge or control, to injure or
destroy any real or personal property of any description belonging to another
person.
(Ord. 1104, passed 10-9-2023)
§ 2-407 IMPOUNDING.
   It shall be the duty of the city police to capture, secure and remove in a
humane manner to the designated city animal shelter any domestic animal
violating any of the provisions of this article. The domestic animals so
impounded shall be treated in a humane manner and shall be provided with a
sufficient supply of food and fresh water each day. Notice of impoundment of
all animals, including any significant marks or identification, shall be posted
at the designated city animal shelter within 48 hours after impoundment as
public notification of such impoundment. Each impounded domestic animal shall
be kept and maintained at the pound for a period of not less than seven days
after public notice has been given, unless reclaimed earlier by the owner. Any
domestic animal may be reclaimed by its owner during the period of impoundment
by reimbursing the city for the cost paid to the designated city animal shelter
for impoundment. Additionally, there shall be a general impoundment fee of $5
for the first time in a calendar year that a domestic animal owner has a
domestic animal impounded. There shall be a general impoundment fee of $25 for
each subsequent time an owner has a domestic animal impounded within a calendar
year. The general impoundment fees shall be remitted to the city. The owner
shall then be required to comply with the licensing and rabies vaccination
requirements prior to release. If the domestic animal is not claimed at the end
of the required waiting period, the designated city animal shelter may dispose
of the animal; provided, if the city police can find a suitable home for the
impounded domestic animal, he or she may turn the domestic animal over to any
person willing to provide the animal with a home. In this event, the new owner
shall be required to pay all fees and meet all licensing and vaccinating
requirements provided in this article. The city shall acquire legal title to
any domestic animal impounded in the animal shelter after the required waiting
period after giving notice. All unclaimed domestic animals not placed for
adoption shall be destroyed and buried in a humane manner. If necessary to
destroy such a domestic animal, the owner shall be required to reimburse the
city for the cost to the designated city animal shelter for such destruction.
No domestic animal owner shall be relieved of the responsibility of the general
impoundment fee because the domestic animal is destroyed pursuant to this
article.
(Ord. 1104, passed 10-9-2023)
§ 2-408 NUMBER OF ANIMALS; LIMITS; AREA REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   No residential property shall have more than five rabbits at any one
time without a permit. The Zoning Administrator may issue a six-month rabbit
permit for any property that has not received a nuisance declaration for a
period of 24 months or more. A permit application not approved by the Zoning
Administrator may be approved by a majority vote of the City Council. The
permit shall renew automatically for successive three-month periods until
revoked by a majority vote of the City Council. The City Council may review any
rabbit permit for any reason for possible revocation.
   (B)   No residential property shall have more than 15 birds over six months
of age at any one time.
(Ord. 1104, passed 10-9-2023)
§ 2-409 ANIMAL SHELTER.
   The designated city animal shelter shall be safe, suitable and conveniently
located for the impounding, keeping and destruction of domestic animals. The
said shelter shall be sanitary, ventilated and lighted.
(Ord. 1104, passed 10-9-2023)
ARTICLE V: NUISANCES
Section
   
2-501   Purpose
   
2-502   Offenses; prohibited fences
   
2-503   Offenses; appliances in yard
   
2-504   Offenses; maintaining a nuisance
   
2-505   Offenses; weeds, litter
   
2-506   Weeds and litter; definitions
   
2-507   Weeds, grass and litter; notice
   
2-508   Weeds and grass; abatement by city
   
2-509   Nuisances; generally defined
   
2-510   Nuisances; specifically defined
   
2-511   Nuisances; duty
   
2-512   Nuisances; non-exclusive procedure
   
2-513   Nuisances; declaration
   
2-514   Nuisances; form of proper service of notice
   
2-515   Nuisances; effect of failure to abate
   
2-516   Nuisances; hearing
   
2-517   Nuisances; extension of time
   
2-518   Nuisances; abatement by city
   
2-519   Nuisances; record of expenses
   
2-520   Nuisances; hearing on statement of expenses
   
2-521   Nuisances; expenses and special assessment against the property
   
2-522   Nuisances; notice of special assessment
   
2-523   Nuisances; alternatives
   
2-524   Nuisances; procedure in case of emergency
   
2-525   Nuisances; severability
   
2-526   Nuisances; adjoining land owners; intervention before trial
   
2-527   Violation; penalty
   
2-528   Abatement of nuisance
   
2-529   Expenses
   
2-530   Garbage and refuse
§ 2-501 PURPOSE.
   The city, by this article, defines its authority to define, regulate,
suppress and prevent nuisances, and to declare what shall be a nuisance for its
jurisdiction and to provide services to abate the same for the health and
sanitation of the city.
(Ord. 1028, passed 5-13-2019)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 18-1720
§ 2-502 OFFENSES; PROHIBITED FENCES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to erect, or cause to be erected, and
maintain any barbed wire or electric fence within the corporate limits, where
such fence abuts a public sidewalk, street or alley.
(Ord. 1028, passed 5-13-2019)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 18-1720, 28-1321, 39-307
§ 2-503 OFFENSES; APPLIANCES IN YARD.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to permit a refrigerator, icebox,
freezer or any other dangerous appliance to be in the open and accessible to
children whether on private or public property.
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 18-1720, 28-1321
§ 2-504 OFFENSES; MAINTAINING A NUISANCE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to erect, keep up or continue and
maintain any nuisance within the zoning jurisdiction of the city.
§ 2-505 OFFENSES; WEEDS, LITTER.
   (A)   Lots or pieces of ground within the city shall be drained or filled so
as to prevent stagnant water or any other nuisance accumulating thereon.
   (B)   The owner or occupant of any lot or piece of ground within the city
shall keep the lot or piece of ground and the adjoining streets and alleys free
of any growth of eight inches or more in height of weeds, grasses or worthless
vegetation.
   (C)   It is hereby declared to be a nuisance to permit or maintain any
growth of eight inches or more in height of weeds, grasses or worthless
vegetation on any lot or piece of ground within the city or on the adjoining
streets or alleys or to litter or cause litter to be deposited or remain
thereon, except in proper receptacles.
   (D)   The throwing, depositing or accumulation of litter on any lot or piece
of ground within the city is prohibited.
   (E)   Any owner or occupant of a lot or piece of ground shall, upon
conviction of violating this section, be guilty of an offense.
§ 2-506 WEEDS AND LITTER; DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   LITTER. Includes, but is not limited to:
      (1)   Trash, rubbish, refuse, garbage, paper, rags and ashes;
      (2)   Wood, plaster, cement, brick or stone building rubble;
      (3)   Grass, leaves and worthless vegetation, except when used as ground
mulch or in a compost pile;
      (4)   Offal and dead animals; and
      (5)   Any machine or machines, vehicle or vehicles or parts of a machine
or vehicle which have lost their identity, character, utility or serviceability
as such through deterioration, dismantling or the ravages of time, are
inoperative or unable to perform their intended functions or are cast off,
discarded or thrown away or left as waste, wreckage or junk.
   WEEDS. Include, but are not limited to: bindweed (Convolvulus arvensis),
puncture vine (Tribulus terrestris), leafy spurge (Euphorbia esula), Canada
thistle (Cirsium arvense), perennial peppergrass (Lepidium draba), Russian
knapweed (Centaurea picris), Johnson grass (Sorghum halepense), nodding or musk
thistle, quack grass (Agropyron repens), perennial sow thistle (Sonchus
arvensis), horse nettle (Solanum carolinense), bull thistle (Cirsium
lanceolatum), buckthorn (Rhamnus sp.) (tourn), hemp plant (Cannabis sativa) and
ragweed (Ambrosiaceae).
(Neb. RS 17-563)
§ 2-507 WEEDS, GRASS AND LITTER; NOTICE.
   (A)   Notice to abate and remove the nuisance shall be given to each owner
or owner’s duly authorized agent and to the occupant, if any. The city shall
give notice by personal service or first class mail, and by posting on
premises. If notice is given by first class mail, such mail shall be
conspicuously marked as to its importance. The notice shall be substantially in
the following form:
 
NOTICE OF NUISANCE
 
TO: (OWNER AND OCCUPANT)
 
Pursuant to § 2-505 of the Municipal Code of the City of Central City, Nebraska the property located at:                                                                                                                                     is being maintained as a
public nuisance due to litter or un-mowed weeds and grass.
 
You shall have five days from the date you receive this Notice to abate said nuisance or to request a hearing before the City Administrator. If you fail to abate the nuisance, without requesting a hearing, the city may abate the existing nuisance on the property
and assess the cost to the owner(s) and or against the property.
 
If you elect to request a hearing, you must, within five days from the date you receive this notice, file a written appeal with the City Clerk. A hearing on the appeal shall be held within 14 days after the filing of the appeal and shall be conducted by the City
Administrator. The City Administrator shall render a decision on the appeal within five business days after the conclusion of the hearing. If the appeal fails, the city may have such work done, and the cost of said work may be assessed as described in the
preceding paragraph.
 
Date:                                , 20          .
 
CITY OF CENTRAL CITY
BY:                                                  
 
   (B)   Within five days after receipt of such notice, the owner or occupant
of the lot or piece of ground may request a hearing with the city to appeal the
decision to abate or remove a nuisance by filing a written appeal with the
office of the City Clerk. A hearing on the appeal shall be held within 14 days
after the filing of the appeal and shall be conducted by the City
Administrator. The hearing officer shall render a decision on the appeal within
five business days after the conclusion of the hearing.
§ 2-508 WEEDS AND GRASS; ABATEMENT BY CITY.
   (A)   Within five days after receipt of such notice, if the owner or
occupant of the lot or piece of ground does not request a hearing with the city
or fails to comply with the order to abate and remove the nuisance, or upon an
unsuccessful appeal to the City Administrator, the city may have such work
done.
   (B)   The costs and expenses of any such work shall be paid by the owner.
   (C)   If unpaid for two months after such work is done, the city may either:
      (1)   Levy and assess the costs and expenses of the work upon the lot or
piece of ground so benefitted in the same manner as other special taxes for
improvements are levied and assessed; or
      (2)   Recover in a civil action the costs and expenses of the work upon
the lot or piece of ground and the adjoining streets and alleys.
(Ord. 1034, passed 9-10-2019)
§ 2-509 NUISANCES; GENERALLY DEFINED.
   A nuisance consists in doing any unlawful act, or omitting to perform a
duty, or suffering or permitting any condition or thing to be or exist, which
act, omission, condition or thing either:
   (A)   Injures or endangers the comfort, repose, health or safety of others;
   (B)   Unlawfully interferes with, obstructs, tends to obstruct or renders
dangerous for passage of any stream; and
   (C)   Essentially interferes with the comfortable enjoyment of life and
property, or tends to depreciate the value of the property of others.
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 18-1720
§ 2-510 NUISANCES; SPECIFICALLY DEFINED.
   The maintaining, using, placing, depositing, leaving or permitting of any of
the following specific acts, omissions, places, conditions and things are
hereby declared to be nuisances:
   (A)   Any odorous, putrid, unsound or unwholesome grain, meat, hides, skins,
feathers, vegetable matter, or the whole or any part of any dead animal, fish
or fowl;
   (B)   Privies, vaults, cesspools, dumps, pits or like places which are not
securely protected from flies or rats, or which are foul or malodorous;
   (C)   Filthy, littered or trash-covered cellars, house yards, barnyards,
stable yards, factory-yards, mill yards, vacant areas in rear of stores,
granaries, vacant lots, houses, buildings or premises;
   (D)   Animal manure in any quantity which is not securely protected from
flies and the elements or which is kept or handled in violation of any
ordinance of the municipality;
   (E)   Liquid household waste, human excreta, garbage, butcher’s trimmings
and offal, parts of fish or any waste vegetable or animal matter in any
quantity; provided, nothing herein contained shall prevent the temporary
retention of waste in receptacles in a manner provided by the compliance
officer of the city, nor the dumping of non-putrefying waste in a place and
manner approved by the compliance officer;
   (F)   Tin cans, bottles, glass, cans, ashes, small pieces of scrap iron,
wire, metal articles, broken stone or cement, broken crockery, broken glass,
broken plaster, and all trash or abandoned material, unless the same be kept in
covered bins or galvanized iron receptacles;
   (G)   Trash, litter, rags, accumulations of barrels, boxes, crates, packing
crates, mattresses, bedding, excelsior, packing hay, straw or other packing
material, lumber not neatly piled, old automobiles or parts thereof, or any
other waste materials when any of said articles or materials create a condition
in which flies or rats may breed or multiply, or which may be a fire danger or
which are so unsightly as to depreciate property values in the vicinity
thereof;
   (H)   Any unsightly building, billboard or other structure, or any old,
abandoned or partially destroyed building or structure or any building or
structure commenced and left unfinished, which said buildings, billboards or
other structures are either a fire hazard, a menace to the public health or
safety, or are so unsightly as to depreciate the value of property in the
vicinity thereof;
   (I)   All places used or maintained as junk yards, or dumping grounds, or
for the wrecking and dissembling of automobiles, trucks, tractors or machinery
of any kind, or for the storing or leaving of worn-out, wrecked or abandoned
automobiles, trucks, tractors or machinery of any kind, or of any parts
thereof, or for the storing or leaving of any machinery or equipment used by
contractors or builders or by other persons, which said places are kept or
maintained so as to essentially interfere with the comfortable enjoyment of
life or property by others, or which are so unsightly as to tend to depreciate
property values in the vicinity thereof;
   (J)   Stagnant water permitted or maintained on any lot or piece of ground;
   (K)   Stockyards, granaries, mills, pig pens, cattle pens, chicken pens or
any other place, building or enclosure in which animals or fowl of any kind are
confined or on which are stored tankage or any other animal or vegetable
matter, or on which any animal or vegetable matter including grain is being
processed, when said places in which said animals are confined, or said
premises on which said vegetable or animal matter is located, are maintained
and kept in such a manner that foul and noxious odors are permitted to emanate
therefrom, to the annoyance of inhabitants of the city, or are maintained and
kept in such a manner as to be injurious to the public health;
   (L)   The throwing, depositing or accumulation of litter on any lot or piece
of ground within the zoning jurisdiction of the city, except in proper
receptacles, is prohibited and shall constitute a nuisance; provided, that
grass, leaves and worthless vegetation may be used as a ground mulch or in a
compost pile;
   (M)   Litter shall include, but not be limited to:
      (1)   Trash, rubbish, refuse, garbage, paper, rags and ashes;
      (2)   Wood, plaster, cement, brick or stone building rubble;
      (3)   Grass, leaves and worthless vegetation;
      (4)   Offal and dead animals; and
      (5)   Any machine or machines, vehicle or vehicles, or parts of a machine
or vehicle which have lost their identity, character, utility or serviceability
as such through deterioration, dismantling or the ravages of time, are
inoperative or unable to perform their intended functions, or are cast off,
discarded or thrown away or left as waste, wreckage or junk.
   (N)   All other things specifically designated as nuisances elsewhere in
this code of ordinances.
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 18-1720
§ 2-511 NUISANCES; DUTY.
   It shall be the duty of every owner, occupant, lessee or mortgagee of real
estate in the city, to keep such real estate free of public nuisances. All or
any part of said premises found, as provided herein, to constitute a public
nuisance shall be abated by rehabilitation, demolition or repair pursuant to
procedures set forth herein.
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-123, 17-573
§ 2-512 NUISANCES; NON-EXCLUSIVE PROCEDURE.
   The procedures set forth in this article for abatement of nuisance is non-
exclusive and is in addition to any other procedure for abatement which is set
forth in the municipal code or state statutes.
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-123, 17-573, 18-1720
§ 2-513 NUISANCES; DECLARATION.
   (A)   When the Mayor, Code Enforcement Officer or Chief of Police declares
or finds that any premises within the city zoning jurisdiction may be
maintained contrary to one of more of the provisions hereof, he or she shall
cause a notice to the owner, occupant, lessee and/or mortgagee of the premises.
   (B)   The notice shall state the conditions which constitute the public
nuisance and shall order the abatement of the nuisance within five days after
the date of notice, and shall be substantially in the following form:
 
NOTICE OF NUISANCE
 
TO: (OWNER, OCCUPANT, LESSEE, MORTGAGEE) (ADDRESS)
 
Pursuant to § 2-513 of the Municipal Code of the City of Central City, Nebraska, I,                            , the                                          of the City of Central City, Nebraska, declare that the following
premises in the city, known as  (address)  and more particularly described as  (legal description)  is being maintained as a public nuisance contrary to the Municipal Code. The conditions which constitute the public nuisance upon
the above-described real estate are as follows:
                                                                                                                   
                                                                                                                   
                                                                                                                   
 
You shall have ten days from the date of the notice to abate said above described nuisance. The City Council will conduct a hearing on  (date)  to consider the existence of a nuisance and to order abatement of said nuisance if the
conditions continue to exist.
 
Date:                                  , 20          .
 
CITY OF CENTRAL CITY
BY:                                                   
 
(Ord. 1034, passed 9-10-2019)
§ 2-514 NUISANCES; FORM OF PROPER SERVICE OF NOTICE.
   Service of said notice shall be by personal service from a police officer or
by depositing a copy of said notice in the United States Postal Service
enclosed in a sealed envelope and with postage thereon fully prepaid. Said mail
shall be certified and addressed to said owner, occupant, lessee and/or
mortgagee at the last known address of said parties as disclosed by the current
tax rolls, and if there is no known address, then in care of the property
address. Service is complete at the time of such deposit. OWNER as used herein
shall mean any person in possession and also any person having or claiming to
have any legal or equitable interest in said premises. The failure of any
person to receive such notice shall no affect the validity of the proceedings
hereunder.
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-123, 17-573, 18-1720
§ 2-515 NUISANCES; EFFECT OF FAILURE TO ABATE.
   If the nuisance is not abated within the period given in the notice, the
City Council may determine to proceed. All interested parties may appear at a
hearing before the City Council and present evidence to determine whether the
premises constitute a public notice, and if determined to constitute a public
nuisance, to be abated. Any interested party may appeal such decision of the
City Council to the appropriate court for adjudication, during which
proceedings, the decision of the City Council shall be stayed.
§ 2-516 NUISANCES; HEARING.
   At the time fixed in the notice, the City Council or other persons specified
to hear the matter shall hear the testimony of all competent persons desiring
to testify respecting the condition constituting the nuisance, including the
estimated cost of abatement and other matters which may be pertinent. At the
conclusion of the hearing, the City Council shall, by resolution, declare its
findings. If the City Council so concludes, it may declare the condition
existing to be a nuisance and direct the person owning the property upon which
the nuisance exists to abate it within a reasonable time after the date of
posting on the premises a notice of the adoption of the resolution and sending
notice as set forth herein. Said notice shall be substantially in the following
form:
 
NOTICE OF ADOPTION OF RESOLUTION NO.______
 
TO:
 
YOU ARE HEREBY NOTIFIED THAT ON _____________, 20____, the City Council of the City of Central City,
Nebraska, by Resolution No.____, after notice and hearing as specified in said Resolution, did determine
that the following constitute a public nuisance, to-wit:
 
Upon the following described real estate, to-wit: _________________________________________
 
You are granted ______ days from the date of this notice to abate said nuisance. Failure to abate said
nuisance shall result in said nuisance being abated by the City of Central City and the cost of
abatement shall be assessed upon said premises and constitute a lien upon said premises until paid.
 
Date:                                  , 20          .
 
CITY OF CENTRAL CITY
BY:                                                   
City Clerk
 
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-123, 17-573, 18-1720
§ 2-517 NUISANCES; EXTENSION OF TIME.
   The City Council may grant an extension of time to abate the nuisance if, in
its opinion, good cause for an extension exists.
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-123, 17-573, 18-1720
§ 2-518 NUISANCES; ABATEMENT BY CITY.
   If the person fails to abate the nuisance within the time set forth, the
city may proceed to abate the nuisance.
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-123, 17-573, 18-1720
§ 2-519 NUISANCES; RECORD OF EXPENSES.
   The city shall keep an itemized account of the expenses involved in abating
the nuisance. The city shall post conspicuously on the property and it shall
also mail to the owner of the property a statement showing the expense of the
abatement, together with a notice of the time and place when the statement will
be submitted to the City Council for approval and confirmation and at which
time the City Council may consider the objections and protests to the cost of
the work. Said notice shall be substantially in the following form:
 
NOTICE OF HEARING ON EXPENSE OF ABATEMENT OF NUISANCE
 
TO:
 
Pursuant to § 2-516 of the Municipal Code of the City of Central City, Nebraska, you are hereby notified
that the following is a statement showing the expense inclined by the City of Central City in abating a
nuisance upon the following-described real-estate, to-wit:
 
Upon the following described real estate, to-wit: _________________________________________
                                    (Legal Description)
 
Said expenses are as follows: ________________________________________________________
 
You are further notified that said Statement of Expenses shall be submitted to the City Council for
consideration on the _______ day of _______, 20_____, at _______ o’clock__.M., Central City, Nebraska,
at which time you may appear to object or protest the expense incurred in the abatement of said
nuisance.
 
CITY OF CENTRAL CITY
BY:                                                   
City Clerk
 
The undersigned hereby certifies that a copy of the foregoing notice was posted on the premises afore-described mailed by Certified U.S. Mail postage prepaid or Personally Served
this                  day of                           , 20            , to the following:
 
                                                                                           
 
CITY OF CENTRAL CITY
BY:                                                   
City Clerk
 
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-123, 17-573, 18-1720
§ 2-520 NUISANCES; HEARING ON STATEMENT OF EXPENSES.
   At the time fixed for hearing on the statement of expenses, the City Council
shall consider the statement and any protest or objections raised by the
persons liable to be assessed for the costs of the abatement. The City Council
may revise, correct or modify the statement as it considers just and thereafter
shall confirm the statement as it considers just and thereafter shall confirm
the statement by motion or resolution. The decision of the City Council on all
protests and objections which may be made shall be final and conclusive. The
procedure governing the hearing shall be as provided by §
2-516.
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-123, 17-573, 18-1720
§ 2-521 NUISANCES; EXPENSES AND SPECIAL ASSESSMENT AGAINST THE PROPERTY.
   If the property owner does not pay the expense of abating the nuisance
within five days after the City Council confirms the cost of abatement, the
costs shall become a special assessment against the real estate upon which the
nuisance was abated. The assessment shall continue until it is paid, together
with interest as set by the applicable statutes of the state.
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-573
§ 2-522 NUISANCES; NOTICE OF SPECIAL ASSESSMENT.
   The city shall file in the offices of the County Register of Deeds and
County Treasurer a certificate substantially in the following form:
 
NOTICE OF SPECIAL ASSESSMENT
 
TO:
 
Under the authority of the Central City Municipal Code, the City did on ___________, 20____ abate a
nuisance upon the real estate hereinafter described and then on ______________, 20____, did assess the
cost of the abatement upon the real estate. The City of Central City claims a special assessment on the
real estate for the expense of doing the work in the amount of $_____. This amount is a special
assessment against the real estate until it is paid, with interest as set by the applicable statutes of
the State of Nebraska, until discharged of record. The real estate referred to above and upon which the
special assessment is claimed is that certain parcel of land situated within the City of Central City,
County of Merrick, State of Nebraska and more particularly described as follows: ______________________.
 
Date:                                , 20          .
 
CITY OF CENTRAL CITY
BY:                                                   
City Clerk
 
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-123, 17-573, 18-1720
§ 2-523 NUISANCES; ALTERNATIVES.
   Nothing in the foregoing sections shall be deemed to prevent the City
Council from ordering the City Attorney to commence a civil and/or criminal
proceeding to abate a public nuisance under applicable civil or penal code
provisions as an alternative to the proceedings set forth herein.
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-123, 17-573, 18-1720
§ 2-524 NUISANCES; PROCEDURE IN CASE OF EMERGENCY.
   When the conditions which constitute the nuisance pose an immediate threat
to the public peace, health or safety, the City Council may order the nuisance
abated immediately or take steps itself to abate the nuisance after adoption of
a resolution declaring the facts which constitute the emergency. The resolution
to be effective shall be adopted by three-fourths vote of the City Council.
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-123, 17-573, 18-1720
§ 2-525 NUISANCES; SEVERABILITY.
   The City Council hereby declares that should any section, paragraph,
sentence or word of this article hereby adopted be declared for any reason to
be invalid, it is the intent of the Council that it would have passed all other
portions of this article independent of the elimination herefrom of any such
portion as may be declared invalid.
§ 2-526 NUISANCES; ADJOINING LAND OWNERS; INTERVENTION BEFORE TRIAL.
   In cases of appeal from an action of the governing body condemning real
property as a nuisance or as dangerous under the police powers of the
municipality, the owners of the adjoining property may intervene in the action
at any time before trial.
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 19-710
§ 2-527 VIOLATION; PENALTY.
   Any person who shall violate or refuse to comply with the enforcement of any
of the provisions of this article, set forth at full length herein or
incorporated by reference shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and upon
conviction thereof, shall be fined no more than $500 for each offense. A new
violation shall be deemed to have been committed every 24 hours of such failure
to comply.
§ 2-528 ABATEMENT OF NUISANCE.
   (A)   Whenever a nuisance exists as defined in this chapter, the city may
proceed by a suit in equity to enjoin and abate the same, in the manner
provided by law.
   (B)   Whenever, in any action, it is established that a nuisance exists, the
court may together with the fine or penalty imposed, enter an order of
abatement as a part of the judgment in the case.
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 18-1720, 18-1722
§ 2-529 EXPENSES.
   (A)   When the city has effected the abatement of the nuisance, health and/
or sanitation violation through either city employees or through contract with
a third party and has incurred expenses and costs thereof, the actual cost
thereof shall be charged to the owner, agent, occupant or person in possession,
charge or control of such property. The billing shall be calculated at the
actual cost of abating the nuisance, plus a $25 administrative fee.
   (B)   This billing shall be submitted to the last known address of the owner
of the nuisance property as found in the County Treasurer’s office, by regular
U.S. mail.
   (C)   If said costs are not paid within two months after the work is done
and one month after the expenses and costs are submitted to the owner and/or
occupant, the city may levy and assess the expenses and costs upon the real
estate benefitted by the actions in the same manner as other special
assessments are levied and assessed, and the city may collect said assessments
in the same procedure as other special assessments are collected. The city may
also recover said expenses and costs of abating the nuisance, health and/or
sanitation violation(s) in a civil action in the courts of the appropriate
county in the state.
(Ord. 1028, passed 5-13-2019)
§ 2-530 GARBAGE AND REFUSE.
   (A)   The owner, duly authorized agent or tenant of any lot or land within
the corporate limits or zoning jurisdiction of the city shall remove garbage or
refuse found upon the lot or land or upon the streets, roads or alleys abutting
the lot or land which constitutes a public nuisance.
   (B)   (1)   Notice that removal of garbage or refuse is necessary shall be
given to each owner or owner’s duly authorized agent and to the tenant, if any.
      (2)   The notice shall be provided by personal service or by certified
mail.
      (3)   After providing the notice, the city through its proper offices
shall, in addition to other proper remedies, remove the garbage or refuse or
cause it to be removed, from the lot or land and streets, roads or alleys.
   (C)   If the Mayor declares that the accumulation of garbage or refuse upon
any lot or land constitutes an immediate nuisance and hazard to public health
and safety, the city shall remove the garbage or refuse or cause it to be
removed, from the lot or land within 48 hours after notice by personal service
or following receipt of a certified letter in accordance with division (B)
above if the garbage or refuse has not been removed.
   (D)   Whenever the city removes any garbage or refuse or causes it to be
removed, from any lot or land pursuant to this section, it shall, after a
hearing conducted by the City Council, assess the cost of the removal against
the lot or land.
(Ord. 1028, passed 5-13-2019; Ord. 1034, passed 9-10-2019)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 18-1752
ARTICLE VI: PENAL PROVISION
Section
   
2-601   Violation; penalty
§ 2-601 VIOLATION; PENALTY.
   Anyone violating any of the terms and conditions of any of the foregoing
chapter and articles shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be fined
no more than $500, and no less than $200 for each offense for violation of a
municipal ordinance. Each day’s maintenance of the same shall constitute a
separate offense.
ARTICLE VII: SEX OFFENDER RESIDENCY
Section
   
2-701   Findings and intent
   
2-702   Definitions
   
2-703   Sexual predator residency restrictions; penalties; exceptions
§ 2-701 FINDINGS AND INTENT.
   (A)   The state legislature has found that certain sex offenders present a
high risk to commit repeat offenses and has enabled municipalities to restrict
such persons’ place of residency as provided in the Sexual Predator Residency
Restriction Act, being Neb. RS 29-4015 et seq.
   (B)   Sex offenders who prey on children and who are high risks to repeat
such acts present an extreme threat to public safety. The cost of sex offender
victimization to these children and to society at large, while incalculable, is
exorbitant.
   (C)   It is the intent of this article to serve the city’s compelling
interest to promote, protect and improve the health, safety and welfare of the
citizens of the city by creating certain areas around locations where children
regularly congregate in concentrated numbers where certain sexual predators
cannot reside.
(Ord. 893, passed 8-14-2006)
§ 2-702 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this article, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CHILD CARE FACILITY. A facility licensed pursuant to the Child Care
Licensing Act, being Neb. RS 71-1908 et seq.
   RESIDE. To sleep, live or dwell at a place, which may include more than one
location, and may be mobile or transitory.
   RESIDENCE. A place where an individual sleeps, lives or dwells, which may
include more than one location, and may be mobile or transitory.
   SCHOOL. A public, private, denominational or parochial school which meets
the requirements for state accreditation or approval.
   SEX OFFENDER. An individual who has been convicted or a crime listed in Neb.
RS 29-4003 and who is required to register as a sex offender pursuant to the
Sex Offender Registration Act, being Neb. RS 29-4001 et seq.
   SEXUAL PREDATOR. An individual who is required to register under the Sex
Offender Registration Act, being Neb. RS 29-4001 et seq.; who has been
classified as Level 3 because of a high risk of recidivism as determined by the
State Patrol under Neb. RS 29-4013, and who has victimized a person 18 years of
age or younger.
(Ord. 893, passed 8-14-2006)
§ 2-703 SEXUAL PREDATOR RESIDENCY RESTRICTIONS; PENALTIES; EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   Prohibited location of residence. It is unlawful for any sexual
predator to reside within 500 feet from a school or child care facility.
   (B)   Measure of distance. For purposes of determining the minimum distance
separation, the distance shall be measured by following a straight line from
the outer property line of the residence to the nearest outer boundary line of
the school or child care facility.
   (C)   Penalties. A person who violates this section shall be punished as
provided generally in the code.
   (D)   Exceptions. This article shall not apply to a sexual predator who:
      (1)   Resides within a prison or correctional or treatment facility
operated by the state or a political subdivision;
      (2)   Established a residence before 7-1-2006 and has not moved from that
residence; or
      (3)   Established a residence after 7-1-2006, and the school or child
care facility triggering the restriction was established after the initial date
of the sexual predator’s residence at that location.
(Ord. 893, passed 8-14-2006)
ARTICLE VIII: GRAFFITI
Section
   
2-801   Intent
   
2-802   Definitions
   
2-803   Graffiti prohibited
   
2-804   Graffiti; violation; penalty
   
2-805   Graffiti; notice of removal
   
2-806   City’s costs declared lien
   
2-807   Removal by city
   
2-808   Private property consent forms
§ 2-801 INTENT.
   Graffiti on public and private property is a blighting factor which not only
depreciates the value of the property which has been the target of such
malicious vandalism, but also depreciates the value of the adjacent and
surrounding properties, and in so doing, negatively impacts upon the entire
community. The City Council finds and determines that graffiti is a nuisance
and unless it and other inscribed material is removed from public and private
properties, it tends to remain.
(Ord. 936, passed 1-11-2010)
§ 2-802 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   GRAFFITI. The defacing, damaging or destroying by the spraying of paint or
marking of ink, chalk, dye or other similar substances on public and private
buildings, structures and places.
   GRAFFITI ABATEMENT PROCEDURE. An abatement procedure which identifies
graffiti, issues notice to the landowner to abate the graffiti, and cures in
absence of response.
   PRIVATE CONTRACTOR. Any person with whom the city shall have duly contracted
to remove graffiti.
(Ord. 936, passed 1-11-2010)
§ 2-803 GRAFFITI PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to write, paint or draw upon any wall,
rock, bridge, building, fence, gate, other structure, tree or other real or
personal property, either publicly or privately owned, any drawing,
inscription, figure or mark of the type which is commonly known and referred to
as “graffiti” within the city.
(Ord. 936, passed 1-11-2010)
§ 2-804 GRAFFITI; VIOLATION; PENALTY.
   Any person who is convicted of violating §
2-803 of this article shall be punished by a fine pursuant to §
2-601 of this chapter. In addition to such punishment, the court may, in
imposing sentence, order the defendant to restore the property so defaced,
damaged or destroyed.
(Ord. 936, passed 1-11-2010)
§ 2-805 GRAFFITI; NOTICE OF REMOVAL.
   (A)   (1)   Whenever the City Administrator, or his or her designee,
determines that graffiti exists on any public and private buildings, structures
and places which are visible to any person utilizing any public right-of-way in
the city, be this road, parkway, alley or otherwise, and that seasonal
temperatures permit the painting of exterior surfaces, the City Administrator,
or his or her designee, shall cause a notice to be issued to abate such
nuisance. The property owner shall have ten days after the date of the notice
to remove or paint over the graffiti, or the conditions will be subject to
abatement by the city.
      (2)   If the property owner elects to paint over the graffiti, the paint
used to obliterate the graffiti shall be as close as practicable to background
color(s).
   (B)   The notice to abate graffiti pursuant to this section shall consist of
a written notice to be served upon the owner(s) of the affected premises, as
such owner’s name and address appears on the last property tax assessment rolls
of the county. If there is no known address for the owner, the notice shall be
sent in care of the property address. The notice required by this section may
be served in any one of the following manners:
      (1)   By personal service on the owner, occupant or person in charge or
control of the property; and
      (2)   By registered or certified mail addressed to the owner at the
owner’s last known address. If this address is unknown, the notice will be sent
to the property address.
   (C)   The notice shall be substantially in the following form:
 
NOTICE OF INTENT TO REMOVE GRAFFITI
 
Date:                                                                  
 
NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN that you are required by law at your expense to remove or paint over the graffiti located on the property commonly
known as:                                                                   , Central City, Nebraska, which is visible to public view,
within ten days after the date of this notice; or, if you fail to do so, city employees or private contractors employed by the city will
enter upon your property and abate the public nuisance by removal or painting over the graffiti. The cost of the abatement by the city
employees or its private contractors will be assessed upon your property and such costs will constitute a lien upon the land until paid.
 
All persons having any objection to, or interest in said matters are hereby notified to submit any objections or comments to the City
Administrator or his or her designee within 48 hours from the date of this notice. At the conclusion of this ten-day period, the city may
proceed with the abatement of the graffiti inscribed on your property at your expense without further notice.
 
City of Central City, Nebraska
By:                                                                    
Title:                                                                  
 
(Ord. 936, passed 1-11-2010)
§ 2-806 CITY’S COSTS DECLARED LIEN.
   Any and all costs incurred by the city in the abatement of the graffiti
nuisance under the provisions of this article may constitute a lien against the
property upon which such nuisance existed.
(Ord. 936, passed 1-11-2010)
§ 2-807 REMOVAL BY CITY.
   (A)   Upon failure of persons to comply with the notice by the designated
date, or such continued date thereafter as the City Administrator, or his or
her designee, approves, then the City Administrator, or his or her designee,
with the consent of the Mayor, is authorized and directed to cause the graffiti
to be abated by city forces or private contract, and the city or its private
contractor is expressly authorized to enter upon the premises for such
purposes.
   (B)   All reasonable efforts to minimize damage from such entry shall be
taken by the city, and any paint used to obliterate graffiti shall be as close
as practicable to background color(s). If the City Administrator provides for
the removal of the graffiti or other inscribed material, he or she shall not
authorize, nor undertake to provide for, the painting or repair of any more
extensive area than that where the graffiti or other inscribed material is
located.
(Ord. 936, passed 1-11-2010)
§ 2-808 PRIVATE PROPERTY CONSENT FORMS.
   Property owners in the city may consent in advance to city entry onto
private property for graffiti removal purposes. The city will make forms for
such consent available.
(Ord. 936, passed 1-11-2010)
CHAPTER 3: MOTOR VEHICLES AND BICYCLES
Article
   
I.   TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
   
II.   ABANDONED VEHICLES
   
III.   VEHICLE OPERATION
   
IV.   PARKING
   
V.   BICYCLES, ROLLER SKATES AND SKATEBOARDS
   
VI.   PENAL PROVISION
ARTICLE I: TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
Section
   
3-101   Terms defined
   
3-102   Automatic signal system; generally
   
3-103   Automatic signal system; school crossings
   
3-104   Right turn on red
   
3-105   Truck routes
   
3-106   Jake braking
   
3-107   One-way traffic
   
3-108   Traffic lanes; designation
   
3-109   Arterial streets; designation
   
3-110   Turning; “u” turns
   
3-111   Stops; crossing sidewalks
   
3-112   Crosswalks; designation
   
3-113   Signs, signals
   
3-114   Stop signs
   
3-115   Weight limitations; proclamation
   
3-116   Littering
   
3-117   Signs; unauthorized display
   
3-118   Speed limits; generally
   
3-119   Speed limits; specifically
   
3-120   Speed, near schools
   
3-121   Negligent driving
   
3-122   Passing; hindrance
   
3-123   Driving abreast
   
3-124   Funeral processions
   
3-125   Following distance; generally
   
3-126   Following distance; fire apparatus
   
3-127   Riding outside vehicle
   
3-128   Driving in sidewalk space
   
3-129   Crossing center line
   
3-130   Emergency; regulations
   
3-131   Police; traffic powers
   
3-132   Police; refusal to obey
   
3-133   Police; traffic officers
   
3-134   Vehicles; unobstructed view
   
3-135   Glass; pointed objects
   
3-136   Quiet zones; unnecessary noise
   
3-137   Speed; electronic detector
   
3-138   Exhibition driving
§ 3-101 TERMS DEFINED.
   The words and phrases used in this chapter pertaining to motor vehicles and
traffic regulations shall be construed as defined in Neb. RS Ch. 60, Art. 6, as
now existing or as hereafter amended, unless the context otherwise requires;
and, if not so defined, the common meaning of such words and phrases shall
prevail.
§ 3-102 AUTOMATIC SIGNAL SYSTEM; GENERALLY.
   At each intersection where an automatic signal system is in operation, all
vehicular and pedestrian traffic crossing such street intersection shall be
governed by such automatic signal system. The display of the red signal light
shall be a signal for traffic to stop outside of the street intersection. The
display of the yellow signal light shall announce that traffic be at attention
to stop when the red light is displayed, and the green signal light shall be a
signal for traffic to promptly move forward. It shall be unlawful for any
person to violate any such signal.
§ 3-103 AUTOMATIC SIGNAL SYSTEM; SCHOOL CROSSINGS.
   (A)   Automatic timed school crossing signals shall be installed on the
following streets at the intersections named in the city:
      (1)   On 17th Avenue at the intersection of 18th Street; and
      (2)   On 17th Avenue at the intersection of 28th Street.
   (B)   The traffic signals installed at the above intersections shall be
equipped with flashing yellow lights, and when such signal shows a yellow
light, drivers of vehicles approaching the protective intersection are warned
of the hazard of pedestrians crossing the street at such location and the speed
limit of 25 mph.
§ 3-104 RIGHT TURN ON RED.
   Except where a traffic-control device is in place prohibiting a turn,
vehicles facing a steady red signal may cautiously enter the intersection to
make a right turn after stopping. Such turning vehicle shall yield the right-
of-way to pedestrians lawfully within the adjacent crosswalk and to other
vehicular traffic lawfully using the intersection. The City Council has the
authority to prohibit turning right on red at any intersection within the city
where it deems such a prohibition necessary; provided, those intersections
where turning right on red is prohibited shall bear signs to that effect placed
and printed in such a manner so as to be conspicuous to a vehicle about to
enter the intersection.
§ 3-105 TRUCK ROUTES.
   The City Council may, by resolution, designate certain streets in the city
restricting traffic for vehicles weighing in excess of ten tons and it shall be
unlawful for persons operating vehicles to travel on streets other than those
designated for such vehicles, except to travel to and from their personal
residence and/or to pick up or deliver goods, wares or merchandise; and in
these events, the operator of such vehicle shall return to such truck routes as
soon as possible in traveling through or about the city. The City Council shall
cause notices to be posted or shall erect signs indicating the streets so
designated as restricted routes.
§ 3-106 ENGINE BRAKING.
   It shall be unlawful for any person in any part of the city to make or cause
to be made loud or disturbing noises with any mechanical device operated by
compressed air and used for purposes of assisting braking on any semi-tractor,
commonly referred to as “jake braking”. Proper notices shall be posted by the
city notifying the public of such prohibition.
(Ord. 872, passed 8-8-2005)
§ 3-107 ONE-WAY TRAFFIC.
   The City Council may, by resolution, provide for one way travel in any
street or alley located in the city, and shall provide for appropriate signs
and markings when said streets have been so designated by resolution.
§ 3-108 TRAFFIC LANES; DESIGNATION.
   The City Council may, by resolution, mark lanes for traffic on street
pavements at such places, as it deems advisable.
§ 3-109 ARTERIAL STREETS; DESIGNATIONS.
   The City Council may, by resolution, designate any street or portion thereof
as an arterial street and shall provide for appropriate signs or markings when
such street has been so designated.
§ 3-110 TURNING; “U” TURNS.
   It shall be unlawful for any driver of any motor vehicle to make a “U” turn
on 15th Avenue between the intersection of 17th Street with 15th Avenue and the
intersection of 19th Street with 15th Avenue, and on U.S. Highway No. 30.
§ 3-111 STOPS; CROSSING SIDEWALKS.
   All vehicles before crossing a sidewalk, emerging from a garage, alley,
filling station or other place within the business district shall come to a
complete stop, and after giving sufficient warning shall proceed slowly and
with extreme caution while crossing such sidewalk, or leaving such garage,
alley, filling station or other place. The term SLOWLY shall be construed to
mean such rate of speed as is reasonable and proper under the circumstances and
the condition of the street and traffic thereon.
§ 3-112 CROSSWALKS; DESIGNATION.
   The City Council may, by resolution, establish and maintain, by appropriate
devices, markers or lines upon the street, crosswalks at intersections where
there is particular danger to pedestrians crossing the street and at such other
places as it may deem necessary.
§ 3-113 SIGNS, SIGNALS.
   The City Council may, by resolution, provide for the placing of stop signs,
restricted parking or other signs, signals, standards or mechanical devices in
any street or alley for the purpose of regulating or prohibiting traffic and
parking thereon. Such resolution shall describe the portion of the street or
alley wherein traffic is to be regulated or prohibited; the regulation or
prohibition; the location where such sign, signal, standard or mechanical
device shall be placed; and the hours when such regulation or prohibition shall
be effective. It shall be unlawful for any person to fail, neglect or refuse to
comply with such regulation or prohibition. The placement of such regulatory
sign shall be prima facie evidence of the restricting resolution.
§ 3-114 STOP SIGNS.
   Every person operating any vehicle shall, upon approaching any stop sign
erected in accordance with the resolution prescribed heretofore, cause such
vehicle to come to a complete stop before entering or crossing any street,
highway or railroad crossing. The vehicle operator shall stop at a marked stop
line, or, if there is no stop line, before entering the crosswalk; but if
neither is indicated, then as near the right-of-way line of the intersecting
roadway as possible.
§ 3-115 WEIGHT LIMITATIONS; PROCLAMATION.
   (A)   (1)   When in the determination of the Mayor the preservation of the
paved streets and alleys of the city, except U.S. Highway No. 30 and Nebraska
Highway 14, requires the limiting of the load of vehicles traveling on said
streets and alleys, the Mayor by proclamation shall set forth his or her
findings requiring protection of the certain paved streets and alleys and shall
order that the use of said certain paved streets and alleys in the city, except
U.S. Highway No. 30 and Nebraska Highway 14, shall be limited to use by
vehicles having the following axle loads:
         (a)   Single axle: 12,000 pounds; and
         (b)   Double axle: 24,000 pounds.
      (2)   Provided, nothing herein shall grant authority to the Mayor to
prevent use of streets and alleys for deliveries to established commercial
establishments that cannot be accessed without following streets or roads
without said weight restrictions.
   (B)   Upon issuance of said proclamations, the street department shall post
signs on streets and alleys where traffic is to be restricted giving notice of
the load limits of single axle and double axle vehicles using said paved
streets and alleys, except U.S. Highway No. 30 and Nebraska Highway 14.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate a truck which exceeds
26 tons licensed gross weight upon any portion of 20th Street from 5th Avenue
to 17th Avenue or upon any portion of “B” Avenue, except from Highway 30 to the
railroad right-of-way, 24th Street, 26th Street or 28th Street within the city
limits, except to travel to and from their personal residence.
   (D)   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate any truck-tractor and
semitrailer combination, regardless of the weight thereof, upon any portion of
20th Street from 5th Avenue to 17th Avenue or upon any portion of “B” Avenue,
except from Highway 30 to the railroad right-of-way, 24th Street, 26th Street
or 28th Street within the city limits, except to travel to and from their
personal residence.
   (E)   It is the express intent of the City Council to regulate the operation
of truck-trailer and semi- trailer combinations differently from the operation
of other trucks because the City Council has found there to be a higher
likelihood of damage to the paved streets of the city posed by the operation of
truck-trailer and semi-trailer combinations thereon.
(Ord. 1017, passed 4-9-2018)
§ 3-116 LITTERING.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to drop or cause to be left upon any
city highway, street or alley, except at places designated by the City Council,
any rubbish, debris or waste, and any person so doing shall be guilty of
littering.
§ 3-117 SIGNS; UNAUTHORIZED DISPLAY.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to maintain or display upon, or in view
of any street, any unofficial sign, signal or device which purports to be, is
an imitation of, or resembles an official traffic sign or signal which attempts
to direct the movement of traffic, or which hides from view, or interferes with
the effectiveness of any official sign or signal. Every such prohibited sign,
signal or device is hereby declared to be a public nuisance, and any police
officer is hereby empowered to remove the same or cause it to be removed,
without notice.
§ 3-118 SPEED LIMITS; GENERALLY.
   No person shall drive a vehicle within the corporate limits of the city at a
speed greater than is reasonable and prudent under the conditions then
existing, and a speed of 25 mph shall be prima facie lawful, but in no event
shall the speed of a vehicle exceed 25 mph, except as provided in this article.
§ 3-119 SPEED LIMITS; SPECIFICALLY.
   (A)   On U.S. Highway No. 30, 50 mph from 100 feet west of 15th Road to the
West line of 23rd Avenue, 40 mph from the west line of 23rd Avenue to the west
line of “F” Avenue, 30 mph from the west line of “F” Avenue to the east line of
14 Avenue, 40 mph from the east line of 14th Avenue to the southeast line of
13th Street.
   (B)   On Nebraska Highway No. 14, 30 mph from 50 feet north of 30th Street
to the south line of 12th Street, 35 mph from the south line of 12th Street to
the south line of 10th Street, 50 mph from the south line of 10th Street to the
north corporate limits.
   (C)   (1)   On 20th Street, from 5th Avenue to east city limits: 50 mph;
      (2)   On 20th Street, from 5th Avenue extending 1,521 feet west: 50 mph;
      (3)   On 20th Street, from 1,521 feet west of 5th Avenue to 2,596 feet
west of 5th Avenue: 35 mph; and
      (4)   On 20th Street, from 2,596 feet west of 5th Avenue to Highway 14:
25 mph.
   (D)   On 17th Avenue from 25th Street to 700 feet south of 28th Street: 30
mph.
   (E)   (1)   On 28th Street from 17th Avenue to 26th Avenue: 25 mph; and
      (2)   On 28th Street from 26th Avenue west to Highway 14: 25 mph.
   (F)   On 5th Avenue, from Highway 30 to 20th Street: 35 mph.
   (G)   On 13th Street, from Highway 14 to Van Buren Avenue: 25 mph.
(Ord. 880, passed 2-13-2006; Ord. 990, passed 12-14-2015; Ord. 1021, passed 6-
11-2018)
§ 3-120 SPEED, NEAR SCHOOLS.
   It shall be unlawful for the driver of any vehicle, when passing premises on
which school buildings are located and which are used for school purposes,
during school recess or while children are going to or leaving school during
the opening or closing hours, to drive such vehicle at a rate of speed in
excess of 15 mph past such premises, and such driver shall stop at all stop
signs located at or near such school premises, and it shall be unlawful for
such driver to make a U turn at any intersection where such stop signs are
located at or near such school premises.
§ 3-121 NEGLIGENT DRIVING.
   Any person who drives any motor vehicle without due caution and
circumspection or in a negligent manner shall be guilty of negligent driving.
§ 3-122 PASSING; HINDRANCE.
   The driver of a vehicle about to be overtaken and passed by another vehicle
shall not increase the speed of his or her vehicle until completely passed by
the overtaking vehicle.
§ 3-123 DRIVING ABREAST.
   Two or more vehicles shall not be driven abreast, except when passing or
when traversing a multi-lane or one way street; provided, motorcycles may be
driven no more than two abreast in a single lane.
§ 3-124 FUNERAL PROCESSIONS.
   No vehicle, except police vehicles or Fire Department vehicles when
responding to emergency calls or orders in their several departments,
ambulances responding to emergency calls or vehicles carrying United States
mails shall be driven through a funeral procession or cortege, except with the
permission of a police officer.
§ 3-125 FOLLOWING DISTANCE; GENERALLY.
   The operator of a vehicle shall not follow another vehicle more closely than
is reasonable and prudent, having due regard for the speed of the vehicles, and
the traffic and condition of the street.
§ 3-126 FOLLOWING DISTANCE; FIRE APPARATUS.
   The driver of any vehicle shall not follow any fire apparatus traveling in
response to a fire alarm closer than 500 feet, or drive into or park such
vehicle within the block where said fire apparatus has stopped in answer to a
fire alarm.
§ 3-127 RIDING OUTSIDE VEHICLE.
   (A)   No person shall permit any other person to ride on the running board,
hood, top or fenders of any motor vehicle. Nor shall any person ride on the
running board, hood, top or fenders of any motor vehicle.
   (B)   It is hereby determined unlawful for any person to be transported in
the bed of a moving, uncovered pickup truck unless such individual is sitting
on the bed of such pickup. It is hereby determined that sitting on either of
the wheel wells of said pickup is not sitting on the pickup bed and is hereby
prohibited. The driver of any moving, uncovered pickup truck who shall permit
passengers to ride in the bed of such pickup in a standing position or in a
position other than sitting be and hereby is determined to be guilty of a
misdemeanor.
§ 3-128 DRIVING IN SIDEWALK SPACE.
   No motor vehicle, including motorcycles or scooters, shall be driven on any
sidewalk or within any sidewalk space, except a permanent or temporary
driveway.
§ 3-129 CROSSING CENTER LINE.
   It shall be unlawful to drive a vehicle across or over the center of the
streets hereinafter designated into the lane normally occupied by oncoming
vehicles, except at intersections for the purpose of entering or leaving a
bisecting or cross street or at a point other than intersections for the
purpose of entering or leaving an alley, private drive or other way, upon the
following streets: 16th Street from 14th Avenue to 17th Avenue, and “G” Street
from 17th Avenue to Avenue “G”. This section is primarily, but not exclusively,
designed to make it unlawful for vehicles to cross the center of said streets
into the lane of oncoming traffic for the purpose of passing another vehicle
proceeding in the same direction as the passing vehicle.
§ 3-130 EMERGENCY; REGULATIONS.
   The city police are hereby empowered to make and enforce temporary
regulations to cover emergencies.
§ 3-131 POLICE; TRAFFIC POWERS.
   The city police are hereby authorized, empowered and ordered to exercise all
powers and duties with relation to the management of street traffic and to
direct, control, stop, restrict and regulate, when necessary, temporarily
divert or exclude, in the interest of public safety, health and convenience,
the movement of pedestrian, animal and vehicular traffic of every kind in
streets, parks and on bridges. The driver of any vehicle shall stop upon the
signal of any police officer.
§ 3-132 POLICE; REFUSAL TO OBEY.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to refuse or fail to comply with any
lawful order, signal or direction of a police officer.
§ 3-133 POLICE; TRAFFIC OFFICERS.
   (A)   The city police may at any time detail officers, to be known as
“traffic officers”, at street intersections. All traffic officers shall be
vested with the authority to regulate and control traffic at the intersections
to which they are assigned. It shall be their duty to direct the movement of
traffic and prevent congestion and accidents.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to violate any order or signal of
any such traffic officer, notwithstanding the directive of a stop sign or
signal device, which may have been placed at any such intersection.
§ 3-134 VEHICLES; UNOBSTRUCTED VIEW.
   No person shall drive on a street any motor vehicle constructed or loaded in
such a way as to prevent the driver from obtaining a view of the street to the
rear unless such vehicle is equipped with a mirror so located as to reflect to
the driver a view of the street for a distance of at least 200 feet to the rear
of such vehicle. It shall be unlawful for any person to drive upon a street,
any vehicle with a sign, poster or other non-transparent material upon the
front windshield, side windows or rear windows of such motor vehicle other than
a certificate or paper required to be so displayed by law. Every windshield on
a motor vehicle shall be equipped with a device for removing rain, snow or
other moisture from the windshield, which device shall be so constructed as to
be operated by the driver within the vehicle.
§ 3-135 GLASS; POINTED OBJECTS.
   No person shall throw, cast, lay or place upon any street any thorns, nails,
tacks, glass, bottles, window glass or other articles made of or containing
glass, and in case of an accident causing the breaking of any glass upon any
street, the owner or person in charge of such glass or the person responsible
for such breakage shall at once remove or cause the same to be removed from the
street.
§ 3-136 QUIET ZONES; UNNECESSARY NOISE.
   All streets or portions thereof lying within 300 feet of any hospital,
nursing home or school, and which have been declared to be “quiet zones” by the
City Council shall be respected as such by all drivers, and no driver of any
vehicle shall, within such zones, make any unnecessary noise or sound the horn
or other warning device of such vehicle, except in an emergency. It shall be
unlawful for any person in any part of said city to make, or cause to be made,
any unnecessary noise with any signal device or to use the same, except as a
road signal.
§ 3-137 SPEED; ELECTRONIC DETECTOR.
   (A)   The speed of any motor vehicle within the city may be determined by
the use of radio microwaves or other electronic device. The results of such
determinations shall be accepted as prima facie evidence of the speed of such
motor vehicle in any court or legal proceedings where the speed of the motor
vehicle is at issue.
   (B)   The driver of any such motor vehicle may be arrested without a warrant
under the authority herein granted if the arresting officer is in uniform or
displays his or her badge of authority; provided that, such officer shall have
observed the recording of the speed of such motor vehicle by the radio
microwaves or other electronic device, or had received a radio message from the
officer who observed the speed of the motor vehicle recorded by the radio
microwaves or other electronic device. In the event of an arrest based on such
a message, such radio message must have been dispatched immediately after the
speed of the motor vehicle had been recorded, and must include a description of
the vehicle and the recorded speed.
§ 3-138 EXHIBITION DRIVING.
   Any person who operates a motor vehicle, meaning any self-propelled vehicle,
upon streets or alleys within the city limits or upon property owned by the
city in such a manner as to cause or create unnecessary engine noise, squealing
of tires, rear skidding, sliding or swaying of such motor vehicle or possible
acceleration of speed of said motor vehicle shall be guilty of exhibition
driving.
ARTICLE II: ABANDONED VEHICLES
Section
   
3-201   Definitions
   
3-202   Abandoned vehicle; defined
   
3-203   Abandoned motor vehicle; $250 or less; title vests in city
   
3-204   Police Department; duties
   
3-205   Sale by Police Department
   
3-206   Proceeds of sale; disposition
   
3-207   Last registered owner liable for removal and storage costs
   
3-208   Liability for removal
   
3-209   Destroy, deface or remove parts; unlawful; exceptions; violations;
penalty
   
3-210   Unlawful to abandon a vehicle
   
3-211   Keeping of unregistered, wrecked or junked vehicles unlawful;
exceptions; penalty
   
3-212   Hobbyist permit
   
3-213   Violations; penalty
§ 3-201 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this article, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   PUBLIC PROPERTY. Any public right-of-way, street, alley, highway, park or
other state, county or municipally-owned property.
   PRIVATE PROPERTY. Any privately-owned property, which is not included within
the definition of public property.
   VEHICLE. As defined in Neb. RS 60-339.
(Ord. 869, passed 8-8-2005)
§ 3-202 ABANDONED VEHICLE; DEFINED.
   A vehicle shall be deemed to be an ABANDONED VEHICLE if left unattended:
   (A)   With no number plates affixed thereto for more than six hours on any
public property;
   (B)   For more than 24 hours on any public property, except a portion
thereof on which parking is legally permitted;
   (C)   For more than 48 hours after the parking of such vehicle shall become
illegal; or
   (D)   For more than seven days on private property if left initially without
permission of the owner or after permission of the owner shall be terminated.
(Ord. 869, passed 8-8-2005)
§ 3-203 ABANDONED MOTOR VEHICLE; $250 OR LESS; TITLE VESTS IN CITY.
   If an abandoned vehicle, at the time of abandonment, has no number plates of
the current license year affixed or valid registration and is of a wholesale
value, taking into consideration the condition of the vehicle, of $250 or less,
title shall immediately vest in the city.
(Ord. 869, passed 8-8-2005)
§ 3-204 POLICE DEPARTMENT; DUTIES.
   (A)   Except for vehicles governed by §
3-203 of this article, the Police Department shall make an inquiry as follows
concerning the last registered owner of each abandoned vehicle in its custody:
      (1)   An abandoned vehicle with number plates affixed, to the
jurisdiction which issued such number plates; or
      (2)   An abandoned vehicle with no number plates affixed, to the
Department of Motor Vehicles.
   (B)   The Police Department shall give notice to the last registered owner,
if any, that the vehicle in question has been recovered as an abandoned vehicle
and that, if unclaimed, it will be sold at public auction after five days from
the date such notice was mailed. If the agency described in division (A) above
also notifies the Department that a lien agency described in division (A) above
also notifies the department that a lien or mortgage exists, such notice shall
also be sent to the lien holder or mortgagee. Any person claiming such vehicle
shall be required to pay cost of removal and storage of such vehicle. Notice
required by this division (B) shall be either by personal service or by
registered mail.
   (C)   Title to such abandoned vehicles, if unclaimed, shall vest in the city
five days from the date such notice is mailed, or if the last registered owner
cannot be ascertained, when notice of such fact is received.
(Ord. 869, passed 8-8-2005)
§ 3-205 SALE BY POLICE DEPARTMENT.
   The Police Department shall have the authority to sell at public sale all
vehicles after title vests in the city.
(Ord. 869, passed 8-8-2005)
§ 3-206 PROCEEDS OF SALE; DISPOSITION.
   Any proceeds from the sale of an abandoned vehicle less any expenses
incurred by the city shall be held by the city without interest, for the
benefit of the owner of such vehicle for a period of two years. If not claimed
within such two-year period, such proceeds shall be paid into the General Fund
of the city.
(Ord. 869, passed 8-8-2005)
§ 3-207 LAST REGISTERED OWNER LIABLE FOR REMOVAL AND STORAGE COSTS.
   The last registered owner of an abandoned vehicle shall be liable to the
city for the cost of removal and storage of such vehicle.
(Ord. 869, passed 8-8-2005)
§ 3-208 LIABILITY FOR REMOVAL.
   Neither the owner, lessee, nor occupant of the premises from which any
abandoned vehicle shall be removed, nor the state nor the city shall be liable
for any loss or damage to such vehicle which occurs during its removal or while
in the possession of the city, or as a result of any subsequent disposition.
(Ord. 869, passed 8-8-2005)
§ 3-209 DESTROY, DEFACE OR REMOVE PARTS; UNLAWFUL; EXCEPTIONS; VIOLATIONS;
PENALTY.
   No person other than one authorized by the appropriate city officials shall
destroy, deface or remove any part of a vehicle, which is left unattended on a
street or other public place without number plates affixed or which is
abandoned. Anyone violating the provisions of this section shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor and upon conviction thereof shall be punished by a fine of not more
than $100.
(Ord. 869, passed 8-8-2005)
§ 3-210 UNLAWFUL TO ABANDON A VEHICLE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to abandon a vehicle or cause a vehicle
to become an abandoned vehicle.
(Ord. 869, passed 8-8-2005)
§ 3-211 KEEPING OF UNREGISTERED, WRECKED OR JUNKED VEHICLES UNLAWFUL;
EXCEPTIONS; PENALTY.
   It shall be unlawful for any person in charge or control of any property
within the city, whether as owner, tenant, occupant, lessee, or otherwise, to
allow any non-operating, wrecked, junked or partially dismantled vehicle to
remain on such property longer than 30 days. It shall be unlawful for any
person in charge or control of any property within the city, whether as owner,
tenant, occupant, lessee or otherwise, to allow any motor vehicle or trailer
which has been unregistered for more than 30 days to remain on such property.
This section shall not apply to a vehicle in an enclosed building, a vehicle on
the premises of a business enterprise operated in a lawful place and manner,
when necessary to the lawful operation of such business enterprise, or a
vehicle in an appropriate storage place or depository maintained in a lawful
place and manner, or a vehicle on the premises of a person who has obtained a
hobbyist permit for the restoration of said vehicle.
(Ord. 869, passed 8-8-2005)
§ 3-212 HOBBYIST PERMIT.
   A hobbyist permit for restoration or repair of up to two non-operating,
wrecked, junked or partially dismantled vehicles on any premises used for
residential purposes may be granted to the resident(s) of such premises as
follows.
   (A)   Application for the hobbyist permit shall be filed in writing with the
City Clerk on a form provided by the city and shall contain the name and
address of the applicant and the make, model and vehicle identification number
of each vehicle to be restored or repaired.
   (B)   The vehicle(s) to be restored or repaired shall be owned by the
applicant.
   (C)   The permit shall cover the vehicle(s) only and does not authorize the
storage of miscellaneous vehicle parts or junk contained in, on or near the
vehicle(s).
   (D)   The fee for such hobbyist permit shall be $50 per vehicle.
   (E)   All such permits shall expire on the one-hundred-eightieth day
following the date of issuance thereof. The hobbyist permit for the vehicle(s)
shall be renewable one time only upon payment of $100.
(Ord. 869, passed 8-8-2005)
§ 3-213 VIOLATIONS; PENALTY.
   Any person violating any of the provisions of this article shall be guilty
of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, such person shall be fined in a
sum not to exceed $500; except that, each person so convicted shall be fined in
a sum of not less than $100 for the first offense, not less than $200 for the
second offense, and not less than $300 for the third offense and each offense
thereafter. Each day that a violation of any of the provisions of this section
continues shall constitute a distinct offense and shall he punishable as such.
(Ord. 869, passed 8-8-2005)
ARTICLE III: VEHICLE OPERATION
Section
   
3-301   Muffler
   
3-302   Loads; projecting
   
3-303   Loads; spilling
   
3-304   Spilling of livestock waste or grain
   
3-305   Utility terrain vehicles; defined
   
3-306   Utility terrain vehicles; registration
   
3-307   Utility terrain vehicles; registration fee and number
   
3-308   Utility terrain vehicle; operation
   
3-309   Utility terrain vehicle; traffic regulations applicable
   
3-310   Utility terrain vehicle; fine and penalty schedule
   
3-311   All-terrain vehicles; emergencies; exceptions
   
3-312   All-terrain vehicles; public lands
   
3-313   Golf carts; defined
   
3-314   Golf carts; registration
   
3-315   Golf carts; registration fee and number
   
3-316   Golf carts; liability insurance required
   
3-317   Golf carts; required equipment/safety features
   
3-318   Golf carts; operator
   
3-319   Golf carts; occupants
   
3-320   Golf carts; operation
   
3-321   Golf carts; trailer/cart prohibited
   
3-322   Golf carts; cargo
   
3-323   Golf carts; animals
   
3-324   Golf carts; traffic regulations applicable
   
3-325   Golf carts; prohibited areas
   
3-326   Golf carts; fine and penalty
§ 3-301 MUFFLER.
   Every motor vehicle operated within the city shall be provided with a
muffler in good working order to prevent excessive or unusual noise. It shall
be unlawful to use a “muffler cut-out” on any motor vehicle upon any streets;
provided, the provisions of this section shall not apply to authorized
emergency vehicles.
§ 3-302 LOADS; PROJECTING.
   When any vehicle shall be loaded in such a manner that any portion of the
load extends more than four feet beyond the rear of the bed or the body of such
vehicles, a red flag shall be carried by day and red light after sunset on such
load.
§ 3-303 LOADS; SPILLING.
   All vehicles used for carrying coal, earth, sand, gravel, rock, asphalt, tar
or any similar substance shall be so constructed as to prevent the sifting or
spilling of any of the contents.
§ 3-304 SPILLING OF LIVESTOCK WASTE OR GRAIN.
   It is deemed unlawful for any person to permit the spilling of any animal
wastes, manure or grain from any livestock trailer or truck on any street or
highway within the corporate limits of the city.
§ 3-305 UTILITY TERRAIN VEHICLES; DEFINED.
   For the purposes of this article the term ALL-TERRAIN VEHICLES shall mean
any motorized off-highway vehicle which:
   (A)   Is not less than 48 inches nor more than 74 inches in width;
   (B)   Is not more than 160 inches, including the bumper, in length;
   (C)   Has a dry weight of not less than 900 pounds nor more than 2,000
pounds; and
   (D)   Travels on four or more low-pressure tires.
(Ord. 1085, passed 8-8-2022)
§ 3-306 UTILITY TERRAIN VEHICLES; REGISTRATION.
   (A)   All utility terrain vehicles to be operated within corporate limits
shall be registered with the City of Central City, Nebraska Police Department
and assigned a registration number. Requirements for registration shall
include:
      (1)   Certificate of title/bill of sale;
      (2)   Liability insurance;
      (3)   Demonstration that the vehicle has a restraint system, roll over
protection system, headlights, tail lights, and brake lights; and
      (4)   Valid operator's license.
   (B)   The registration period shall be annually from April 1 to March 31. A
golf cart can be re-registered no more than 30 days prior to April 1.
(Ord. 1085, passed 8-8-2022)
§ 3-307 UTILITY TERRAIN VEHICLES; REGISTRATION FEE AND NUMBER.
   The registration fee for utility terrain vehicles is $50 for each year. The
assigned registration number shall be affixed to the utility terrain vehicle as
decals to the structure. The decals shall be legible, visible, and be a minimum
of three inches in height. A business may register up to four additional
utility terrain vehicles for a registration fee of $10 each, per year.
(Ord. 1085, passed 8-8-2022; Ord. 1129, passed 8-12-2024)
§ 3-308 UTILITY TERRAIN VEHICLE; OPERATION.
   A utility terrain vehicle may be operated on an alley, street, or road when
such operation occurs only between the hours of one hour before sunrise and one
hour after sunset. Any utility terrain vehicle operating within corporate
limits shall have the city registration number displayed prominently. Any
person operating a utility terrain vehicle as authorized in this section shall
have a valid Class O operator's license and be above the age of 18 years; shall
have liability insurance coverage for the utility terrain vehicle while
operating the utility terrain vehicle on an alley, street, or road; and shall
not operate such vehicle at a speed in excess of 30 miles per hour and always
at or below the established speed limit. The person operating the utility
terrain vehicle shall provide proof of such insurance coverage to any peace
officer requesting such proof. When operating a utility terrain vehicle as
authorized in this section, the headlight and taillight of the vehicle shall be
on and the operators and passengers must be restrained by the vehicle restraint
system.
(Ord. 1085, passed 8-8-2022)
§ 3-309 UTILITY TERRAIN VEHICLE; TRAFFIC REGULATIONS APPLICABLE.
   Any person who operates a utility terrain vehicle upon a roadway shall have
all of the rights and shall be subject to all of the duties applicable to the
driver of a motor vehicle under Chapter 5 of this code and Neb. RS 39-601 to
39-6,122 and amendments thereto, except for those provisions of such sections
which by their nature can have no application. Such regulations applicable to
utility terrain vehicles shall apply whenever a utility terrain vehicle shall
be operated upon any alley, street, or road within the municipality or upon any
path set aside by the Department of Roads or local authority for the use of
utility terrain vehicles, notwithstanding any established maximum speed limits
in excess of 30 miles per hour.
(Ord. 1085, passed 8-8-2022)
§ 3-310 UTILITY TERRAIN VEHICLE; FINE AND PENALTY SCHEDULE.
   Any person who violates any portion of this article shall result in a fine
of $100 for the first offense. For a second offense in any 12 month period, the
fine shall be $200 and revocation of the utility terrain vehicle's
registration. For each continued offense the fine shall increase $50, with the
third offense being $250, the fourth offense being $300, and so forth.
(Ord. 1085, passed 8-8-2022)
§ 3-311 ALL-TERRAIN VEHICLES; EMERGENCIES; EXCEPTIONS.
   Three-wheel or similar all-terrain vehicles shall be exempt from the
provisions of this section during any public emergency or when so allowed by
resolution of the Governing Body.
(Ord. 1085, passed 8-8-2022)
§ 3-312 ALL-TERRAIN VEHICLES; PUBLIC LANDS.
   The use of three-wheel or similar all-terrain vehicles shall be prohibited
upon the public lands and sidewalks of the municipality except where allowed by
resolution of the Governing Body.
(Ord. 1085, passed 8-8-2022)
§ 3-313 GOLF CARTS; DEFINED.
   For purposes of §§
3-313 through
3-326, the term GOLF CART shall mean a vehicle that has:
   (A)   At least four wheels;
   (B)   Has a maximum level ground speed of less than 20 miles per hour;
   (C)   Has a maximum payload capacity of 1,200 pounds;
   (D)   Has a maximum gross vehicle weight of 2,500 pounds;
   (E)   Has a maximum passenger capacity of not more than four persons, and is
designed and manufactured for operation on a golf course for sporting and
recreational purposes; and
   (F)   Is not being operated within the boundaries of a golf course.
(Ord. 1085, passed 8-8-2022)
§ 3-314 GOLF CARTS; REGISTRATION.
   (A)   Golf carts operated on alleys, streets, or roads within the corporate
limits of the city shall be registered with the City Police Department and
assigned a registration number. Requirements for registration shall include:
      (1)   Certificate of title/bill of sale;
      (2)   Proof of liability insurance coverage as set forth in §
3-316;
      (3)   Inspection of vehicle; and
      (4)   Valid operator's license.
   (B)   The registration period shall be annually from April 1 to March 31. A
golf cart can be re-registered no more than 30 days prior to April 1.
(Ord. 1085, passed 8-8-2022)
§ 3-315 GOLF CARTS; REGISTRATION FEE AND NUMBER.
   An annual registration fee for golf carts shall be $50. The registration fee
shall not be prorated during the calendar year. The assigned registration
number shall be affixed to the golf cart as decals to the structure. The decals
shall be legible, visible, and a minimum of three inches in height to the rear
of the golf cart.
(Ord. 1085, passed 8-8-2022)
§ 3-316 GOLF CARTS; LIABILITY INSURANCE REQUIRED.
   Owners of golf cars operated pursuant to these regulations, shall have
liability coverage:
   (A)   In the amount of $25,000 because of bodily injury to or death of one
person in any one accident;
   (B)   Subject to such limit for one person, in the amount of $50,000 because
of bodily injury to or death of two or more persons in any one accident; and
   (C)   In the amount of $25,000 because of injury to or destruction of
property of others in any one accident. The person operating the golf cart
shall provide proof of such insurance coverage to any peace officer requesting
such proof.
(Ord. 1085, passed 8-8-2022)
§ 3-317 GOLF CARTS; REQUIRED EQUIPMENT/SAFETY FEATURES.
   Golf carts operated as authorized herein, shall contain the following
equipment/safety features:
   (A)   Bicycle flag on a golf cart without a canopy should extend not less
than five feet above-ground; if golf cart is equipped with a canopy, flag needs
to be one foot above canopy attached to the rear of such golf cart. The bicycle
flag shall be triangular in shape with an area of not less than 30 square
inches and shall be day-glow in color;
   (B)   Braking system maintained in good operating condition; and
   (C)   Muffler and exhaust system maintained in good operating condition.
(Ord. 1085, passed 8-8-2022)
§ 3-318 GOLF CARTS; OPERATOR.
   Any person operating a golf cart must be at least 18 years of age and have a
valid Class "O" operator's license. The parent or guardian of any operator
under the age of 19 years of any such vehicle shall be held responsible for
said operation.
(Ord. 1085, passed 8-8-2022)
§ 3-319 GOLF CARTS; OCCUPANTS.
   There shall be no more than two occupants per row of the golf cart, with a
maximum of four people per golf-cart. Occupants 18 years of age and younger
must be restrained with a vehicle restraint system.
(Ord. 1085, passed 8-8-2022)
§ 3-320 GOLF CARTS; OPERATION.
   A golf cart may be operated on an alley, street, or road within the city
limits as set out below:
   (A)   Only between sunrise and sunset;
   (B)   A bicycle flag must be attached to the golf cart at a minimum height
of five feet from the ground, and attached to the rear of such golf cart;
   (C)   Any occupant 18 years of age and younger shall be restrained with a
vehicle restraint system;
   (D)   The golf cart shall be operated at no greater speed than 20 mph and on
streets posted 35 mph or less; and
   (E)   Golf carts shall not be operated on any public highway except to cross
the highway at a designated intersection.
(Ord. 1085, passed 8-8-2022)
§ 3-321 GOLF CARTS; TRAILER/CART PROHIBITED.
   The operator of any golf cart shall not be permitted to pull or allow any
trailer to be attached to such golf cart while operating the golf cart in
accordance with these regulations.
(Ord. 1085, passed 8-8-2022)
§ 3-322 GOLF CARTS; CARGO.
   The operator of a golf cart shall secure all cargo in such a manner that the
cargo remains secured without assistance of the operator.
(Ord. 1085, passed 8-8-2022)
§ 3-323 GOLF CARTS; ANIMALS.
   All animals riding in or transported on a golf cart must be on a leash.
(Ord. 1085, passed 8-8-2022)
§ 3-324 GOLF CARTS; TRAFFIC REGULATIONS APPLICABLE.
   Any person who operates a golf cart upon a roadway shall have all of the
rights and shall be subject to all of the duties applicable to the driver of a
motor vehicle under Chapter 5 of this code and Neb. RS 39-601 to 39-6,122 and
amendments thereto, except for those provisions of such sections which by their
nature can have no application. Such regulations applicable to golf carts shall
apply whenever a golf cart shall be operated upon any alley, street, or road
within the municipality or upon any path set aside by the Department of Roads
or local authority for the use of golf carts.
(Ord. 1085, passed 8-8-2022)
§ 3-325 GOLF CARTS; PROHIBITED AREAS.
   The use of golf carts shall be prohibited upon the public lands and
sidewalks of the municipality except where allowed by resolution of the
Governing Body. It shall be unlawful for any person to operate a golf cart upon
any private lands without first having obtained permission of the owner,
lessee, or operator of such lands.
(Ord. 1085, passed 8-8-2022)
§ 3-326 GOLF CARTS; FINE AND PENALTY.
   Any person who violates any portion of §§
3-313 through
3-325 shall result in a fine of $100 for the first offense. For a second
offense in any 12 month period, the fine shall be $200 and revocation of the
golf cart's registration. For each continued offense, the fine shall increase
$50 for each offense, with the third offense being $250, the fourth offense
being $300 and so forth.
(Ord. 1085, passed 8-8-2022)
ARTICLE IV: PARKING
Section
   
3-401   Parking; generally
   
3-402   Parking; prohibited areas
   
3-403   Parking; direction
   
3-404   Business District unloading
   
3-405   School buses, semi-trucks and recreational vehicles
   
3-406   Fire hydrants and stations
   
3-407   Obstructing traffic
   
3-408   Curbs, painted
   
3-409   Time limit, maximum
   
3-410   Farm implements
   
3-411   Snow removal; Business District
   
3-412   Snow removal; other areas
   
3-413   Snow removal; emergency declaration
   
3-414   Snow removal; removal of vehicles
   
3-415   Snow removal; movement of snow from private property into city streets
   
3-416   Snow removal; penalty
   
3-417   Emergency vehicles
   
3-418   Railroad right-of-way
   
3-419   Parking; areas
   
3-420   Loading zones; designation
   
3-421   Alleys; loading and unloading
   
3-422   Unloading; freight vehicles
   
3-423   Schools, theaters
   
3-424   Curb intersections
   
3-425   Display or repair of vehicles
   
3-426   Parked vehicles; license plates required
   
3-427   Obstructing private driveways
   
3-428   Vehicles parked in sidewalk space
   
3-429   Handicapped or disabled persons; designation of on-street parking
spaces; display of permits
   
3-430   Handicapped or disabled persons; designation of off-street parking
spaces
   
3-431   Handicapped or disabled persons; handicapped parking infraction;
defined
   
3-432   Handicapped or disabled persons; permit issuance
   
3-433   Handicapped or disabled persons; motor vehicle permit issuance
   
3-434   Handicapped or disabled persons; permit contents, duplicate permits
   
3-435   Handicapped or disabled persons; permits; period valid; renewal; fee
   
3-436   Handicapped or disabled persons; permits non-transferable; violation;
suspension
   
3-437   Handicapped or disabled persons; removal of unauthorized vehicle;
penalty
   
3-438   Removal of vehicles from public property
   
3-439   Parking on residential lots
§ 3-401 PARKING; GENERALLY.
   All vehicles parked on the streets of the city shall be parked next to the
curb or curb line and parallel thereto so that the right wheels of each vehicle
shall be next to the curb or curb line, except in those areas of the city where
diagonal parking is clearly marked.
§ 3-402 PARKING; PROHIBITED AREAS.
   (A)   No vehicle shall be parked or left standing on the east side of 17th
Avenue within 30 feet south of the curb corner at its intersection with 16th
Street, nor on the south side of 16th Street within 40 feet east of its
intersection with 17th Avenue.
   (B)   All distances with reference to intersections shall be measured from
curb corner to curb line intersections.
   (C)   No vehicle shall be parked on either side of 17th Avenue south of 18th
Street, except on Sunday when parking of 17th Avenue is permitted.
   (D)   No vehicle shall be parked on the south side of 25th Street, between
18th Avenue and 19th Avenue, from 7:00 a.m. to 4:00 p.m., Monday through
Friday.
   (E)   No vehicle shall be parked on either side of 18th Avenue between 28th
Street and 30th Street.
   (F)   No vehicle shall be parked on either side of Highway 30 between “D”
Avenue and “E” Avenue.
(Ord. 824, passed 4-8-2003; Ord. 949, passed 11-8-2010; Ord. 992, passed 4-11-
2016)
§ 3-403 PARKING; DIRECTION.
   Any vehicle parked on the streets within the city shall be parked in the
direction of the flow of traffic.
§ 3-404 BUSINESS DISTRICT UNLOADING.
   It shall be unlawful for the operator of any school bus, semi-truck
consisting of a tractor and trailer, or any motor vehicle with an overall
length of more than 27 feet to stop or park any such vehicle on a street within
the “Business District”, except to load or unload. Vehicles may stop or stand
for a period of time not to exceed what is reasonably necessary to load or
unload, and shall be parked in the direction of the traffic flow. It shall be
unlawful for the operator of any truck, regardless of length, to park said
vehicle within a street intersection, on a crosswalk, in front of a private
driveway or on a sidewalk. The City Council may, by resolution, provide truck-
parking areas adjoining or adjacent to the business district, and when such
parking areas are provided, it shall be the duty of all truck operators to use
such parking areas for all parking purposes.
§ 3-405 SCHOOL BUSES, SEMI-TRUCKS AND RECREATIONAL VEHICLES.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to park a school bus of any
length, semi-truck or the tractor unit or the trailer unit of such semi-truck,
and any other vehicle or trailer which is 27 feet or more in length overall,
except as hereinafter provided, on the public streets for a period longer than
three hours as hereinafter provided.
   (B)   The emergency parking of vehicles described above, due to mechanical
breakdown or failure, is permitted on any street, alley or highway for not
longer than ten hours. It shall be unlawful to park a travel trailer or a self-
propelled recreational vehicle for more than 72 hours on any street.
   (C)   For purposes of this section, PUBLIC STREET shall include public
street right-of-way as platted, whether or not improved.
§ 3-406 FIRE HYDRANTS AND STATIONS.
   No vehicle shall be parked within 15 feet in either direction of any fire
hydrant, nor within 20 feet of the driveway entrance to any fire station. The
curb space within such area of 15 feet in either direction of such fire hydrant
shall be painted yellow to indicate such prohibition.
§ 3-407 OBSTRUCTING TRAFFIC.
   No vehicle shall, except in case of an accident or emergency, stop within
any street intersection, alley entrance or any such location as to obstruct any
street, intersection or entrance to an alley or public or private drive.
§ 3-408 CURBS, PAINTED.
   It shall be the duty of the Street Superintendent to cause the curb space to
be painted and keep the same painted as provided in this article. No person,
firm or corporation shall paint the curb of any street, or in any manner set
aside or attempt to prevent the parking of vehicles in any street or part
thereof, except at such places where the parking of vehicles is prohibited by
the provisions of this article. The marking or designating of portions of
streets or alleys where the parking of vehicles is prohibited or limited shall
be done only by the city through its proper officers, at the direction of the
City Council.
§ 3-409 TIME LIMIT, MAXIMUM.
   (A)   The parking of a motor vehicle on a public street or other municipal
property for a period of time longer than 96 hours is unlawful, except where a
different maximum time limit is posted.
   (B)   The parking of a trailer, boat trailer, camper, fifth-wheel camper, or
any like object, not currently attached to a licensed motor vehicle, on a
public street or other municipal property, for a period of time longer than
four hours is unlawful, except when specifically authorized by the City
Council.
   (C)   The parking of a dumpster or roll-off container shall be allowed by
permit. A permit shall be issued upon receipt by the city of a $100 fee which
shall be refunded if the dumpster or roll-off container is removed within 20
days of its arrival. On the twenty-first day, an additional $10 daily fee shall
apply. Reflective tape with a total surface area no less than four inches by 48
inches shall be applied to each end of any container.
   (D)   This section shall not apply to “junk motor vehicles” or “abandoned
motor vehicles”, as defined in the municipal code.
(Ord. 909, passed 4-14-2008)
§ 3-410 FARM IMPLEMENTS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to park any farm tractor or implement on
the streets within the city.
§ 3-411 SNOW REMOVAL; BUSINESS DISTRICT.
   Whenever the Mayor or, in his or her absence, the President of the Council,
shall find on the basis of accumulated snowfall that street conditions make it
necessary that parking on streets in the Business District as shown by streets
hereinafter designated be prohibited or restricted for snow plowing, snow
removal and related purposes, he or she may put into effect a parking
prohibition on parts of or on all streets hereinafter designated by declaring
that parking be prohibited on the streets designated as follows, which shall be
considered streets in the Business District, and may order signs to be placed
on said streets prohibiting parking thereon until snow removal operations are
completed, and at which time the signs will be removed, to-wit:
   (A)   16th Street from Burlington-Northern Railroad right-of-way to 17th
Street;
   (B)   “G” Street from 17th Avenue to Avenue “F”;
   (C)   16th Avenue from Union Pacific Railroad right-of-way to 17th Street;
   (D)   17th Avenue from Union Pacific Railroad right-of-way to 18th Street;
   (E)   “B” Avenue from Union Pacific Railroad right-of-way to 17th Avenue;
   (F)   “C” Avenue from Union Pacific Railroad right-of-way to 17th Avenue;
   (G)   “D” Avenue from Union Pacific Railroad right-of-way to “H” Street;
   (H)   “E” Avenue from Union Pacific Railroad right-of-way to “G” Street;
   (I)   “H” Street from 17th Avenue to “D” Avenue;
   (J)   17th Street from 15th Avenue to 17th Avenue; and
   (K)   15th Avenue from 16th Street to 19th Street.
§ 3-412 SNOW REMOVAL; OTHER AREAS.
   Whenever the Mayor or, in his or her absence, the President of the Council,
shall find on the basis of accumulated snowfall that street conditions make it
necessary that parking on streets outside of the Business District as referred
to in the previous section be prohibited or restricted for snowplowing and snow
removal and related purposes, he or she may put into effect a parking
prohibition on parts of or all of such streets outside of the Business District
by declaring that parking be prohibited for the first 24 hours after snowfall
has ended and no vehicle shall be parked on the west and south sides of any
such street. For the second 24-hour period after snowfall has ended, no vehicle
shall be parked on the north and east sides of any street outside of the
Business District.
§ 3-413 SNOW REMOVAL; EMERGENCY DECLARATION.
   The Mayor or, in his or her absence, the President of the Council, shall
cause each declaration of a snow emergency made by him or her, pursuant to this
article, to be publicly announced by means of broadcast or telecast from a
broadcasting station with a normal operating range covering the city. Each
announcement shall describe the action taken by the mayor, or in his/her
absence the president of the Council, including the time it became or it will
become effective and shall specify the area affected. The Mayor or, in his or
her absence, the President of the Council, shall make or cause to be made a
record of each time and date when any declaration is announced to the public by
issuing an executive order as soon after the declaration of emergency is
feasible.
§ 3-414 SNOW REMOVAL; REMOVAL OF VEHICLES.
   Members of the Police Department are hereby authorized to remove or have
removed a vehicle from a street to another place or location on a street or to
a lot, garage or other similar facility designated by the Police Department
when:
   (A)   The vehicle is parked or stalled on any street on which there is a
parking prohibition in effect and is interfering with snow removal operations;
and/or
   (B)   The vehicle is parked on any street in violation of any parking
prohibition or provision of law and is interfering or about to interfere with
snow removal operations.
§ 3-415 SNOW REMOVAL; MOVEMENT OF SNOW FROM PRIVATE PROPERTY INTO CITY STREETS.
   (A)   Property owners, lessees or renters in all areas of the city shall not
move the snow from lots, driveways or sidewalks owned or controlled by them
onto the city streets.
   (B)   The only exception being that snow from sidewalks in the Business
District as described in §
5-301 may be pushed into the city streets.
§ 3-416 SNOW REMOVAL; PENALTY.
   Any person or corporation in violation of the provisions concerning snow
removal shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof,
shall be fined $10, plus the charge for towing.
§ 3-417 EMERGENCY VEHICLES.
   The provisions of this article regulating the movement, parking and standing
of vehicles shall not apply to authorized emergency vehicles, as defined in
this article, while the driver of such vehicle is operating the same in an
emergency in the necessary performance of public duties.
§ 3-418 RAILROAD RIGHT-OF-WAY.
   No person shall park a vehicle within the south 16 feet of the alley or
public way of the Union Pacific Railroad right-of-way, northerly of and
adjacent to Block 29, Original Town of Lone Tree, now Central City, Nebraska,
occupied and used as an alley or public way, except for purposes of loading or
unloading.
§ 3-419 PARKING; AREAS.
   The City Council, may, by resolution, set aside and post any street, alley,
public way or portion thereof for the parking of any particular kind or class
of vehicle, and where the parking of vehicles has been prohibited by
resolution, no vehicle prohibited from parking thereon shall stand or be parked
adjacent to the curb of said street, alley, public way or portion thereof,
longer than a period of time necessary to load and unload freight or
passengers. The placement of no parking or restricted parking signs shall be
prima facie evidence of the restricting resolution.
§ 3-420 LOADING ZONES; DESIGNATION.
   The City Council may, by resolution, designate loading zones and parking
times therein.
§ 3-421 ALLEYS; LOADING AND UNLOADING.
   No vehicle shall be parked in any alley, except for the purpose of loading
or unloading during the time necessary to load or unload, which shall not
exceed the maximum limit of one-half hour. Every vehicle while loading or
unloading in any alley shall be parked in such manner as will cause the least
obstruction possible to traffic in such alley.
§ 3-422 UNLOADING; FREIGHT VEHICLES.
   Vehicles of an overall length of less than 20 feet, including load, while
discharging freight may back to the curb, but shall occupy as little of the
street as possible.
§ 3-423 SCHOOLS, THEATERS.
   The City Council may, by resolution, prohibit the parking or stopping of
vehicles at the curb on streets directly in front of any entrance to a school
house, school building, fire station or theater, and such curbs adjacent to the
entrance of said school house, school building, fire station or theater shall
be painted red to indicate such prohibition.
§ 3-424 CURB INTERSECTIONS.
   No vehicle shall be parked or left standing for any purpose near the
intersection of curb lines where said curb lines are painted red to indicate
such prohibition.
§ 3-425 DISPLAY OR REPAIR OF VEHICLES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to park upon any street, alley or public
place within the city any vehicle displayed for sale. No person shall adjust or
repair any automobile or motorcycle, or race the motor of same, while standing
on the public streets or alleys of the city, excepting in case of breakdown or
other emergency requiring same. No person, hobbyist or employee connected with
a garage or repair shop shall use sidewalks, streets or alleys in the vicinity
of such garage or shop for the purpose of working on automobiles or vehicles of
any description.
§ 3-426 PARKED VEHICLES; LICENSE PLATES REQUIRED.
   Every vehicle parked or left standing upon any street, alley, public way or
public property shall have license plates attached thereto which are issued for
the vehicle to which said license plates are attached and are registered in the
name of the owner of the vehicle in accordance with the laws of the State of
Nebraska, or of the state wherein the license is issued. If any vehicle is
found upon any street or alley in violation of any of the provisions of this
article regulating the stopping, standing or parking of vehicles, and the
identity of the driver cannot be determined, the owner or person in whose name
such vehicle is registered shall be held prima facie responsible for such
violation.
§ 3-427 OBSTRUCTING PRIVATE DRIVEWAYS.
   Except as otherwise provided herein, it shall be unlawful for any person to
stop or park any vehicle so as to obstruct a private driveway in any manner,
which includes stopping or parking any vehicle within five feet of the outer
portion of a curb cut on a private driveway; provided, however, that, in the
congested district a vehicle may be parked at the entrance to a driveway
providing that ingress and egress to a business conducted on the adjacent
premises, only between the period of time after the business served by such
driveway has been closed for the day and opening of business on the following
day, unless prohibited by signs posted by the City Council.
§ 3-428 VEHICLES PARKED IN SIDEWALK SPACE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to park or place, or cause to be parked
or placed, any motor vehicle or other vehicle upon any part of the sidewalk
space or that space between the curb line and the lot line.
§ 3-429 HANDICAPPED OR DISABLED PERSONS; DESIGNATION OF ON-STREET PARKING
SPACES; DISPLAY OF PERMITS.
   (A)   The City Council may designate parking spaces for the exclusive use
of:
      (1)   Handicapped or disabled persons whose vehicles display the
distinguishing license plates issued to handicapped or disabled persons
pursuant to Neb. RS 60-3,113;
      (2)   Handicapped or disabled persons whose vehicles display a
distinguishing license plate issued to a handicapped or disabled person by
another state;
      (3)   Such other handicapped or disabled persons or temporarily
handicapped or disabled persons, as certified by the City Council, whose
vehicles display the identification specified in §
3-434 of this article; and
      (4)   Such other motor vehicles, as certified by the City Council, which
display such identification.
   (B)   All such permits shall be displayed in the operator’s area in a
conspicuous location upon the vehicle’s dashboard or its equivalent so as to be
clearly visible through the front windshield.
   (C)   Whenever the City Council so designates a parking space, it shall be
indicated by a sign, which is in conformance with the 19th edition of the
Manual on Uniform Traffic-Control Devices for Streets and Highways, issued by
the Federal Highway Administration. In addition to such sign, the space may
also be indicated by blue paint on the curb or edge of the paved portion of the
street adjacent to the space.
§ 3-430 HANDICAPPED OR DISABLED PERSONS; DESIGNATION OF OFF-STREET PARKING
SPACES.
   (A)   The City Council and any person in lawful possession of any off-street
parking facility may designate stalls or spaces in such facility for the
exclusive use of:
      (1)   Handicapped or disabled persons whose vehicles display the
distinguishing license plates issued to such individuals pursuant to Neb. RS
60-3,113;
      (2)   Such other handicapped or disabled persons or temporarily
handicapped or disabled persons, as certified by the City Council, whose
vehicles display the identification specified in §
3-434 of this article; and
      (3)   Such other motor vehicles, as certified by the City Council, which
display such identification.
   (B)   Such designation shall be made by posting immediately adjacent to and
visible from each stall or space a sign that is in conformance with the 19th
edition of the Manual on Uniform Traffic-Control Devices for Streets and
Highways, issued by the Federal Highway Administration.
§ 3-431 HANDICAPPED OR DISABLED PERSONS; HANDICAPPED PARKING INFRACTION;
DEFINED.
   For the purpose of this article, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   HANDICAPPED OR DISABLED PERSON. Any individual with a severe visual or
physical impairment which limits personal mobility and results in an inability
to travel unassisted more than 200 feet without the use of a wheelchair,
crutch, walker or prosthetic, orthotic or other assistant device, any
individual whose personal mobility is limited as a result of respiratory
problems and any individual who has permanently lost all or substantially all
the use of one or more limbs.
   HANDICAPPED PARKING INFRACTION. The violation of any section of this article
regulating the use of parking spaces designated for use by handicapped or
disabled persons.
   TEMPORARILY HANDICAPPED OR DISABLED PERSON. Any handicapped or disabled
person whose personal mobility is expected to be limited in such a manner for
no longer than one year.
§ 3-432 HANDICAPPED OR DISABLED PERSONS; PERMIT ISSUANCE.
   (A)   The City Clerk shall take an application from handicapped or disabled
or temporarily handicapped or disabled person or their parent, legal guardian
or foster parent for a permit which will entitle the holder thereof or a person
driving a motor vehicle for the purpose of transporting such holder to park in
those spaces provided for by §§
3-429 through
3-437 of this article. Persons applying for a permit shall complete such forms
as are provided to the City Clerk by the Department of Motor Vehicles and shall
demonstrate to the satisfaction of the City Clerk that he or she is handicapped
or disabled. The City Clerk may require medical certificates and proof of a
handicap or disability.
   (B)   The City Clerk shall issue a permit to approved applicants, and before
issuing such permit, shall enter all information required pursuant to §
3-434 of this article. The City Clerk shall submit to the Department of Motor
Vehicles the name, address and license number of all persons receiving a permit
pursuant to this section.
§ 3-433 HANDICAPPED OR DISABLED PERSONS; MOTOR VEHICLE PERMIT ISSUANCE.
   (A)   The City Clerk shall take an application from any person for a motor
vehicle permit which will entitle the holder thereof or a person driving the
motor vehicle for the purpose of transporting handicapped or disabled persons
or temporarily handicapped or disabled person to park in those spaces provided
by this section, if the motor vehicle is used primarily for the transportation
of such persons. Such parking permit shall be used only when the motor vehicle
for which it was issued is being used for the transportation of handicapped or
disabled persons or temporarily handicapped or disabled persons.
   (B)   Persons applying for permits pursuant to this section shall apply for
a permit for each motor vehicle used for the transportation of handicapped or
disabled persons or temporarily handicapped or disabled persons, shall complete
such forms as are provided by the Department of Motor Vehicles, and shall
demonstrate to the City Clerk that each such motor vehicle is used primarily
for the transportation of handicapped or disabled persons or temporarily
handicapped or disabled persons.
   (C)   The City Clerk shall issue a permit to approved applicants, and before
issuing such permit, shall enter all information required pursuant to §
3-434 of this article. The City Clerk shall submit to the Department of Motor
Vehicles the name, address and license number of all persons receiving a permit
pursuant to this section.
§ 3-434 HANDICAPPED OR DISABLED PERSONS; PERMIT CONTENTS, DUPLICATE PERMITS.
   (A)   The permit to be issued by the City Clerk shall be a card four inches
by four inches in size constructed so that it may be easily and conspicuously
displayed from a vehicle’s rearview mirror and on which is prominently
displayed the date of expiration, the internationally accepted wheelchair
symbol, which symbol is a representation of a person seated in a wheelchair
surrounded by a border six units wide by seven units high, and an identifying
number on the front of the card.
   (B)   The color of the permit issued to handicapped or disabled persons or
for the transportation of such persons shall be white on blue. The permit
issued to temporarily handicapped or disabled persons or for the transportation
of such persons shall be a special distinguishing color as determined by the
Department of Motor Vehicles. The name, address, phone number, date of birth
and age of the handicapped or disabled or temporarily handicapped or disabled
person to whom issued shall appear on the reverse side. The name, address and
phone number of the party to whom issued and the license plate number of the
motor vehicle for which the permit is issued shall appear on the reverse side
of the permit if such permit is issued for a motor vehicle used primarily for
the transportation of handicapped or disabled or temporarily handicapped or
disabled persons.
   (C)   No permit shall be issued to any person or for any motor vehicle if
any valid parking permit has been issued to such permit or for such motor
vehicle if such permit has been suspended pursuant to §
3-436 of this article.
   (D)   A duplicate permit may be provided by the City Clerk without cost if
the original permit is destroyed, lost or stolen. Such duplicate permit shall
be valid for the remainder of the period for which the original permit was
issued.
§ 3-435 HANDICAPPED OR DISABLED PERSONS; PERMITS; PERIOD VALID; RENEWAL; FEE.
   All permits authorized under this section for handicapped or disabled
parking shall be issued for a period ending September 30 of the third year
following the date of issuance. All temporarily handicapped or disabled parking
permits authorized under this section shall be issued for a period ending six
months from the date of issuance, but may be renewed for up to three additional
90-day periods. For each additional 90-day renewal period, there shall be
submitted an additional application with proof of a handicap or disability.
§ 3-436 HANDICAPPED OR DISABLED PERSONS; PERMITS NON-TRANSFERABLE; VIOLATION;
SUSPENSION.
   Permits issued under this section shall not be transferable and shall be
used only by the party to whom issued or for the motor vehicle for which
issued, and only for the purpose for which it is issued. Use by any other
person, for any other motor vehicle, or for any other purpose shall be cause
for suspension of such permit for a period of six months and possible fines.
§ 3-437 HANDICAPPED OR DISABLED PERSONS; REMOVAL OF UNAUTHORIZED VEHICLE;
PENALTY.
   (A)   The owner or person in lawful possession of an off-street parking
facility, after notifying the Police or Sheriff’s Department, and the city
providing on-street parking or owning, operating or providing an off-street
parking facility, may cause the removal, from a stall or space designated
exclusively for handicapped or disabled persons or temporarily handicapped or
disabled persons, of any vehicles not displaying proper identification or the
distinguishing license plates specified in this article if there is posted
immediately adjacent to and visible from such stall or other space a sign which
clearly and conspicuously states the area so designated as a tow-in zone.
   (B)   Anyone parking in any on-street parking space which has been
designated exclusively for handicapped or disabled persons or temporarily
handicapped or disabled persons or motor vehicles for the transportation of
such persons, or in any so exclusively designated parking space in any off-
street parking facility, without properly displaying the proper identification
or when the handicapped or disabled person to whom or for whom the license
plate or permit is issued is not being transported shall be guilty of a
handicapped parking infraction as defined in §
3-431 of this article, and shall be subject to the penalties and procedures set
forth in this article. If the identity of the person who parked the vehicle in
violation of this section cannot be readily determined, the owner or person in
whose name the vehicle is registered shall be held prima facie responsible for
such violation and shall be guilty and subject to the penalty provided for in
this chapter. In the case of a privately owned off-street parking facility, the
owner or person in lawful possession of such facility shall inform the city of
a violation of this section prior to taking any action pursuant to this
section.
§ 3-438 REMOVAL OF VEHICLES FROM PUBLIC PROPERTY.
   (A)   Whenever any peace officer or any authorized employee of a law
enforcement agency who is employed by the city finds a vehicle standing upon a
public street, right-of-way, alley, highway or sidewalk in violation of this
municipal code, such individual may remove the vehicle, have the vehicle
removed, or require the driver or other person in charge of the vehicle to move
such vehicle to a portion off of the roadway or right-of-way.
   (B)   The owner or other person lawfully entitled to possession of any
vehicle towed or stored shall be charged with the reasonable cost of towing and
storage fees. Any such towing or storage fee shall be a lien upon the vehicle
prior to all other claims. Any person towing or storing a vehicle shall be
entitled to retain possession of such vehicle until such charges are paid.
(Or. 884, passed 2-13-2006)
§ 3-439 PARKING ON RESIDENTIAL LOTS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to allow a vehicle or trailer to
be parked within the front yard of a residential lot, unless said vehicle or
trailer is parked on a driveway.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to construct a parking pad or
parking area in the front yard of a residential lot.
   (C)   Parking pads and parking areas in front yards of residential lots,
that were in place prior to 9-30-2010, may continue to be used for parking.
   (D)   Driveways constructed of gravel or crushed rock that were in place
prior to 8-30-2010 may continue to be considered a driveway.
   (E)   Vehicles may not be parked on vacant lots unless said lot is
immediately adjacent and under the same ownership as an abutting lot that is
developed.
   (F)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      DRIVEWAY. A private, solid concrete or asphalt roadway or as a flat
surface, solidly constructed of brick, concrete block or pavers, gravel or
crushed rock, so as to create a surface that does not collect and hold water,
and does not allow vegetation to grow on or through the parking surface, and
which serves the garage or the rear or side yard of the property or provides
access from one point of public right-of-way to another point of public right-
of-way.
      FRONT YARD. The open space extending across the full width of the
residence between the front lot line adjoining a public street and the nearest
line of the residence.
      PARKING PAD or PARKING AREA. A concrete or asphalt area other than a
driveway.
      RESIDENTIAL LOT. Any lot used primarily for residential purposes, even if
said lot or structures on said lot or structures on said lot have commercial or
industrial uses.
      STREET-SIDE SIDE YARD. The yard between the side of the residence and the
street right-of- way, and extending entirely from the front lot line to the
rear lot line of the residence.
      TRAILER. A wheeled cart, wagon or platform, designed to be towed behind a
vehicle as defined above.
      VEHICLE. Every self-propelled land vehicle, passenger vehicle,
watercraft, motor home and camper, except self-propelled chairs used by persons
who are disabled and electric personal assistive mobility devices.
(Ord. 942, passed 9-13-2010)
ARTICLE V: BICYCLES, ROLLER SKATES AND SKATEBOARDS
Section
   
3-501   Bicycles; operation
   
3-502   Clinging to motor vehicle
   
3-503   Roller skating and skateboarding; where prohibited
   
3-504   Pedestrian and motor vehicle right-of-way
   
3-505   Impoundment
§ 3-501 BICYCLES; OPERATION.
   (A)   No person shall ride or propel a bicycle on a street or other public
highway of the village with another person on the handlebars or in any position
in front of the operator.
   (B)   No bicycle shall be operated faster than is reasonable and proper, but
every bicycle shall be operated with reasonable regard to the safety of the
operator and any other persons upon the streets and public highways.
   (C)   Persons riding bicycles shall observe all traffic signs and stop at
all stop signs.
   (D)   No bicycle shall be operated on any street or other public highway
from sunset to sunrise without a headlight visible from the front thereof for
not less than 500 feet on a clear night, and a red reflector on the rear of a
type which shall be visible on a clear night from all distances between 100
feet and 600 feet to the rear when directly in front of lawful lower beams of
headlights on a motor vehicle. A red light visible from a distance of 500 feet
to the rear may be used in addition to such red reflector.
   (E)   Any person who operates a bicycle upon a street or highway shall not
ride more than single file, except on parts of streets or highways set aside
for the exclusive use of bicycles.
   (F)   (1)   Any person who operates a bicycle upon a roadway at less than
the normal speed of traffic at the time and place and under conditions then
existing shall ride as near to the right-hand curb or right-hand edge of the
roadway as practicable, except when:
         (a)   Overtaking and passing another bicycle or vehicle proceeding in
the same direction;
         (b)   Preparing for a left turn onto a private road or driveway or at
an intersection;
         (c)   Reasonably necessary to avoid conditions that make it unsafe to
continue along the right-hand curb or right-hand edge of the roadway, including
fixed or moving objects, stopped or moving vehicles, bicycles, pedestrians,
animals or surface hazards;
         (d)   Riding upon a lane of substandard width which is too narrow for
a bicycle and vehicle to travel safely by side within the lane; or
         (e)   Lawfully operating a bicycle on the paved shoulders of a highway
included in the state highway system as provided in Neb. RS 60-6,142.
      (2)   Any person who operates a bicycle upon a roadway with a posted
speed limit of 35 mph or less on which traffic is restricted to one direction
of movement and which has two or more marked traffic lanes may ride as near to
the lefthand curb or lefthand edge of the roadway as practicable. Whenever a
person operating a bicycle leaves the roadway to ride on the paved shoulder or
leaves the paved shoulder to enter the roadway, the person shall clearly signal
his or her intention and yield the right-of-way to all other vehicles.
   (G)   No person shall park a bicycle on any sidewalk unless a bicycle stand
is located on said sidewalk.
   (H)   No person shall operate a bicycle on the sidewalks within the Business
District.
§ 3-502 CLINGING TO MOTOR VEHICLE.
   No person riding upon any bicycle, coaster, roller skates, sled, skis or toy
vehicle shall attach the same or himself or herself to any moving vehicle upon
any roadway, and it shall be unlawful for the driver of any vehicle to suffer
or permit any person riding upon any bicycle, coaster, roller skates, sled,
skis or toy vehicle to cling to or attach himself or herself or his or her
bicycle, coaster, roller skates, sled, skis or toy vehicle to such vehicle so
driven and operated by him or her.
§ 3-503 ROLLER SKATING AND SKATEBOARDING; WHERE PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate roller skates, in-line skates
or skateboards on any public street, alley, sidewalk or parking lot within the
Central Business C-1 District or the Highway Commercial C-3 District of the
city, or at any other location in the city where official signs are posted
prohibiting the use of skateboards.
§ 3-504 PEDESTRIAN AND MOTOR VEHICLE RIGHT-OF-WAY.
   Any person operating roller skates, in-line skates, skateboards or bicycles
upon a sidewalk or street, where not otherwise prohibited, shall do so at his
or her own risk and shall yield the right-of-way to any and all pedestrians and
motor vehicles.
§ 3-505 IMPOUNDMENT.
   In the event of any violation of the provisions of §§
3-503 or
3-504, the judgment of conviction may include the impoundment of roller skates,
in-line skates or skateboards, or other unpowered vehicle involved in such
violation by the city’s Police Department for a period not to exceed 180 days.
ARTICLE VI: PENAL PROVISION
Section
   
3-601   Violation; penalty
§ 3-601 VIOLATION; PENALTY.
   Any person, firm, association or corporation violating any of the provisions
of the
Chapter 3 for which no other penalty is imposed shall, upon conviction, be
deemed guilty of a misdemeanor, and be fined in any sum not exceeding that
permitted by state law for violation of a municipal ordinance.
CHAPTER 4: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
Article
   
I.   NON-RESIDENT SALESPERSONS
   
II.   LOCAL SALES AND USE TAX
   
III.   LIQUOR REGULATIONS
   
IV.   ELECTRICIANS, GAS FITTERS AND GARBAGE COLLECTORS
   
V.   OCCUPATION TAX
   
VI.   PENAL PROVISION
   
VII.   SEXUALLY-ORIENTED BUSINESSES
   
VIII.   SMALL WIRELESS FACILITIES
ARTICLE I: NON-RESIDENT SALESPERSONS
Section
   
4-101   Application for license
   
4-102   Issuance of license
   
4-103   Duty to carry and display license
   
4-104   Hours of solicitation
§ 4-101 APPLICATION FOR LICENSE.
   (A)   Any non-resident salesperson intending to sell or attempting to sell
at retail any merchandise, magazines, books, services or other items of value
or attempting to take orders or subscriptions for the same within the corporate
limits of the city shall prior to making any attempt to sell such items,
register with the City Clerk. There shall be a charge of $20 per day for any
license, to be paid at the time such license is issued.
   (B)   A license may be granted after the following is provided:
      (1)   The applicant’s full name, current address, telephone number and
proof of identity;
      (2)   A brief description of the nature, character and quality of goods,
wares or merchandise to be offered for sale;
      (3)   The specific location, if any, in which the vendor intends to
conduct business;
      (4)   If the applicant is employed by another, the name and address of
the person, firm, association, organization, company or corporation;
      (5)   If a motor vehicle is to be used, a description of the vehicle
together with the motor vehicle registration number and license number;
      (6)   A sales tax permit as required by Neb. RS 77-2705; and
      (7)   Proof of a public liability bond or insurance policy in an amount
not less than $300,000 for property damage and injuries, including death,
caused by the operation of the business.
(Ord. 922, passed 1-12-2009)
§ 4-102 ISSUANCE OF LICENSE.
   The applicant shall be notified in writing by the City Clerk of the city’s
decision to issue or deny the vending license no earlier than three days, nor
later than 30 days, after the applicant has filed a completed application with
the City Clerk. Each license shall show the name and address of the licensee,
the type of license issued, the kind of goods to be sold, the amount of the
license fee, the date of issuance, the license number, an identifying
description of any vehicle or conveyance used by the licensee plus, where
applicable, the motor vehicle registration number. Each license shall also show
the expiration date of the license and the vendor’s plate number which is
issued by the city.
(Ord. 922, passed 1-12-2009)
§ 4-103 DUTY TO CARRY AND DISPLAY LICENSE.
   (A)   The license herein provided shall at all times be carried on the
person of said salesperson and shall be displayed by the salesperson upon the
request of any citizen of the city or any police officer of the city.
   (B)   All licenses, permits and identification badges issued under this
section are valid for the term of the occupation tax paid by the vendor unless
suspended or revoked and shall be both non-assignable and non-transferable.
(Ord. 922, passed 1-12-2009)
§ 4-104 HOURS OF SOLICITATION.
   It shall be unlawful for any solicitor, salesperson or peddler to solicit
any individual between the hours of 5:00 p.m. and 9:00 a.m., unless the have a
previous appointment with the resident or residents on the premises solicited.
(Ord. 922, passed 1-12-2009)
ARTICLE II: LOCAL SALES AND USE TAX
Section
   
4-201   Sales and use tax; adopted
   
4-202   Administration and collection
§ 4-201 SALES AND USE TAX; ADOPTED.
   There is hereby adopted pursuant to the provisions of Neb. RS 77-2701 to 77-
27,135, known as the Nebraska Revenue Act of 1967, and Neb. RS 77-27,142 to 77-
27,148, known as the Local Option Revenue Act, a sales and use tax of 1% upon
the same transactions within the corporate limits of the city on which the
state is authorized to impose a tax pursuant to the provisions of the
aforementioned statutes of the state as the same may, from time to time, be
amended.
(Ord. 851, passed 6-14-2004)
§ 4-202 ADMINISTRATION AND COLLECTION.
   The administration of the sales and use tax imposed by this article, the
making of returns for the ascertainment and assessment, the provisions for tax
claims and remedies, the laws governing consummation of sales, penalties and
collection, and for the disposition and distribution of the taxes so imposed
and collected shall be as provided by Neb. RS 77-27,142 to 77-27,148, as
amended, and Neb. RS 77-2701 to 77-27,135, as amended.
ARTICLE III: LIQUOR REGULATIONS
Section
   
4-301   Terms, defined
   
4-302   License required
   
4-303   Location
   
4-304   Renewal of license
   
4-305   Hours of sale
   
4-306   Form for citizen complaint
   
4-307   Forms, continued; procedure
   
4-308   Complaint initiated by City Council
   
4-309   Prerequisites to delivery of license
   
4-310   Action on application for license
§ 4-301 TERMS, DEFINED.
   Unless the context otherwise requires, the words and phrases defined in Neb.
RS 53-103, or as hereafter amended or revised, shall be adopted for the purpose
of construing this article; and said words and phrases are hereby incorporated
by reference the same as though copied at full length herein.
§ 4-302 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   No persons shall manufacture for sale, sell, keep for sale, barter or
exchange under any pretext any alcoholic liquor within the city unless said
person shall have in full force and effect a license therefor as provided by
the state’s Liquor Control Act, being Neb. RS 53-101 et seq., as amended.
§ 4-303 LOCATION.
   It shall be unlawful for any person or persons to own, maintain, manage or
hold open to the public any establishment for the purpose of selling at retail
any alcoholic liquor within 150 feet of any church, school, hospital or home
for aged or indigent persons or veterans, their wives or children; provided,
this prohibition shall not apply to any location within such distance when the
said establishment has been licensed by the state’s Liquor Control Commission
at least two years, and to hotels offering restaurant service, regularly
organized clubs or to restaurants where the selling of alcoholic liquors is not
the principal business carried on, if the said hotel, club or restaurant were
licensed and in operation prior to 5-24-1935. No alcoholic liquor, other than
beer, shall be sold for consumption on the premises within 300 feet from the
campus of any college within the city.
§ 4-304 RENEWAL OF LICENSE.
   (A)   The City Clerk shall cause to be published in a legal newspaper in
this city one time between January 10 and January 30 of each year, individual
notice of the right of automatic renewal of each retail liquor and beer license
for which provisions are made in Neb. RS 53-124(5) in the following form:
 
NOTICE OF RENEWAL OF RETAIL LIQUOR LICENSE
 
Notice is hereby given that pursuant to § 53-135.01, the liquor license may be automatically renewed for one year from May 1, 20      , or November 1, 20      for the following retail liquor licensee, to-wit:
 
                                                                            
(Name of Licensee)               (Address of licensed premises)
 
Notice is hereby given that a written protest to the issuance of automatic renewal of license may be filed by any resident of the City of Central City on or before February 10, 20      , or August 10, 20      , in the office of
the City Clerk; that in the event protests are filed by three or more such persons, hearing will be had to determine whether continuation of said license should be allowed.
 
                                                                                                                   
(NAME)
(CITY CLERK)
 
   (B)   Upon publication of the notice of renewal, the City Clerk shall file a
copy of the said notice with the state’s Liquor Control Commission.
§ 4-305 HOURS OF SALE.
   (A)   (1)   It shall be lawful to sell alcoholic liquors within the
corporate limits of the city for consumption on and off the premises only
during the following hours:
 
Beer and wine
Sunday through Friday 6:00 a.m. to 12:00 a.m.
Saturday              6:00 a.m. to 1:00 a.m. Sunday
Liquor
Sunday through Friday 8:00 a.m. to 12:00 a.m.
Saturday              8:00 a.m. to 1:00 a.m. Sunday
 
      (2)   Provided, the sale of alcoholic liquors, including beer, for on and
off sale shall be permitted until 1:00 a.m. on the day following Veterans Day
and December 31.
   (B)   No person or persons shall consume any alcoholic beverages on licensed
premises for a period of time longer than 15 minutes after the time fixed
herein for stopping the sale of alcoholic beverages on said premises.
(Ord. 1001, passed 1-9-2017)
§ 4-306 FORM FOR CITIZEN COMPLAINT.
   The following form is hereby prescribed for the use of residents of the city
desiring to complain to the Mayor and the City Council that any licensee is
violating any provision of the state’s Liquor Control Act, being Neb. RS 53-101
et seq., regulations prescribed by the state’s Liquor Control Commission or any
provision of this article.
 
To the Mayor and City Council of the City of Central City, Nebraska.
 
The undersigned respectfully state:
 
1.   That they are each residents of the City of Central City, Nebraska.
2.   That they believe that                                  , the holder of a Class              license in the aforesaid city, has violated Section                    of (check one or more)
 
           the Nebraska Liquor Control Act.
           the regulations prescribed by the Nebraska Liquor Control Commission.
           the Municipal Code of the City of Central City, Nebraska.
 
3.   That the aforesaid belief is based on the following facts, to-wit:
 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   
 
STATE OF NEBRASKA   )
) ss
COUNTY OF                   )
 
Subscribed in my presence and sworn to before me by                           and                          , this            day of                       , 20          . My commission expires                                             .
 
                                                               
Notary Public
 
§ 4-307 FORMS, CONTINUED; PROCEDURE.
   (A)   The City Clerk shall supply the forms prescribed herein and shall, on
request, supply one to any resident of the city desirous of initiating a
complaint thereon. Any complaint duly executed on the aforesaid form by five
residents of the city and filed with the City Clerk, shall be presented by the
Clerk to the Mayor and City Council at their next meeting. If the Mayor and the
City Council are satisfied that the complaint substantially charges a violation
and that from the facts alleged there is a reasonable cause for such belief,
they shall, by resolution, set the matter for hearing within ten days from the
filing of the complaint.
   (B)   Said resolution shall state the time and place of said hearing and
shall direct the city’s Police Chief to serve the same on the licensee by
delivering to him or her personally a true and certified copy thereof at least
72 hours prior to the time of hearing. Said resolution shall also state the
section or sections of the state’s Liquor Control Act, being Neb. RS 53-101 et
seq., the regulations prescribed by the state’s Liquor Control Commission or
this code alleged to have been violated, and the facts on which said
allegations are based as stated in the complaint. Present at said hearing shall
be the City Attorney and the licensee, who may be represented by counsel
employed by him or her. The complainants shall be present and may be
represented by counsel employed by them. The Mayor and the City Council shall,
within 30 days from the date the complaint is filed, by resolution, dispose of
the complaint, which resolution shall be deemed the final order for purposes of
appeal to the state’s Liquor Control Commission.
§ 4-308 COMPLAINT INITIATED BY CITY COUNCIL.
   The Mayor and City Council may, on their own motion, by resolution, fix the
time and place for a hearing on whether or not a licensee has violated any
section of the state’s Liquor Control Act, being Neb. RS 53-101 et seq., the
regulations of the state’s Liquor Control Commission or this code, which
resolution shall state the section or sections in question. Said resolution
shall be served in the same manner and within the same time as the initial
resolution mentioned in§ 4-307, and insofar as possible the procedure shall be
the same as is provided in that section.
§ 4-309 PREREQUISITES TO DELIVERY OF LICENSE.
   Retail licenses issued or renewed by the state’s Liquor Control Commission
for licensees within this city shall be delivered to said licensee by the City
Clerk, but he or she shall not deliver any such license to a licensee who does
not exhibit receipts showing payment of the occupation tax levied under §
4-501 of this chapter, payment of the license fee, payment of the publication
fee for giving notice of the hearing before the City Council on any application
for license and, if a renewal, payment of the publication fee of the automatic
renewal notice provided for in this code.
§ 4-310 ACTION ON APPLICATION FOR LICENSE.
   (A)   Upon receipt from the state’s Liquor Control Commission of the notice
and copy of the application provided for in Neb. RS 53-131, the City Clerk
shall present it to the Mayor and the City Council at their next meeting, and
said Mayor and City Council shall, by resolution, fix a time and place at which
a hearing will be had and evidence taken under oath from any person desiring to
be heard on the propriety of the issuance of the license in question.
   (B)   Notice of the time and place of such hearing shall be published in a
legal newspaper in the city one time, not less than three nor more than seven
days before the time of hearing. The hearing shall be held not more than 21
days after the date of receipt of the notice and copy of the application by the
City Clerk. After said hearing, the mayor and City Council shall, by
resolution, spread at large in the minute record of their proceedings,
recommend either the issuance or the refusal of said license. The City Clerk
shall thereupon mail to the state’s Liquor Control Commission by first class
mail, postage prepaid, a copy of the resolution which shall state the cost of
the published notice.
ARTICLE IV: ELECTRICIANS, GAS FITTERS AND GARBAGE COLLECTORS
Section
   
4-401   Electricians; permit required
   
4-402   Electricians; bond required
   
4-403   Gas fitters; registration required
   
4-404   Gas fitters; bond
   
4-405   Garbage collection; regulation
§ 4-401 ELECTRICIANS; PERMIT REQUIRED.
   No person shall install any electric apparatus within the corporate limits
without first having obtained a permit to do so.
§ 4-402 ELECTRICIANS; BOND REQUIRED.
   Before any electrician’s permit shall be issued, the applicant may be
required to execute and file with the City Clerk a bond a sum set by resolution
of the City Council and on file at the office of the City Clerk to be approved
by the City Council and conditioned that the permittee shall indemnify and hold
harmless the city from all liability caused by any negligent or intentional act
arising from his or her electrical work or violation of this code and shall pay
all fines imposed upon him or her for any violation thereof. The obligee of
said bond shall be the city, and action may be maintained thereon by anyone
injured by a breach of its conditions for a period of one year after the
completion of any electrical work.
§ 4-403 GAS FITTERS; REGISTRATION REQUIRED.
   (A)   No person or firm shall hereafter engage in the business of
inspecting, cleaning, repairing alteration, sale or installation of natural gas
piping systems and appliances until he or she shall have registered as a gas
fitter, as hereinafter provided.
   (B)   Application for registration shall be made in writing at the office of
the City Clerk showing the name and residence of the applicant and such other
information as may be required.
§ 4-404 GAS FITTERS; BOND.
   Each registered gas fitter, as a condition to the issuance of each
certificate of registration, may be required to obtain and file with the City
Clerk a personal surety bond in a sum set by resolution of the City Council and
on file at the office of the City Clerk, signed by one or more sufficient
sureties or a corporate surety doing business in the city to be approved by the
City Council conditioned that the said registered gas fitter shall indemnify
and hold harmless the city from all accidents, damage, liability, claims,
judgments, costs or expenses caused by the willful or negligent conduct of the
gas fitter. During the period of such registration, the applicant for
registration will be governed by the rules and requirements herein provided, or
that may hereafter be prescribed and adopted by the city during the period of
his or her said registration, with reference to natural gas work, to the
satisfaction of the city. The obligee of said bond shall be the city, and
action may be maintained thereon by anyone injured by a breach of its
condition. All bonds tendered by gas fitters shall be approved in writing as to
form and substance by the City Attorney. In addition to the filing of the
aforesaid bond, each registered fitter shall obtain and file a certificate
thereof with the City Clerk, a general, public liability insurance policy for
property damage and bodily injury in policy limits set by resolution of the
City Council and on file at the office of the Clerk. Action may be maintained
thereon by anyone injured by a breach of the conditions of the bond or the
covenants contained in the required endorsement on the policy of insurance for
a period of one year after the completion of any gas fitting work.
§ 4-405 GARBAGE COLLECTION; REGULATION.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to own, operate or participate in the
removal of garbage for a fee until and unless the said person has contracted
with or has received a license from the City Council, and secured a bond in
accordance with the procedure outlined in
Ch. 6, Art. V, of this codification.
ARTICLE V: OCCUPATION TAX
Section
   
4-501   Occupation tax; amounts
   
4-502   Reserved
   
4-503   Collection date
   
4-504   Certificates
   
4-505   Failure to pay
   
4-506   Hotel accommodations
   
4-507   “Hotel” defined
   
4-508   “Occupied room” defined; exceptions
   
4-509   Collection
   
4-510   Records
   
4-511   Due date
   
4-512   Use of revenue
   
4-513   Penalty
§ 4-501 OCCUPATION TAX; AMOUNTS.
   (A)   For the purpose of raising revenue, an occupation tax is hereby levied
on the following business:
Billiards and/or pool tables, per year:
   First table                                                          $25
   Each additional table                                                $10
Bowling alleys, per year                                                   $30
Pawn shop                                                                  $50
Retailer of beer only, consumption on the premises, per year               $75
Retailer of beer only: sales in original packages only for consumption off $50
the premises, per year
Retailer of alcoholic liquors, including beer, sales in original package   $250
only for consumption off the premises, per year
Retailer of alcoholic liquors, including beer, by non-profit               $125
organizations, for consumption on the premises only, per year
Retailer of alcoholic liquors for consumption on the premises and off the  $375
premises (sales in original package only) per year
 
   (B)   Alternative electric utility providers. An occupation tax is hereby
imposed on all alternative electric utility providers operating within the city
limits. The tax shall be levied at a rate of $0.0033 per kilowatt-hour (kWh) of
electric power and energy provided to consumers within the city limits.
      (1)   The alternative electric utility provider may pass through the cost
of the occupation tax to its consumers. The amount passed through shall be
itemized separately on consumer bills as "City of Central City Occupation Tax."
The alternative electric utility provider shall collect the occupation tax from
consumers and remit the collected amount to the City of Central City on a
monthly basis. The remittance shall be accompanied by a report detailing the
total kilowatt-hours provided and the corresponding tax amount collected.
      (2)   For the purposes of this section, an ALTERNATIVE ELECTRIC UTILITY
PROVIDER is defined as any electric utility provider that is not the City of
Central City. This includes, but is not limited to, any company, corporation,
partnership, or entity that supplies electric power and energy to consumers
within the city limits of Central City, Nebraska, other than the municipal
electric utility operated by the city.
(Ord. 939, passed 5-10-2010; Ord. 1125, passed 8-12-2024)
§ 4-502 RESERVED.
§ 4-503 COLLECTION DATE.
   All occupation taxes shall be due and payable on May 1 and November 1 of
each year, except in the event that the said tax is levied daily, and upon the
payment thereof by any person or persons to the City Clerk, the said Clerk
shall give a receipt, properly dated and specifying the person paying the said
tax and the amount paid. The revenue collected shall then be immediately
deposited into the General Fund by the City Treasurer. The City Treasurer shall
keep an accurate account of all revenue turned over to him or her. All forms
and receipts herein mentioned shall be issued in duplicate. One copy shall then
be kept by each party in the transaction.
§ 4-504 CERTIFICATES.
   The receipt issued after the payment of any occupation tax shall be the
occupation tax certificate. The said certificate shall specify the amount of
the tax and the name of the person and business that paid the tax. The
occupation tax certificate shall then be displayed in a prominent place or
carried in such a way as to be easily accessible while business is being
conducted.
§ 4-505 FAILURE TO PAY.
   (A)   If any person, company or corporation fails or neglects to pay the
occupation taxes as provided herein on the day it becomes due and payable, the
city shall then proceed by civil suit to collect the amount due.
   (B)   All delinquent taxes shall bear interest at the rate of 1% per month
until paid.
§ 4-506 HOTEL ACCOMMODATIONS.
   Each person engaged in the business of operating a hotel in the city shall
pay an occupation tax in the amount of 3% of the basic rental rate charged per
occupied room per night.
(Ord. 1004, passed 1-9-2017)
§ 4-507 “HOTEL” DEFINED.
   HOTEL shall mean any facility in which the public may, for a consideration,
obtain sleeping accommodations in any space ordinarily used for accommodations.
The term shall include hotels, motels, lodging houses and inns; but HOTEL shall
not be defined so as to include hospitals, sanitariums, nursing homes, chronic
care centers or dormitories or facilities operated by an educational
institution and regularly used to house students.
(Ord. 1004, passed 1-9-2017)
§ 4-508 “OCCUPIED ROOM” DEFINED; EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   OCCUPIED ROOM shall mean any space ordinarily used for sleeping
accommodations and for which any occupant has, for consideration, obtained the
use or possession, or the right to use or possess, for a period not to exceed
30 continuous days. The term does not include a function room such as a
ballroom, banquet room, reception room or meeting room; provided, it is not
used as temporary sleeping accommodations.
   (B)   The term OCCUPIED ROOM shall not mean, and no tax imposed by this
article shall be measured by or collected for:
      (1)   Complimentary or other sleeping accommodations for which no
consideration is charged;
      (2)   Sleeping accommodations for which the consideration is paid by a
person not subject to the sales and use tax imposed by the state’s Revenue Act
of 1967, being Neb. RS 13-2816 and Neb. RS. Chapter 77, Article 27, as it is
amended from time to time; or
      (3)   Sleeping accommodations leased by an employer for use by its
employees when a specific room is the subject of the lease, the lease extends
for more than 30 consecutive days, and consideration is actually paid for use
during at least 30 consecutive days.
(Ord. 1004, passed 1-9-2017)
§ 4-509 COLLECTION.
   (A)   The tax imposed by this article shall be collected by the hotel
operator from the occupant of each room to which the tax applies. The tax may
be shown as an add-on charge for occupancy of the rooms and shall be
collectible at the time the lodging is furnished, regardless of when the charge
for the occupancy is paid.
   (B)   The operator shall remain responsible for payment of all taxes imposed
whether or not the taxes are actually collected from the guests.
(Ord. 1004, passed 1-9-2017)
§ 4-510 RECORDS.
   It shall be unlawful for any hotel operator subject to this article to fail
to maintain or fail to make available to the city, upon 72 hours’ notice,
written records accurately and completely evidencing the number of rooms
occupied, the dates the rooms are occupied, the amount of occupation tax due or
paid under this section, and such other information as is required by the City
Clerk/Treasurer. Such records shall be maintained for a period of three years
after the occupation tax is due.
(Ord. 1004, passed 1-9-2017)
§ 4-511 DUE DATE.
   (A)   Notwithstanding any contrary provision of this article, the tax
imposed by this article shall be due and payable on the fifteenth day of each
calendar month next succeeding the month during which the room was occupied.
All taxes not paid by the twenty-fifth day of the month in which they are due
and payable shall be deemed to be delinquent.
   (B)   The operator shall be assessed a penalty of 10% on all delinquent
amounts as well as interest of 1% per month or fraction thereof from the first
of the month in which such tax becomes due and payable until the date of
payment.
(Ord. 1004, passed 1-9-2017)
§ 4-512 USE OF REVENUE.
   It is the intent of the City Council that the revenue generated by the
occupation tax shall be used for community promotion efforts or to support
community events. Community organizations, such as the Chamber of Commerce, may
apply to the City Council for funds as they become available. Funds will be
paid directly to vendors or service providers.
(Ord. 1004, passed 1-9-2017)
§ 4-513 PENALTY.
   Any person, partnership, firm or corporation violating any of the provisions
of this article shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor. Each distinct act or
violation of the terms of this section shall constitute a separate offense.
(Ord. 1004, passed 1-9-2017)
ARTICLE VI: PENAL PROVISION
Section
   
4-601   Violation; penalty
§ 4-601 VIOLATION; PENALTY.
   Anyone violating any of the terms and conditions of any of the foregoing
chapter and articles shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be fined
in a sum not to exceed that permitted by state law for violation of a municipal
ordinance.
ARTICLE VII: SEXUALLY-ORIENTED BUSINESSES
Section
   
4-701   Purpose
   
4-702   Definitions
   
4-703   Location
   
4-704   License required
   
4-705   License issuance and grounds for denial
   
4-706   Renewal of license
   
4-707   Revocation
   
4-708   Additional regulations
   
4-709   Hours of operation
   
4-710   Violation a misdemeanor
§ 4-701 PURPOSE.
   It is the purpose of this article is to regulate sexually-oriented
businesses, to promote the health, safety, morals and general welfare of the
citizens of the city, and to establish reasonable and uniform regulations of
sexually-oriented businesses within the city. The provisions of this article
have neither the purpose, nor effect, of imposing a limitation or restriction
on the content of any communicative materials, including sexually-oriented
materials. Similarly, it is not the intent nor effect of this article to
restrict or deny access by adults to sexually-oriented materials protected by
the First Amendment or to deny access by the distributors and exhibitors of
sexually-oriented entertainment to their intended market.
(Ord. 971, passed 5-13-2013)
§ 4-702 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this article, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   NUDITY or A STATE OF NUDITY. A state of dress which fails to completely and
opaquely cover a human buttock, vulva, anus, male genitals or female genitals,
or any part of the female breast or breasts that is situated below a point
immediately above the top of the areola of the female breast.
   SEXUALLY-ORIENTED BUSINESS.
      (1)   A commercial establishment to which the public is permitted or
invited which, as its principal business purpose, offers for sale, rental or
viewing, for any form of consideration any one or more of the following:
         (a)   Books, magazines, periodicals or other printed matter, or
photographs, films, motion pictures, video cassettes or video reproductions,
slides or other visual representations which depict or describe activities
which are characterized by the exposure of human genitals in a state of sexual
arousal or simulated to be in a state of sexual arousal, pubic region or pubic
hair; any buttock; or any portion of the female breast or breasts that is
situated below a point immediately above the top of the areola, when less than
completely and opaquely covered; and
         (b)   Instruments, devices, or paraphernalia or any other items
intended to provide sexual stimulation or sexual gratification to its
customers, or are designed for use in activities which are distinguished by or
characterized by an emphasis on matter depicting, describing or relating to
sexual activities which are designed for use in connection with sexual
activities which are characterized by the exposure of human genitals in a state
of sexual arousal or simulated to be in a state of sexual arousal, pubic region
or pubic hair; any buttock; or any portion of the female breast or breasts that
is situated below a point immediately above the top of the areola, when less
than completely and opaquely covered. This does not include items used for
birth control or for prevention of sexually transmitted diseases.
      (2)   The term SEXUALLY-ORIENTED BUSINESS shall not be construed to
include:
         (a)   Any business operated by or employing a licensed psychologist,
licensed physical therapist, licensed masseuse, licensed vocational nurse,
registered nurse, licensed athletic trainer, licensed cosmetologist or licensed
barber engaged in performing the normal and customary functions authorized
under the license held;
         (b)   Any business operated by or employing a licensed physician or
licensed chiropractor engaged in practicing the healing arts;
         (c)   Any retail establishment whose principal business is the
offering of wearing apparel for sale to customers and that does not exhibit
merchandise on live models; or
         (d)   An activity conducted or sponsored by a proprietary school
licensed by the state or a college, junior college or university supported
entirely or partly by taxation; or by a private college or university which
maintains or operates educational programs in which credits are transferable to
a college, junior college or university supported entirely or partly by
taxation.
(Ord. 971, passed 5-13-2013)
§ 4-703 LOCATION.
   A person commits an offense if he or she establishes, operates or causes to
be operated or expanded a sexually-oriented business within 1,000 feet of a
church; a public or private elementary or secondary school; a boundary of a
residential district; a licensed day care center; or a public park.
(Ord. 971, passed 5-13-2013)
§ 4-704 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   (A)   A person commits an offense if the person operates or causes to
operate a sexually-oriented business without a valid license, issued by the
city for the particular type of business.
   (B)   Any person, association, firm, partnership or corporation desiring to
obtain a sexually-oriented business license shall make application on a form
provided by the Chief of Police. The application must be accompanied by a
sketch or diagram showing the configuration of the premises, including a
statement of total floor space occupied by the business. The sketch or diagram
need not be professionally prepared, but must be drawn to a designated scale or
drawn with marked dimensions of the interior of the premises to an accuracy of
plus or minus six inches.
   (C)   The applicant must be qualified according to the provisions of this
article.
   (D)   An individual person who wishes to operate a sexually-oriented
business must sign the application for a license as applicant. If a person who
wishes to operate a sexually-oriented business is other than an individual,
each individual who has a 20% or greater interest in the business must sign the
application for a license as applicant.
   (E)   Each applicant shall be considered a licensee if a license is granted.
   (F)   The fact that a person possesses other types of state or city permits
does not exempt that person from the requirement of obtaining a license for a
sexually-oriented business.
   (G)   All applications for a license under this article shall be accompanied
by a non-refundable application fee. The fee is $500. An application shall not
be considered to have been received until the fee is paid and all information
required by the application form has been submitted.
   (H)   A licensee or operator commits an offense if the licensee or operator
fails to display a legible copy of the complete permit or certificate on the
exterior of the sexually-oriented business premises. Such copy of the permit or
certificate must be prominently and continuously displayed where customers
enter the premises and immediately adjacent to such entrances.
(Ord. 971, passed 5-13-2013)
§ 4-705 LICENSE ISSUANCE AND GROUNDS FOR DENIAL.
   The city’s Code Enforcement Officer shall approve the issuance of a license
to an applicant within 30 days after receipt of an application, unless the
city’s Code Enforcement Officer finds one or more of the following to be true:
   (A)   The location of the sexually-oriented business is or would be in
violation of this article;
   (B)   The applicant failed to supply all of the information requested on the
application;
   (C)   The applicant gave false, fraudulent or untruthful information on the
application;
   (D)   An applicant is under 18 years of age;
   (E)   An applicant or an applicant’s spouse is overdue in payment to the
city of taxes, fees, fines or penalties assessed against or imposed upon the
applicant or the applicant’s spouse in relation to a sexually-oriented
business;
   (F)   An applicant or an applicant’s spouse has been convicted or placed on
deferred disposition, probation or community supervision for a violation of a
provision of this article, within two years immediately preceding the
application. The fact that a conviction is being appealed shall have no effect;
and
   (G)   An applicant or an applicant’s spouse has been convicted or placed on
deferred disposition, probation or community supervision for a violation of the
laws of the state, or any other jurisdiction for: prostitution; promotion of
prostitution; aggravated promotion of prostitution; compelling prostitution;
obscenity; sale, distribution or display of harmful material to a minor; sexual
performance by a child; possession of child pornography; indecent exposure;
indecency with a child; sexual assault or aggravated sexual assault; incest,
solicitation of a child or harboring a runaway child; for which less than five
years have elapsed since the date of conviction, or the date of release from
the terms of community supervision, probation, parole or deferred disposition
or the date of release from confinement for the conviction, whichever is the
later date, or the applicant or the applicant’s spouse is required to register
as a sex offender under the provisions of state law.
(Ord. 971, passed 5-13-2013)
§ 4-706 RENEWAL OF LICENSE.
   (A)   Each license shall expire one year after the date of issuance. Renewal
of a license may be applied for by submission to the city’s Code Enforcement
Officer of an application on the form prescribed by such official and payment
of a non-refundable renewal processing fee of $500.
   (B)   Application for renewal shall be made at least 30 days before the
expiration date of the current license.
(Ord. 971, passed 5-13-2013)
§ 4-707 REVOCATION.
   The city’s Code Enforcement Officer may revoke a sexually-oriented business
license if the city’s Code Enforcement Officer determines that within a five-
year period of time a licensee(s) or operator(s) (or any combination thereof)
has/have been convicted of or placed on deferred disposition, probation or
community supervision for conduct occurring in a licensing period on the
premises of a sexually-oriented business that constitutes any of the offenses
of the state which would subject the person to file as a sex offender; if a
licensee or operator gave false or misleading information in the material
submitted to the Chief of Police during the application process; if a licensee
or operator has knowingly allowed possession, use or sale of a controlled
substance on the premises; if a licensee or operator has on two or more
occasions knowingly allowed prostitution on the premises.
(Ord. 971, passed 5-13-2013)
§ 4-708 ADDITIONAL REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Any employee of a sexually-oriented business commits an offense if the
employee, while appearing in a state of nudity touches a customer or the
clothing of a customer.
   (B)   A licensee, operator or employee commits an offense if the licensee,
operator or employee appears in a state of nudity or knowingly allows another
to appear in a state of nudity in an area of the sexually-oriented business
premises which can be viewed from the public right-of-way.
   (C)   A person commits an offense if the person employs at a sexually-
oriented business any person under the age of 18 years.
   (D)   A person commits an offense if the person knowingly allows a person
under the age of 18 years to appear in a state of nudity in or on the premises.
   (E)   Live entertainment is prohibited in any room or booth of less than 500
square feet of floor space, as well as any other room adjacent to or visible
from any viewing room or booth.
   (F)   The owners, operator and any agents and employees present on the
premises shall ensure: that the view area specified in division (E) above
remains unobstructed by any doors, curtains, partitions, walls, merchandise,
display racks or other materials at all times that any customer is present on,
in or about the premises; and, that no customer is permitted access to any area
of the premises which has been designated as an area in which customers will
not be permitted in the application.
   (G)   A licensee, operator or employee commits an offense if the licensee,
operator or employee knowingly allows a person under the age of 18 years on the
premises of a sexually-oriented business.
   (H)   A licensee, operator or employee commits an offense if the licensee,
operator or employee knowingly allows, in a sexually-oriented business, another
to appear in a state of nudity, unless the person is an employee who, while in
a state of nudity, is on a stage (on which no customer is present) at least 18
inches above the floor, and is:
      (1)   At least six feet from any customer (hereinafter called “unenclosed
performance stage”); or
      (2)   Physically separated from customers by a wall or partition composed
of solid glass or light-transmitting plastic, or substantially equivalent
material extending from the floor of the performance stage to at least five
feet above the level of the performance stage, but such that there are no
openings in the wall or partition that would permit physical contact between
customers and such employee.
   (I)   It is an offense for an employee, while in a state of nudity in a
sexually-oriented business, to receive directly any pay or gratuity from any
patron or customer, or for any patron or customer to pay or give any gratuity
directly to any employee, while that employee is in a state of nudity in a
sexually- oriented business. Such gratuity or pay may be provided to such
employee through a tip receptacle, located more than six feet from the nearest
point of the performance stage where such employee is in a state of nudity, or
may be paid to an employee that is not in a state of nudity, as part of the
customer’s bill.
   (J)   (1)   A licensee or operator commits an offense if the licensee or
operator fails to display a sign on the interior of the sexually-oriented
business premises notifying customers and employees:
 
TOUCHING OR TIPPING AN EMPLOYEE WHO IS IN A STATE OF NUDITY IS A CRIME
(MISDEMEANOR), PUNISHABLE BY FINE UP TO $200. PATRONS SHALL REMAIN AT LEAST SIX
FEET FROM ALL UNENCLOSED PERFORMANCE STAGES.
 
      (2)   The city’s Code Enforcement Officer may require, at the time of
issuance or renewal of the license, the licensee to also display the sign in a
language other than English if he or she determines that a substantial portion
of the expected customers speak the other language as their familiar language.
   (K)   A person having a duty under divisions (A) through (J) above commits a
misdemeanor if he or she knowingly fails to fulfill that duty.
(Ord. 971, passed 5-13-2013)
§ 4-709 HOURS OF OPERATION.
   No sexually-oriented business may remain open at any time between the hours
of 2:00 a.m. and 8:00 a.m. on weekdays and Saturdays and 2:00 a.m. and 12:00
p.m. on Sundays.
(Ord. 971, passed 5-13-2013)
§ 4-710 VIOLATION A MISDEMEANOR.
   Any person, firm, corporation, agent or employee thereof who violates any of
the provisions of this article shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon
conviction thereof, shall be fined an amount not to exceed $1,000 for each
offense. Each day that a violation is permitted to exist shall constitute a
separate offense.
(Ord. 971, passed 5-13-2013)
ARTICLE VIII: SMALL WIRELESS FACILITIES
Section
   
4-801   Definitions
   
4-802   Non-exclusivity, charges, permitted use and right-of-way criteria
   
4-803   Agreement for use of the right-of-way
   
4-804   Municipal poles
   
4-805   Rates and fees
   
4-806   Administrative review
   
4-807   Right-of-way construction and installation requirements
   
4-808   Attachment to and replacement of decorative poles
   
4-809   General work requirements
   
4-810   Location of new facilities
   
4-811   Removal, relocation and abandonment
   
4-812   Indemnification
   
4-813   Insurance
   
4-814   Independent technical and legal review
   
4-815   Federal and state shot clocks
   
4-816   Relief
   
4-817   Other approvals
§ 4-801 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this article, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACT. The Small Wireless Facilities Deployment Act (Legislative Bill 184
adopted by the Legislature and approved by the Governor on 5-17-2019).
   ANTENNA. Communications equipment that transmits or receives electromagnetic
radio frequency signals used in providing wireless services.
   APPLICABLE CODES. Uniform Building, Fire, Safety, Electrical, Plumbing or
Mechanical Codes adopted by a recognized national code organization or local
amendments to such codes so long as such amendments are not in conflict with
the Act and to the extent such codes have been adopted by the authority and are
generally applicable in the jurisdiction.
   APPLICANT. Any person who submits an application and is a wireless provider.
   APPLICATION. A written request submitted by an applicant to an authority:
      (1)   For a permit to collocate small wireless facilities on an existing
utility pole or wireless support structure; or
      (2)   For a permit for approval for the installation, modification or
replacement of a utility pole to support the installation of a small wireless
facility.
   AUTHORITY. The State of Nebraska or any agency, county, city, village or
other political subdivision thereof, except as otherwise excluded herein.
AUTHORITY does not include public power suppliers, state courts having
jurisdiction over an authority, or an entity that does not have zoning or
permit-granting authority.
   AUTHORITY POLE. A utility pole owned, managed or operated by or on behalf of
an authority.
   COLLOCATE or COLLOCATION. To install, mount, maintain, modify, operate or
replace small wireless facilities on or adjacent to a wireless support
structure or utility pole. COLLOCATE or COLLOCATION does not include the
installation of a new utility pole or new wireless support structure in the
right-of-way.
   COMMUNICATIONS FACILITY. The set of equipment and network components
including wires, cables, and associated facilities used by a cable operator as
defined in 47 U.S.C. § 522(5), as such section existed on 1-1-2019, a
telecommunications carrier as defined in 47 U.S.C. § 153(51), as such section
existed on 1-1-2019, a provider of information service as defined in 47 U.S.C.
§ 153(24), as such section existed on 1-1-2019, or a wireless services
provider, to provide communications services, including cable service as
defined in 47 U.S.C. § 153(8), as such section existed on 1-1-2019, an
information service as defined in 47 U.S.C. § 153(24), as such section existed
on 1-1-2019, wireless services or other one-way or two-way communications
service.
   COMMUNICATIONS NETWORK. A network used to provide communications service.
   COMMUNICATIONS SERVICE. A cable service as defined in 47 U.S.C. § 522, as
such section existed on 1-1-2019, an information service as defined in 47
U.S.C. § 153, as such section existed on 1-1-2019, a telecommunications service
as defined in 47 U.S.C. § 153, as such section existed on 1-1-2019, or a
wireless service.
   COMMUNICATIONS SERVICE PROVIDER. A cable operator as defined in 47 U.S.C. §
522, a provider of information service as defined in 47 U.S.C. § 153, or a
telecommunications cameras defined in 47 U.S.C. § 153, as such sections existed
on 1-1-2019. COMMUNICATIONS SERVICE PROVIDER includes a wireless provider.
   DECORATIVE POLE. An authority pole that is specially designed and placed for
aesthetic purposes.
   DISTRIBUTED ANTENNA SYSTEM. A network consisting of transceiver equipment at
a central hub site to support multiple antenna locations throughout the desired
coverage area.
   ELIGIBLE FACILITIES REQUEST. As defined in federal regulations.
   FAA. The Federal Aviation Administration.
   FCC. The Federal Communications Commission.
   FEE. A one-time, non-recurring charge.
   GOVERNING BODY. The group of elected officials which is able to make
decisions on behalf of the municipality. The City Council.
   HISTORIC DISTRICT. Any prehistoric or historic district, site, building,
structure or object included in, or eligible for inclusion in, the National
Register of Historic Places, in accordance with Stipulation VI.D.1.a(i)-(v) of
the Nationwide Programmatic Agreement for Review of Effects on Historic
Properties for Certain Undertakings Approved by the Federal Communications
Commission codified at 47 C.F.R. part 1, App. C, as such regulation existed on
1-1-2019, or designated pursuant to state historic preservation law if such
designation exists at the time of application.
   LAW. Federal, state or local law, statute, common law, code, rule,
regulation, order or ordinance.
   MACRO CELL. An antenna or antennas mounted on a tower, ground-based mast,
rooftops or structures, at a height that provides coverage to the surrounding
area.
   MICROWIRELESS FACILITY. A small wireless facility that is not larger in
dimension than 24 inches in length, 15 inches in width and 12 inches in height
and with any exterior antenna no longer than 11 inches.
   MUNICIPALITY. The City of Central City, Nebraska.
   PERMIT. A written authorization required by an authority to perform an
action, initiate, continue or complete installation of a small wireless
facility on an existing utility pole or attached to an existing wireless
support structure, or to install, modify or replace a utility pole to support
installation of a small wireless facility.
   PERSON. An individual, a corporation, a limited liability company, a
partnership, an association, a trust or any other entity or organization,
including an authority.
   POLE. A legally constructed pole, such as a utility, lighting or similar
pole made of wood, concrete, metal or other material, located or to be located
within the right-of-way.
   PUBLIC POWER SUPPLIER. A public power district or any other governmental
entity providing electric service. PUBLIC POWER SUPPLIER includes a municipal
electric utility or a rural public power supplier.
   RATE. A recurring charge.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY. The area on, below, or above a public roadway, highway,
street, sidewalk, alley, dedicated utility easement or similar property, but
not including a freeway, as defined in Neb. RS 39-1302, the National System of
Interstate and Defense Highways, or a private easement.
   ROUTINE MAINTENANCE. Inspections, testing or repair that maintain functional
capacity, aesthetic and structural integrity of a small wireless facility and
the associated structure, pole or tower, and that does not involve impeding,
damaging or disturbing any portion of the right-of-way.
   RURAL PUBLIC POWER SUPPLIER. A public power district, a public power and
irrigation district, an electric cooperative or an electric membership
association, that does not provide electric service to any city of the
metropolitan class, city of the primary class or city of the first class.
   SMALL WIRELESS FACILITY. A wireless facility that meets each of the
following conditions:
      (1)   The facilities:
         (a)   Are mounted on structures 50 feet or less in height including
the antennas; or
         (b)   Are mounted on structures no more than ten percent taller than
other adjacent structures.
      (2)   Each antenna associated with the deployment is no more than three
cubic feet in volume;
      (3)   All other equipment associated with the structure, whether ground-
mounted or pole-mounted, is no more than 28 cubic feet in volume;
      (4)   The facilities do not require antenna structure registration under
47 C.F.R. part 17, as such regulation existed on 1-1-2019;
      (5)   The facilities are not located on tribal lands, as defined in 36
C.F.R. § 800.16(x), as such regulation existed on 1-1-2019; and
      (6)   The facilities do not result in human exposure to radio frequency
radiation in excess of the applicable safety standards specified in 47 C.F.R. §
1.1307(b), as such regulation existed on 1-1-2019.
   STATE. The State of Nebraska.
   STEALTH. A design that minimizes the visual impact of wireless communication
facilities by camouflaging, disguising, screening or blending them into the
surrounding environment. Examples of stealth design include, but are not
limited to, facilities disguised as trees (monopines), flagpoles, utility and
light poles, bell towers, clock towers, ballfield lights and architecturally
screened roof-mounted antennas or flush-mounted antennas that are either
painted to match or enclosed in an architecturally, applicable box.
   SUBSTANTIAL CHANGE. As defined in federal regulations.
   TECHNICALLY FEASIBLE. By virtue of engineering or spectrum usage, the
proposed placement for a small wireless facility, or its design or site
location, can be implemented without a reduction in the functionality of the
small wireless facility.
   TOWER. Any structure in the right-of-way built for the sole or primary
purpose of supporting a wireless communication facility.
   TOWER HEIGHT. The vertical distance measured from the base of the tower
structure at grade to the highest point of the structure including the antenna.
A lightning rod, not to exceed ten feet in height, shall not be included within
TOWER HEIGHT.
   TRANSMISSION EQUIPMENT. Equipment that facilitates transmission for any FCC-
licensed or authorized wireless communication service, including, but not
limited to, radio transceivers, antennas, microwave dishes, coaxial or fiber-
optic cable and backup power supplies. The term includes equipment associated
with wireless communication services including, but not limited to, private,
broadcast and public safety services, as well as unlicensed wireless services
and fixed wireless services such as microwave backhaul.
   UTILITY POLE. A pole located in the right-of-way that is used for wireline
communications, lighting, the vertical portion of support structures for
traffic-control signals or devices or a similar function, or for the
collocation of small wireless facilities and located in the right-of-way.
UTILITY POLE does not include:
      (1)   Wireless support structures;
      (2)   Any transmission infrastructure owned or operated by a public power
supplier or rural public power supplier; and
      (3)   Any distribution or communications infrastructure owned or operated
by a rural public power supplier.
   WIRELESS FACILITY.
      (1)   Equipment at a fixed location that enables wireless communications
between user equipment and a communications network, including:
         (a)   Equipment associated with wireless communications; and
         (b)   Radio transceivers, antennas, coaxial or fiber-optic cable,
regular power supply and small back-up battery, regardless of technological
configuration.
      (2)   WIRELESS FACILITY includes small wireless facilities;
      (3)   WIRELESS FACILITY does not include:
         (a)   The structure or improvements on, under or within the equipment
which is collocated;
         (b)   Coaxial or fiber-optic cable that is between wireless structures
or utility poles or that is otherwise not immediately adjacent to, or directly
associated with, a particular antenna; or
         (c)   A wireline backhaul facility.
   WIRELESS INFRASTRUCTURE PROVIDER. Any person, including a person authorized
to provide telecommunications service in the state, when acting to build or
install wireless communication transmission equipment, wireless facilities or
wireless support structures, but that is not a wireless services provider.
   WIRELESS PROVIDER or PROVIDER. A wireless services provider or a wireless
infrastructure provider when acting as a coapplicant for a wireless services
provider.
   WIRELESS SERVICES. Any services using licensed or unlicensed spectrum,
including the use of Wi-Fi, whether mobile or at a fixed location, provided to
the public using wireless facilities.
   WIRELESS SERVICES PROVIDER. A person who provides wireless services.
   WIRELESS SUPPORT STRUCTURE.
      (1)   A structure such as a guyed or self-supporting tower, billboard,
building or other existing or proposed structure designed to support or capable
of supporting wireless facilities other than a structure designed solely for
the collocation of small wireless facilities.
      (2)   WIRELESS SUPPORT STRUCTURE does not include a utility pole.
   WIRELINE BACKHAUL FACILITY. An above-ground or underground facility used to
transport communications services from a wireless facility to a communications
network.
(Ord. 1040, passed 12-9-2019)
§ 4-802 NON-EXCLUSIVITY, CHARGES, PERMITTED USE AND RIGHT-OF-WAY CRITERIA.
   This section applies only to activities of a wireless provider within the
right-of-way to deploy small wireless facilities and associated utility poles.
   (A)   The municipality shall not enter into an exclusive arrangement with
any person for use of the right-of-way.
   (B)   Subject to the other provisions of this article, the municipality may
only charge a wireless provider on a non-discriminatory basis the rate or fee
provided in the Act for the use of any right-of-way for the collocation of
small wireless facilities or the installation, maintenance, modification,
operation or replacement of a utility pole in the right-of-way if the authority
charges other entities for the use of the right-of-way.
   (C)   Except as provided in this article, a wireless provider shall have the
right, as a permitted use not subject to zoning review or approval, to
collocate small wireless facilities and install, maintain, modify, operate and
replace utility poles along, across, upon and under the right-of-way so long as
such facilities and poles do not obstruct or hinder the usual travel or public
safety on such right-of-way or obstruct the legal use of such right-of-way by
utilities or the safe operation of their systems or provision of service. Small
wireless facilities to be located in an airport hazard area shall comply with
any regulations governing such area.
   (D)   This article only applies to the deployment of small wireless
facilities in the right-of-way with the exception that the application fees
provided in the FCC’s Declaratory Ruling and Third Report and Order released 9-
27-2018 apply to small wireless facilities in and outside of the right-of-way.
   (E)   (1)   Any new or modified utility pole installed in a right-of-way-
shall not exceed the greater of:
         (a)   Five feet in height above the tallest existing utility pole in
place as of the effective date of the Act located within 500 feet of the new
utility pole in the same right-of-way; or
         (b)   Fifty feet above ground level.
      (2)   New small wireless facilities in a right-of-way shall not extend
more than the greater of:
         (a)   Fifty feet in height, including antenna; or
         (b)   More than five feet above an existing utility pole in place as
of the effective date of the Act and located within 500 feet in the same right-
of-way.
      (3)   The municipality shall have the right, at its sole discretion and
subject to applicable non- discriminatory regulations, to consider and approve
an application to install a utility pole or wireless support structure that
exceeds the height limits in this division (E) for the right to collocate a
small wireless facility and install, maintain, modify, operate and replace a
utility pole that exceeds such height limits along, across, upon and under a
right-of-way.
   (F)   An applicant may request approval from the municipality, as part of
the application process, to replace a decorative pole when necessary to
collocate a small wireless facility. Any replacement decorative pole shall
conform to the non-discriminatory design aesthetics of the decorative pole
being replaced.
   (G)   Except for facilities excluded from evaluation for effects on historic
properties under 47 C.F.R. § 1.1307(a)(4), as such regulation existed on 1-1-
2019, the municipality shall have the right to require design or concealment
measures in a historic district established prior to 1-1-2019. Such design or
concealment measures shall be objective and directed to avoid or remedy the
intangible public harm of unsightly or out-of-character wireless facilities
deployed at the proposed location. Any such design or concealment measures
shall be reasonable, non-discriminatory and published in advance, and shall not
be considered a part of the small wireless facility for purposes of the size
restrictions of a small wireless facility.
   (H)   A public power supplier shall not be required to allow the collocation
of small wireless facilities on utility poles owned, operated or managed by a
public power supplier except pursuant to a negotiated pole attachment agreement
containing reasonable and non-discriminatory terms and conditions, including,
but not limited to, applicable rates and the permit, operational and safety
requirements of the public power supplier.
(Ord. 1040, passed 12-9-2019)
§ 4-803 AGREEMENT FOR USE OF THE RIGHT-OF-WAY.
   (A)   Agreement. Prior to installing in the right-of-way any small wireless
facility, or any pole built for the sole or primary purpose of supporting a
small wireless facility, or any tower, a person shall enter into an agreement
with the municipality expressly authorizing use of the right-of-way for the
small wireless facility, pole or tower proposed to be installed. The agreement
shall provide for the attachment to municipal poles or structures in the right-
of-way in addition to poles or structures owned by unrelated third parties;
provided that, the applicant secures the written consent of the third party for
such attachment.
   (B)   General terms.
      (1)   The term of an agreement shall be for up to ten years. The
agreement may be renewed for an additional term of ten years subject to the
mutual written agreement of the municipality and provider.
      (2)   The agreement authorizes the provider’s non-exclusive use of the
right-of-way for the sole purpose of installing, maintaining and operating
wireless communication facilities, including any pole built for the sole or
primary purpose of supporting the wireless communication facilities and any
tower, to provide the services expressly authorized in the agreement, subject
to applicable laws, this article and the terms and conditions of the agreement.
The agreement authorizes use only of the right-of-way in which the municipality
has an actual interest. It is not a warranty of title or interest in any right-
of-way and it does not confer on the provider any interest in any particular
location or to a superior or preferred location within the right-of-way.
Nothing herein shall authorize the use of the municipality’s poles, towers,
support structures or other structures outside of the right-of-way. All use of
municipal poles, towers, support structures and other structures in the right-
of-way shall require a separate attachment agreement or be specifically
provided for in the agreement and shall include the payment of fees for such
use.
      (3)   The provider shall, at its sole cost and expense, keep and maintain
its wireless communication facilities, poles, support structures and towers in
the right-of-way in a safe condition and in good order and repair.
      (4)   In the event of an emergency regarding the provider’s small
wireless facilities, or related poles, support structures or towers, the
provider shall immediately notify the municipality of the nature of the
emergency and planned response to the emergency.
      (5)   This article applies to the issuance of a permit for a small
wireless facility within the right-of-way and to the issuance of a permit for
the installation, modification, and replacement of a utility pole by an
applicant within a right-of-way.
      (6)   An applicant that collocates a small wireless facility within a
municipal right-of-way or on a utility pole assumes the risk of loss, damage to
or loss of use of such facility when such pole is damaged, destroyed or taken
out of service on municipal property, except to the extent that such loss or
damage is due to or caused by the negligence or willful misconduct of the
municipality or its employees, contractors or agents.
      (7)   The construction, operation, maintenance, collocation or placement
of wireless facilities, utility poles or wireless support structures shall
occur at no cost from an applicant to the municipality unless otherwise agreed
to in advance between an applicant and the municipality.
   (C)   Permit required.
      (1)   An applicant shall apply for and obtain one or more permits to
collocate a small wireless facility or install a new, modified or replacement
utility pole associated with a small wireless facility. Such permits shall be
of general applicability and not apply exclusively to wireless facilities.
      (2)   No person may construct, install or maintain in the right-of-way
any wireless communication facilities without first receiving a permit from the
municipality. Notwithstanding the foregoing, in the event of an emergency, a
provider or its duly authorized representative may work in the right-of-way
prior to obtaining a permit; provided that, the provider shall contact the
municipality prior to commencing the work and shall apply for a permit as soon
as reasonably possible, but not later than 24 hours after commencing the
emergency work. For purposes of this division (C)(2), an EMERGENCY means a
circumstance in which immediate repair to damaged or malfunctioning facilities
is necessary to restore lost service or prevent immediate harm to persons or
property.
   (D)   Permit application requirements.
      (1)   The application shall be submitted by the wireless provider or its
duly authorized representative and shall contain the following:
         (a)   The applicant’s name, address, telephone number and email
address, including emergency contact information for the applicant;
         (b)   The names, addresses, telephone numbers and email addresses of
all consultants, if any, acting on behalf of the applicant or provider with
respect to the filing of the application;
         (c)   A description of the proposed work and wireless communication
facility sufficient to demonstrate compliance with the provisions of this
article;
         (d)   If applicable, a copy of the authorization from the owner of the
pole, tower or support structure on or in which the wireless communication
facility will be placed or attached;
         (e)   To the extent the proposed wireless communication facility
involves collocation on a pole, tower or support structure, a structural report
prepared by a state licensed professional engineer evidencing that the pole,
tower or support structure will support the collocation (or that the pole,
tower or support structure will be modified to meet structural requirements) in
accordance with applicable codes;
         (f)   For any new above-ground wireless communication facilities,
accurate visual depictions or representations, if not included in the
construction drawings or photo simulations; and
         (g)   Any other submission requirements per published municipal
policies or regulations.
      (2)   All applications for small wireless facility installations in the
right-of-way shall be made to the Zoning Administrator/Utility Superintendent.
   (E)   Denial.
      (1)   The municipality may deny a proposed collocation of a small
wireless facility or installation, modification or replacement of a utility
pole that meets the requirements of the Act only if the proposed application:
         (a)   Materially and demonstrably interferes with the safe operation
of traffic-control equipment or the right-of-way;
         (b)   Materially interferes with sight lines or clear zones for air or
land transportation or pedestrians;
         (c)   Materially interferes with compliance with the Federal Americans
with Disabilities Act of 1990, being 42 U.S.C. §§ 12101 et seq., or similar
federal or state standards regarding pedestrian access or movement;
         (d)   Fails to comply with reasonable and non-discriminatory spacing
requirements of general application adopted by ordinance or resolution that
concern the location of ground-mounted equipment and new utility poles. Such
spacing requirements shall not prevent a wireless provider from serving any
location;
         (e)   Fails to comply with applicable codes if they are of general
applicability and do not apply exclusively to wireless facilities;
         (f)   Fails to comply with the municipality’s aesthetic requirements
that are reasonable, objective and published in advance; or
         (g)   Designates the location of a new utility pole within seven feet
in any direction of an electrical conductor unless the wireless provider
obtains the written consent of the public power supplier that owns or manages
the electrical conductor.
      (2)   The municipality shall document the basis for a permit application
denial including any specific code provisions on which the denial was based,
and send such documentation to the applicant on or before the day the
municipality denies the application. The applicant may cure the deficiencies
identified by the municipality and resubmit the application within 30 days
after the denial without paying an additional application fee. The municipality
shall approve or deny the resubmitted application within 30 days. Any
subsequent review shall be limited to the deficiency cited in the denial.
   (F)   Reserving space. The municipality shall be allowed to reserve space on
municipal poles, and the applicant shall cooperate with the municipality in any
such reservation; except that, the municipality shall first notify the
applicant in writing that it is interested in reserving such pole space or
sharing the trenches or bores where the collocation is to occur. The applicant
shall allow the municipality to place its infrastructure in the applicant’s
trenches or bores or on the utility poles as requested by the municipality
except that the municipality shall incur the incremental cost of placing the
conduit or infrastructure as requested. The municipality shall be responsible
for maintaining its facilities in the trenches and bores and on the municipal
poles.
   (G)   Information. An applicant shall not be required to provide more
information to obtain a permit than a communications service provider that is
not a wireless provider, except as directly related to the impairment of
wireless service in the immediate area of the proposed small wireless facility
and except that an applicant may be required to include construction and
engineering drawings and information demonstrating compliance with the criteria
in this article.
   (H)   Alternate plan. The municipality may propose a technically feasible
alternate utility pole location. The wireless provider shall cooperate with the
municipality to address the municipality’s reasonable proposal. The
municipality shall not require the placement of small wireless facilities on a
specific utility pole or category of poles or require multiple antenna systems
on a single utility pole.
   (I)   Limit. The municipality shall not limit the placement of small
wireless antennas by minimum horizontal separation distances.
   (J)   Attestation. An applicant shall include an attestation that the small
wireless facilities will be operational for use by a wireless services provider
within nine months after the later of the completion of all make-ready work or
the permit issuance date unless a delay is caused by lack of commercial power
or communication transport facilities to the site. In such case the applicant
shall have an extension, not to exceed nine months. The municipality and
applicant may mutually agree to an additional extension.
   (K)   Proprietary or confidential information in application. Applications
are public records that may be made publicly available pursuant to the state’s
Public Records Law. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the applicant may designate
portions of its application materials that it reasonably believes contain
proprietary or confidential information as “proprietary” or “confidential” by
clearly marking each portion of such materials accordingly, and the
municipality shall treat the information as proprietary and confidential,
subject to the state’s Public Records Law and the municipality’s determination
that the applicant’s request for confidential or proprietary treatment of
application materials is reasonable and in compliance with such law. The
municipality shall not be required to incur any costs to protect the
application materials from disclosure, other than the municipality’s routine
procedures for complying with the state’s Public Records Law, being Neb. RS
Chapter 84, Article 7.
   (L)   Routine maintenance and replacement. The municipality shall not
require an application, permit or other approval or charge fees or rates for
routine maintenance of small wireless facilities, replacement of small wireless
facilities with small wireless facilities that are substantially similar in
weight or windage or the same size or smaller, or for the installation,
placement, maintenance, operation or replacement of microwireless facilities
that are strung on cables between existing utility poles in compliance with the
National Electrical Safety Code. A permit shall be required for work that
exceeds original weight or windage or requires excavation or closing of
sidewalks or vehicular lanes within the right-of-way for such activities.
   (M)   Application fees.
      (1)   The application fees for collocation of small wireless facilities
on an existing or replacement municipal pole shall not exceed $500 for up to
five small wireless facilities on the same application and $100 for each
additional small wireless facility on the same application.
      (2)   The application fees for the installation, modification or
replacement of a utility pole and the collocation of an associated small
wireless facility that are a permitted use in accordance with the
specifications of the Act shall not exceed $250 per pole. In the case of
coapplicants for a single site, only one application fee may be charged for the
site. The rate for collocation of a small wireless facility on a municipal pole
in the right-of-way shall be no more than $20 per municipal pole per year.
   (N)   Bonds. Unless otherwise provided in an agreement or agreed to in
writing by the municipality, a performance or construction bond or other form
of surety acceptable to the municipality equal to at least 100% of the
estimated cost of the work within the right-of-way shall be provided before the
applicant commences work.
   (O)   Effect of permit. A permit from the municipality authorizes an
applicant to undertake only the activities in the right-of-way specified in the
application and permit, and in accordance with this article and any conditions
included in the permit. A permit does not authorize attachment to or use of
existing poles, towers, support structures or other structures in the right-of-
way. A permittee or wireless provider must obtain all necessary approvals from
the owner of any pole, tower, support structure or other structure prior to any
attachment or use. A permit does not create a property right for the applicant.
The applicant shall not interfere with other uses or users of the right-of-way.
   (P)   Duration. Installation or collocation for which a permit is granted
shall be completed within one year of the later of the completion of all make-
ready work or permit issuance date unless a delay is caused by the lack of
commercial power or communications transport facilities at the site. In such
case, the applicant shall have an extension of up to nine months. The
municipality and applicant may mutually agree to an additional extension.
Approval of an application authorizes the applicant to maintain and operate the
small wireless facilities and any associated utility pole covered by the permit
for a period of not less than five years, subject to applicable relocation
requirements and the applicant’s right to terminate at any time. The
municipality shall renew such permit for an equivalent duration so long as the
applicant is in compliance with the criteria set forth in this article, as such
criteria existed at the time the permit was granted.
   (Q)   Multiple sites in a consolidated application. An applicant seeking to
collocate small wireless facilities may, at the applicant’s discretion, file a
consolidated application for up to five individual small wireless facilities
instead of filing a separate application for each individual small wireless
facility. The denial of one or more small wireless facilities in a consolidated
application shall not delay processing of any other small wireless facilities
in the same application or be a basis upon which to deny the consolidated
application as a whole. An applicant is allowed to file a single set of
documents that apply to all of the applicant’s small wireless facilities, and
the municipality shall render a decision regarding all of the applicant’s
wireless facilities in a single administrative proceeding unless the local
requirements require an elected or appointed body to render such a decision.
(Ord. 1040, passed 12-9-2019)
§ 4-804 MUNICIPAL POLES.
   (A)   The municipality shall allow the collocation of small wireless
facilities on municipal poles using the processes in the Act.
   (B)   The rates provided in the Act to collocate on municipal poles shall be
non-discriminatory regardless of the services provided by the collocating
person.
   (C)   The rates, fees, terms and conditions for make-ready work to collocate
on a municipal pole shall be non-discriminatory, competitively neutral and
commercially reasonable and shall reimburse all reasonable costs incurred by
the municipality in compliance with the Act.
   (D)   The municipality shall provide a good faith estimate for any make-
ready work necessary to enable the municipal pole to support the requested
collocation by an applicant, including pole replacement if necessary, within
120 days after receipt of a completed application. Make-ready work, including
any pole replacement shall be completed within 90 days after written acceptance
of the good faith estimate by the applicant. The municipality may require
replacement of the municipal pole only if it determines and provides details
indicating that the collocation would make the municipal pole structurally
unsound.
   (E)   The person owning, managing or controlling the municipal pole shall
not require more make-ready work than required to meet applicable codes or
industry standards. Fees for make-ready work shall not include costs related to
known preexisting or prior damage or non-compliance. Fees for make-ready work,
including any pole replacement, shall not exceed actual costs or the amount
charged to other communications service providers for reasonably similar work
and may include reasonable consultant fees or expenses.
   (F)   Make-ready work generally refers to the modification of utility poles
or lines or the installation of guys and anchors to accommodate additional
facilities.
(Ord. 1040, passed 12-9-2019)
§ 4-805 RATES AND FEES.
   (A)   The municipality shall not require a wireless provider to pay any
rate, fee, or compensation to the municipality or other person other than what
is expressly authorized by Neb. RS 86-704 or, where applicable, Neb. RS 14-109,
15-203, 16-205 or 17-525, or the Act for the right to use or occupy a right-of-
way for the collocation of small wireless facilities on wireless support
structures or utility poles in the right-of-way or for the installation,
maintenance, modification, operation and replacement of utility poles in the
right-of-way.
   (B)   If the municipality charges occupation taxes under Neb. RS 86-704, it
shall not charge a wireless services provider any additional amount for the use
of a right-of-way. The municipality may charge a wireless provider that does
not pay the municipality’s occupation tax under Neb. RS 86-704 either a rate of
$250 for each small wireless facility each year, or a fee equal to the
occupation tax charged by the municipality under Neb. RS 14-109, 15-203, 16-205
or 17-525.
(Ord. 1040, passed 12-9-2019)
§ 4-806 ADMINISTRATIVE REVIEW.
   (A)   Approval process. Small wireless facilities in the right-of-way may be
approved through administrative review if the following requirements are met:
      (1)   A complete application is submitted, all fees are paid and a permit
is obtained by the applicant or provider;
      (2)   Each new, modified or replacement pole, tower or structure
installed in the right-of-way shall not exceed the height limits of the
respective zoning district. If a height limit is exceeded, then either a
conditional use permit or special use permit is required; and
      (3)   The applicant complies with all of the other requirements of this
article.
   (B)   Design standards.
      (1)   Subject to division (A)(2) above, all poles and small wireless
facilities may be approved through administrative review if the following
design standards and recommended design guidelines (if adopted) are met by the
applicant:
         (a)   Height, shape, design and color for poles and related equipment;
         (b)   Number, location and styles of poles that may be installed or
used;
         (c)   Aesthetic approach for different types of poles and related
equipment;
         (d)   Construction approach per wireless communication facility,
including powering and metering;
         (e)   Structural integrity;
         (f)   Set-backs for poles and ground-mounted equipment;
         (g)   Ground-mounted equipment for small wireless facilities may be
used only to house equipment in support of the operation of the facilities;
         (h)   Lighting, marking and noise requirements;
         (i)   Fencing/landscaping/screening/signage requirements;
         (j)   Collocation analysis;
         (k)   Use of decorative poles, where necessary; and
         (l)   A written report will be prepared, signed and sealed by a state
licensed professional engineer or a qualified employee of the applicant, which
assesses whether the proposed small wireless facility demonstrates compliance
with the radio frequency (“RF”) emissions limits established by the FCC. The
qualified employee of the applicant shall submit his or her qualifications with
the report.
      (2)   The governing body may approve by resolution additional recommended
design guidelines. Further changes to those recommended design guidelines are
subject to the discretion of the municipality.
(Ord. 1040, passed 12-9-2019)
§ 4-807 RIGHT-OF-WAY CONSTRUCTION AND INSTALLATION REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Lighting. Towers may not be artificially lighted, unless required by
public safety, the FAA or applicable municipal regulation.
   (B)   State or federal requirements. All towers and antennas must meet
current standards and regulations of the FAA, FCC and any other agency of the
local, state or federal government with authority to regulate towers and
antennas.
   (C)   Building codes. To ensure the structural integrity of poles and
towers, the owner of a pole or tower shall ensure that the pole or tower is
maintained in compliance with Industry standards and applicable state and local
Building Code standards.
   (D)   Public notice. For purposes of this article, any application for a
wireless communication facility, including small wireless facilities and poles,
variance, exception or appeal of a request for a permit requires public notice
to all adjoining property owners and all owners of surrounding properties as
may be required by the municipal code.
   (E)   Equipment cabinets. The equipment cabinets shall comply with all
applicable Building Codes and zoning requirements.
   (F)   Site plan. A site plan is required. A scaled site plan shall clearly
indicate the location, type, height and width of the proposed pole, on-site
land uses and zoning, adjacent land uses and zoning, adjacent roadways, photo
simulations, a depiction of all proposed transmission equipment, proposed means
of access, setbacks from property lines, elevation drawings or renderings of
the proposed pole and any other structures, topography, utility runs and other
information deemed necessary to assess compliance with this article.
   (G)   Inventory of existing sites. Not more than one time per year, each
applicant owning a macro cell tower shall provide to the municipality an
inventory of the wireless provider’s existing towers, antennas, or sites
approved for towers or antennas, that are either within the jurisdiction of the
municipality or within one mile of the border thereof, including specific
information about the location and tower height. The municipality may share
such information with other applicants applying for administrative review or
other permits under this article or other organizations seeking to locate
antennas within the jurisdiction of the municipality; provided, however, that,
the municipality is not, by sharing such information, in any way representing
or warranting that such sites are available or suitable.
   (H)   Color. To the extent feasible, the antennas shall be placed and
colored to blend into the architectural detail and coloring of the host
structure. Towers and antennas shall be painted a color that best allows them
to blend into the surroundings. The use of grays, blues, greens, dark bronze,
browns or other site-specific colors may be appropriate; however, each case
shall be evaluated individually.
   (I)   Signs. No facilities may bear any signage other than that required by
law or expressly permitted or required by the municipality.
   (J)   Visual impact. All small wireless facilities in residential districts,
historic and downtown districts shall be sited and designed with stealth
features to minimize adverse visual impacts on surrounding properties and the
traveling public to the greatest extent reasonably possible, consistent with
the proper functioning of the wireless communication facilities. Such wireless
communication facilities and equipment enclosures shall be integrated through
location and design to blend in with the existing characteristics of the site.
Stealth and concealment techniques must be appropriate given the proposed
location, design, visual environment and nearby uses, structures and natural
features. Such wireless communication facilities shall also be designed to
either resemble the surrounding landscape and other natural features where
located in proximity to natural surroundings or be compatible with the built
environment or be consistent with other uses and improvements permitted in the
relevant zone.
   (K)   Obstruction. Any new pole or support structure or equipment associated
with small wireless facilities shall not obstruct access to:
      (1)   Any existing above-ground or underground right-of-way user
facilities or public facilities;
      (2)   Any public infrastructure for traffic-control, street light or
public transportation purposes including, without limitation, any vehicular
traffic sign or signal or pedestrian traffic sign or signal;
      (3)   Any public transportation street furniture or other improvements at
any public transportation stop;
      (4)   Fire hydrants; or
      (5)   Any doors, gates or other ingress and egress points to any building
appurtenant to the right-of-way.
   (L)   Placement and notice.
      (1)   All pole-mounted transmission equipment shall be mounted as close
as technically possible to the pole so as to reduce the overall visual profile
to the extent feasible subject to applicable safety codes.
      (2)   Prior to the installation or construction of a small wireless
facility within the right-of-way or utility easement, the wireless provider
must notify all utilities located within such right-of-way or utility easement
regarding its proposed use of the right-of-way or utility easement.
   (M)   Accessory equipment. All accessory equipment located at the base of a
pole or tower shall be placed (at the provider’s choice) underground or in an
equipment cabinet that is:
      (1)   Designed to blend in with existing surroundings, using
architecturally compatible construction and colors; and
      (2)   Be located so as to be unobtrusive as possible consistent with the
proper functioning of the wireless communication facilities.
   (N)   Site design flexibility. Individual sites vary in the location of
adjacent buildings, existing trees, topography and other local variables. By
mandating certain design standards, there may result a project that could have
been less intrusive if the location of the various elements of the project
could have been placed in more appropriate locations within a given site.
Therefore, the wireless communication facilities and supporting equipment may
be installed so as to best camouflage, disguise or conceal them, to make the
wireless communication facilities more closely compatible with and blend into
the setting or host structure, upon approval by the municipality.
   (O)   Inclusion of base equipment. Where technically feasible, the applicant
may incorporate the cabinet and other equipment into the base of a new pole
(for example, for a small wireless facility) provided there is adequate space
in the right-of-way and that Americans with Disabilities Act sidewalk
accessibility requirements can be met. All provisions of the Americans with
Disabilities Act, being 42 U.S.C. §§ 12101 et seq. (including, but not limited
to, clear space requirements), shall be met by the provider.
   (P)   New poles. To the extent technically feasible, new poles must be
designed to match the existing light fixtures and other poles, and they shall
serve a dual purpose (for example, a new light fixture, flag pole or banner
clips).
   (Q)   Maps and as-builts. The wireless provider shall furnish to the
municipality paper and electronic maps showing the location of its equipment in
the right-of-way and as-builts after construction is completed.
(Ord. 1040, passed 12-9-2019)
§ 4-808 ATTACHMENT TO AND REPLACEMENT OF DECORATIVE POLES.
   (A)   Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this article, an applicant
may not install a small wireless facility on a decorative pole, or replace a
decorative pole with a new decorative pole unless the municipality has
determined, in its sole discretion, that each of the following conditions has
been met:
      (1)   The application qualifies for issuance of a permit; and
      (2)   The attachments and replacement pole are in keeping with the
aesthetics of the decorative pole.
   (B)   An applicant may not install a small wireless facility on a decorative
pole, replace a decorative pole with a new decorative pole, or install new
above-ground facilities in the Historic District unless the municipality has
determined, in its sole discretion, that each of the following conditions has
also been met:
      (1)   The application qualifies for issuance of a permit; and
      (2)   The attachment and replacement pole are in keeping with the
aesthetics and character of the decorative pole and Historic District.
(Ord. 1040, passed 12-9-2019)
§ 4-809 GENERAL WORK REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   General safety and compliance with laws. The permittee shall employ
due care during the installation, maintenance or any other work in the right-
of-way, and shall comply with all safety and construction requirements of
applicable laws, municipal guidelines, standards and practices and any
additional commonly accepted safety standards.
   (B)   Traffic control. Unless otherwise specified in the permit, the
permittee shall erect a barrier around the perimeter of any excavation and
provide appropriate traffic control devices, signs and lights to protect, warn
and guide the public (vehicular and pedestrian) through the work zone. The
manner and use of these devices shall be as described within a traffic control
plan. The permittee shall maintain all barriers and other traffic-control and
safety devices related to an open excavation until the excavation is restored
to a safe condition or as otherwise directed by the municipality.
   (C)   Non-interference. The permittee shall not interfere with any existing
facilities or structures in the right-of-way and shall locate its lines and
equipment in such a manner as not to interfere with the usual traffic patterns
(vehicular or pedestrian) or with the rights or reasonable convenience of
owners of property that abut any right-of-way.
   (D)   Utility locates. Before beginning any excavation in the right-of-way,
the permittee shall comply with the state’s One Call Notification Act, being
Neb. RS 76-2301 et seq.
   (E)   Compliance with permit.
      (1)   All construction practices and activities shall be in accordance
with the permit and approved final plans and specifications. The municipality
and its representatives shall be provided access to the work site and such
further information as they may require to ensure compliance with such
requirements. All work that does not comply with the permit, the approved plans
and specifications for the work, or the requirements of this article, shall be
removed at the sole expense of the permittee. The municipality may stop work in
order to assure compliance with the provisions of this article.
      (2)   In addition to obtaining a permit for installation of a small
wireless facility, an applicant must obtain all other required approvals from
the municipality.
(Ord. 1040, passed 12-9-2019)
§ 4-810 LOCATION OF NEW FACILITIES.
   (A)   The wireless provider shall not locate or maintain its wireless
communication facilities so as to interfere with the use of the right-of-way by
the municipality, by the general public or by other persons authorized to use
or be present in or upon the right-of-way.
   (B)   Whenever any existing electric utilities, natural gas, water or sewer
lines (or other public improvements) and communications facilities are located
underground within a right-of-way, the wireless provider with permission to
occupy the same portion of the right-of-way shall locate its wireless
communication facilities underground at its own expense where technically
feasible. The municipality may, in its sole discretion, approve above-ground
placement of equipment cabinets, pedestals and similar equipment. For
facilities or equipment such as small wireless facilities that cannot, by their
nature, operate unless located above-ground, the wireless provider and
municipality shall work to find a suitable location for such facilities or
equipment.
   (C)   In performing any work in or affecting the right-of-way, the wireless
provider, and any agent or contractor of the provider, shall comply with the
provisions of this article and all other applicable laws.
   (D)   A wireless provider shall repair all damage to a right-of-way directly
caused by the activities of the wireless provider in the right-of-way and
return the right-of-way to equal or better condition to that before the damage
occurred pursuant to the competitively neutral and reasonable requirements and
specifications of the municipality. If the applicant fails to make the repairs
that are reasonably required by the municipality within 14 days after written
notice, the municipality may undertake such repairs and charge the wireless
provider the reasonable, documented costs of such repairs. The municipality
shall grant an extension of up to ten days to complete such repairs if the
wireless provider requests such extension within the original 14-day period. In
the event of immediate threat to life, safety or to prevent serious injury, the
municipality may immediately undertake to restore the site and then notify the
applicant and charge the applicant for all reasonable restoration costs.
(Ord. 1040, passed 12-9-2019)
§ 4-811 REMOVAL, RELOCATION AND ABANDONMENT.
   (A)   Within 30 days following written notice from the municipality, the
wireless provider shall, at its own expense, protect, support, temporarily or
permanently disconnect, remove, relocate, change or alter the position of any
of its wireless communication facilities within the right-of-way, including
relocation of above-ground wireless communication facilities underground
(consistent with the provisions of this article), whenever the municipality has
determined, in its sole discretion, that such removal, relocation, change or
alteration is necessary for the construction, repair, maintenance, or
installation of any municipal improvement, the operations of the municipality
on, under or upon the right-of-way, or otherwise is in the public interest. The
wireless provider shall be responsible to the municipality for any damages the
municipality may incur as a result of the provider’s failure to remove or
relocate its wireless communication facilities.
   (B)   If the future maintenance or construction of a municipal road requires
the moving or relocating of wireless facilities, utility poles or wireless
support structures currently located within a right-of-way, such facilities,
poles or structures shall be removed or relocated by the owner of such small
wireless facilities, poles or structures at the owner’s expense and as directed
by the municipality.
   (C)   The municipality retains the right and privilege to cut or move any
wireless communication facility located within the right-of-way of the
municipality, as the municipality may determine, in its sole discretion, to be
necessary, appropriate or useful in response to any public emergency. If
circumstances permit, the municipality shall notify the wireless provider and
give the provider an opportunity to move its own facilities prior to cutting or
removing the wireless communication facilities. In all cases the municipality
shall notify the wireless provider after cutting or removing the wireless
communication facility as promptly as reasonably possible.
   (D)   Any small wireless facility that is not operated for a continuous
period of 90 days after completion of initial installation, excluding non-
operation due to a natural disaster or other unforeseeable circumstance or
temporary equipment failure, shall be considered abandoned. If a small wireless
facility is abandoned, the small wireless facility owner shall notify the
municipality within 30 days of the abandoned status of such facility and such
owner shall remove the abandoned facility. The related utility pole shall also
be removed unless such pole is otherwise being used by another utility or is
owned by a party other than the owner of the removed small wireless facility.
   (E)   If the wireless provider fails to timely protect, support, temporarily
or permanently disconnect, remove, relocate, change or alter any of its
wireless communication facilities or remove any of its abandoned wireless
communication facilities as required in this subsection, the municipality or
its contractor may do so and the provider shall pay all costs and expenses
related to such work, including any damages the municipality incurs arising
from the delay and attorneys’ fees and expenses.
(Ord. 1040, passed 12-9-2019)
§ 4-812 INDEMNIFICATION.
   The applicant and wireless provider shall defend, indemnify and hold
harmless the municipality, its agents, officers, officials and employees from
any and all damages, liabilities, injuries, losses, attorneys’ fees, costs and
expenses, whether for personal injury, death or property damage, arising out of
or in connection with the activities or performance of the applicant or
wireless provider. In the event the municipality becomes aware of any actions
or claims, the municipality shall promptly notify the applicant and wireless
provider and reasonably cooperate in the defense. It is expressly agreed that
the municipality shall have the right to approve, which approval shall not be
unreasonably withheld, the legal counsel providing the municipality’s defense,
and the applicant and the wireless provider, as applicable, shall reimburse the
municipality for any costs, expenses and attorneys’ fees directly and
necessarily incurred by the municipality in the course of the defense.
(Ord. 1040, passed 12-9-2019)
§ 4-813 INSURANCE.
   No person shall own or operate a small wireless facility within the
municipality without having secured and at all times maintained in place
insurance coverage which conforms to the following:
   (A)   Comprehensive general liability, automobile, workers compensation,
employer’s liability and umbrella insurance in amounts satisfactory to the
municipality;
   (B)   For a small wireless facility in the right-of-way, the commercial
general liability insurance policy shall specifically include the municipality
and its officers, officials, employees and agents as additional insureds;
   (C)   All insurance policies shall be issued by an agent or representative
of an insurance company licensed to do business in the state; and
   (D)   Such policies shall not be modified or cancelled without 30 days prior
written notice being given to the municipality and the insurance must be
replaced by the owner of the wireless communication facility up to its original
amounts.
(Ord. 1040, passed 12-9-2019)
§ 4-814 INDEPENDENT TECHNICAL AND LEGAL REVIEW.
   (A)   Although the municipality intends for municipal staff to review
applications to the extent feasible, the municipality may retain the services
of an independent technical consultant and attorney of its choice to provide
technical and legal evaluations of permit applications. The technical
consultant and attorney shall have recognized qualifications in the field of
small wireless facilities. The review may include, but is not limited to:
      (1)   The accuracy and completeness of the items submitted with the
application;
      (2)   The applicability of analysis and techniques and methodologies
proposed by the applicant;
      (3)   The validity of conclusions reached by the applicant; and
      (4)   Whether the proposed small wireless facilities comply with the
applicable approval criteria set forth in this article.
   (B)   The applicant shall pay the cost for any independent technical
consultant and attorneys’ fees through a deposit, estimated by the
municipality, within ten business days of the municipality’s request. When the
municipality requests such payment, the application shall be deemed incomplete
for purposes of application processing time lines until the deposit is
received. In the event that such costs and fees do not exceed the deposit
amount, the municipality shall refund any unused portion within 30 days after
the final permit is released or, if no final permit is released, within thirty
(30) days after the Municipality receives a written request from the applicant.
If the costs and fees exceed the deposit amount, then the applicant shall pay
the difference to the municipality before the permit is issued. The technical
consultant and attorney shall provide an itemized description of the services
provided and related fees and costs. The fees shall be limited to a reasonable
approximation of costs and the costs shall be reasonable.
(Ord. 1040, passed 12-9-2019)
§ 4-815 FEDERAL AND STATE SHOT CLOCKS.
   (A)   Eligible facilities requests. This division (A) implements § 6409(a)
of the Spectrum Act, 47 U.S.C. § 1455(a), interpreted by the FCC in its report
and Order No. 14-153, which requires a state or local government to approve any
eligible facilities request for a modification of an existing tower or base
station that does not result in a substantial change to the physical dimensions
of such tower or base station. Eligible facilities requests shall be governed
by the provisions of federal law including, but not limited to, application
review, the 60-day shot clock, tolling and the deemed granted remedy. Eligible
facilities requests are subject to administrative review by the municipality.
   (B)   Small wireless facilities - collocation on existing structures. This
division (B) implements the 60-day shot clock which is contained in the FCC’s
Declaratory Ruling and Third Report and Order released 9-27-2018, regarding the
collocation of small wireless facilities on existing structures. These requests
shall be governed by the provisions of federal law and the Act including, but
not limited to, application review and incompleteness, restarting of the 60-day
shot clock once upon the first finding of incompleteness, tolling (under
federal law and the Act) and available remedies. The applicant may resubmit the
completed application within 30 days without additional charge. Any subsequent
review shall be limited to the specifically identified information subsequently
completed, except to the extent material changes have been made by the
applicant, other than those required by the Municipality, in which case a new
application and application fee shall be submitted. The application processing
deadline also may be tolled by agreement of the applicant and the municipality.
The municipality may extend the application processing deadline under the Act
for a single period of ten business days if the municipality notifies the
applicant in advance before the day on which approval or denial is originally
due. Upon mutual agreement between the applicant and the municipality, the
municipality may extend the period for consideration of an application for 30
days under the Act. An application shall be processed on a non- discriminatory
basis and deemed approved if the municipality fails to timely approve or deny
the application within 90 days after receipt of the application. The
municipality may deny a proposed collocation of a small wireless facility or
installation, modification or replacement of a utility pole only in accordance
with § 37 of the Act.
   (C)   Small wireless facilities - construction (new structures). This
division (C) implements the 90-day shot clock which is contained in the FCC’s
Declaratory Ruling and Third Report and Order released 9-27-2018, regarding the
construction of small wireless facilities on a new structure. These requests
shall be governed by the provisions of federal law and the Act including, but
not limited to, application review and incompleteness, restarting of the 90-day
shot clock once upon the first finding of incompleteness, tolling (under
federal law and the Act) and available remedies. The applicant may resubmit the
completed application within 30 days without additional charge. Any subsequent
review shall be limited to the specifically identified information subsequently
completed, except to the extent material changes have been made by the
applicant, other than those required by the municipality, in which case a new
application and application fee shall be submitted. The application processing
deadline also may be tolled by agreement of the applicant and the municipality.
The municipality may extend the application processing deadline for a single
period of ten business days if the municipality notifies the applicant in
advance before the day on which approval or denial is originally due. Upon
mutual agreement between the applicant and the municipality, the municipality
may extend the period for consideration of an application for 30 days. An
application shall be processed on a non-discriminatory basis and deemed
approved if the municipality fails to timely approve or deny the application
within 90 days after receipt of The application. The municipality may deny a
proposed collocation of a small wireless facility or installation, modification
or replacement of a utility pole only in accordance with § 37 of the Act.
   (D)   Collocation for other than small wireless facilities. This division
(D) implements, in part, 47 U.S.C. § 332(c)(7) of the Federal Communications
Act of 1934, as amended, as interpreted by the FCC regarding collocation
applications for other than small wireless facilities including, but not
limited to, application review, the 90-day shot clock and tolling.
   (E)   New macro cell towers. This division (E) implements, in part, 47
U.S.C. § 332(c)(7) of the Federal Communications Act of 1934, as amended, as
interpreted by the FCC regarding new macro cell tower applications including,
but not limited to, application review, the 150-day shot clock and tolling.
(Ord. 1040, passed 12-9-2019)
§ 4-816 RELIEF.
   (A)   Any applicant desiring relief, waiver or exemption from any aspect or
requirement of these regulations may request such; provided that, the relief,
waiver or exemption is contained in the submitted application.
   (B)   The burden of proving the need for the requested relief, waiver or
exemption is solely on the applicant.
   (C)   No such relief, waiver or exemption shall be approved unless the
applicant demonstrates by clear and convincing evidence that, if granted the
relief, waiver or exemption will have no significant effect on the health,
safety and welfare of the municipality, its residents and other service
providers.
(Ord. 1040, passed 12-9-2019)
§ 4-817 OTHER APPROVALS.
   All other proposed installations within the right-of-way involving wireless
communication facilities (for example, where the facilities do not qualify as
small wireless facilities), shall require the issuance of a conditional use
permit or special use permit under the municipal code.
(Ord. 1040, passed 12-9-2019)
CHAPTER 5: STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
Article
   
I.   PUBLIC PROPERTY REGULATIONS
   
II.   STREETS
   
III.   SIDEWALKS
   
IV.   CURB AND GUTTER
   
V.   PENAL PROVISION
ARTICLE I: PUBLIC PROPERTY REGULATIONS
Section
   
5-101   Maintenance and control
   
5-102   Use of public rights-of-way
   
5-103   Obstructions
   
5-104   Permitted obstructions
   
5-105   Signs and canopies
§ 5-101 MAINTENANCE AND CONTROL.
   The City Council shall have the care, supervision and control of all public
highways, bridges, streets alleys, public squares and commons within the city,
and shall cause the same to be kept open and in repair and free from nuisances.
§ 5-102 USE OF PUBLIC RIGHTS-OF-WAY.
   It shall be unlawful for any individual, company or other legal entity to
utilize any part of the public right-of-way for construction or maintenance of
any type of utility or other private enterprise without first having obtained
the written approval of the same by the appropriate city officials or the Mayor
and City Council, as the case may be.
§ 5-103 OBSTRUCTIONS.
   Trees and shrubs growing upon or near the lot line or upon public ground and
interfering with the use or construction of any public improvements shall be
deemed an obstruction under this article. Said roots may be removed by the
Street Superintendent at the expense of the owner of the property upon which
the tree is located, should the owner fail or neglect, after notice, to do so.
It shall be unlawful for any person, persons, firm or corporation to obstruct
or encumber by fences, gates, buildings, refuse containers, satellite dishes,
poles or other structures, any of the streets, street rights-of-way, alleys or
sidewalks. No street right of way shall be covered with any material other than
grass, unless otherwise authorized in writing by the Street Superintendent or
Building Official.
§ 5-104 PERMITTED OBSTRUCTIONS.
   Persons engaged in the erection, construction, reconstruction, wrecking or
repairing of any building, or the construction or repair of a sidewalk along
any street, may occupy the public street space with such building material and
equipment as long as is necessary, if such person shall make written
application to do so; provided, no permit for the occupancy of the sidewalk
space, or more than one-third of the roadway of the public space adjacent to
the real estate on which said building is to be constructed, erected,
reconstructed, wrecked or repaired shall be granted; and, provided further, a
suitable passageway for pedestrians shall be maintained within the public space
included in the permit, which shall be protected and lighted in the manner
required by the City Council.
§ 5-105 SIGNS AND CANOPIES.
   No person, firm or corporation shall erect or maintain any sign, signboard,
poster or rigid canopy over any street, sidewalk, alley or on other public
property without having first obtain a permit therefor. Permits for signs,
canopies, posters and signboards shall be issued by the City Clerk or Building
Official, subject to the approval of the Building Official, upon the payment of
a fee set by resolution of the City Council. All signs and canopies extending
over any public sidewalk, street, alley or other public place must be securely
fastened and constructed so that there will be no danger of the same being
dislodged by ordinary winds or falling from other causes. No sign or canopy
shall be erected or maintained which extends over any public sidewalk, street,
alley or other public place in such a location as to obstruct the view of any
traffic light, sign or signal. Upon the written order of the City Council, any
person owning or occupying the premises where such a sign, canopy, poster or
signboard is located shall cause the same to be removed within the time limit
specified on such notice.
ARTICLE II: STREETS
Section
   
5-201   Names and numbers
   
5-202   Crossings
   
5-203   Excavation
   
5-204   Streets closed to traffic
   
5-205   Driving stakes
   
5-206   Mixing concrete
   
5-207   Harmful liquids
   
5-208   Eaves and gutter spouts
   
5-209   Heavy equipment
   
5-210   Widening, opening, vacating
   
5-211   Utility lines, wires and the like
   
5-212   Ground water discharge
§ 5-201 NAMES AND NUMBERS.
   The City Council may at any time, by ordinance, rename any street or provide
a name for a new street. It shall be the duty of the Building Official, upon
the erection of any new building or buildings, to assign the proper numbers to
said building or buildings, and give notice to the owner, owners, occupant or
occupants, of the same.
§ 5-202 CROSSINGS.
   (A)   The City Council may order and cause to be constructed, under the
supervision of the Street Commissioner, such street, avenue and alley crossing,
and the same shall be constructed of such materials as the City Council shall
deem necessary.
   (B)   When a petition for the construction of any such crossing is filed by
an interested resident in the office of the City Clerk, said City Clerk shall
refer such application to the Street Commissioner, who shall investigate and
recommend to the City Council allowance or rejection as final action by the
City Council on such application.
§ 5-203 EXCAVATION.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to make an excavation in any street or
streets for any purpose whatsoever unless a written permit is issued by the
City Council authorizing such excavation. Excavation in streets and alleys
shall be made in such a manner as to impede travel as little as possible.
Warning lights shall be maintained on all unfinished work, at night from dark
until sunrise, and sufficient barricades shall be in place at all times until
the work is completed, to prevent any persons from injury in coming upon or
crossing such work. After completion of any job or work, all surplus material
must be removed at once from the streets and alleys.
§ 5-204 STREETS CLOSED TO TRAFFIC.
   The street crossings of the Union Pacific Railroad Company right-of-way at
Avenues “B”, “E” and 16 in the city be and the same hereby are closed to
vehicular traffic; provided, however, that, said street crossings shall be kept
open for the use of pedestrians and that suitable crosswalks be maintained for
public use at said avenues; and, provided further that, nothing contained in
this article shall be construed as an abandonment or vacation of the easement
or grant of passage for public use at the crossings of the Union Pacific
Railroad at Avenues “B”, “E” and 16.
§ 5-205 DRIVING STAKES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to drive any peg or stake of any kind
into the pavement in any street or alley without first procuring the written
consent of the City Council.
§ 5-206 MIXING CONCRETE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to mix any concrete or plastering
material directly on the street pavement for any reason whatsoever and using
said pavement as a mixing board for said material.
§ 5-207 HARMFUL LIQUIDS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to place, or permit to leak, in the
gutter of any street, waste gasoline, kerosene or high lubricating oils, which
damage or act as a solvent upon said streets.
§ 5-208 EAVES AND GUTTER SPOUTS.
   It is hereby declared unlawful for any person to erect or maintain any
dwelling house or business building within the limits of the city where the
said dwelling or building abuts on any sidewalk or street, without providing
proper guttering and eave spouts to receive the waste waters that collect on
the said sidewalks and streets. All eave spouts erected on any dwelling house
or business building shall be constructed to drain into the alleys, or shall be
buried beneath the sidewalks and drain into the streets where it is found to be
impossible to drain said eave spouts into the alley.
§ 5-209 HEAVY EQUIPMENT.
   It shall hereafter be unlawful for any person or persons to move or operate
heavy equipment across any curb, gutter, bridge, culvert, sidewalk, crosswalk
or crossing on any unpaved street without first having protected such curb,
gutter, bridge, culvert, sidewalks, crosswalk or crossing, with heavy plank
sufficient in strength to warrant against the breaking or damaging of such
curb, gutter, bridge, culvert, sidewalk, crosswalk or crossing. Hereafter, it
shall be unlawful to run, drive, move, operate or convey over or across, any
paved street a vehicle, machine or implement, with sharp discs or sharp wheels,
that bear upon said pavement; with wheels having cuttings edges; with wheels
having lugs, or any protruding parts, or bolts thereon that extend beyond a
plain tire so as to cut, mark, mar, indent or otherwise injure or damage any
pavement, gutter or curb; provided, where heavy vehicles, structures, and
machines move along paved or unpaved streets, the City Council is hereby
authorized and empowered to choose the route over which the moving of such
vehicles, structures or machines will be permitted and allowed; provided,
school buses and emergency vehicles shall be permitted to use metal or metal-
type studs all year; it shall be permissible to use farm machinery with tires
having protuberances which will not injure the streets; and it shall be
permissible to use tire chains of reasonable proportions upon any vehicle when
required for safety because of snow, ice or other condition tending to cause a
vehicle to slide or skid.
§ 5-210 WIDENING, OPENING, VACATING.
   The City Council shall have the power to open or widen any street, alley or
lane within the limits of the city; and also to create, open and improve any
new street, alley or lane; provided, all damages sustained shall be ascertained
in such manner as shall be provided by law. Streets and alleys may be vacated
as and when the Mayor and City Council deem it necessary for the public safety,
welfare and convenience and the title to the land so vacated for street or
alley purposes shall revert to the owner or owners of the lot or lots from
which it was originally taken, as provided by law, one-half on each side
thereof.
§ 5-211 UTILITY LIKES, WIRES AND THE LIKE.
   Poles, wires, gas mains, pipe lines and other appurtenances of public
service companies shall be located or erected over, upon or under the streets,
alleys and common grounds after a proper application shall have been made to
the City Clerk in writing, and permission in writing shall have been given by
the City Council. Public service companies heretofore or hereafter granted
right-of-way for the erection and maintenance of poles, conduits, gas mains,
pipe lines and wires for the purpose of transacting their business upon, under
or over the streets, alleys and public grounds shall at all times, when
requested by the City Council, erect, locate or relocate their poles, wires,
gas mains, pipe lines and other appurtenances, to such places and in such
manner as shall be designated by the City Council. Such poles, wires, gas
mains, pipe lines and other appurtenances, shall be removed or relocated by
said companies at their own expense when requested to do so by the City
Council. Whenever it becomes necessary for the City Council to request such
relocation for the public safety and convenience, the City Council shall order
said relocation by resolution, and the City Clerk shall notify any company or
companies affected. Said companies shall, within 24 hours after receiving
notice, at their own expense, cause the poles, wires, gas mains, pipelines or
other appurtenances to be removed. The City Council shall designate another
location, as close as possible, where said poles, wires, gas mains, pipelines
or other appurtenances may be reset or placed. All poles, wires, gas mains,
pipelines or other appurtenances, shall be reset, placed or erected in such
manner that they will not interfere with the water system, sewer system or
poles, wires and mains of any public utility located on the same street or
alley, or with travel, buildings constructed or hereafter to be constructed.
Whenever possible, all pole lines, wires, gas mains, pipelines or appurtenances
shall be confined to the alleys of the city. No water pipe, underground
electric line or telephone conduit shall be laid in the same trench with sewer
pipe in any street, alley or public grounds in the city, or nearer than three
feet to any sewer pipe. No underground electric line shall be laid in the same
trench with any water pipe, sewer pipe or telephone conduit in any street,
alley or public grounds or nearer than three feet to any such pipes or conduit.
§ 5-212 GROUND WATER DISCHARGE.
   It shall be unlawful to discharge ground water from any sump pump, well or
similar device onto any city street when the outdoor temperature is 35°F or
colder, when said water will flow across any street intersection. Additionally,
it shall be unlawful to discharge during five consecutive calendar days without
stopping such discharge for a minimum of 72 hours when said discharge will
traverse 1,000 feet or more of city streets before draining into a storm sewer
or other part of the drainage system.
(Ord. 1041, passed 1-13-2020)
ARTICLE III: SIDEWALKS
Section
   
5-301   Sidewalks kept clear
   
5-302   Maintenance
   
5-303   Repairing sidewalk; notice
   
5-304   New sidewalk; notice
   
5-305   Reconstructing sidewalks; notice
   
5-306   Failure to construct, reconstruct or repair
   
5-307   Construction by property owners
   
5-308   Materials; extent of repairs permissible; width
   
5-310   Failure to rebuild
   
5-311   Duty to remove branches and shrubbery; penalty
   
5-312   Dangerous stairway
   
5-313   Handicapped accessible sidewalks
§ 5-301 SIDEWALKS KEPT CLEAR.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the occupant of any lot or lots or the owner
of any vacant lot or lots within the corporate limits to allow snow, sleet,
mud, ice or other substance to accumulate on the sidewalks or to permit any
snow, sleet, ice, mud or other substance to remain upon said sidewalk. All
sidewalks within the business district shall be cleaned within 12 hours after
the cessation of a storm; provided, sidewalks within the residential areas of
the city shall be cleaned within 24 hours after the cessation of the storm.
   (B)   Any person who shall violate or refuse to comply with the enforcement
of this section shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction
thereof, shall be fined not less than $25, nor more than $100, for each
offense. A new violation shall be deemed to have been committed every 24 hours
of such failure to comply.
   (C)   If any sidewalk contiguous to any lot, tract or parcel of real estate
within the city is not cleared of snow and ice within the time specified above,
it shall be the duty of the Chief of Police to cause such sidewalk to be
cleared forthwith, and to immediately report the cost and expense thereof, and
the legal description and the name of the record owner of the property to the
City Council. Thereupon, the City Council shall, by resolution, direct the City
Clerk to file with the County Clerk a certified copy of such report and
resolution, directing that the cost and expense shown in such report be placed
upon the assessment rolls and tax books of the county to constitute a lien
against such property and be collected in the manner provided by law.
(Ord. 935, passed 1-11-2010)
§ 5-302 MAINTENANCE.
   Every owner of any lot, lots or piece of land within the limits of the city
shall at all times keep and maintain the sidewalks along and contiguous to said
lot, lots or pieces of land, as the case may be, in good and proper repair and
in a condition reasonably safe for all travelers thereon; in case the owner or
owners of any lot, lots or land abutting on any street or avenue or part
thereof shall fail to construct or repair any sidewalk in front of his or her
or their lot, lots or land within the time and in the manner as directed and
required by this article after having received due notice to do so, they shall
be liable for all damages and injury occasioned by reason of the defective or
dangerous condition of any sidewalk, and the Mayor and City Council shall have
power to cause such sidewalks to be constructed or repaired and assess the cost
thereof against such property.
§ 5-303 REPAIRING SIDEWALK; NOTICE.
   The city official in charge of sidewalks may require sidewalks of the city
to be repaired. Notice to the owners of property upon which such sidewalks in
disrepair are located shall require within 48 hours from issuance of notice
said owners to make arrangements to have the sidewalks repaired. Said repairs
shall be completed within 21 days after issuance of said notice. No special
assessment shall be levied against the property unless said owner shall neglect
or refuse to repair within the time prescribed and in the event that such owner
fails to repair, the city shall cause the repairs to be made and assess the
property owner the expense of such repairs. In the event the property owner is
a non-resident of the county in which the property lies, the city shall, before
levying any special assessment against the property, send a copy of any notice
required by law to be published by means of certified mail, return receipt
requested to the last known address of the non-resident property owner. The
last known address shall be that address listed on the current tax rolls at the
time such required notice was first published.
§ 5-304 NEW SIDEWALK; NOTICE.
   Whenever the City Council shall deem it necessary that a sidewalk should be
constructed in front of any lot or piece of ground in the city in a place where
there is no sidewalk, they shall so order and the Street Superintendent or
Building Official shall thereupon notify the owner of such lot or piece of
ground, or his or her agent, if a resident of the city, of the work or
improvement to be done, and such owner or person so notified shall be allowed
30 days from the date of said notice in which to construct the same.
§ 5-305 RECONSTRUCTING SIDEWALKS; NOTICE.
   Whenever the City Council shall deem it necessary that an old sidewalk shall
be replaced or reconstructed, it shall order the same to be done and the Street
Commissioner or Building Official shall give notice in the manner and form
provided in §
5-303 of this article, to replace or reconstruct the same within 30 days from
and after such notice.
§ 5-306 FAILURE TO CONSTRUCT, RECONSTRUCT OR REPAIR.
   If any such owner shall neglect or refuse, or shall have failed, after
notice has been given as provided in this article, to construct, repair,
replace or reconstruct any sidewalk within the time limited in the notice given
in such case and whose duty it is made by this article to construct, repair or
rebuild such walks, the street superintendent or Building Official shall
proceed at once without further notice to such owner or person to have such
sidewalks constructed, repaired, rebuilt or reconstructed, as the case may be,
and the expense of such work shall be assessed to such lot or piece of land,
and collected as provided by law.
§ 5-307 CONSTRUCTION BY PROPERTY OWNERS.
   (A)   (1)   Any person desiring to construct or cause to be constructed, any
sidewalk shall do so only as herein provided.
      (2)   It shall be unlawful for any person to construct any sidewalk
without first having obtained a permit.
   (B)   Said owner shall make application in writing for a permit and file
such application in the office of the City Clerk or the Building Official. The
permit shall give a description of the lot or piece of land along which the
sidewalk is to be constructed. The official in charge of sidewalks shall issue
the desired permit unless good cause shall appear why said permit should be
denied; provided, if it is desired to construct the sidewalk at any oilier than
the regularly prescribed location, grade or elevation, the city official in
charge of sidewalks shall submit the application to the City Council, who shall
determine whether the permit should be granted or denied. It shall be unlawful
for any person to construct or cause to be constructed said sidewalk at any
other location, grade or elevation than so designated by the city. All
sidewalks shall be built and constructed on the established grade or elevation,
and if there is no established grade, then on the grade or elevation indicated
by the city official in charge of sidewalks.
   (C)   The construction of sidewalks hereafter laid, widened or repaired
shall be done under the direction of the official in charge of sidewalks, and
under such rules and regulations not inconsistent with the provisions of this
article, as the Council may from time to time adopt; provided that, all
sidewalks hereafter laid shall be constructed of concrete in the proportion of
one part cement to five parts sand, and the total thickness of said walk to be
not less than four inches.
§ 5-308 MATERIALS; EXTENT OF REPAIRS PERMISSIBLE; WIDTH.
   All sidewalks on either side of the streets and avenues of the city, which
shall be hereafter constructed, reconstructed or replaced shall be subject to
the prior approval and specifications as determined by the Building Official.
§ 5-310 FAILURE TO REBUILD.
   In case the owner of property in front of which any unlawful sidewalk is
constructed or refuses or neglects to rebuild or relocate the same within five
days after notice to do so, then the City Council may order the same rebuilt or
relocated and assess the costs thereof upon the abutting property upon the same
notice and in the same manner provided by law for the construction of and
assessment for new sidewalks.
§ 5-311 DUTY TO REMOVE BRANCHES AND SHRUBBERY; PENALTY.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of the occupant of each lot or parcel of ground
in said city to keep the sidewalk adjacent thereto free from overhanging
branches and free from limbs to a height of seven feet, and to keep such
sidewalk free from encroaching hedges or shrubbery; and no tree, shrubbery or
hedge shall be permitted closer than 18 inches to the sidewalk.
   (B)   It shall be the duty of the occupant of each lot or parcel of ground
abutting on any intersection to trim and or remove any shrubbery, sign or other
obstacle, which obstructs the view for a distance of ten feet from such
intersection.
   (C)   Any such occupant or owner who fails to remove the overhanging
branches and limbs or other encroachments within three days after receiving
written notice to do so, upon conviction shall be fined in any sum not
exceeding that permitted by state law for the violation of a municipal
ordinance and shall pay the costs of prosecution and the costs of the removal
of such encroachments.
§ 5-312 DANGEROUS STAIRWAY.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to construct or maintain any stairway,
open cellarway, open basement way or open entrance thereto in or adjacent to
any sidewalk, pavement or street, and any such entrance is hereby declared to
be a public nuisance; provided, all existing stairways, open cellarways, open
basement ways or open entrances thereto in said sidewalks, pavements or streets
may be permitted to remain from and after the passage, approval and publication
of this code if said person owning or using said opening in the sidewalk or
street shall satisfy the Building Official that the same is properly protected
by a balustrade or coping of durable material, and shall furnish the city with
a bond in such amount as the City Council may set, for the benefit of any
person who might suffer an injury or damage by reason of the use of said
stairway, cellarway or open basement way.
§ 5-313 HANDICAPPED ACCESSIBLE SIDEWALKS.
   (A)   New residential construction; general.
      (1)   All new residential building projects hereafter constructed shall
include the construction of handicapped accessible sidewalks in accordance with
specifications promulgated by the Building Official. Construction of such
sidewalks shall be completed at the same time or prior to completion of the
building project.
      (2)   In all new subdivisions hereafter constructed, sidewalks shall be
required along both sides of all streets. All sidewalks shall have a minimum
width of four feet and shall be constructed under the supervision of and
subject to the approval of the Building Official and/or City Engineer. Such
sidewalks shall be located four inches inside the street right-of-way line, or
in a different location with the approval of the Building Official.
Construction of such sidewalks shall be completed at the same time or prior to
completion of the building project.
   (B)   Width and slope. Sidewalks hereafter constructed shall be of the same
width as sidewalks immediately adjacent thereto, but of not less than four
feet; provided that, if sidewalks adjacent thereto are of different widths,
then the Building Official and/or the City Engineer shall determine the width
thereof. All sidewalks shall slope towards the curb at a rate of one-fourth
inch per foot.
ARTICLE IV: CURB AND GUTTER
Section
   
5-401   Cutting curb
   
5-402   Paving of drive
   
5-403   Grinding
   
5-404   Gutter repair
§ 5-401 CUTTING CURB.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to cut into any paving, curb or
sidewalk for the purpose of constructing a driveway or any other purpose
whatsoever without first having obtained a written permit from the City Council
therefor.
   (B)   Before any person shall obtain a permit, he or she shall inform the
City Clerk of the place where such cutting is to be done, and it shall be the
Building Official’s duty to inspect the place of entry into the paving,
sidewalk or curb, before the same is cut. When cutting into any paving, it
shall be the duty of the party to cut the paving under such rules and
regulations as may be prescribed by the City Council or the Building Official.
When the applicant is ready to close the opening made, he or she shall inform
the Building Official, who shall supervise and inspect the materials used and
the work done in closing the opening. It shall be discretionary with the City
Council to order the Street Superintendent, under the supervision and
inspection of the Building Official, to do the work of cutting and closing the
paving and charge the costs thereof to the party who obtained the permit. The
City Council may consent to the work of cutting and closing the paving to be
done by the party holding such permit.
   (C)   (1)   Before any permit is issued by the City Council, the applicant
for such permit shall deposit with the City Treasurer a sum set by resolution
of the City Council for all paving, curb or sidewalk to be cut. Such sum shall
be set on a per square foot cost of construction basis. The deposit shall be
retained by the city for the purpose of replacing the paving, curb or sidewalk,
in the event the work is done by the city, in the event the city elects to
require the applicant to replace the paving, curb or sidewalk, the deposit
shall be retained by the city until the work is completed to the satisfaction
of the Building Official.
      (2)   In addition to making the deposit above set forth, the applicant
shall, before any permit is issued, execute a bond to the city with a good and
sufficient surety or sureties to be approved by the City Council in a sum set
by resolution of the City Council.
§ 5-402 PAVING OF DRIVE.
   (A)   If the use, convenience and necessity of a property owner requires the
curb line be cut for entrance onto private property, the property owner shall
first obtain permission for such curb cut from the Street Superintendent or
Building Official. If permission is granted for such cut, the property owner
shall, within 30 days, pave the drive from the curb line to the lot line with
concrete.
   (B)   Upon the development of new residential, commercial or industrial
uses, or development of new structures, parking areas, or upgrades of the same,
where hard-surfacing is not present, compliance with this section shall apply
whenever such drive abut any concrete or asphalt street. The minimum thickness
of such concrete or asphalt shall be six inches in depth. Multiple driveway
accesses will not be allowed for residential purposes, only in the support of
attached or detached garages. Width and slope will be determined by the Street
Superintendent or Building Official. When drainage is required in the right-of-
way, the property owner shall furnish a minimum of a 12-inch corrugated steel
culvert the total width of the driveway. Upon elimination of existing drives,
the property owner will be required to reinstate the city curb by cutting and
replacement of such street, including the complete flow line of the curb to the
specifications of the adjoining street.
(Ord. 897, passed 6-11-2007)
§ 5-403 GRINDING.
   Any time that it is necessary to cut into any curb and/or gutter for the
purpose of constructing a driveway, sidewalk ramp, or for any other purpose,
grinding of the curb will be done with a commercial concrete grinding unit. In
rare cases where grinding is not possible, the appropriate city official will
determine what type of cutting of the curb will be permitted. In no case will
curbs and/or gutter be chipped or broken apart by hand.
§ 5-404 GUTTER REPAIR.
   The city will bear the cost for the repair/replacement of any curb and
gutter that the Street Superintendent deems necessary, except for those cases
where the property owner has caused a modification or repair to the curb and
gutter that was not approved by the Street Superintendent. Then, the cost and
repair of such curb and gutter replacement shall be born by the adjacent
property owner; and, in the event that said property owner fails to repair or
replace such curb and gutter, the Street Superintendent shall make such repair
and the cost of such shall be assessed against the adjacent property owner
pursuant to state law.
ARTICLE V: PENAL PROVISION
Section
   
5-501   Violation; penalty
§ 5-501 VIOLATION; PENALTY.
   Any and all persons violating any of the provisions of the several articles
of this chapter, for which penalty is not therein provided, shall be deemed
guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be fined in any sum
not exceeding that permitted by state law for violation of a municipal
ordinance.
CHAPTER 6: PUBLIC UTILITIES
Article
   
I.   UTILITIES BILLING AND PROCEDURES
   
II.   WATER DEPARTMENT
   
III.   SEWER DEPARTMENT
   
IV.   ELECTRICAL SYSTEM REGULATIONS
   
V.   REFUSE DISPOSAL AND COLLECTION
   
VI.   GAS DEPARTMENT
   
VII.   UTILITIES FRANCHISE REQUIRED
   
VIII.   PENALTY PROVISION
ARTICLE I: UTILITIES BILLING AND PROCEDURES
Section
   
6-101   Utility deposits
   
6-102   Bills for all utilities
   
6-103   Incorporation of policies and procedures
   
6-104   Penal provision
   
6-105   Billing errors
§ 6-101 UTILITY DEPOSITS.
   (A)   Residential utility deposit requirements.
      (1)   A deposit for each new residential utility service shall be
required from any residential user in the following amounts prior to the
initiation of any utility services:
 
Electricity (no gas service)   $150
Electricity (with gas service) $75
Garbage                        $15
Gas                            $75
Sewer                          $30
Water                          $30
 
      (2)   Such deposit shall be returned to such user whenever the above
named utility service is discontinued, after deducting from said deposit any
and all amounts due to the city for water, sewer, electricity, gas or garbage
service furnished, including charges for labor and materials.
      (3)   After at least two years of continuous service to the residential
customer, if the monthly payments for the account have been made promptly, with
no delinquent payments and no more than four payments made past the due date
during the immediately preceding 24-month period, the customer’s deposit shall
be refunded.
   (B)   Commercial utility deposit requirements.
      (1)   Except as provided below, all utility service accounts established
under the commercial rate structure shall be required to maintain a deposit in
an amount to be determined by the utilities office as set forth in this
section.
      (2)   Deposits for any new account, or for any account for which service
is reinstated after being disconnected for non-payment, shall be maintained in
the amount of not less than $300, nor more than $2,000, as determined by the
utilities office. The exact amount of the deposit required should be equal to
the entire utility bill of the highest usage month of the preceding 12 months
of continuous utility usage.
      (3)   The commercial utility deposit required herein shall be refunded to
the commercial customer when the utility service has been disconnected, whether
at the request of the customer or for non-payment of the customer’s bill, or a
new account has been created for said service with a different customer, and a
final reading has been taken. Any deposit on hand, minus any amount of unpaid
billings, including penalties and other charges, shall be refunded to the
customer.
      (4)   After at least two years of continuous service to the commercial
customer, if the monthly payments for the account have been made promptly, with
no delinquent payments and no more than four payments made past the due date
during the immediately preceding 24-month period, the customer’s deposit shall
be refunded.
(Ord. 961, passed 7-9-2012)
§ 6-102 BILLS FOR ALL UTILITIES.
   All bills for city utilities shall be due and payable on receipt and
delinquent after the tenth of the month. A penalty of 10% shall be charged on
all bills not paid on or before the tenth of the month and all delinquencies
thereafter shall bear interest at the highest rate allowed by law. The city
shall have the right to discontinue service immediately on all delinquent
accounts and without further notice, except as provided by law. For each
utility, a fee of $10 shall be charged to the consumer for each service call to
connect or disconnect the customer’s service due to a delinquent bill.
§ 6-103 INCORPORATION OF POLICIES AND PROCEDURES.
   (A)   The Mayor and City Council may establish from time to time policies
and procedures for the governing and operation of the city utilities. Such
policies and procedures are duly published and available for public inspection
by all residents and other interested parties during normal city business
hours.
   (B)   The said published policies and procedures be and hereby are
incorporated as part of the ordinances of the city and are to be given the same
force and effect as all other ordinances incorporated herein.
§ 6-104 PENAL PROVISION.
   Anyone violating any of the terms and conditions of the policies and
procedures adopted herein shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be fined
in a sum not to exceed that permitted by state law.
§ 6-105 BILLING ERRORS.
   (A)   In the event that a billing error is discovered resulting in the over-
billing of a customer, the city shall reimburse the customer all over-billed
amounts for the previous seven years.
   (B)   In the event that a billing error is discovered resulting in the
under-billing of a customer, the city shall bill the customer for all under-
billed amounts for the previous two years.
ARTICLE II: WATER DEPARTMENT
Section
   
6-201   Operation and funding
   
6-202   Terms defined
   
6-203   Consumer’s application
   
6-204   Water contract
   
6-205   Installation expense and procedure
   
6-206   Stop and waste cock
   
6-207   Excavation; inspection
   
6-208   Non-resident installation expense
   
6-209   Repairs and maintenance
   
6-210   Minimum rates
   
6-211   Fees and collections
   
6-212   Water bills
   
6-213   Mandatory hook up
   
6-214   Lien
   
6-215   Single premises
   
6-216   Restricted use; liability of city
   
6-217   Fire hydrants
   
6-218   Pollution
   
6-219   Inspection
   
6-220   Water service contracts
   
6-221   Destruction of property
   
6-222   Complaints
   
6-223   Prohibition of lead pipes, solder and flux
   
6-224   Backflow/backsiphonage prevention; statement of policy
   
6-225   Backflow/backsiphonage prevention; definitions
   
6-226   Backflow/backsiphonage prevention; cross-connections prohibited
   
6-227   Backflow/backsiphonage prevention; prohibition on auxiliary water
systems
   
6-228   Backflow/backsiphonage prevention; survey and investigation
   
6-229   Backflow/backsiphonage prevention; where protection is required
   
6-230   Backflow/backsiphonage prevention; type of protection required
   
6-231   Backflow/backsiphonage prevention; backflow prevention devices
   
6-232   Backflow/backsiphonage prevention; installation
   
6-233   Backflow/backsiphonage prevention; testing
   
6-234   Backflow/backsiphonage prevention; authorized representative: authority
   
6-235   Backflow/backsiphonage prevention; appeals
   
6-236   Backflow/backsiphonage prevention; violation and penalties
   
6-237   Backflow/backsiphonage prevention; conflicts with other applicable
codes
   
6-238   Backflow/backsiphonage prevention; liability claims
   
6-239   Wellhead protection
   
6-240   Wellhead protection: violation; penalty
   
6-241   Fluoride: prohibiting addition to city’s water system
§ 6-201 OPERATION AND FUNDING.
   (A)   The Mayor and City Council hereby find and determine that the city
owns and operates a waterworks plant and water system in and for the city, and
said city hereby adopts the following as the rules and regulations and services
and usage of the city waterworks plant and water system, which will govern in
the operation of the system.
   (B)   For the purpose of defraying costs of the care, management and
maintenance of the city waterworks plant and water system, the city may each
year levy a tax not exceeding the maximum limit prescribed by state law on the
actual valuation of all real estate and personal property within the corporate
limits that is subject to taxation; and that revenue from the said tax shall be
known as the “Water Fund” and shall remain in the custody of the City
Treasurer; that the Utilities Superintendent shall have the direct management
and control of the city water system and shall faithfully carry out the duties
of his or her office. The Water Superintendent shall have the authority to
prepare rules and regulations for the sanitary and efficient management of the
water system subject to the approval, supervision and review of the City
Council. The City Council shall set the rates to be charged for services
rendered by ordinance and shall file a copy of the rates in the office of the
City Clerk for public inspection at any reasonable time.
§ 6-202 TERMS DEFINED.
   For the purpose of this article, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning. Where no
definition is specified, the normal dictionary usage of the word shall apply.
   MAIN. Any pipe other than a supply or service pipe that is used for the
purpose of carrying water to, and disbursing the same, in the city.
   SEPARATE PREMISES. More than one consumer procuring water from the same
service or supply pipe. The second premises may be a separate dwelling,
apartment, building or structure used for a separate business.
   SERVICE PIPE. Any pipe extending from the shut-off, stop box or curb cock at
or near the lot line to and beyond the property line of the consumer to the
location on the premises where the water is to be disbursed.
   SUPPLY PIPE. Any pipe tapped into a main and extending from there to a point
at or near the lot line of the consumer’s premises where the shut-off, stop box
or curb cock is located.
§ 6-203 CONSUMER’S APPLICATION.
   Every person or persons desiring a supply of water must make application to
the City Clerk upon the blanks to be furnished by him or her for that purpose.
The applicant shall be required to accompany his or her application with a
meter deposit, said fee to be set from time to time by resolution of the City
Council. Water may not be supplied to any house or private service pipe, except
upon the order of the Water Superintendent. The Department shall not supply
water service to any person outside the corporate limits without special
permission from the City Council; provided, the entire cost of laying mains,
service pipe and supply pipe shall be paid by the consumer. Nothing herein
shall be construed to obligate the city to provide water service to non-
residents.
§ 6-204 WATER CONTRACT.
   The city through its water system shall furnish water to persons within its
corporate limits whose premises abut a street or alley in which a commercial
main now is or may hereafter be laid. The city may furnish water to persons
within its corporate limits whose premises do not abut a street or alley in
which a city commercial main is now or may hereafter be laid, and may also
furnish water to persons whose premises are situated outside the corporate
limits of the city, as and when, according to law, the City Council may see fit
to do so. The rules, regulations and water rates hereinafter named in this
article shall be considered a part of every application hereafter made for
water service and shall be considered a part of the contract between every
consumer now or hereafter served. Without further formality, the making of
application on the part of any applicant or the use of consumption of water
service by present consumers thereof and the furnishing of water service to
said consumer shall constitute a contract between the consumer and the city, to
which said contract both parties are bound. If the consumer shall violate any
of the provisions of said contract or any reasonable rules and regulations that
the City Council may hereafter adopt, the Water Superintendent or his or her
agent may cut off or disconnect the water service form the building or premises
or place of such violation. No further connection for water service to said
building, premises or place shall again be made, save or except by order of
said Water Superintendent or his or her agent.
§ 6-205 INSTALLATION EXPENSE AND PROCEDURE.
   The city shall carry the water service to the approximate lot line and
furnish and install the necessary curb cock and housing and shall furnish the
meter and stop and waste valve and shall be paid therefor a service charge,
which shall be the sum of the cost of material used, hourly charge for use of
mechanical equipment and the cost of labor expended. Such service shall be
provided through a pipe of three-fourths inch diameter or more. Nothing herein
contained shall be construed as requiring the city to extend its mains or
render service unless the mains shall be immediately adjacent to the property
to be served. Where the mains are not immediately adjacent to the property and
the owner shall desire service, the city will furnish 40 feet of pipe, install
the necessary curb cock and housing and furnish the meter and stop and waste
valve, and the customer will furnish all other necessary pipe and all labor for
the service charge hereinabove set forth. The meter shall be installed
horizontally and with the flow of the water. The customer must install the
meter furnished by the city and shall keep his or her service pipes, stop cocks
and other apparatus in good repair at his or her own expense. The Water
Superintendent or his or her agent shall have the exclusive power to repair and
test all meters and the city may charge the customer the reasonable value for
making any repairs or furnishing any new parts required for any cause other
than ordinary wear. Upon the refusal of the owner to pay for any such parts or
repairs, the water upon proper notice shall be shut off and not turned on again
until all charges and penalties have been paid.
(Ord. 1068, passed 9-9-2021)
§ 6-206 STOP AND WASTE COCK.
   There shall be a stop and waste cock attached to every supply pipe at a
point in the building so as to admit watering being shut off in frosty weather
and the pipe being emptied.
§ 6-207 EXCAVATION; INSPECTION.
   In making excavations in streets, alleys or sidewalks for the purpose of
installing pipe or making repairs, the paving, stones and earth must be removed
and deposited in a manner that will occasion the least inconvenience to the
public and provide for adequate drainage. No person shall leave an excavation
made in the street, alley or sidewalk open at any time without a barricade.
After service pipes are laid, the streets, alleys and sidewalks shall be
restored to good condition. If the excavation in any street, alley or sidewalk
is left open or unfinished for a period of 24 hours or more, the Water
Superintendent shall have the duty to finish or correct the work, and all
expenses so incurred shall be charged to the consumer. All installations or
repairs of pipes require two inspections by the Water Superintendent. The first
inspection shall be made when connections or repairs are completed and before
the pipes are covered. The second inspection shall be made after the first work
is completed and the service is restored. It is the consumer’s responsibility
to notify the Water Superintendent at the time the work is ready for each
inspection. All installation shall be done under the supervision and strictly
in accordance with the terms established by the Water Superintendent.
§ 6-208 NON-RESIDENT INSTALLATION EXPENSE.
   Applicants for water service whose property is situated outside the
corporate limits of the city shall pay tap or connection fees in such sum as
the mayor and City Council shall, in each case, fix; provided, however, nothing
herein shall be construed to obligate the city to furnish water service to non-
residents unless it is able to do so without overloading its pumps, machinery
or other equipment.
§ 6-209 REPAIRS AND MAINTENANCE.
   The city shall repair or replace, as the case may be, all supply pipe
between the commercial main and the stop box. The customer, at his or her own
expense, shall replace and keep in repair all service pipes from, and
including, the stop box to the place of disbursement. When leaks occur in
service pipes, the Water Superintendent shall shut off water service until the
leak is repaired at the expense of the customer to the satisfaction of the
Water Superintendent. All water meters shall be kept in repair by the city at
the expense of the city. When meters are worn out, they shall be replaced and
reset by the city at the expense of the city, provided that if the customer
permits or allows a water meter to be damaged, injured or destroyed through his
or her own recklessness, carelessness or neglect so that the meter must be
repaired or replaced, the City Clerk shall bill and collect from the customer
the cost of such meter repair or replacement in the same manner as water rent
fees are collected. Permitting a water meter to be damaged or destroyed by
freezing shall always be considered negligence on the part of the customer. All
meters shall be tested at the customer’s request at the expense of the customer
any reasonable number of times; provided that if the test shows the water meter
to be running 2% or more fast, the expense of such test shall be borne by the
city. The city reserves the right to test any water meter at any time, and if
said meter is found to be beyond repair the city shall always have the right to
place a new meter on the customer’s water service fixtures at city expense.
Should a customer’s meter fail to register properly, the customer shall be
charged for water during the time the meter is out of repair on the basis of
the monthly consumption during the same month of the preceding year; provided
that if no such basis for comparison exists, the customer shall be charged such
amount as may be reasonable, fixed by the Water Superintendent. It shall be
unlawful for any person to tamper with any water meter, or by any means or
device to divert water from the service pipe so that the same shall not pass
through said meter, to cause the same to register inaccurately.
(Ord. 1068, passed 9-9-2021)
§ 6-210 MINIMUM RATES.
   All water consumers shall be liable for the minimum rate per month as
established from time to time by resolution of the City Council. In the event
the consumer shall, by written order, direct the Water Superintendent to shut
off the water at the stop box, he or she shall not be liable thereafter for
water rental until the water is turned on again.
§ 6-211 FEES AND COLLECTIONS.
   The City Council has the power and authority to fix by resolution the rates
to be paid by the water consumers for the use of water from the Water
Department. Such fee resolution shall be on file for public inspection at the
office of the City Clerk. The City Clerk shall bill the consumers and collect
all money received by the city on the account of the Water Department. He or
she shall faithfully account for, and pay to the City Treasurer, all revenue
collected by him or her, making his or her receipt therefor in duplicate,
keeping one and filing the other in the Water Department’s official records.
§ 6-212 WATER BILLS.
   All users for city water shall be billed quarterly. All bills for water
shall be paid in accordance with the provisions of §
6-102 of this article.
§ 6-213 MANDATORY HOOK-UP.
   All persons whose property abuts a water main that is now or hereafter may
be laid shall be required, upon notice of the City Council, to hook up with the
city water system.
§ 6-214 LIEN.
   In addition to all other remedies, if a customer shall for any reason remain
indebted to the city for water service furnished, such amount due, together
with any rents and charges in arrears, shall be considered a delinquent water
rent which is hereby declared to be a hen upon the real estate for which the
same was used. The City Clerk shall notify in writing or cause to be notified
in writing all owners of premises or their agents whenever their tenants or
lessees are 60 days or more delinquent in the payment of water rent. Any time
after a 60-day delinquency, the City Council may direct the City Clerk to
certify to the County Clerk any delinquent water charges to be collected as a
special tax in the manner provided by law.
§ 6-215 SINGLE PREMISES.
   No consumer shall supply water to other families or allow them to take water
from his or her premises, nor after water is supplied into a building shall any
person make or employ a plumber or other person to make a tap or connection
with the pipe upon the premises for alteration, extension or attachment without
the written permission of the Water Superintendent. Each tenant or lessee shall
be responsible for all water service used in any space rented or leased by him
or her. Each separate apartment or other leased premises shall be deemed to be
a separate user of the city water supply and shall be required to pay any
deposit and use fees as established by resolution of the City Council and
placed on file in the office of the City Clerk. It shall further be unlawful
for any person to tamper with any water meter, or by means of any contrivance
or device to divert the water from the service pipe so that the water will not
pass through the meter or, while passing through said meter, to cause the meter
to register inaccurately.
§ 6-216 RESTRICTED USE; LIABILITY OF CITY.
   The City Council or the Water Superintendent may order a reduction in the
use of water or shut off the water on any premises in the event of a water
shortage due to fire or other good and sufficient cause. The city shall not be
liable for any damages caused by shutting off the supply of water of any
consumer while the system or any part thereof is undergoing repairs or when
there is a shortage of water due to circumstances over which the city has no
control.
§ 6-217 FIRE HYDRANTS.
   All hydrants for the purpose of extinguishing fires are hereby declared to
be public hydrants, and it shall be unlawful for any person other than members
of the city’s Fire Department under the orders of the Fire Chief or the
assistant Fire Chief to open or attempt to open any of the hydrants and draw
water from the same, or in any manner to interfere with the hydrants.
§ 6-218 POLLUTION.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to pollute or attempt to pollute any
stream or source of water for the supply of the city’s Water Department.
§ 6-219 INSPECTION.
   The Water Superintendent, or his or her duly authorized agents, shall have
free access, at any reasonable time, to all parts of each premises and building
to, or in which, water is delivered for the purpose of examining the pipes,
fixtures and other portions of the system to ascertain whether there is any
disrepair or unnecessary waste of water.
§ 6-220 WATER SERVICE CONTRACTS.
   Contracts for water service are not transferable. Any person wishing to
change from one location to another shall make a new application and sign a new
contract. If any consumer shall sell, dispose or remove from the premises where
service is furnished, or if the said premises is destroyed by fire or other
casualty, he or she shall at once inform the Water Superintendent who shall
cause the water service to be shut off from the said premises. If the consumer
should fail to give such notice, he or she shall be charged for all water used
on the said premises until the Water Superintendent is otherwise advised of
such circumstances.
§ 6-221 DESTRUCTION OF PROPERTY.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to willfully or carelessly break, injure
or deface any building, machinery, apparatus, fixture, attachment or
appurtenance of the city’s Water Department. No person may deposit anything in
a stop box or commit any act tending to obstruct or impair the intended use of
any of the above mentioned property without the written permission of the Water
Superintendent.
§ 6-222 COMPLAINTS.
   Any consumer feeling himself or herself aggrieved by reason of any
controversy with the Water Superintendent may appear before the City Council
and present his or her grievance. Any consumer who considers himself or herself
aggrieved by being required to pay the charge demanded for the use of water, or
for the resumption of water service after the same shall have been shut off,
shall pay such charge under protest, in which event the City Clerk shall write
on the receipt given such customer the words “Paid Under Protest”. Such
consumer may then present his or her verified claim in the manner provided for
presenting claims to the City Council for a refund of the amount so paid under
protest. Such claims shall then be considered by the City Council in the same
manner as other claims against the city.
§ 6-223 PROHIBITION OF LEAD PIPES, SOLDER AND FLUX.
   (A)   Any pipe, solders or flux used in the installation or repair of any
residential or non-residential facility, which is connected to the public water
supply system shall be lead free.
   (B)   For purposes of this section, LEAD FREE shall mean:
      (1)   Solders and flux: not more than 0.2% lead; and
      (2)   Pipe and pipe fittings: not more than 8% lead.
§ 6-224 BACKFLOW/BACKSIPHONAGE PREVENTION: STATEMENT OF POLICY.
   (A)   General. The purpose of these backflow regulations is:
      (1)   To protect the public potable water supply of the city water system
from contamination or pollution within the consumer’s internal distribution
system or private water system contaminants or pollutants which could backflow
through the service connection into the public water supply system;
      (2)   To promote the elimination, containment, isolation or control of
existing cross connections, actual or potential, between the public or
consumer’s potable water systems and non-potable water systems, plumbing
fixtures and industrial process systems; and
      (3)   To provide for the maintenance of a continuing program of cross-
connection control which will systematically and effectively prevent the
contamination or pollution of all potable water systems.
   (B)   Application/interpretation.
      (1)   These regulations shall apply to all premises served by the public
potable water system of the city. These regulations will be reasonably
interpreted. It is the city’s intent to recognize the varying degrees of hazard
and to apply the principle that the degree of protection shall be commensurate
with the degree of hazard.
      (2)   The water department shall be primarily responsible for protection
of the public water distributions system from contamination or pollution due to
backflow or contaminants or pollutants through the water service connection.
The cooperation of all consumers is required to implement and maintain the
program to control cross-connections. The consumer is responsible for
preventing contamination of the water system within consumer’s own premises.
§ 6-225 BACKFLOW/BACKSIPHONAGE PREVENTION; DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of §§
6-224 through
6-238 of this article, the following definitions shall apply unless the context
clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AIR GAP. Used to prevent either backflow or backsiphonage, and air-gap
separation is the unobstructed vertical distance through the free atmosphere
between the lowest opening from any pipe or faucet supplying water to a tank,
plumbing fixture or other device and the flood level rim of the receptacle.
   APPROVED TESTER. A person qualified to make inspections; to test and repair
backflow prevention/cross-connection control devices; and who is approved by
the city.
   AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE. Any person designated by the city to administer
these cross- connection control regulations. Unless designated by the City
Council, the AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE shall be the Water Superintendent or any
other person he or she may delegate.
   AUXILIARY WATER SUPPLY. Any water source system, other than the public water
supply, that may be available in the building or premises.
   BACKFLOW. The flow other than the intended direction of flow, or any foreign
liquids, gases or substances into the distribution system of the public water
supply system.
   BACKFLOW PREVENTION DEVICE. Any device, method or type of construction
intended to prevent backflow into a potable water system; provided, such
devices have been tested and approved by a reputable testing laboratory.
   BACKSIPHONAGE. The flowing back of water, or other foreign liquids, gases or
substances into a water distribution system due to negative pressure in the
piping of the water distribution system.
   CONSUMER. The owner or person in control of any premises supplied by or in
any manner connected to a public water system.
   CONTAINMENT. Protection of the public water supply by installing a cross
connection control device or air gap separation in the main service line to a
facility, or as an installation within equipment handling potentially hazardous
materials.
   CONTAMINATION. An impairment of the quality of the water by sewage, process
fluids or other wastes to a degree which could create the actual hazard to the
public health through poisoning or through spread of disease by exposure.
   CROSS-CONNECTION. Any physical link between a potable water supply and any
other substance, fluid or source, which makes possible contamination of the
water supply due to the reversal of flow of the water in the piping or
distribution system.
   HAZARD, DEGREE OF. An evaluation of the potential risk to public health and
the adverse effect of the hazard upon the potable water system.
      (1)   HAZARD, HEALTH. Any condition, device or practice in the water
supply system and its operation which could create a danger to the health and
well-being of the water consumer.
      (2)   HAZARD, PLUMBING. A plumbing type cross connection in a consumer’s
potable water system that has not been properly protected by a vacuum breaker,
air gap separation or backflow prevention device.
      (3)   HAZARD, POLLUTION. An actual or potential threat to the physical
properties of the water system or to the consumer’s potable water system, but
which constitute a nuisance or be aesthetically objectionable or could cause
damage to the system, but would not be dangerous to health.
      (4)   HAZARD, SYSTEM. An actual or potential threat of severe damage to
the physical properties of the public potable water system or the consumer’s
potable water system, or of a pollution or contamination which would have a
protracted effect on the quality of the potable water in the system.
   ISOLATION. Protection of facility service line by installing a cross-
connection control device or air gap separation on an individual fixture or
system.
   POLLUTION. The presence of any foreign substance (organic, inorganic or
biological) in water which tends to degrade its quality so as to constitute a
hazard or impair the usefulness of the water to a degree which does not create
an actual hazard to the public health, but which does adversely and
unreasonably affect such waters for domestic use.
   PUBLIC POTABLE WATER SYSTEM. Any publicly- or privately-owned water system
supplying water to the general public which is satisfactory for drinking,
culinary and domestic purposes and meets the requirements of the state’s
Department of Health.
   SERVICE CONNECTION. The terminal end of a service line from the public water
system. If a meter is installed at the end of the service, then the SERVICE
CONNECTION means the downstream end of the meter.
   WATER DEPARTMENT. The city’s Water Department.
§ 6-226 BACKFLOW/BACKSIPHONAGE PREVENTION; CROSS-CONNECTIONS PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No water service connection shall be installed or maintained to any
premises where actual or potential cross-connections to the public water supply
system may exist unless such actual or potential cross-connections are abated
or controlled to the satisfaction of the city and as required by the laws of
the state or regulations of the state’s Department of Health or its authorized
representative.
   (B)   No connection shall be installed or maintained to any premises in
which the plumbing system, facilities and fixtures have not been constructed
and installed using acceptable plumbing practices considered by the Water
Department as necessary for the protection of health and safety.
§ 6-227 BACKFLOW/BACKSIPHONAGE PREVENTION; PROHIBITION ON AUXILIARY WATER
SYSTEMS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to maintain any auxiliary water supply
system, which is physically connected to the public potable water system in any
manner.
§ 6-228 BACKFLOW/BACKSIPHONAGE PREVENTION; SURVEY AND INVESTIGATION.
   (A)   The consumer’s premises shall be open at all reasonable times to the
city or its authorized representative, for the conduct of surveys and
investigations of water use practices within the consumer’s premises to
determine whether there are actual or potential cross connections in the
consumer’s water system.
   (B)   On request by the city or its authorized representative, the consumer
shall conduct periodic surveys and furnish requested information on water use
practices within the premises and in the consumer’s water system to determine
whether there are actual or potential cross-connections. The consumer shall
provide the survey results to the city or its authorized representative.
§ 6-229 BACKFLOW/BACKSIPHONAGE PREVENTION; WHERE PROTECTIONS REQUIRED.
   (A)   An approved backflow prevention device shall be installed between the
service connection and the point of potential backflow into a consumer’s water
supply system when, in the judgment of the city or its authorized
representative, a health, plumbing, pollution or system hazard exists.
   (B)   An approved air gap separation or backflow prevention device shall be
installed at the service connection or within any premises where, in the
judgment of the Water Department, the nature and extent of activities on the
premises or the materials used in connection with the activities, or materials
stored on the premises, would present an immediate and dangerous hazard to
health should a cross- connection occur, even though such cross-connection may
not exist at the time the backflow prevention device is required to be
installed. This includes, but is not limited to, the following situations:
      (1)   Premises having internal cross connections that are not
correctable, or intricate plumbing arrangements which make it impractical to
ascertain whether or not cross connections exist;
      (2)   Premises where entry is restricted so that inspections for cross-
connections cannot be made with sufficient frequency or at sufficiently short
notice to assure the cross-connections do not exist;
      (3)   Premises having a repeated history of cross-connections being
established or reestablished;
      (4)   Premises which, due to the nature of the enterprise therein, are
subject to recurring modification or expansion;
      (5)   Premises on which any substance is handled under pressure so as to
permit entry into the public water supply system or where a cross-connection
could reasonably be expected to occur. This shall include the handling or
process waters and cooling waters; and
      (6)   Premises where toxic or hazardous materials are handled such that
if a backsiphonage or back-pressure should occur, a serious health hazard may
result.
   (C)   The following types of facilities fall into one or more of the
categories or premises where an approved air gap separation or approved
backflow prevention device may be required by the city or its authorized
representative or the state’s Department of Health to protect the public water
supply and must be installed at these facilities unless all hazardous or
potentially hazardous conditions have been eliminated or corrected by other
methods to the satisfaction of the city or its authorized representative and
the state’s Department of Health:
      (1)   Agricultural chemical facilities;
      (2)   Hospitals, mortuaries, dental clinics, nursing and convalescent
homes, medical buildings;
      (3)   Premises having water recirculating systems as used for boilers or
cooling systems;
      (4)   Bulk water loading facilities;
      (5)   Car washes, automobile service facilities;
      (6)   Chill water systems;
      (7)   Feedlots;
      (8)   Fire suppression systems;
      (9)   Hazardous waste storage and disposal sites;
      (10)   Irrigation and lawn sprinkler systems;
      (11)   Laundries and dry cleaning;
      (12)   Beauty salons, barbershops, massage parlors, health clubs;
      (13)   Schools;
      (14)   Sewage treatment and pumping stations;
      (15)   Testing and film laboratories;
      (16)   Food and beverage processing plants;
      (17)   Chemical or petroleum processing and storage plants;
      (18)   Packing houses;
      (19)   Premises having radioactive materials, such as laboratories,
industries and hospitals;
      (20)   Veterinary establishments, kennels, feed yards, stables, rodeo
grounds, pet grooming salons;
      (21)   Properties with any of the following conditions:
         (a)   Livestock waters and tank fillers;
         (b)   Use of hose aspirators for spraying chemicals;
         (c)   Swimming pools, hot tubs and spas;
         (d)   Faucets, hydrants and hose bibs with hose threads;
         (e)   Plumbing fixtures with faucet mouth below rim;
         (f)   Water softeners and home water treatment systems;
         (g)   Heat pumps;
         (h)   Heat exchangers using coils or water jackets;
         (i)   Soft drink dispensers and bar carbonators;
         (j)   Commercial type flush valve urinals and toilets;
         (k)   Bidet or sitz bath; and
         (l)   Trough urinal.
      (22)   Other commercial or industrial facilities which the city
determines may constitute potential cross-connection.
§ 6-230 BACKFLOW/BACKSIPHONAGE PREVENTION; TYPE OF PROTECTION REQUIRED.
   The type of protection required by these regulations shall depend on the
degree of hazard, which exists, as follows.
   (A)   An approved air gap separation shall be installed where the potable
water system may be contaminated with substances that could cause a severe
health hazard.
   (B)   An approved air gap separation or an approved backflow prevention
device shall be installed where the public potable water system may be
contaminated with a substance that could cause a health hazard.
   (C)   An approved air gap separation or an approved backflow prevention
device shall be installed where the public potable water system may be polluted
with substances that could cause a pollution hazard not dangerous to health.
§ 6-231 BACKFLOW/BACKSIPHONAGE PREVENTION; BACKFLOW PREVENTION DEVICES.
   Any backflow prevention device required by these regulations shall be of a
model or construction approved by the city or its authorized representative and
the state’s Department of Health.
   (A)   Air gap separation to be approved shall be at least twice the diameter
of the supply pipe, measured vertically above the top rim of the vessel, but in
no case less than one inch.
   (B)   Double check valve assemblies or reduced pressure principle backflow
prevention devices shall appear on the current list of the approved backflow
prevention devices established by the state’s Department of Health, unless the
device was installed at the time these regulations were passed and complied
with the required inspection, maintenance and performance standards.
   (C)   Any backflow prevention device, which does not meet current protection
standards, shall be replaced with an approved backflow preventer at the
customer’s expense.
§ 6-232 BACKFLOW/BACKSIPHONAGE PREVENTION; INSTALLATION.
   (A)   Backflow prevention devices required by this policy shall be installed
at a location and in a manner approved by the city or its authorized
representative. All devices shall be installed at the expense of the consumer.
   (B)   Backflow prevention devices installed at the service connection shall
be located on the consumer’s side of the water meter (if one is installed) or
as close to meter as is reasonably practical and, in any event, prior to any
other connection.
   (C)   Backflow prevention devices shall be conveniently accessible for
maintenance and testing, protected from freezing, where a part of the device
will be submerged or subject to flooding by any fluid and installed according
to manufacturer’s recommendations.
§ 6-233 BACKFLOW/BACKSPHONAGE PREVENTION; TESTING.
   Backflow and backsiphonage prevention devices, designed to be tested, shall
be tested for proper operation annually or when necessary in the opinion of the
city or its authorized representative. Actual testing shall be at the expense
of the consumer. Any required maintenance or repairs shall be at the expense of
the consumer and subject to the approval of the city. If testing shall require
entry into the premises, the city’s authorized representative shall give notice
setting forth a proposed date and time to the consumer at least ten days in
advance by first class mail. If the consumer cannot make the appointment,
consumer shall contact the city’s authorized representative to arrange another
date and time.
§ 6-234 BACKFLOW/BACKSPHONAGE PREVENTION; AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE: AUTHORITY.
   The authorized representative shall have the authority to issue any order
consistent with the provisions of these regulations in order to protect the
public health and safety. Any order of the authorized representative shall be
in writing and shall clearly state the nature of the order, compliance
requirements and set a reasonable date by which compliance must be met. All
orders will be mailed to the consumer by first class mail.
§ 6-235 BACKFLOW/BACKSPHONAGE PREVENTION; APPEALS.
   (A)   In the event that it is claimed that the true intent and meaning of
these regulations have been wrongfully interpreted by the authorized
representative; that the time allowed for compliance with any order of the
authorized representative is too short; or that conditions peculiar to a
particular premises make it unreasonably difficult to meet the literal
requirements prescribed by these regulations, the owner may file a written
notice of appeal with the City Clerk within ten days after the decision or
order of the authorized representative has been made. The City Council shall
hear all appeals and shall have the power and authority, when appealed to, to
modify the decision or order of the authorized representative. Such a decision
shall be final, subject only to any remedy, which the aggrieved party may have
at law or equity.
   (B)   Appeals shall be in writing and shall state the reason for the appeal.
§ 6-236 BACKFLOW/BACKSPHONAGE PREVENTION; VIOLATION AND PENALTIES.
   (A)   The city or its authorized representative shall deny or discontinue
the water service to any premises or any consumer wherein any backflow
prevention device required by this policy is not installed, tested and
maintained in a manner acceptable to the city or its authorized representative,
or if it is found that the backflow prevention device has been removed or
bypassed, or if an unprotected cross- connection exists.
   (B)   Water service to such premises shall not be restored until the
consumer is in compliance with this article to the satisfaction of the city or
its authorized representative.
   (C)   Any person who shall violate or refuse to comply with the enforcement
of any of the provisions of these regulations shall be deemed guilty of a
misdemeanor, and shall be fined no less than the amount allowed by state law
for violation of a municipal ordinance for each offense. A new violation shall
be deemed to have been committed every 24 hours of such failure to comply.
§ 6-237 BACKFLOW/BACKSIPHONAGE PREVENTION; CONFLICTS WITH OTHER APPLICABLE
CODES.
   The provisions of these regulations shall be read as concurrent provisions
with the rules and regulations of the state’s Department of Health. In the
event of conflicting provisions, the most restrictive shall apply.
§ 6-238 BACKFLOW/BACKSIPHONAGE PREVENTION; LIABILITY CLAIMS.
   The authorized representative shall be relieved from personal liability. The
city shall hold harmless the authorized representative when acting in good
faith and without malice, from all personal liability for any damage that may
occur to any person or property as a result of any act required or authorized
by this article, or by reason of any act or omission of the authorized
representative in the discharge of his or her duties hereunder. Any suit
brought carrying out the provisions of this title shall be defined by the city
or the city’s insurance carrier, if any, through final determination of such
proceeding.
§ 6-239 WELLHEAD PROTECTION.
   (A)   Purpose. The purpose of this section is to establish controls over the
location and construction of future potential sources of contamination of the
city’s public water supply, or expansion or modification of current sources
within the municipal limits and its extraterritorial jurisdiction so as to
prevent any hazard to the city’s potable water and water source.
   (B)   Definition. WATER WELL shall mean any excavation that is drilled,
cored, bored, washed, driven, dug, jetted or otherwise constructed, screened
and cased, for the purpose of exploring for ground water, monitoring ground
water, extracting ground water from an underground aquifer or used as part of a
geothermal or like system.
   (C)   Prohibitions.
      (1)   It shall be unlawful to place, maintain, construct, modify, expand
or replace any of the following facilities or structures or to discharge any of
the following materials within the horizontal distances set out below from any
point on the boundary of the city’s public water supply wells:
         (a)   One thousand feet:
            1.   Water well (drinking, irrigation or any open looped heat pump
or injection system);
            2.   Sewage lagoon;
            3.   Irrigation or industrial well (unless special permit is
obtained from state);
            4.   Feed lot, feed lot runoff or animal waste disposal;
            5.   Dump; and
            6.   Sanitary landfill.
         (b)   Five hundred feet:
            1.   Closed loop heat pump system;
            2.   Absorption or disposal field for waste;
            3.   Cesspool;
            4.   Corral or animal enclosure;
            5.   Chemical storage (dry or liquid);
            6.   Petroleum product storage;
            7.   Pit toilet;
            8.   Septic tank;
            9.   Sewage treatment plant;
            10.   Sewage wet well;
            11.   Land application of solid or liquid waste; and
            12.   Sanitary or industrial discharge.
         (c)   One hundred feet:
            1.   Sewer connection; and
            2.   Sewer manhole.
         (d)   Fifty feet: sewer line.
      (2)   When, in the judgment of the city or the state, surface runoff or
underground movement from potential sources of contamination may adversely
affect the quality of water in a municipal water supply well, the distance
separating these potential sources of contamination and the well shall be
greater than that listed in the above schedule.
   (D)   Non-conforming use. Any non-conforming uses existing on the date of
passage of this section are exempt, unless such continued existence or use
presents a hazard to the quality of the drinking water available for public use
to the city’s water system. The owner of any existing well shall have the
burden of establishing the existence and use of such well at the time of the
effective date of the passage of this section.
   (E)   Permit requirement.
      (1)   Any person desiring to place a possible new contamination source or
enlarge or modify an existing one or dig a well of any kind anywhere within the
city limits or within its one-mile extraterritorial jurisdiction, shall file an
application for a permit with the city’s Building Official/Code Enforcement
Officer.
      (2)   Application will include:
         (a)   Location of proposed well;
         (b)   Depth of proposed well;
         (c)   Size and type of casing to be installed;
         (d)   Type of grouting to be used;
         (e)   Pumping equipment to be used;
         (f)   Name and address of well driller;
         (g)   Assurance that no water from the private well shall be used for
domestic purposes, but shall be used solely for lawn or agricultural irrigation
and garden irrigation or for water used in heating or cooling equipment. Any
permits required by the state or the Natural Resources District will be
submitted prior to issuance of a permit by the city. Disposal of water for
heating or cooling shall be through reinjection back to the same level of
aquifer; except that, during the spring, summer and fall months, such water
used for heating or cooling may be used for irrigation of lawn or garden. No
water from the private well shall be allowed to run off into a city storm or
wastewater sewer. In addition, assurance shall be given that water from the
private well shall be used exclusively on the property the well is located;
         (h)   Assurance that the property owner will install and maintain
proper backflow prevention devices as prescribed by the city;
         (i)   Assurance that a well log will be recorded by the well driller
and filed with the city prior to use of said well; and
         (j)   Assurance that the city may inspect said well during
construction and any time thereafter; and that at least 24 hours prior to well
drilling, the well driller shall contact the city’s Water Superintendent for
final site approval.
      (3)   After consultation with the city’s Water Superintendent, the city’s
Building Official/Code Enforcement Officer will ensure that the permit conforms
to the distance requirements of this section and does not present any possible
contamination problems for the city’s water or water source. If deemed
necessary, the application shall be referred to the city’s Engineer for
evaluation and report. The estimated cost of the engineer’s fees must be paid
at the time of filing of the application. Any additional costs, which are
reasonably incurred by the engineer or city in making their examination and
report shall be paid by the applicant, in addition to any previously paid
estimated costs. The Building Official/Code Enforcement Officer shall consider
the application, including the engineer’s report (if required) and any
additional information submitted by the applicant. In reaching his or her
decision on whether to allow the placement of a water well, as above defined,
the Building Official/Code Enforcement Officer will act to prevent all sources
of possible or likely water contamination.
      (4)   If, in the opinion of the city’s Building Official/Code Enforcement
Officer and the city’s Water Superintendent, the proposed use risks
contaminating a municipal water well or water source, the permit shall be
denied. Applicants may appeal a denial to the City Council by filing a written
appeal with the City Clerk within 30 days of the denial of the permit. This
appeal will be considered at the next regularly scheduled meeting of the City
Council after the appeal has been filed. If the city approves the installation,
it shall submit the application, together with the engineer’s report, to the
appropriate state agency for final approval or denial.
      (5)   No installation will be made without the approval of the city, NRD
and the state.
      (6)   Closed looped geothermal heating/cooling systems must be cased and
will be pressure grouted from the bottom of the hole to the top with bentonite
grouting or another grouting material approved by the state. Closed looped
geothermal heating/cooling systems must meet all state mandated requirements
above and beyond any listed in this section.
   (F)   Approval of requests for exception. The city may consider location of
potential contamination sources in closer proximity than the minimum distances
listed above. Approval for such location will be given when circumstances
require such location and when, in the opinion of the City Engineer, City
Council and appropriate state agencies, such location does not constitute a
pollution hazard to the city’s water supply. Application for such exception
will follow the same requirements listed for application for permit, and will
require City Council approval.
   (G)   Abandoned wells. All wells that are abandoned shall be properly capped
or closed in accordance with Title 178, Ch. 12, State Department of Health, any
State Department of Environmental Quality requirements and the city notified of
same. The discovery of any well that has been improperly abandoned or
discontinued for use will result in the city notifying the owner of the
property on which such well is located that such well must be abandoned in
accordance with this article within 15 days of the time of service of such
notice. Upon failure of the owner of the property to comply with such order,
the city shall cap, close or fill up such well, assessing the cost and expenses
to the property and property owner upon which such well is located.
   (H)   Applicability. The provisions of these regulations shall apply to all
land within the corporate limits of the city and that portion of the
unincorporated area within its one-mile extraterritorial jurisdiction.
   (I)   Superseding. The provisions of this section shall supersede any land
use regulation, which allows the installation of a potential contaminant source
on a parcel of land. Nothing in this section shall be construed to allow the
installation of any category of contamination source, which is restricted or
prohibited by any federal, state or local law, statute, regulation or
ordinance.
§ 6-240 WELLHEAD PROTECTION: VIOLATION; PENALTY.
   Any person or persons found violating any provision of §
6-239 of this article shall be subject to a fine not to exceed $200. The
continuation of a violation of §
6-239 of this article shall be deemed an additional crime for every 24 hours of
such continued violation. In addition, the city may obtain injunctive relief,
and sue for damages and rededication, and pursue any other remedies available
to it under the laws of the state or other authority having jurisdiction over
such matters.
§ 6-241 FLUORIDE: PROHIBITING ADDITION TO CITY’S WATER SYSTEM.
   Fluoride shall not be added to the water system of the city.
(Ord. 921, passed 1-12-2009)
ARTICLE III: SEWER DEPARTMENT
Section
   
6-301   Terms defined
   
6-302   User charge system
   
6-303   Sewer bill and rates
   
6-304   Surcharges
   
6-305   Sewer contract
   
6-306   Collection
   
6-307   User charge review
   
6-308   Public sewers required; unlawful deposit of wastes
   
6-309   Public sewers required; unlawful discharge of untreated waste
   
6-310   Public sewers required; cesspools, privies and septic tanks prohibited
   
6-311   Public sewers required; mandatory hookup
   
6-312   Private sewage disposal; when applicable
   
6-313   Private sewage disposal system; permit required, fee
   
6-314   Private sewage disposal system; permit, when effective; inspections
   
6-315   Private sewage disposal system; specifications
   
6-316   Private sewage disposal system; maintenance
   
6-317   Private sewage disposal system; additional requirements
   
6-318   Private sewage disposal system; public sewer availability
   
6-319   Rules and regulations
   
6-320   Building sewer installation; permit required
   
6-321   Building sewer installation; classification; permit application, fee
   
6-322   Building sewer installation; expense
   
6-323   Building sewer installation; single premises
   
6-324   Building sewer installation; use of existing sewer
   
6-325   Building sewer installation; construction codes
   
6-326   Building sewer installation; unlawful
   
6-327   Building sewer installation; inspections
   
6-328   Building sewer installation; excavations
   
6-329   Plumber’s liability
   
6-330   Prohibited discharges: storm water, surface water, groundwater, cooling
water and process water
   
6-331   Hazardous and prohibited discharges; flammable, toxic, corrosive and
obstructive substances; preliminary treatment
   
6-332   Hazardous and prohibited discharges; specific prohibitions as
determined by Commissioner
   
6-333   Grease, oil and sand interceptors; when required
   
6-334   Preliminary treatment or flow equalizing facilities; maintenance by
owner
   
6-335   Control manholes/sampling stations; when required; installation and
maintenance
   
6-336   Control manholes/sampling stations; method
   
6-337   Hazardous and prohibited substances; special exceptions permitted; use
fee surcharge
   
6-338   Sanitary supply system; destruction of property
   
6-339   Compliance with article; inspections
   
6-340   Compliance with article; inspections; injury liability
   
6-341   Compliance with article; inspections; easements
   
6-342   Service to non-residents
   
6-343   Lien
   
6-344   Complaints
   
6-345   Violation; notice and liability
   
6-346   Penal provision; violation
§ 6-301 TERMS DEFINED.
   For the purpose of this article, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BIOLOGICAL OXYGEN DEMAND. The quantity of oxygen utilized in the biochemical
oxidation of organic matter under standard laboratory procedure in five days at
20°C, expressed in milligrams per liter.
   BUILDING DRAIN and HOUSE DRAIN. The part of the lowest horizontal piping of
a house or building drainage system which receives the discharge from soil
waste, or other drainage pipes inside the walls of the building and conveys it
to the building sewer, beginning five feet outside the inner face of the
building wail.
   BUILDING SEWER and HOUSE SEWER. The part of a house or building drainage
system extending from the house or building drain to its connection with the
main sewer.
   COMBINED SEWER. A sewer receiving both surface runoff and sewage.
   GARBAGE. Solid wastes in the preparation of cooking and dispensing of food
and produce.
   INDUSTRIAL WASTES. The liquid wastes from industrial manufacturing
processes, trade or business as distinct from sanitary sewage.
   NATURAL OUTLET. Any outlet into a watercourse, pond, ditch, lake or other
body of surface or ground water.
   NORMAL DOMESTIC WASTEWATER. Wastewater that has a BOD concentration of not
more than 200 mg/l and a suspended solids concentration of not more than 230
mg/l.
   OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE. All expenditures during the useful life of the
treatment works for materials, labor, utilities and other items which are
necessary for managing and maintaining the sewage works to achieve the capacity
and performance for which such works were designed and constructed.
   pH. The logarithm of the reciprocal of the weight of hydrogen ions in grams
per liter of solution.
   PROPERLY SHREDDED GARBAGE. The wastes from the preparation, cooking and
dispensing of food that has been shredded to such a degree that all particles
will be carried freely under the flow conditions normally prevailing in public
sewers, with no particle greater than one-half inch in any dimension.
   PUBLIC SEWER. A sewer in which all owners of abutting properties have equal
rights, and is controlled by public authority.
   REPLACEMENT. Expenditures for obtaining and installing equipment,
accessories or appurtenances which are necessary during the useful life of the
treatment works to maintain the capacity and performance for which such works
were designed and constructed. The term “operation and maintenance” includes
REPLACEMENT.
   RESIDENTIAL CONTRIBUTOR. Any contributor to the city’s treatment works whose
lot, parcel of real estate or building is used for domestic dwelling purposes
only.
   SANITARY SEWER. A sewer which carries sewage and to which storm, surface and
ground waters are not intentionally admitted.
   SEWAGE. A combination of the water-carried wastes from residences, business
buildings, institutions and industrial establishments together with such
ground, surface and storm waters as may be present.
   SEWAGE TREATMENT PLANT. Any arrangement of devices and structures used for
treating sewage.
   SEWAGE WORKS. All facilities for collecting, pumping, treating and disposing
of sewage.
   SEWER. A pipe or conduit for carrying sewage.
   SLUG. Any discharge of water, sewage or industrial waste which in
concentration of any given constituent or in quantity of flow exceeds for any
period of duration longer than 15 minutes more than five times the average 24-
hour concentration or flows during normal operation.
   STORM SEWER. A sewer which carries storm and surface waters and drainage,
but excludes sewage and industrial wastes, other than unpolluted cooling water.
   SUSPENDED SOLIDS. Solids that either float on the surface of or are in
immersion in water, sewage or other liquids, and are removable by filtering.
   TREATMENT WORKS. Any devices and systems for the storage, treatment,
recycling and reclamation of city sewage, domestic sewage or liquid industrial
wastes. These include intercepting sewers, outfall sewers, sewage collection
systems, individual systems, pumping, power and other equipment and their
appurtenances; extensions, improvement, remodeling, additions and alterations
thereof; elements essential to provide a reliable recycled supply such as
standby treatment units and clear well facilities; and any works, including
site acquisition of the land that will be an integral part of the treatment
process or is used for ultimate disposal of residues resulting from such
treatment (including land for composting sludge, temporary storage of such
compost and land used for the storage of treated wastewater in land treatment
systems before land application); or any other method or system for preventing,
abating, reducing, storing, treatment, separating or disposing of city waste or
industrial waste.
   USEFUL LIFE. The estimated period during which a treatment works will be
operated.
   USER CHARGE. The portion of the total wastewater service charge which is
levied in a proportional and adequate manner for the cost of operation,
maintenance and replacement of the wastewater treatment works.
   WATER METER. A water volume measuring and recording device, furnished and/or
installed by the city or furnished and/or installed by a user and approved by
the city.
   WATERCOURSE. A natural or artificial channel for the passage of water either
continuously or intermittently.
§ 6-302 USER CHARGE SYSTEM.
   (A)   It is determined and declared to be necessary and conducive to the
protection of the public health, safety, welfare and convenience of the city to
collect charges from all users who contribute wastewater to the city’s
treatment works. The proceeds of such charges so derived will be used for the
purpose of operating, maintaining and retiring the debt for such public
wastewater treatment works.
   (B)   The user charge system shall generate adequate annual revenues to pay
costs of annual operation and maintenance, including replacement and costs
associated with debt retirement of bonded capital associated with financing the
treatment works which the city may, by ordinance, designate to be paid by the
user charge system. That portion of the total user charge which is designated
for operation and maintenance, including replacement of the treatment works
shall be established by ordinance.
§ 6-303 SEWER BILL AND RATES.
   Each user of the city sewer system shall pay for the services provided by
the city based on the amount discharged into the sewer system as measured by
water consumption from a water meter acceptable to the city. Such charges shall
be established from time to time by the City Council by resolution, which
resolution shall be published and available for public inspection at all times
during normal business hours.
§ 6-304 SURCHARGES.
   Any user which discharges any toxic pollutants which cause an increase in
the cost of managing the effluent or the sludge from the city’s treatment
works, or any user which discharges any substance which singly or by
interaction with other substances causes identifiable increases in the cost of
operation, maintenance or replacement of the treatment works, shall pay for
such increased costs. The charge to each such user shall be as determined by
the responsible plant operating personnel and approved by the City Council.
§ 6-305 SEWER CONTRACT.
   The city through the sewer department shall furnish sewer services to
persons within its corporate limits whose premises abut a street or alley in
which a commercial main is now or may hereafter be laid. The city may also
furnish sewer service to persons whose premises are situated outside the
corporate limits of the city, as and when, according to law, the City Council
may see fit to do so. The rules, regulations and sewer rental rates hereinafter
named in this article shall be considered a part of every application hereafter
made for sewer service and shall be considered a part of the contract between
every customer now or hereafter served. Without further formality, the making
of the application on the part of any applicant or the use of sewer service by
present customers thereof shall constitute a contract between the customer and
the city to which said contract both parties are bound. If the customer shall
violate any of the provisions of said contract or any reasonable rules and
regulations that the City Council may hereafter adopt, the Sewer Superintendent
or his or her agent may cut off or disconnect the sewer service from the
building or premises of such violation. No further connection for sewer service
to said building or premises shall again be made save or except by order of the
Superintendent or his or her agent.
§ 6-306 COLLECTION.
   Users shall be billed monthly pursuant to §
6-303 of this article. All bills for sewer shall be paid in accordance with the
provisions of §
6-102 of this article.
§ 6-307 USER CHARGE REVIEW.
   The city will review the user charge system at least every two years and
revise user charge rates as necessary to ensure that the system generates
adequate revenues to pay the costs of operation and maintenance, including
replacement, and that the system continues to provide for the proportional
distribution of operation and maintenance, including replacement costs, among
users and user classes.
§ 6-308 PUBLIC SEWERS REQUIRED; UNLAWFUL DEPOSIT OF WASTES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to place, deposit or permit to be
deposited in any unsanitary manner on public or private property within the
city or in any area under the jurisdiction of said city, any human or animal
excrement, garbage or other objectionable waste.
§ 6-309 PUBLIC SEWERS REQUIRED; UNLAWFUL DISCHARGE OF UNTREATED SEWAGE.
   It shall be unlawful to discharge to any natural outlet within the city or
in any area under the jurisdiction of said city, any sewage or other polluted
waters, except where suitable treatment has been provided in accordance with
subsequent provisions of this article.
§ 6-310 PUBLIC SEWERS REQUIRED; CESSPOOLS, PRIVIES AND SEPTIC TANKS PROHIBITED.
   Except as hereinafter provided, it shall be unlawful to construct or
maintain any privy, privy vault, septic tank, cesspool or other facility
intended or used for the disposal of sewage.
§ 6-311 PUBLIC SEWERS REQUIRED; MANDATORY HOOKUP.
   The owner of all houses, buildings or properties used for human employment,
recreation or other purposes, situated within the city and abutting on any
street, alley or right-of-way in which there is now located or may be located a
public sanitary or combined sewer of the city, is hereby required at his or her
expense to install suitable toilet facilities therein and to connect such
facilities directly with the proper public sewer in accordance with the
provisions of this article within 90 days after date of official notice to do
so; provided that, said public sewer is within 100 feet of the property line.
§ 6-312 PRIVATE SEWAGE DISPOSAL; WHEN APPLICABLE.
   (A)   Where a public sanitary or combined sewer is not available under the
provisions of §
6-311 of this article, the building sewer shall be connected to a private
sewage disposal system complying with the provisions of this article.
   (B)   At such time as a public sewer becomes available to a property served
by a private wastewater disposal system, as provided in §
6-311 of this article, a direct connection shall be made to the public sewer in
compliance with this article, and any septic tanks, cesspools and similar
private wastewater disposal facilities shall be cleaned of sludge and filled
with suitable material.
§ 6-313 PRIVATE SEWAGE DISPOSAL SYSTEM; PERMIT REQUIRED, FEE.
   Before commencement of construction of a private sewage disposal system, the
owner shall first obtain a written permit signed by the Sewer Superintendent.
The application for such permit shall be made on a form furnished by the city,
which the applicant shall supplement by any plans, specifications and other
information as is deemed necessary by the Superintendent. A permit and
inspection fee of $25 shall be paid to the city at the time the application is
filed.
§ 6-314 PRIVATE SEWAGE DISPOSAL SYSTEM; PERMIT, WHEN EFFECTIVE; INSPECTIONS.
   A permit for a private sewage disposal system shall not become effective
until the installation is completed to the satisfaction of the Sewer
Superintendent. He or she shall be allowed to inspect the work at any stage of
construction and, in any event, the applicant for the permit shall notify the
Superintendent when the work is ready for final inspection and before any
underground portions are covered. The inspection shall be made within 48 hours
of the receipt of notice by the Superintendent.
§ 6-315 PRIVATE SEWAGE DISPOSAL SYSTEM; SPECIFICATIONS.
   The type, capacities, location and layout of a private sewage disposal
system shall comply with all recommendations of the Department of Environmental
Control. No permit shall be issued for any private sewage disposal system
employing subsurface soil absorption facilities when the area of the lot is
less than 6,000 square feet. No septic tank or cesspool shall be permitted to
discharge to any natural outlet.
§ 6-316 PRIVATE SEWAGE DISPOSAL SYSTEM; MAINTENANCE.
   The owner shall operate and maintain the private sewage disposal facilities
in a sanitary manner at all times, at no expense to the city.
§ 6-317 PRIVATE SEWAGE DISPOSAL SYSTEM; ADDITIONAL REQUIREMENTS.
   No statement contained in §§
6-312 through
6-316 of this article shall be construed to interfere with any additional
requirements that may be imposed by the Health Officer.
§ 6-318 PRIVATE SEWAGE DISPOSAL SYSTEM; PUBLIC SEWER AVAILABILITY.
   When a public sewer becomes available, the building sewer shall be connected
to said sewer within 60 days and the private sewage disposal system shall be
cleaned of sludge and filled with clean bankrun gravel or dirt.
§ 6-319 RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to engage in or
conduct the business of sewer connection and house drainage, excavate any
trenches for sewer pipe, open, uncover or in any manner make connection with or
lay any sewer drain, or attach to, modify or repair any appurtenances without
complying with the rules and regulations of the Sewer Superintendent; provided
that, nothing herein shall be construed to apply to persons, firm or
corporation under special contract with the city for the construction,
extension or repair of the city sewer system.
§ 6-320 BUILDING SEWER INSTALLATION; PERMIT REQUIRED.
   No unauthorized person shall uncover, make any connections with or opening
into, use, alter or disturb any public sewer or appurtenance thereof without
first obtaining a written permit from the Superintendent.
§ 6-321 BUILDING SEWER INSTALLATION; CLASSIFICATION; PERMIT APPLICATION, FEE.
   (A)   There shall be two classes of building sewer permits:
      (1)   For residential and commercial service; and
      (2)   For service to establishments producing industrial wastes.
   (B)   In either case, the owner or his or her agent shall make application
on a special form furnished by the city. The permit application shall be
supplemented by any plans, specifications or other information considered
pertinent in the judgment of the Sewer Superintendent. A permit and inspection
fee of $25 for a residential or commercial building sewer permit and $50 for an
industrial building sewer permit shall be paid to the city at the time the
application is filed.
§ 6-322 BUILDING SEWER INSTALLATION; EXPENSE.
   (A)   All costs and expense incident to the installation and connection of
the building sewer shall be borne by the owner.
   (B)   The owner shall indemnify the city from any loss or damage that may
directly or indirectly be occasioned by the installation of the building sewer.
§ 6-323 BUILDING SEWER INSTALLATION; SINGLE PREMISES.
   A separate and independent building sewer shall be provided for every
building, except where one building stands at the rear of another on an
interior lot and no private sewer is available or can be constructed to the
rear building through an adjoining alley, court, yard or driveway, the building
sewer from the front building may be extended to the rear building and the
whole considered as one building sewer.
§ 6-324 BUILDING SEWER INSTALLATION; USE OF EXISTING SEWERS.
   Old building sewers may be used in connection with new buildings only when
they are found, on examination and test by the Superintendent, to meet all
requirements of this article.
§ 6-325 BUILDING SEWER INSTALLATION; CONSTRUCTION CODES.
   (A)   The size, slope, alignment, materials of construction of a building
sewer, and the methods to be used in excavating, placing of the pipe, jointing,
testing and backfilling the trench, shall all conform to the requirements of
the Building and Plumbing Codes or other applicable rules and regulations of
the city. In the absence of code provisions or in amplification thereof, the
materials and procedures set forth in appropriate specifications of the
A.S.T.M. and W.P.C.F. Manual of Practice No. 9 shall apply.
   (B)   Whenever possible, the building sewer shall be brought to the building
at an elevation below the basement floor. In all buildings in which any
building drain is too low to permit gravity flow to the public sewer, sanitary
sewage carried by such building drain shall be lifted by an approved means and
discharged to the building sewer.
   (C)   (1)   The connection of the building sewer into the public sewer shall
conform to the requirements of the Building and Plumbing Codes or other
applicable rules and regulations of the city, or the procedures set forth in
appropriate specifications of the A.S.T.M. and the W.P.C.F. Manual of Practice
No. 9. All such connections shall be made gas-tight and water-tight, and
verified by proper testing.
      (2)   Any deviation from the prescribed procedures and materials must be
approved by the Superintendent before installation.
§ 6-326 BUILDING SEWER INSTALLATION; UNLAWFUL CONNECTION.
   No person shall make connection of roof downspouts, interior and exterior
foundation drains, areaway drains or other sources of surface runoff or ground
water to a building sewer or building drain which in turn is connected directly
or indirectly to a public sanitary sewer.
§ 6-327 BUILDING SEWER INSTALLATION; INSPECTIONS.
   (A)   The applicant for the building sewer permit shall notify the
Superintendent when the building sewer is ready for inspection and connection
to the public sewer.
   (B)   The connection and testing shall be made under the supervision of the
Sewer Superintendent or his or her representative.
§ 6-328 BUILDING SEWER INSTALLATION; EXCAVATIONS.
   All excavations for building sewer installation shall be adequately guarded
with barricades and lights so as to protect the public from hazard. Streets,
sidewalks, parkways and other public property disturbed in the course of the
work shall be restored in a manner satisfactory to the city.
§ 6-329 PLUMBER’S LIABILITY.
   Any plumber or drainlayer who connects with the public sewer shall be held
responsible for any damage he or she may cause to the sewers or the public ways
and property. He or she shall restore to the complete satisfaction of the Water
Superintendent and/or the Street Superintendent all streets that he or she has
excavated and make good any settlement of the ground or pavement caused by the
excavation.
§ 6-330 PROHIBITED DISCHARGES: STORM WATER, SURFACE WATER, GROUND WATER,
COOLING WATER AND PROCESS WATER.
   (A)   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged any storm water,
surface water, ground water, roof runoff, subsurface drainage, including
interior and exterior foundation drains, uncontaminated heating or cooling
water, or unpolluted industrial waters to any sanitary sewer.
   (B)   Storm water and all other unpolluted drainage shall be discharged to
such sewers as are specifically designated as storm sewers, or to a natural
outlet approved by the Superintendent. Industrial cooling water or unpolluted
process water may be discharged, on approval of the Superintendent, to a storm
sewer or natural outlet.
   (C)   Any person, business or organization in violation of this section is
subject to a surcharge of $100 per day for every day they are in violation.
Said surcharge will be collected with the monthly utility billing. Failure to
pay the bill will be cause for disconnection of utilities.
§ 6-331 HAZARDOUS AND PROHIBITED DISCHARGES; FLAMMABLE, TOXIC, CORROSIVE AND
OBSTRUCTIVE SUBSTANCES; PRELIMINARY TREATMENT.
   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged any of the following
described waters or wastes to any public sewers:
   (A)   Any gasoline, benzene, naphtha, fuel oil or other flammable or
explosive liquid, solid or gas;
   (B)   Any waters or wastes containing toxic or poisonous solids, liquids or
gases in sufficient quantity, either singly or by interaction with other wastes
to injure or interfere with any waste treatment process, constitute a hazard to
humans or animals, create a public nuisance or create any hazard in the
receiving waters of the wastewater treatment plant;
   (C)   Any waters or wastes having a pH lower than 5.5, or having any other
corrosive property capable of causing damage or hazard to structures, equipment
and personnel of the sewage works; and
   (D)   Solid or viscous substances in quantities or of such size capable of
causing obstruction to the flow in sewers, or other interference with the
proper operation of the sewage facilities such as, but not limited to, ashes,
cinders, sand, mud, straw, shavings, metal, glass, rags, feathers, tar,
plastics, wood, unground garbage, whole blood, paunch manure, hair and
fleshings, entrails and paper dishes, cups, milk containers and the like,
either whole or ground by garbage grinders.
§ 6-332 HAZARDOUS AND PROHIBITED DISCHARGES; SPECIFIC PROHIBITIONS AS
DETERMINED BY SUPERINTENDENT.
   (A)   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged the following
described substances, materials, waters or wastes if it appears likely in the
opinion of the Superintendent that such wastes can harm either the sewers,
sewage treatment process or equipment, have an adverse effect on the receiving
stream, or can otherwise endanger life, limb, public property or constitute a
nuisance. In forming his or her opinion as to the acceptability of these
wastes, the Superintendent will give consideration to such factors as the
quantities of subject wastes in relation to flows and velocities in the sewers,
materials of construction of the sewers, nature of the sewage treatment
process, capacity of the sewage treatment plant and other pertinent factors.
   (B)   The substances prohibited are:
      (1)   Any liquid or vapor having a temperature higher than 150°F (65°C);
      (2)   Any water or waste containing fats, wax, grease or oils, whether
emulsified or not, in excess of 100 mg/l or containing substances which may
solidify or become viscous at temperatures between 32° and 150°F (0° and 65°C);
      (3)   Any garbage that has not been properly shredded. The installation
and operation of any garbage grinder equipped with a motor three-fourths’
horsepower or greater shall be subject to the review and approval of the
Superintendent;
      (4)   Any waters or wastes containing strong acid iron pickling wastes or
concentrated plating solutions whether neutralized or not;
      (5)   Any water or wastes containing iron, chromium, copper, zinc and
similar objectionable or toxic substances; or wastes exerting an excessive
chlorine requirement, to such degree that any such material received in the
composite sewage at the sewage treatment works exceeds the limits established
by the Superintendent for such materials;
      (6)   Any waters or wastes containing phenols or other taste- or odor-
producing substances in such concentrations exceeding limits which may be
established by the Superintendent as necessary, after treatment of the
composite sewage, to meet the requirements of state, federal or other public
agencies of jurisdiction for such discharge to the receiving waters;
      (7)   Any radioactive wastes or isotopes of such half-life or
concentration as may exceed limits established by the Superintendent in
compliance with applicable state or federal regulations;
      (8)   Any waters or wastes having a pH in excess of 9.5;
      (9)   Materials which exert or cause:
         (a)   Unusual concentrations of inert suspended solids (such as, but
not limited to, Fuller’s earth, lime slurries and lime residues) or of
dissolved solids (such as, but not limited to, sodium chloride or sodium
sulfate);
         (b)   Excessive discoloration (such as, but not limited to, dye wastes
and vegetable tanning solutions);
         (c)   Unusual BOD, chemical oxygen demand or chlorine requirements in
such quantities as to constitute a significant load on the sewage treatment
works; and
         (d)   Unusual volume of flow or concentration of wastes constituting
“slugs”, as defined herein.
      (10)   Waters or wastes containing substances which are not amenable to
treatment or reduction by the sewage treatment processes employed, or are
amenable to treatment only to such degree that the sewage treatment plant
effluent cannot meet the requirements of other agencies having jurisdiction
over discharge to the receiving waters;
      (11)   Any waters or wastes having:
         (a)   A five-day BOD great than 300 parts per million by weight;
         (b)   Containing more than 350 parts per million by weight of
suspended solids;
         (c)   Having an average daily flow greater than 2% of the average
sewage flow of the city; or
         (d)   A chlorine requirement greater than demanded by normal sewage as
evaluated by the city’s consulting engineer shall be subject to the review of
the Superintendent.
      (12)   Where necessary, in the opinion of the Superintendent, the owner
shall provide, at his or her expense, such preliminary treatment as may be
necessary to:
         (a)   Reduce the biochemical oxygen demand to 300 parts per million by
weight;
         (b)   Reduce the suspended solids to 350 parts per million by weight;
         (c)   Control the quantities and rates of discharge of such waters or
wastes; or
         (d)   Reduce the chlorine requirement to conform with normal sewage.
      (13)   Plans, specifications and other pertinent information relating to
proposed preliminary treatment facilities shall be submitted for the approval
of the Superintendent and no construction of such facilities shall be commenced
until said approval are obtained in writing.
§ 6-333 GREASE, OIL AND SAND INTERCEPTORS; WHEN REQUIRED.
   Grease, oil and sand interceptors shall be provided when, in the opinion of
the Superintendent, they are necessary for the proper handling of liquid wastes
containing grease in excessive amounts, or any flammable wastes, sand or other
harmful ingredients; except that, such interceptors shall not be required for
private living quarters or dwelling units. All interceptors shall be of a type
and capacity approved by the Superintendent and shall be located as to be
readily and easily accessible for cleaning and inspection.
§ 6-334 PRELIMINARY TREATMENT OR FLOW EQUALIZING FACILITIES; MAINTENANCE BY
OWNER.
   Where preliminary treatment or flow-equalizing facilities are provided for
any waters or wastes, they shall be maintained continuously in satisfactory and
effective operation by the owner at his or her expense.
§ 6-335 CONTROL MANHOLES/SAMPLING STATIONS; WHEN REQUIRED; INSTALLATION AND
MAINTENANCE.
   When required by the Superintendent, the owner of any property serviced by a
building sewer carrying industrial wastes shall install a suitable control
manhole together with such necessary meters and other appurtenances in the
building sewer to facilitate observation, sampling and measurement of the
wastes. Such manhole, when required, shall be accessibly and safely located,
and shall be constructed in accordance with plans approved by the
Superintendent. The manhole shall be installed by the owner at his or her
expense and shall be maintained by him or her so as to be safe and accessible
at all times.
§ 6-336 CONTROL MANHOLES/SAMPLING STATIONS; METHOD.
   All measurements, tests and analyses of the characteristics of waters and
wastes to which reference is made in this article shall be determined in
accordance with the latest edition of Standards Methods for the Examination of
Water and Wastewater, published by the American Public Health Association, and
shall be determined at the control manhole provided, or upon suitable samples
taken at said control manhole. In the event no special manhole has been
required, the control manhole shall be considered to be the nearest downstream
manhole in the public sewer to the point at which the building sewer is
connected. Sampling shall be carried out by customarily accepted methods to
reflect the effect of constituents upon the sewage works and to determine the
existence of hazards to life, limb and property. (The particular analyses
involved will determine whether a 24-hour composite of all outfalls of a
premises is appropriate or whether a grab sample or samples should be taken.
Normally, but not always, BOD and suspended solids analyses are obtained from
24-hour composites of all outfalls, whereas pHs are determined from periodic
grab samples.)
§ 6-337 HAZARDOUS AND PROHIBITED SUBSTANCES; SPECIAL EXCEPTIONS PERMITTED; USE
FEE SURCHARGE.
   No statement contained in this article shall be construed as preventing any
special agreement or arrangement between the city and any industrial concern
whereby an industrial waste of unusual strength or character may be accepted by
the city for treatment subject to payment therefor, by the industrial concern.
§ 6-338 SANITARY SUPPLY SYSTEM; DESTRUCTION OF PROPERTY.
   No person or persons shall maliciously, willfully or negligently break,
damage, destroy, uncover, deface or tamper with any structure, appurtenance or
equipment which is part of the wastewater facilities. Any person or persons
violating this provision shall be subject to immediate arrest under charge of
disorderly conduct.
§ 6-339 COMPLIANCE WITH ARTICLE; INSPECTIONS.
   The Superintendent and other duly authorized employees of the city bearing
proper credentials and identification shall be permitted to enter all
properties for the purposes of inspection, observation, measurement, sampling
and testing system in accordance with the provisions of this article. The
Superintendent or his or her representatives shall have no authority to inquire
into any processes including metallurgical, chemical, oil, refining, ceramic,
paper or other industries beyond that point having a direct bearing on the kind
and source of discharge to the sewers or waterways or facilities for waste
treatment.
§ 6-340 COMPLIANCE WITH ARTICLE; INSPECTIONS; INJURY LIABILITY.
   While performing the necessary work on private properties referred to in §
6-339 of this article, the Superintendent or duly authorized employees of the
city shall observe all safety rules applicable to the premises established by
the company and the company shall be held harmless for injury or death to the
city employees and the city shall indemnify the company against loss or damage
to its property by city employees and against liability claims and demands for
personal injury or property damage asserted against the company and growing out
of the gauging and sampling operation, except as such may be caused by
negligence or failure of the company to maintain safe conditions as required in
§
6-335 of this article.
§ 6-341 COMPLIANCE WITH ARTICLE; INSPECTIONS; EASEMENTS.
   The Superintendent and other duly authorized employees of the city bearing
proper credentials and identification shall be permitted to enter all private
properties through which the city holds a duly negotiated easement for the
purposes of, but not limited to, inspection, observation, measurement,
sampling, repair and maintenance of any portion of the sewage works lying
within said easement. All entry and subsequent work, if any, on said easement
shall be done in full accordance with the terms of the duly negotiated easement
pertaining to the private property involved.
§ 6-342 SERVICE TO NON-RESIDENTS.
   Any person whose premises is located outside the corporate limits of the
city and who desires to install a house or building sewer that will be
connected with the city sewer system shall file a written application with the
City Clerk for a permit for such connection and setting forth the name of the
owner, occupant or lessee of the premises, the use to which the premises is
devoted, and such other information as the City Council may require.
§ 6-343 LIEN.
   In addition to all other remedies, if a customer shall for any reason remain
indebted to the city for sewer service furnished, such amount due, together
with any rents and charges in arrears shall be considered a delinquent sewer
rent which is hereby declared to be a lien upon the real estate for which the
same was furnished. The City Clerk shall notify in writing or cause to be
notified in writing, all owners of premises or their agents whenever their
tenants or lessees are 60 days or more delinquent in the payment of sewer rent.
Any time after a 60-day delinquency, the City Council may direct the City Clerk
to certify to the County Clerk any delinquent sewer charges to be collected as
a special tax in the manner provided by law.
§ 6-344 COMPLAINTS.
   Any consumer feeling himself or herself aggrieved by reason of any
controversy with the Sewer Superintendent may appear before the Utility
Committee and present his or her grievance. Any consumer who considers himself
or herself aggrieved by being required to pay the charge demanded for the use
of the sewer, or for the resumption of sewer service after the same shall have
been shut off, shall pay such charge under protest, in which event the City
Clerk shall write on the receipt given such customer the words “Paid Under
Protest”. Such consumer may then present his or her verified claim in the
manner provided for presenting claims to the City Council for a refund of the
amount so paid under protest. Such claims shall then be considered by the City
Council in the same manner as other claims against the city.
§ 6-345 VIOLATION; NOTICE AND LIABILITY.
   (A)   Any person found to be violating any provision of this article, except
§
6-338 of this article, shall be served by the city with written notice stating
the nature of the violation and providing a reasonable time limit for the
satisfactory correction thereof. The offender shall, within the period of time
stated in such notice, permanently cease all violations.
   (B)   Any person violating any of the provisions of this article shall
become liable to the city for any expense, loss or damage occasioned the city
by reason of such violation.
§ 6-346 PENAL PROVISION; VIOLATION.
   Any person who shall continue any violation beyond the time limit provided
in §
6-345 of this article shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and, on conviction
thereof, shall be fined in an amount not exceeding that permitted by state law
for violation of a municipal ordinance for each violation. Each 24-hour period
in which any such violation shall continue shall be deemed a separate offense.
ARTICLE IV: ELECTRICAL SYSTEM REGULATIONS
Section
   
6-401   Electrical Superintendent
   
6-402   Consumer’s contract
   
6-403   Service contracts
   
6-404   Registered electrician
   
6-405   Connection; construction requirements
   
6-406   Installation expense
   
6-407   Underground installation expense and
   
6-408   Meter installation and deposit
   
6-409   Meters
   
6-410   Meters, when read
   
6-411   Fees and collections
   
6-412   Delinquent payments
   
6-413   Minimum rates
   
6-414   Restricted use
   
6-415   Posting signs
   
6-416   Cogeneration; purpose
   
6-417   Cogeneration; definitions
   
6-418   Cogeneration; interconnections with qualifying facilities
   
6-419   Cogeneration; rates for sales of electric energy from qualifying
facilities
   
6-420   Cogeneration; rates for purchases of electric energy from qualifying
facilities
   
6-421   Trimming trees near lines of distribution system; notice required
   
6-422   Overhanging branches; city’s right to remove
   
6-423   Inspection
   
6-424   Destruction of property of electric
§ 6-401 ELECTRICAL SUPERINTENDENT.
   The Electrical Superintendent shall have the direct management and control
of the electrical system and shall faithfully carry out the duties of his or
her office. He or she shall have the authority to adopt rules and regulations
for the safe and efficient management of the electrical system subject to the
supervision and review of the City Council.
§ 6-402 CONSUMER’S CONTRACT.
   The city shall furnish electric current for light, heating, cooking and
power purposes to persons whose premises abut on any supply wire of the
distribution system of the city and may furnish electric current to such other
persons within or without its corporate limits, as and when, according to law,
the City Council may see fit to do so. The rules, regulations and rates for
electric service hereinafter named shall be considered a part of every
application hereafter made for electric service and shall be considered a part
of the contract with every person, company or corporation who is supplied with
electric service through the electric distribution system of the city. Without
further formality, the making of application on the part of any applicant or
the use or consumption of electric energy by present customers and the
furnishing of electric service to said applicant or customer shall constitute a
contract between applicant or customer and the city, to which both parties are
bound.
§ 6-403 SERVICE CONTRACTS.
   Contracts for electric service are not transferable. Any person wishing to
change from one location to another shall make a new application and sign a new
contract. If any customer shall sell, dispose of or remove from the premises
where service is furnished, or if the said premises is destroyed by fire or
other casualty, he or she shall at once so inform the Electrical
Superintendent, who shall cause the electric current to be shut off from said
premises. If such customer shall fail to give such notice, he or she shall be
charged for all electric current used on said premises until the time that the
Electrical Superintendent is otherwise advised of such change.
§ 6-404 REGISTERED ELECTRICIAN.
   Under no circumstances shall connections be made between the wires of the
electrical distribution system of the city and the meter of the consumer,
except by an employee of the city or a registered electrician authorized to do
so by the Electrical Superintendent. The consumer may have wiring done by any
competent electrician from the meter to the points of distribution. All wiring,
equipment and apparatus shall be installed according to the Electrical Code
duly adopted by the city. All installation shall be done under the supervision
and strictly in accordance with the rules, regulations and specifications for
such installation prescribed by the Electrical Superintendent and Building
Official; provided that, such rules, regulations and specifications have been
reviewed and approved by the City Council.
§ 6-405 CONNECTION; CONSTRUCTION REQUIREMENTS.
   All connections to the electric distribution system shall be made in
conformity with the most approved methods of construction for safety to life
and property. The regulations as laid down in the current National Electric
Code and the whole thereof shall be prima facie evidence of the most approved
methods. Three copies thereof are on file in the office of the City Clerk and
such rules and regulations, together with subsequent amendments thereto, are
hereby approved and adopted by the City Council as the standards of efficiency
of the most approved methods of electrical construction and are hereby
incorporated and made a part of this article the same as though set out at
length herein.
§ 6-406 INSTALLATION EXPENSE.
   (A)   The expense of installation and equipment up to but not including the
electrical meter loop shall be paid by the city, following the general
extension policy. The expense of installation and wiring from the meter loop to
the points of distribution shall be the responsibility of the consumer.
Maintenance and replacement expense shall be apportioned in the same manner.
   (B)   The retail electric rates of the city are based on cost of service to
deliver electric power and energy from existing facilities. The purpose of this
extension policy is to establish general conditions under which the city will
make extensions or additions to electric facilities and the general guidelines
to be followed in determining a customer contribution.
   (C)   In general, the city will make permanent extensions of electric lines
and facilities, without cost to the customer, where the estimated revenue to be
received from the service will provide an adequate and continuous return on the
city’s investment. The city reserves the right to determine the advisability
and legality of making any extension. Extensions made by the city shall remain
the property of the city in accordance with existing agreements.
   (D)   The total city investment in an extension shall mean the total project
cost including all materials, labor and applicable overheads to serve a
proposed load, but excluding customer provided facilities and costs described
in divisions (E)(1)(c)2. and (E)(1)(c)3. below, and excluding betterment costs.
Betterment costs are additional costs for electric system improvements that are
not required solely for the extension to the customer, but are costs that the
city elects to incur now due to anticipated or planned electric system capacity
or configuration requirements.
   (E)   (1)   Permanent extensions.
         (a)   Year-round service.
            1.   Overhead extensions to individual single-family residences.
               a.   Less than one-half line-miles. The city will construct up
to one-half line-miles of single-phase overhead line extension, including the
service, of its electric distribution system at no cost to the customer for an
individual year-round single-family residence, except for customer provided
facilities and costs as outlined in division (E)(1)(c)2. below.
               b.   Greater than one-half line-miles. The customer shall be
responsible for and shall be required to make a contribution in aid of
construction (CIAOC) for all extension costs above one-half line-miles of
single-phase overhead, including the service and customer provided facilities
and costs as outlined in division (E)(1)(c)2. below. Determination of a CIAOC
shall be the total city investment for the total extension less the cost of a
one-half mile extension. The customer shall pay the entire amount of the CIAOC
to the city.
               c.   Three-phase service. If three-phase service is required,
the additional three-phase extension costs will be considered part of the total
city investment and a CIAOC, if applicable, shall be determined as in division
(E)(1)(a)1.b. above.
            2.   Underground extensions to individual single-family residences.
               a.   When underground construction is requested, the city shall
determine if underground construction is appropriate. The customer shall
reimburse the city for all trench and conduit for primary, secondary and
service conductors in accordance with city specifications and policies. In
addition, the customer shall be responsible for certain facilities and costs as
specified in division (E)(1)(c)2. below.
               b.   If the estimated total city investment for the extension is
greater than the standard extension cost, the customer shall be required to pay
to the city a non-refundable contribution in aid of construction equal to the
amount that the estimated total city investment exceeds the standard extension
cost.
               c.   If three-phase service is required, the customer shall be
responsible for the facilities and costs as described in division (E)(1)(c)2.
below.
            3.   All other classes. Extensions to all other classes taking
year-round service include, but are not limited to, residential subdivisions,
multi-dwelling units, commercial and industrial customers.
               a.   Allowable investment limit. The allowable investment limit
(AIL) shall be equal to five times the estimated annual gross revenue. For non-
betterment extensions (such as the relocation of existing facilities that
impede development of new load on the same site) the determination of the AIL
shall include net increases in revenue, if applicable. The annual revenue of
the existing service during the prior 12 months will be used in estimating
increased annual revenue expected from the non-betterment extension.
               b.   Overhead construction. The city will construct extensions
to its electric lines and facilities at no cost to the customer, except for
customer provided facilities and costs as outlined in division (E)(1)(c) below;
provided that, the estimated total city investment in such extensions does not
exceed the city’s allowable investment limit (AIL). If the estimated total city
investment in an extension exceeds the AIL, the customer shall be required to
make a non-refundable contribution in aid of construction equal to the amount
that the estimated total city investment exceeds the AIL in accordance with
division (E)(1)(c)1. below.
               c.   Underground construction. When underground construction is
requested, the city shall determine if underground construction is appropriate.
If the city determines that underground construction is appropriate, the city
will construct the extension at no cost to the customer, except for customer
provided facilities and costs as outlined in divisions (E)(1)(c)2. and (E)(1)
(c)3. below; provided that, the estimated total city investment in such
extensions does not exceed the city’s allowable investment limit (AIL). If the
estimated total city investment in an extension exceeds the AIL, the customer
shall be required to make a non-refundable contribution in aid of construction
equal to the amount that the estimated total city investment exceeds the AIL in
accordance with division (E)(1)(c)1. below.
         (b)   Seasonal service. Extensions to classes taking seasonal service
include, but are not limited to, irrigation and grain drying.
            1.   Allowable investment limit. The allowable investment limit
(AIL) shall be equal to one and one-half times the estimated annual gross
revenue. For non-betterment extensions (such as the relocation of existing
facilities that impede development of new load on the same site) the
determination of the AIL shall include net increases in revenue, if applicable.
The annual revenue of the existing service during the prior 12 months will be
used in estimating increased annual revenue expected from the non-betterment
extension.
            2.   Overhead construction. The city will construct overhead
extensions to its electric lines and facilities at no cost to the customer,
except for customer provided facilities and costs as outlined in division (E)
(1)(c)2. below; provided that, the estimated total city investment in such
extensions does not exceed the city’s allowable investment limit (AIL). If the
estimated total city investment in an extension exceeds the AIL, the customer
shall be required to make a non-refundable contribution in aid of construction
equal to the amount that the estimated total city investment exceeds the AIL in
accordance with division (E)(1)(c)1. below.
            3.   Underground construction. When underground construction is
requested, the city shall determine if underground is appropriate. If the city
determines that underground is appropriate, the city will construct the
extension at no cost to the customer, except for customer provided facilities
and costs as outlined in divisions (E)(1)(c)2. and (E)(1)(c)3. below; provided
that, the estimated total city investment in such extensions does not exceed
the city’s allowable investment limit (AIL). If the estimated total city
investment in an extension exceeds the AIL, the customer shall be required to
make a non-refundable contribution in aid of construction equal to the amount
that the estimated total city investment exceeds the AIL in accordance with
division (E)(1)(c)1. below.
         (c)   Customer responsibilities.
            1.   Contribution in aid of construction. Where a customer
contribution in aid of construction (CIAOC) is required, the entire amount
shall be paid to the city or, an acceptable surety bond or irrevocable letter
of credit shall be provided to the city.
            2.   Extraordinary construction costs. The customer will be
responsible for extraordinary construction costs and facilities where
conditions exist that do not allow for use of standard construction practices,
such as making provisions for extraordinary clearances and atypical right-of-
way acquisitions. Examples of extraordinary clearance provisions include: tree
and stump removal; establishing site final grade; and the like. Examples of
atypical right-of-way acquisitions include condemnation proceedings,
governmental agency applications and the like.
            3.   Underground extensions.
               a.   The customer shall reimburse NPPD for all trench and
conduit for primary, secondary and service conductors in accordance with city
specifications and policies.
               b.   Customers requiring three-phase service, in addition to the
above requirements, shall provide the following:
                  i.   The transformer pad in accordance with city
specifications; and
                  ii.   Dedicated three-phase transformer installations
normally require an instrument rated metering system to be installed on the
secondary bushings of the pad-mounted transformer or in a metering cabinet
located on the outside of the customer’s facility. The customer shall be
responsible for all service conductors from the point of delivery as defined by
the city. Where distributed metering is installed within the customer’s
facility, as approved by the city, the customer shall be responsible for the
service conductors from the point of delivery as defined by the city.
         (d)   Recalculation of contribution in aid of construction. If, during
the five-year period from the initial in-service date, one or more additional
customers are served from the original line extension, the contribution in aid
of construction (CIAOC) for the original customer will be recalculated to
include the additional customers and investment. If the recalculated CIAOC is
determined to be less than the original amount of CIAOC calculated and paid by
the customer, the city will refund the difference on a prorated basis depending
on the time period left after energization of the additional customer(s) in the
initial five-year period. The formula for refunding the difference is as
follows: original CIAOC less the recalculated CIAOC times the months remaining
in the five-year period divided by 60.
         (e)   Extensions to loads requiring capacity of five MVA or more;
minimum monthly facilities charge (MMF charge).
            1.   The customer shall enter into a contract with the city for a
term of five years prior to construction of the extension. Such contract will
obligate the customer to a minimum monthly bill (the MMF charge) during the
five-year period, as provided below.
            2.   The calculation basis for the MMF charge shall be equal to 50%
of the total city investment in the extension or, the non-recoverable
construction costs of the extension, whichever is greater. The non-recoverable
construction costs shall be equal to the estimated “in and out” costs to
install and remove the extension, including 10% of the costs of materials,
including metering and transformers.
            3.   The customer may request (limited to one time during the five-
year term of the contract), or at its option the city may conduct, a review of
the customer’s total billing accumulated up to the date of the request. If the
customer’s total billing (the total accumulated electric billing during the
expired time period of the contract term, including the actual MMF charges) is
greater than or equal to the calculation basis, the MMF charge shall be
discontinued and the contract shall be terminated.
      (2)   Temporary extensions.
         (a)   For any single-phase temporary service requiring an extension of
one span or less, including removal of the same upon completion of service, the
customer will be billed $80, which includes the city’s connect charge for new
accounts. This type of temporary service would be provided from existing
distribution secondary in the area and would include installation or a meter on
a customer supplied service pole and meter loop.
         (b)   For any extension of the city’s existing electric lines and
facilities which involves more than a single span or requires three-phase
service, a “non-refundable service charge” collected in advance of construction
will be required. This charge will be equal to the estimated in and out costs
to install and remove this service, including 10% of the cost of materials,
including metering and transformers. Temporary extensions include service to
any customer class which, in the opinion of the city, is considered temporary
service in nature, even though service may be used for a period of a year or
longer. Examples of temporary extensions may include carnivals or road
construction batch plants.
(Ord. 888, passed 6-12-2006)
§ 6-407 UNDERGROUND INSTALLATION EXPENSE AND PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Responsibility of Electric Department. The city will furnish, install
and maintain all material and equipment to serve the underground system. The
city will be responsible for the complete installation of primary riser,
primary and secondary underground conductors, transformers, service pedestals,
underground street light conductors and street light fixtures.
   (B)   Responsibility of developer. The developer agrees to furnish the city
permanent right-of-way with the right of ingress and egress at all times for
construction and maintenance of electric facilities, including access to
individual customer services. The area under development will be brought to
final grade before the underground system is installed. After the underground
electric system construction has begun, any changes of grade that, in the
opinion of the city, require relocation of the electric system will result in
such relocation being done at the expense of the developer.
   (C)   Primary system.
      (1)   Where practical, a loop feed system is preferred. In certain cases
such as taps with one or two transformers, loop feeds are expensive and
impractical and will not be required. Primary service will be single phase. In
the interest of primary phase balance, more than one phase should be installed
in larger developments.
      (2)   All transformers will be installed with “dead front” high voltage
cable connections. The high voltage cable connectors will be of the “load-
break”, “plug-in” type commercially available. Additional high voltage
switching will not be installed at any transformer location. All ruse cutouts
installed on primary riser poles shall be the “load-break” type or useable with
load-break tools. Any switching device installed on a transformer shall have a
visible break future.
      (3)   It is contemplated that all load switching at transformers will be
done with load-break, plug-in connectors. Switching required for locating a
cable fault shall be accomplished with the primary system de-energized. Closing
into a suspected fault shall be by operation of the riser pole load-break
cutouts only.
      (4)   The placement underground of three phase main feeders along the
edge of or through the development area as requested by the developer will be
handled in a separate individual manner from the rest of the distribution
system. The contribution shall be computed by estimating comparable overhead
and underground feeders. The difference between the two estimates shall serve
as the bases for the developer’s contribution. The contribution shall be
included in the standard agreement and the exhibit map shall include
information on the three-phase feeder.
   (D)   Secondary system. Secondaries in residential areas shall be single or
three phase, at the discretion of the Electrical Superintendent.
   (E)   Pad-mounted transformer system. This system will utilize pad-mounted
transformers or transclosures installed above grade. Above grade pedestals will
be installed by the city. The type of pedestal used will be determined by the
city. Revenue meters will be installed on the exterior of the customer’s
building. The customer’s service will be extended by the developer or owner
from the house to the appropriate service pedestal location. The city will
connect the service conductor to the secondary mains in the service pedestal.
   (F)   System location.
      (1)   The preferred location for the underground system, utilizing
transclosures or pad-mounted transformers, will be on the rear lot line.
Normally, service pedestals should be located near lot comers. The services
should run from the pedestal or from a point in the main trench so that the
service does not cross a side property line.
      (2)   Systems located on rear lot lines shall be placed within a utility
easement strip provided by the developer. All of the city’s equipment including
transformers, primary and secondary conductors and secondary pedestals shall be
completely located within the designated easement area. Systems located on the
street side of the lot shall be placed on private property within the easement
strip provided by the developer. Service shall be extended from pedestals
located within the easement strip to individual houses.
   (G)   Customer services. The developer or owner shall own and maintain the
individual customer service conductors. The minimum installed ampacity shall be
125 amperes for a three-wire, 240-volt service.
   (H)   Metering equipment. The metering equipment shall be installed on the
house or on the alley pole at a suitable location designated by the city in
cooperation with the wiring contractor. The meter should be in an accessible
place located sufficiently high to clear snow drifts, outdoor furniture,
shrubs, bushes, yard tools and playground facilities.
   (I)   Construction power.
      (1)   Construction power for builders during house construction shall be
from the underground system. If the underground system is not installed and
construction power is required, temporary overhead construction to serve a
builder will be installed and removed at the builder’s expense, under existing
city policy for temporary service.
      (2)   When service is from the underground system, the contractor/
developer shall make temporary cable installation from the service pedestal to
a meter pole owned and set by the builder. The city will own and set the meter
according to the existing service policy.
   (J)   Joint trench construction. Where practical, the city should encourage
joint trench construction; either random lay or vertical separation with
telephone and CATV facilities. Joint trench costs will be shared two or three
ways depending upon the number of different utilities involved. The city’s
layout engineer shall contact the local telephone company prior to any layout
work in a new subdivision to determine whether or not joint trench construction
will be used.
   (K)   Engineering approval. When a new underground subdivision is proposed,
the design plan for the construction shall be submitted to the Electric
Superintendent for approval with the work order.
   (L)   Type of service. Underground service is mandatory in areas of new
housing development. Existing areas may be served from overhead service.
§ 6-408 METER INSTALLATION AND DEPOSIT.
   (A)   All meters required for measuring electricity used by the applicant or
consumer shall be furnished and installed by the city and all meters so
furnished by the city shall remain the property of the city. A meter deposit in
an amount set by resolution of the City Council from time to time shall be paid
to the city by the applicant or consumer when said applicant or consumer makes
application for service as provided by §
6-403 of this article. Meter deposits shall be refunded to the consumer upon
termination of service by the consumer; provided that, all charges for electric
power furnished have been fully paid. If all of said charges due the city are
not paid, the amount so owed shall be appropriated from said deposit and the
remainder returned to the consumer.
   (B)   In the event that the consumer is indebted to the city in an amount
greater than the deposit, then the entire deposit shall be appropriated and the
remainder shall be covered by civil action.
§ 6-409 METERS.
   (A)   Type, installation. Any meter approved by the Electric Superintendent
may be used by consumers of the electric power distribution system. All meters
shall be installed by the Electric Superintendent or his or her agent
designated for that purpose, and all electric current shall be furnished
through and measured by meter.
   (B)   Setting, sealing. Meters shall be set so that the dial or face of the
meter shall be easily accessible to the Electric Superintendent or his or her
duly authorized agents when reading or testing the same. All meters shall be
sealed; no person shall deface, injure or break any of said seals unless
authorized to do so by the Electric Superintendent.
   (C)   Tampering. It is hereby declared unlawful for any person to tamper
with any electric meter or by means of contrivance or device to divert the
electricity from the supply wire so that the same will not pass through the
meter or while passing through the meter cause the same to register
inaccurately. If any electric meter is found to have been tampered with, the
electric meter shall be repaired and tested. Upon repetition of the offense, it
will be optional with the Electric Superintendent to discontinue the electric
service or to collect the same estimated to be due.
   (D)   Out of order. Should a consumer’s meter become out of repair or fail
to register properly, the consumer will be charged for electric current during
the time such meter is out of order at the average monthly consumption shown by
the meter when in order for six months previous, or if no such basis of
computation exists, then the consumer shall be charged such sum as the Electric
Superintendent shall reasonably fix for such period.
§ 6-410 METERS, WHEN READ.
   All electrical meters within and without the city shall be read each month
during which electrical service is used. All electric meters shall be read by
the Electric Superintendent or his or her duly authorized agents. Accounts
between consumer and city shall be kept by the City Clerk and shall be filed in
the office of the City Clerk. A consumer’s ledger shall be kept and kept
current with a separate account for each consumer.
§ 6-411 FEES AND COLLECTIONS.
   The City Council has the power and authority to fix the rates by resolution
to be paid by electrical consumers for the use of electricity. All rates shall
be on file for public inspection at the office of the City Clerk. The City
Clerk shall bill the consumers and collect all money received by the city on
the account of the city electrical system. He or she shall faithfully account
for and pay over the same to the City Treasurer all revenue collected by him or
her, taking his or her receipt therefor in duplicate, filing one with the City
Clerk and keeping the other on file in his or her official records.
§ 6-412 DELINQUENT PAYMENTS.
   If the consumer shall for any reason order the service discontinued, or
shall remove from the premises, or for any reason shall be indebted to the city
for electric service furnished, such amount due under the terms of this
article, together with any rents and charges in arrears, shall be considered as
delinquent electric power rent.
   (A)   Lien. Delinquent rent is hereby declared to be a lien upon the
premises or real estate for which or upon which the electric power was used or
supplied, and upon the refusal of the consumer to pay said delinquent electric
power rents, they shall be collected by being placed upon the assessment roll
and tax book for collection, like other taxes.
   (B)   Collection. It shall be the duty of the City Clerk on June 1 of each
year or at such other times during the fiscal year if he or she deems it
necessary to protect the interests of the city, to report to the City Council a
list of all unpaid accounts due for electric power together with a description
of the premises or real estate upon or for which the electric power was used or
supplied. Said report shall be examined and if approved by the City Council,
shall be certified by the City Council to the County Clerk, giving the amounts
due and the description of the premises or real estate upon or for which
electric power from the electric distribution system of the city was used or
supplied, the said amounts to be collected as other taxes by the County
Treasurer of said county.
§ 6-413 MINIMUM RATES.
   All electrical consumers shall be liable for the minimum rate provided by
ordinance unless and until the consumer shall, by written order, direct the
Electrical Superintendent to shut off the electricity, in which case he or she
shall not be liable thereafter for electrical service until the electricity is
turned on again.
§ 6-414 RESTRICTED USE.
   (A)   The city electrical system does not guarantee the delivery of electric
current over the lines of the distribution system, except when it has
sufficient power, current, equipment and machinery to do so.
   (B)   The Electrical Superintendent has the power and authority to
disconnect or discontinue such service for any good and sufficient reason
without liability.
   (C)   The city shall use due care and reasonable diligence to provide and
supply uninterrupted service to consumers, but shall not be liable for damages
resulting from interruption of service due to causes over which the city has no
control and the city expressly reserves the right to discontinue or disconnect
any consumer’s service without preliminary notice.
§ 6-415 POSTING SIGNS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to post, tack or fasten to the poles,
structures, fixtures or equipment of the city electrical system any sign,
poster, advertisement or banner without written permission from the Electrical
Superintendent.
§ 6-416 COGENERATION; PURPOSE.
   In order to comply with §§ 201 and 210 of the Public Utility Regulatory
Policies Act of 1978, being 16 U.S.C. §§ 2601 et seq., and with the rules and
regulations of the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission pertaining thereto, the
following policies relating to interconnections of the electric system of the
city with cogeneration and small power production facilities, rates for sales
of electric energy to such facilities and rates for purchases of electric
energy from such facilities are hereby established.
§ 6-417 COGENERATION; DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of §§
6-416 through
6-420 of this article, the following definitions shall apply unless the context
clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AVOIDED COSTS. The incremental costs to an electric utility of electric
energy or capacity or both which, but for the purchase from qualifying
facilities, such utility would generate itself or purchase from another source.
   COGENERATION FACILITY. A facility, which produces electric energy and steam
or other forms of useful energy (such as heat), which are used for industrial,
commercial, heating or cooling purposes.
   INTERCONNECTION COSTS. The reasonable costs of connection, switching,
metering, transmission, distribution, safety provisions, and administrative
costs incurred by the electric utility directly related to the installation and
maintenance of the physical facilities necessary to permit interconnected
operations with a qualifying facility, to the extent such costs are in excess
of the corresponding costs which the electric utility would have incurred if it
had not engaged in interconnected operations, but instead generated an
equivalent amount of electric energy itself or purchased an equivalent amount
of electric energy or capacity from other sources. (INTERCONNECTION COSTS do
not include any costs involved in the calculation of avoided costs.)
   QUALIFYING COGENERATION FACILITY. A cogeneration facility that meets the
requirements of the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission regarding ownership,
fuel use and operating and efficiency standards.
   SMALL POWER PRODUCTION FACILITY. A facility which produces electric energy
solely by the use, as a primary energy source, of biomass, waste, renewable
resources or any combination thereof totaling not greater than 80 megawatts at
one site.
§ 6-418 COGENERATION; INTERCONNECTIONS WITH QUALIFYING FACILITIES.
   (A)   Qualifying facilities desiring to interconnect with the electric
system of the city shall make application to the electric department for such
interconnection. Applicants shall use such forms as are prescribed by the city
and shall furnish all information requested.
   (B)   The city shall establish reasonable standards to be met by qualifying
facilities to ensure system safety and reliability of interconnected
operations. Such standards may include but shall not be limited to the
following areas: power factor; voltage regulations; fault, overcurrent and
over-under voltage protection; harmonics; synchronization; and isolation.
   (C)   Interconnection costs associated with the interconnection with a
qualifying facility shall be paid for by such qualifying facility. Qualifying
facilities shall be required to execute contractual agreements with the city
before any interconnection is established.
§ 6-419 COGENERATION; RATES FOR SALES OF ELECTRIC ENERGY TO QUALIFYING
FACILITIES.
   Rates for sales of electric energy to qualifying facilities shall be those
current standard rates adopted from time to time by resolution of the mayor and
City Council which apply to other customers of the utility in the same
classification(s) of electric service.
§ 6-420 COGENERATION; RATES FOR PURCHASES OF ELECTRIC ENERGY FROM QUALIFYING
FACILITIES.
   Rates for purchases of electric energy from qualifying facilities shall be
established by resolution of the Mayor and City Council. Such rates shall be
just and reasonable to the electric consumer of the utility and in the public
interest, shall not discriminate against qualifying cogeneration and small
power production facilities, and shall be related to avoided costs; however, in
no case is the utility required to pay more than the avoided costs. Standard
rates shall be established for purchases from qualifying facilities with a
design capacity of 100 kilowatts may be standard rates or may be by individual
contracts, the terms of which are fair and reasonable.
§ 6-421 TRIMMING TREES NEAR LINES OF DISTRIBUTION SYSTEM; NOTICE REQUIRED.
   Any person desiring to cut or remove trees or branches thereof or to fell
same, in close proximity to the lines of the electric distribution system of
the city, and which said work might cause injury or damage to the lines
thereof, shall, before doing the said work, give reasonable written notice to
the Electrical Superintendent and shall follow any and all rules and
regulations which he or she may prescribe for doing such work. It shall be
unlawful for any person felling or removing such trees or branches to disrupt
or damage the lines without first giving proper notice and receiving permission
in writing to do so.
§ 6-422 OVERHANGING BRANCHES; CITY’S RIGHT TO REMOVE.
   Whenever it becomes necessary to protect the lines or property of the
electric distribution system of the city, the city shall have the right to
remove and cut away in a careful and prudent manner overhanging branches or
limbs of trees, so that its lines shall be free and open. Such right, privilege
and authority may also be exercised by the city whenever the City Council at
any regular or special meeting passes a resolution stating its intention to so
cut or remove such obstructions to the lines and service of its electric
distribution system.
§ 6-423 INSPECTION.
   The Electrical Superintendent or his or her duly authorized agents shall
have free access at any reasonable time to each premises and building to or in
which electricity is supplied.
§ 6-424 DESTRUCTION OF PROPERTY OF ELECTRIC DISTRIBUTION SYSTEM.
   No person shall willfully or carelessly break, injure or deface, interfere
with or disturb any building, machinery, apparatus, insulator, transformer,
fixture, attachment, appurtenance, electrolier, right-way pole, suspension
lights or light globes in the street lighting system of the electric light
plant or of the distribution system of the city.
ARTICLE V: REFUSE DISPOSAL AND COLLECTION
Section
   
6-501   Definitions
   
6-502   Collection service requirements
   
6-503   Responsibility for service
   
6-504   Solid waste collection
   
6-505   Prohibited acts
   
6-506   Receptacles; serviceability
   
6-507   Receptacles; placement
   
6-508   Receptacles; prohibited materials
   
6-509   Collection; interference
   
6-510   Rates
   
6-511   Recordation of lien for delinquent charges
   
6-512   Collection of delinquent charges
   
6-513   Manner of giving notices
§ 6-501 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this article, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DIRECTOR. The Director of Public Works of the city or his or her designee.
   DWELLING. A residence, flat, apartment, live-work unit or other facility,
which meets the applicable city codes for residential living. DWELLING does not
include a hotel or motel.
   HAZARDOUS WASTE.
      (1)   All substances defined as hazardous waste, acutely hazardous waste
or extremely hazardous waste in the state’s Environmental Protection Act, being
Neb. RS 81-1501 et seq.;
      (2)   All wastes which may present a threat of disease or infection to
humans or animals; and
      (3)   Radioactive wastes.
   HOUSEHOLD HAZARDOUS WASTE. Hazardous waste generated at dwellings within the
city, and includes, but is not limited to, automotive fluids, paints,
varnishes, solvents, pesticides, fertilizers, batteries and discarded tires.
   OWNER. The person(s) or entity(ies) holding legal title to the premises.
   PREMISES. Any building or lot within the city boundaries.
   SOLID WASTE. Putrescible and non-putrescible solid and semisolid waste
including garbage, trash, refuse, paper, rubbish, ashes, industrial waste,
demolition and construction wastes, discarded home and industrial appliances,
manure, vegetable or animal solid and semisolid wastes, and other discarded
solid and semisolid wastes but does not include abandoned vehicles and vehicle
parts, hazardous waste or yard waste.
   TENANT. When used with reference to a dwelling shall mean any person or
persons, other than the owner, occupying or in possession of the dwelling.
   WASTE CONTRACTOR. The entity granted a contract by the city to collect and
dispose of solid waste generated within the city limits.
   YARD WASTE. Vegetative matter resulting from landscaping maintenance,
including accumulation of lawn, grass, shrubbery cuttings or clippings and dry
leaf rakings, palm fronds, tree branches, bushes or shrubs, green leaf
cuttings, fruits or other matter usually created as refuse in the care of lawns
and yards.
(Ord. 849, passed 5-10-2004)
§ 6-502 COLLECTION SERVICE REQUIREMENTS.
   All occupied premises and construction/demolition sites are required to have
solid waste collection service. All premises that have solid waste collection
service must follow the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 849, passed 5-10-2004)
§ 6-503 RESPONSIBILITY FOR SERVICE.
   (A)   Every owner or tenant of any dwelling within the city where solid
waste is generated and/or accumulated shall contract with the city for solid
waste collection and shall pay the designated fee for such services. The
following exceptions apply:
      (1)   Apartment complexes with at least four uniquely billed utility
accounts and a common waste collection facility.
      (2)   Facilities owned or operated by the Central City Housing Agency.
      (3)   Residential units part of a legally recognized Homeowners
Association with common solid waste collection facilities.
      (4)   Properties utilized jointly as a residential and commercial
property where a commercial solid waste service is being provided. Such
properties shall be zoned commercial or have a grandfathered commercial use.
   (B)   Every owner or tenant shall initiate service within 15 days of
occupancy of any premises or place within the city where solid waste is
generated and/or accumulated. If service is not initiated within this time
period, the city will automatically initiate service.
   (C)   If the Director determines that additional solid waste receptacles or
capacity is necessary, the owner or tenant shall provide for such additional
service within 15 days of the date of the mailing of written notice by the
Director.
(Ord. 849, passed 5-10-2004; Ord. 1109, passed 12-11-2023)
§ 6-504 SOLID WASTE COLLECTION.
   It shall be unlawful for any person other than the waste contractor to
collect or transport any solid waste generated within the city, except as
follows:
   (A)   Construction and demolition debris that is:
      (1)   Removed from a premises by a licensed contractor as an incidental
part of a total construction, remodeling or demolition service offered by that
contractor rather than as a separately contracted or subcontracted hauling
service using debris boxes or similar apparatus; or
      (2)   Directly loaded onto a fixed body vehicle and hauled directly to a
disposal facility that holds all applicable permits.
   (B)   Animal waste and remains from slaughterhouses and butcher shops, or
grease waste for use as tallow;
   (C)   Solid waste collected and transported by city crews; and
   (D)   Solid waste hauled directly to a disposal facility by the generator of
the solid waste.
(Ord. 849, passed 5-10-2004)
§ 6-505 PROHIBITED ACTS.
   (A)   No person owning or occupying any premises in the city shall
accumulate, or allow to accumulate, upon or in such premises waste materials of
any kind; however, this section shall not be construed as interfering with a
construction project during the construction period.
   (B)   No person shall dump, place or bury any waste of any kind on any
premises or in any public place or right-of-way within the city.
   (C)   Violations of any provision of this article shall be considered an
infraction.
(Ord. 849, passed 5-10-2004)
§ 6-506 RECEPTACLES; SERVICEABILITY.
   (A)   All solid waste shall be deposited for collection in a receptacle
provided by the waste contractor or a receptacle which meets the service
requirements of the city.
   (B)   Every owner or tenant of any premises or place within the city where
solid waste is generated or accumulated shall ensure that the receptacles are
of an adequate quantity and/or size for the proper storage for collection.
Cardboard and yard waste may be bundled for collection as an alternative to
placement in a receptacle.
   (C)   All receptacles shall be maintained in a clean, neat and sanitary
condition.
(Ord. 849, passed 5-10-2004)
§ 6-507 RECEPTACLES; PLACEMENT.
   No receptacle for the collection of solid waste, or yard waste, or any
bundle of yard waste or cardboard shall be placed or stored or on in any public
street, sidewalk, footpath or public place. Notwithstanding the foregoing, such
receptacles or bundles may be placed on a sidewalk, for up to 24 consecutive
hours for the purpose of collection by the waste contractor; provided that, the
receptacle does not block or impede pedestrian travel or driveways owned or
controlled by other persons or businesses.
(Ord. 849, passed 5-10-2004)
§ 6-508 RECEPTACLES; PROHIBITED MATERIALS.
   (A)   No person shall place the following materials in a receptacle:
hazardous waste, human waste (excluding disposable diapers), uncontained
liquids (excluding grease waste set out for tallow), hazardous wastes, or
household hazardous waste. Notwithstanding the foregoing, household hazardous
waste accepted under the terms of the city’s franchise or through a city
sponsored event may be set out in a specially designated receptacle.
   (B)   Dirt, brick, rocks and cement may only be placed in approved
containers or containers hauled as permitted under §
6-504(A) of this article.
   (C)   No person shall place bulky goods for collection, except by special
arrangement with the waste contractor or during a city sponsored semiannual
curbside cleanup. BULKY GOODS includes large household appliances, such as
white goods; furniture; carpets; mattresses; electronic equipment; oversized
yard waste and similar large items. An additional charge may be imposed for
such collection.
(Ord. 849, passed 5-10-2004)
§ 6-509 COLLECTION; INTERFERENCE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to interfere with the collection,
removal and disposal of solid waste by the city or the waste contractor.
(Ord. 849, passed 5-10-2004)
§ 6-510 RATES.
   The standard monthly charges for waste collection shall be set by the city
by resolution and may be amended from time to time.
(Ord. 849, passed 5-10-2004)
§ 6-511 RECORDATION OF LIEN FOR DELINQUENT CHARGES.
   The City Council shall be requested to authorize the placement of a lien on
the owner’s real property for the delinquent charges. The lien shall be
recorded with the County Clerk and may carry additional administrative charges.
(Ord. 849, passed 5-10-2004)
§ 6-512 COLLECTION OF DELINQUENT CHARGES.
   (A)   The delinquent charges which remain unpaid by the owner shall
constitute an assessment against the property to which service was rendered and
shall be collected at such time as established by the County Assessor for
inclusion in the next property tax assessment.
   (B)   The City Clerk shall turn over to the County Assessor for inclusion in
the next property tax assessment the total sum of unpaid delinquent charges
consisting of the delinquent garbage collection service charges and
administrative charges.
   (C)   (1)   The assessment may be collected at the same time and in the
manner as ordinary municipal taxes are collected and shall be subject to the
same penalties and the same procedure of sale as provided for delinquent,
ordinary, municipal taxes.
      (2)   The assessment shall be subordinate to all existing liens
previously imposed upon the property and paramount to all other liens except
for those of state, county and municipal taxes with which it shall be upon
parity. The lien shall continue until the assessment and all interest and
charges due and payable thereon are paid.
      (3)   All laws applicable to the levy, collection and enforcement of
municipal taxes shall be applicable to the special assessments.
(Ord. 849, passed 5-10-2004)
§ 6-513 MANNER OF GIVING NOTICES.
   Any notice required to be given pursuant to this chapter shall be deemed
served as of the date of personal service upon the owner or tenant or five days
after deposit of said notice, postage prepaid in the United States mail
addressed to the owner at the address listed on the most recent County
Assessor’s tax roll or tenant to the tenant at the premises’s address.
(Ord. 849, passed 5-10-2004)
ARTICLE VI: GAS DEPARTMENT
Section
   
6-601   Gas Superintendent
   
6-602   Consumer’s contract
   
6-603   Deposit fund
   
6-604   Gas service contracts
   
6-605   Installation procedure
   
6-606   Meters
   
6-607   Hazardous equipment
   
6-608   Discontinuance of service
   
6-609   Rates
   
6-610   Minimum rates
   
6-611   Bills
   
6-612   Restricted use
   
6-613   Building moving
   
6-614   Destruction of property
§ 6-601 GAS SUPERINTENDENT.
   The city operates the Gas Department through the Gas Superintendent. The Gas
Superintendent shall have the direct management and control of the Gas
Department and shall faithfully carry out the duties of his or her office. He
or she shall have authority to adopt rules and regulations for the safe and
efficient management of the Gas Department subject to the supervision and
review of the City Council. The City Council shall set the rates to be charged
for services rendered by resolution and shall file the same in the office of
the City Clerk for public inspection at any reasonable time.
§ 6-602 CONSUMER’S CONTRACT.
   The city shall furnish natural gas for heating, cooking and power purposes
to persons whose premises abut on any supply pipe of the distribution system of
the city and may furnish natural gas to such other persons within or without
its corporate limits as and when, according to law, the City Council may see
fit to do so. The rules, regulations and rates for natural gas service
hereinafter named shall be considered a part of every application hereafter
made for natural gas service and shall be considered a part of the contract
with every person, company or corporation who is supplied with natural gas
through the natural gas distribution system of the city. Without further
formality, the making of application on the part of any applicant or the use or
consumption of natural gas by any present customer and the furnishing of
natural gas to said applicant or customer shall constitute a contract between
applicant or customer and the city, to which both parties are bound.
§ 6-603 DEPOSIT FUND.
   The City Council, from time to time, shall establish a service deposit to be
paid by an applicant prior to commencement of gas service. The service deposit
required for gas service shall be promptly paid upon demand by all potential
customers of the city gas distribution system. From the said deposit shall be
deducted all delinquent gas charges. The service deposit shall be collected by
the City Clerk and immediately turned over to the City Treasurer, who shall
keep the said fees in a trust fund for the customers of the gas distribution
system. Said fund shall be put out at interest separate and apart from other
funds. Interest arising therefrom shall be expended solely for the repair of
equipment and property of the Gas Department.
§ 6-604 GAS SERVICE CONTRACTS.
   (A)   Contracts for gas service are not transferable.
   (B)   Any person wishing to change from one location to another shall make a
new application and sign a new contract. If any consumer shall sell, dispose
of, or remove from the premises where service is furnished in his or her name,
or if the said premises is destroyed by fire or other casualty, he or she shall
at once inform the Gas Superintendent, who shall cause the gas service to be
shut off from the said premises.
   (C)   If the consumer should fail to give such notice, he or she shall be
charged for all gas used on the said premises until the Gas Superintendent is
otherwise advised of such circumstances.
§ 6-605 INSTALLATION PROCEDURE.
   The city will furnish natural gas to any person, firm or corporation within
and without the corporate limits of the city, if said person, firm or
corporation can be supplied with natural gas from existing gas mains. The city
expressly reserves the right to refuse to furnish gas service to customers not
located upon existing gas mains wherein the estimated consumption of gas will,
in the opinion of the City Council, not justify the installation expense of
additional mains. The meter and meter loop shall remain the property of the
city, which reserves the right to inspect, test and repair any meter, pipe or
other gas equipment on the customer’s premises at any time that it may be
necessary. Repair and replacement costs to the same shall be apportioned as
installation is accomplished.
§ 6-606 METERS.
   No two properties are to be connected to a single meter unless used and
occupied by the same party. Neither shall more than one customer be served by
the same meter unless the same room or rooms are occupied and used jointly by
such customer.
§ 6-607 HAZARDOUS EQUIPMENT.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to sell or
install any hazardous equipment or apparatus, or such as shall be or cause a
fire or explosion hazard, or to sell or install any new equipment or apparatus
not approved by the National Gas Association or the Gas Superintendent.
   (B)   In order to protect the interests of the city and the customer, the
city reserves the right to have free access at all times to the premises on
which gas is being used, to determine if gas equipment is being installed and
used in a proper manner, and reserves the right to refuse gas service for
hazardous installation and/or equipment.
§ 6-608 DISCONTINUANCE OF SERVICE.
   (A)   The city will furnish gas in accordance with these regulations unless
prevented by unavoidable causes, but expressly reserves the right to
discontinue service for any of the following reasons:
      (1)   For necessary repairs;
      (2)   For non-payment of bills when due; and
      (3)   For fraudulent misrepresentation in regard to consumption of gas.
   (B)   When necessary to shut off gas for non-payment of bills when due or
for fraudulent misrepresentation in relation to the consumption thereof, all
delinquent accounts must be paid before the gas will again be turned on for the
use of the customer.
§ 6-609 RATES.
   (A)   The City Council has the power and authority to fix by resolution the
rates to be paid by consumers for gas service from the Gas Department.
   (B)   All such fees shall be on file for public inspection at the office of
the City Clerk.
§ 6-610 MINIMUM RATES.
   All gas consumers shall be liable for the minimum rate provided by
resolution unless and until the consumer shall by written order direct Gas
Superintendent to shut off the gas, in which case he or she shall not be liable
thereafter for gas service until the gas is turned on again.
§ 6-611 BILLS.
   All bills for gas shall be paid in accordance with the provisions of §
6-102 of this municipal code.
§ 6-612 RESTRICTED USE.
   The Gas Department does not guarantee the delivery of gas, except when it
has a sufficient supply, sufficient equipment and sufficient personnel to do
so. The Gas Superintendent has the power and authority to disconnect or
discontinue service to any consumer for good and sufficient reason without
liability. The city shall use due care and reasonable diligence to provide and
supply uninterrupted service to consumers, but shall not be liable for damages
resulting from interruption of service due to causes over which the city has no
control. The city expressly reserves the right to discontinue or disconnect
service to any consumer without preliminary notice.
§ 6-613 BUILDING MOVING.
   Should any house or building moving occur or be necessary and it becomes
necessary in such work to remove or disturb any of the property or pipes of the
gas distribution system, the same shall not be done, except upon reasonable
written notice to and written permission received from the Gas Superintendent,
who shall then order paid in advance the actual cost of moving the said pipe
and other
appurtenances. Such cost shall be paid by the applicant prior to the moving of
the building or house. All the expense of removing, changing and replacing the
property of the gas distribution system shall be paid out of the deposit made
prior to such moving and any surplus remaining after all expenses are paid
shall be returned to the applicant; provided that, if in the course of moving
the said building or house it becomes apparent that additional expense will be
incurred, such additional deposit as deemed necessary may be demanded.
§ 6-614 DESTRUCTION OF PROPERTY.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to willfully or carelessly break, injure
or deface any building, machinery, apparatus, fixture, attachment or
appurtenance of the Gas Department, or commit any act tending to obstruct or
impair the intended use of any of the above-mentioned property.
ARTICLE VII: UTILITIES FRANCHISE REQUIRED
Section
   
6-701   Franchise required
   
6-702   Franchise required; exceptions
   
6-703   Penalties
§ 6-701 FRANCHISE REQUIRED.
   Except as provided in §
6-702 of this article, no person, company, association, firm, partnership,
limited liability company, corporation or other entity shall, at any place or
location within the city, without first having obtained a franchise or permit
from the city:
   (A)   Provide, sell, furnish, transport or distribute natural gas,
electricity, cable television, telecommunications or water;
   (B)   Erect, construct, operate, maintain or use any natural gas pipeline,
service line, plant, system or gas works, power plant, electric or other light
works, heating plant or waterworks, cable lines or headend for television,
communications towers of antennas for the purpose of providing, selling,
furnishing, transporting or distributing natural gas, electricity, cable
television, telecommunications or water to any user or consumer within the
city;
   (C)   Use the streets or alleys of the city for such purposes; or
   (D)   Interconnect any building, structure or facility of any kind to any
pipeline, system, main, service line or other conduit or facility of any type
for the purpose of providing, selling, furnishing, transporting or distributing
natural gas, electricity, cable television, telecommunications or water.
§ 6-702 FRANCHISE REQUIRED; EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   The provisions of §
6-701 of this article shall not apply to the city, which is the primary
provider of public utilities to or at all points and locations within the city.
   (B)   Any entity which is the provider of public utilities to any area
annexed by the city after 3-1-1995 shall have six months after the effective
date of said annexation within which to transfer the public utility services to
the city, and shall not continue to provide those public utilities thereafter
unless it has obtained a franchise or permit from the city in accordance with §
6-701 of this article.
§ 6-703 PENALTIES.
   Any person, company, association, firm, partnership, limited liability
company, corporation or other entity who violates the provisions of this
article shall, upon conviction, be punished by a fine in an amount not less
than $100, nor more than $300. Every day on which the violation shall continue
shall be deemed as a separate and distinct offense, separately punishable
hereunder.
ARTICLE VIII: PENAL PROVISION
Section
   
6-801   Violation; penalty
§ 6-801 VIOLATION; PENALTY.
   Anyone violating any of the terms and conditions of any articles of the
foregoing chapter shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be fined in
a sum not to exceed that permitted by state law for violation of a municipal
ordinance. Each day’s maintenance of the same shall constitute a separate
offense.
CHAPTER 7: FIRE REGULATIONS
Article
   
I.   ORGANIZATION
   
II.   FIRE LIMITS
   
III.   FIRE PREVENTION
   
IV.   EXPLOSIVE MATERIAL
   
V.   FIREWORKS
   
VI.   AMBULANCE DEPARTMENT
   
VII.   PENAL PROVISION
ARTICLE I: ORGANIZATION
Section
   
7-101   Operation and funding
   
7-102   Membership
   
7-103   Offices of Chief, Assistant Chief and Captains created; duties
   
7-104   Powers and duties of Chief
   
7-105   Additional powers and duties of Chief
   
7-106   Failure to obey notice of Fire Chief; penalty
   
7-107   Fires
   
7-108   Distant fire
   
7-109   Preservation of property
   
7-110   Impersonating firefighters
   
7-111   Mandatory assistance
   
7-112   Reserved
   
7-113   Fire investigation
   
7-114   Driving over hose
   
7-115   Traffic
   
7-116   False alarm
   
7-117   Pedestrians
   
7-118   Equipment
   
7-119   Interference
   
7-120   Obstruction of fire hydrants
§ 7-101 OPERATION AND FUNDING.
   The city operates the City Fire Department through the Fire Chief and
firefighters. The City Council, for the purpose of defraying the cost of the
management, maintenance and improvement of the Fire Department, shall each year
levy a tax not exceeding the maximum limits prescribed by state law on the
actual valuation of all real estate and personal property within the city that
is subject to taxation. The revenue from the said tax shall be known as the
Fire Department Fund. The fund shall be at all times in the possession of the
City Treasurer. The Fire Chief shall manage the Fire Department and it shall be
his or her duty to inform the City Council when any of the fire engines, hose,
ladders or other apparatus need repair or replacement. The Fire Chief shall
also submit any anticipated needs to the City Administrator during the annual
budget process. Upon the written consent and directive of the City Council, the
Fire Chief shall cause the repair, acquisition, improvement or maintenance of
the said equipment and vehicles and shall personally supervise and approve of
the same.
(Ord. 1080, passed 4-11-2022)
§ 7-102 MEMBERSHIP.
   (A)   The Fire Chief shall appoint no more than 25 members per each Fire
Department company, subject to the review and approval of the City Council. All
vacancies shall be filled in this manner. Said members shall be considered to
be employees of the city for the purpose of providing them with worker's
compensation and other benefits. Each member shall be entitled to a term life
insurance policy in the amount of at least $5,000 for death from any cause to
age 65 and such policy shall, at the option of the individual firefighter, be
convertible to a permanent form of life insurance at age 65; provided, the
firefighters covered are actively and faithfully performing the duties of their
position. The Fire Department shall consist of so many members as may be
decided by the City Council. The members may organize themselves in any way
they may decide, subject to the review and approval of the City Council. They
may hold meetings and engage in social activities with the approval of the City
Council.
   (B)   The Secretary shall upon request keep a record of all meetings and
shall make a report to the City Council of all meetings and activities of the
Fire Department. The City Council may, for services rendered, compensate or
reward any member or members of the Fire Department in an amount set by
resolution. All members of the Fire Department shall be subject to such rules
and regulations and shall perform such duties as may be prescribed or required
of them by the Fire Chief or the City Council.
(Ord. 1080, passed 4-11-2022)
§ 7-103 OFFICES OF CHIEF, ASSISTANT CHIEF AND CAPTAINS CREATED; DUTIES.
   There are hereby created the offices of Fire Chief, Assistant Fire Chief and
two Captains of the Fire Department. Said officers shall be elected by the
active members of said Fire Department and approved by the Mayor and City
Council. Such officers may be removed from office by the Mayor and City
Council, and when any vacancy occurs by removal or otherwise, the members of
said Fire Department shall immediately elect a successor subject to the
approval of the City Council. In the event of the failure of said Fire
Department to elect a Fire Chief, Assistant Fire Chief or Captains, or in case
of a vacancy in any of said offices, for a period of five days after such
vacancy occurs, the City Council shall fill such vacancy by the appointment of
a member of the Fire Department to said office.
(Ord. 1080, passed 4-11-2022)
§ 7-104 POWERS AND DUTIES OF CHIEF.
   The Fire Chief shall have full control of the actions of the members of the
Fire Department during the time said Department is on duty at a fire or during
the period of fire drills, and the Fire Chief shall have full charge and
control of all of the equipment of said Fire Department and of the movement
thereof. It shall be his or her duty to preserve and maintain order at all
times during a fire; and he or she shall have the power and authority to call
to his or her aid, either for the purpose of maintaining order or for the
performance of any other act in connection with the fire, any and all
bystanders whom he or she may select at the time, and it shall be the duty of
all persons who are called upon by the Fire Chief for service at a fire to
promptly obey all orders issued by him or her. A bystander shall not include
any person already serving in an official capacity such as police, utility
workers or ambulance crew. It shall also be the duty of the Fire Chief to see
that all fire equipment is in proper working order and to report to the Mayor
whenever any repairs or new equipment are required. The Fire Chief shall submit
to the City Administrator by June of each year anticipated capital expenditures
for equipment or vehicles for the following year. He or she shall perform such
other duties as are imposed upon him or her by law.
(Ord. 1080, passed 4-11-2022)
§ 7-105 ADDITIONAL POWERS AND DUTIES OF CHIEF.
   The Fire Chief may enter into all buildings and upon all premises for the
purposes of examination at all reasonable hours, pursuant to Neb. RS 81-512.
(Ord. 1080, passed 4-11-2022)
§ 7-106 FAILURE TO OBEY NOTICE OF FIRE CHIEF; PENALTY.
   Whenever the Chief shall give the directions mentioned in the foregoing
section to the owner or occupant of any premises, either verbally or by written
notice, it shall be the duty of said owner or occupant to cause such removal or
alteration thereof within 24 hours at the owner’s or occupant’s expense, as
shall be required by said Chief. If the owner or occupant refuses or neglects
to cause such removal or alteration within the time specified, upon conviction,
he or she shall be fined in a sum not exceeding that permitted by the state law
for violation of a municipal ordinance and shall pay the costs of prosecution.
His or her failure to comply with such directive for each 24 hours thereafter
shall constitute a separate and distinct offense.
§ 7-107 FIRES.
   It shall be the duty of the Fire Department to use all proper means: for the
extinguishment of fires; to protect property within the city; and to secure the
observance of all ordinances, laws and other rules and regulations with respect
to fires and fire prevention.
§ 7-108 DISTANT FIRE.
   The firefighters of the city shall be considered as acting in the
performance and within the scope of their duties in fighting fire or saving
property or life outside the corporate limits of the city when directed to do
so by the Mayor or Fire Chief or some other person authorized to act for such
Chief and, in so doing, may use such fire equipment of the city as may be
designated by the City Council
§ 7-109 PRESERVATION OF PROPERTY.
   Any official of the Fire Department shall have the power during the time of
a fire to cause the removal of any private or public property whenever it shall
become necessary to do so for the preservation of such property from fire, to
prevent the spreading of fire or to protect adjoining property. The said
officials may direct the hook and ladder persons to remove any building,
erection or fence for the purpose of checking the progress of any fire, and the
official in charge of the firefighting effort shall have the power to blow up,
or cause to be blown up, with powder or otherwise, any building or erection
during the progress of a fire for the purpose of extinguishing or checking the
same.
§ 7-110 IMPERSONATING FIREFIGHTER.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to impersonate a firefighter, by wearing
a badge or other apparel usually worn by a firefighter, for the purpose of
obtaining any benefit whatsoever. Nothing herein shall be construed to prohibit
the theatrical representation of a firefighter for bona fide entertainment
purposes when there is no intent to defraud.
§ 7-111 MANDATORY ASSISTANCE.
   Any official of the Fire Department may command the assistance and services
of any person present at a fire to help in extinguishing the same, or in the
removal and protection of property. In the event that the said spectator
refuses, neglects or fails to assist the Fire Department after a lawful order
to do so, he or she shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor.
§ 7-112 RESERVED.
§ 7-113 FIRE INVESTIGATION.
   It shall be the duty of the Fire Department to investigate or cause to be
investigated the cause, origin and circumstances of every fire occurring in the
city in which property has been destroyed or damaged when the damage exceeds
$50. All fires of unknown origin shall be reported, and such officers shall
especially make an investigation and report as to whether such fire was the
result of carelessness, accident or design. Such investigation shall be begun
within two days of the occurrence of such fire, and the state’s Fire Marshal
shall have the right to supervise and direct the investigation whenever he or
she deems it expedient or necessary. The officer making the investigation of
fires occurring within the city shall immediately notify the state’s Fire
Marshal and shall, within one week of the occurrence of the fire, furnish him
or her with a written statement of all the facts relating to the cause and
origin of the fire and such further information as he or she may call for.
§ 7-114 DRIVING OVER HOSE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, without the consent of the Fire Chief
or Assistant Fire Chief, to drive any vehicle over unprotected hose of the Fire
Department.
§ 7-115 TRAFFIC.
   (A)   Every vehicle already stationary when the fire alarm shall have been
sounded must remain so for a period of five minutes after the sounding of the
fire alarm. No vehicle, except by the specific direction of the Fire Chief or
Assistant Fire Chief, shall follow, approach or park closer than 500 feet to
any fire vehicle or to any fire hydrant to which a hose is connected.
   (B)   Nothing herein shall be construed to apply to vehicles carrying
doctors or members of the Fire Department or emergency vehicles.
§ 7-116 FALSE ALARM.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to intentionally, and without good and
reasonable cause, raise any false alarm of fire.
§ 7-117 PEDESTRIANS.
   It shall be unlawful for any pedestrian to enter or remain in any street
after a fire alarm shall have sounded until the fire trucks shall have
completely passed.
§ 7-118 EQUIPMENT.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to molest, destroy or in any other way
to interfere with the use and storage of any of the fire trucks or other
firefighting apparatus belonging to the city.
§ 7-119 INTERFERENCE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person or persons to hinder or obstruct the
Fire Chief or the members of the Fire Department in the performance of their
duty.
§ 7-120 OBSTRUCTION OF FIRE HYDRANTS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to obstruct the use of a fire hydrant or
have or place any material within 15 feet of the said fixe hydrant. Any vehicle
or material found as an obstruction may be immediately removed by the Fire
Chief or any member of the Fire Department at the risk, cost and expense of the
owner or claimant.
ARTICLE II: FIRE LIMITS
Section
   
7-201   Territory composing fire limits
   
7-202   Fire limits building permit
   
7-203   Fire limits building materials
   
7-204   Permitted repairs
   
7-205   Ironclads prohibited
   
7-206   Removal or repair required
§ 7-201 TERRITORY COMPOSING FIRE LIMITS.
   The following-described territory in the city shall be and constitute the
fire limits: Blocks 29, 30, 31 and 35; Lots 1 and 2 and the east 22 feet of Lot
3, all in Block 36; the north one-half of Blocks 25, 26, 27 and 28, all in the
Original Town of Lone Tree, now Central City, Nebraska; also a strip of land 50
feet wide and abutting upon and lying northerly of Block 25, 26, 27, 28, 30 and
31, all in the Original Town of Lone Tree, now Central City; all of Blocks 9,
10, 11, 12, 13, Lots 7 to 10 inclusive in Block 8, the south half of Block 7
and Lots 3, 4 and 5 in Block 6, all in Metcalf’s Addition to the City of
Central City; all of Craig’s and Ratcliff’s Additions to the City of Central
City; the west half of Block 3 and the west half of Block 4, except the east
half of the south 44 feet of Lot 5, Block 4, all in County Addition to the
Original Town of Lone Tree, now Central City; all of Lots 5, 6, 7 and 8, Block
28, Original Town of Lone Tree, now Central City, except the south 64 feet
thereof; Lot 8 except the southerly 64 feet thereof in Block 27, Original Town
of Lone Tree, now Central City; all of Tax Lots 21, 22, 23, 24 and 25 in
Section 10, Township 13, Range 6 West of the 6th P.M., Merrick County; the
right-of-way of the Union Pacific Railroad Company lying south of the main
track and lying northerly of Boyd and Jarrett’s Addition to the City of Central
City; Blocks 25, 26, 27, 28, 29, 30 and 31, Original Town of Lone Tree, now
Central City, Craig’s Addition and Block 9 of Metcalf’s Addition to Central
City; the right-of-way of the Chicago, Burlington & Quincy Railroad in Central
City lying south of 13th Street and north of 20th Street.
§ 7-202 FIRE LIMITS BUILDING PERMIT.
   Prior to the moving, erection, placement or construction of any building in
the fire limits, application must be made to the city’s Building Official.
Construction shall include the enlarging or alteration of any building in the
fire limits. Such application shall be furnished by the City Clerk and shall
require such information as the city’s Building Official deems necessary to
determine whether or not to grant a building permit.
§ 7-203 FIRE LIMITS BUILDING MATERIALS.
   Within the aforesaid fire limits, no structure shall be built, altered,
moved or enlarged unless such structure will be enclosed with walls constructed
wholly of stone, well-burned brick, terra cotta, concrete or other such non-
combustible materials; provided that, properly owners in the fire limits may
construct out-buildings on the rear of their lots of frame material, the sides
to be covered with sheet iron or metallic siding and the roof with fire-proof
roofing; also the owners or the lessees of the right-of-way of the Union
Pacific Railroad Company’s grounds and the owners and lessees of the Burlington
Northern Railroad Company’s grounds may construct buildings of frame material,
the sides to be enclosed with sheet iron, metallic siding or hard board and the
roof to be covered with fire-proof roofing; but before constructing such a
building, a plan of the building proposed to be built is to be submitted to the
city’s Building Official and a permit obtained to construct such building or
buildings, as provided in this article.
§ 7-204 PERMITTED REPAIRS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to change the dimensions of any building
in the fire limits unless such person first makes application to and receives
permission from the city’s Building Official to do such work. The applicant
shall state on the application that the material used will be non-combustible
and approved by the Fire Chief. Repairs in the form of patching and other minor
repairs shall not require a permit.
§ 7-205 IRONCLADS PROHIBITED.
   All buildings, sheds and structures known as ironclads, which are
constructed of wood and covered with sheet iron or tin, attached to the frame
shall be considered and deemed to be constructed of combustible materials. Any
future construction of an ironclad building shall hereafter be prohibited.
§ 7-206 REMOVAL OR REPAIR REQUIRED.
   In the event that a building within the fire limits becomes damaged by fire,
flood, storm or in disrepair from vandalism, dilapidation or by any other
cause, it shall be the duty of the owner, lessee or occupant to remove or
repair the said building in accordance with the provisions of this article. It
shall be unlawful for any person to allow a building to stand in such damaged
or decayed condition. Any such building shall be removed or repaired within 30
days after receiving notice to do so by the city’s Building Official.
ARTICLE III: FIRE PREVENTION
Section
   
7-301   Fire Prevention Code
   
7-302   Fire Code enforcement
   
7-303   Lawful entry
   
7-304   Violation notice
   
7-305   Petroleum gas
   
7-306   Poisonous gas
   
7-307   Smoking in public places
   
7-308   Prohibited fuels
   
7-309   Practice burns
   
7-310   Fires regulated
   
7-311   Open fires; location
   
7-312   Stoves, furnaces and chimneys
§ 7-301 FIRE PREVENTION CODE.
   The rules and regulations promulgated by the office of the state’s Fire
Marshal relating to fire prevention are incorporated by reference into this
code and made a part of this article as though spread at large herein, together
with all subsequent amendments thereto. Three copies of the Fire Prevention
Code shall be on file with the City Clerk and shall be available for public
inspection at any time that the city office is open for business.
§ 7-302 FIRE CODE ENFORCEMENT.
   It shall be the duty of all city officials to enforce the Incorporated Fire
Code provision, and all infractions shall be immediately brought to the
attention of the Fire Chief.
§ 7-303 LAWFUL ENTRY.
   It shall be the duty of the owner, lessee or occupant of any building or
structure, except the interiors of private dwellings, to allow the Fire Chief
to inspect or cause to be inspected as often as necessary the said structure
for the purpose of ascertaining and enumerating all conditions therein that are
likely to cause fire or any other violations of the provisions of the city
ordinances affecting the hazard of fire.
§ 7-304 VIOLATION NOTICE.
   It shall be the duty of the owner, lessee or occupant of any building or
structure that was lawfully inspected as hereinbefore prescribed and who
receives written or verbal notice of a violation of any of the provisions of
the city ordinances, to correct the condition that violates the said ordinance
or ordinances within five days from the date of receipt of such notice.
§ 7-305 PETROLEUM GAS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to store or keep for any period of time
any liquefied petroleum in an amount exceeding five gallons within the
corporate limits of the city, except on the railroad right-of-way, without such
person first receiving permission from the City Council. In granting such
permission, the City Council shall specify the exact location, construction and
kind of storage facility, and prescribe any other rules and regulations for
such storage to ensure reasonable safety from fire.
§ 7-306 POISONOUS GAS.
   Any person, firm or corporation desiring to store or keep in the city for
any period of time any form of poisonous or flammable gas or liquefied
petroleum gas, or add to, enlarge or replace any facility used for the storage
of such gases, must first get permission from the City Council. The City
Council shall require the name of the gas, the place of storage and the amount
of gas stored. If permission is granted, the City Council shall prescribe such
rules, regulations and precautionary actions as may be deemed necessary. Permit
requirements for the initial construction or location of storage facilities
shall not apply to those facilities in existence on the effective date of this
article; provided, any such present use that is discontinued for a period of 60
days shall not be revived without a permit.
§ 7-307 SMOKING IN PUBLIC PLACES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to ignite a lighter, strike a match or
indulge in the smoking of tobacco on or in any building or structure where
public gatherings take place within the corporate limits while any
entertainment, program, show, amusement, game, exhibition or other spectacle to
which the general public is invited is in progress, or while patrons thereof
are finding or leaving seats and standing room; provided, the foregoing shall
not be construed to apply to banquets, dinners or entertainment held in any of
the aforesaid buildings or structures where food is served and the
entertainment takes place incidental thereto or in connection therewith.
§ 7-308 PROHIBITED FUELS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to permit or allow to be burned crank
case drainings, or to burn oil or other flammable substances, other than wood,
in a homemade stove.
§ 7-309 PRACTICE BURNS.
   The City Council shall give prior permission for any practice burns or other
training activities that involve the intentional burning of any structure or
significant fire within the city limits for the purpose of training or avoiding
a demolition cost.
(Ord. 996, passed 7-11-2016)
§ 7-310 FIRES REGULATED.
   (A)   It shall be lawful to build or set fires to burn or cause to be burned
any leaves, straw, hay, brush or wood within the city limits; provided that,
the fire is set between the hours of 12:00 p.m. and 6:00 p.m. and that the
person building such fires shall have the substance to be burned in a fire-
proof trash burner or incinerator; and, provided that, the person shall be in
attendance at all times until the fire is extinguished.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to build or set fires to burn or
cause to be burned any material between the hours of 6:01 p.m. and 11:59 a.m.,
Monday through Saturday and all day Sunday. It shall be unlawful for any person
to set a fire on the pavement, sidewalk or near any curb within the city
limits. It shall be unlawful for any person to burn or cause to be burned
animal waste or human waste.
   (C)   This shall not apply to fires set solely for outdoor cooking, to the
burning of organic material for the purpose of heating space within a home or
building in a fireplace or wood-burning stove or to fires under the direct
supervision of the city’s Fire Department for the purpose of training volunteer
firefighters.
§ 7-311 OPEN FIRES; LOCATION.
   It shall be unlawful to locate a burning barrel, fire-proof trash burner or
any type of burning receptacle in which fires are set to burn within ten feet
of any utility pole, transformer, gas meter, pedestal, transclosure and the
like.
§ 7-312 STOVES, FURNACES AND CHIMNEYS.
   All furnaces, stoves and other heating devices shall be installed at a
proper distance from combustible materials and portions of the building. Any
combustible materials or portions of the building that are dangerously close to
such heating devices shall be protected by non-combustible material. This
section shall apply both to existing structures and those which may hereafter
be erected.
ARTICLE IV: EXPLOSIVE MATERIAL
Section
   
7-401   Storage
   
7-402   Bullets
   
7-403   Blasting permits
§ 7-401 STORAGE.
   (A)   Any person desiring to store or keep explosive materials for any
period of time shall notify the Fire Department and register such information
with the City Clerk 24 hours prior to such storage. The transfer of explosive
materials to another person within the city shall require the person receiving
the explosive materials to register the transfer and the new location of the
explosive materials with the City Clerk. The transfer of explosive materials to
a new location by the owner shall require registration of the new location with
the City Clerk.
   (B)   All explosive materials shall be stored in a proper receptacle made of
concrete, metal or stone and be closed at all times, except when in actual use.
Such receptacles shall not be located in any room where there are flames or
flammable materials. The area surrounding storage facilities shall be kept
clear of rubbish, brush, dry grass or trees not less than 25 feet in all
directions. Any other combustible materials shall be kept a distance of not
less than 50 feet from outdoor storage facilities.
§ 7-402 BULLETS.
   Cartridges, shells and percussion caps shall be kept in their original
containers away from flame, flammable materials and high explosives.
§ 7-403 BLASTING PERMITS.
   Any person wishing to discharge high explosives within the city must notify
the Fire Department and secure a permit from the City Council 24 hours prior to
such discharge, and shall discharge such explosives in conformance with the
conditions specified in the permit and such directives and precautions as may
be prescribed under the direction and supervision of the Fire Chief. In no case
shall any person perform blasting operations unless operating under the direct
supervision of a person in possession of a valid user’s permit issued by the
State Patrol.
ARTICLE V: FIREWORKS
Section
   
7-501   Vendors
   
7-502   Hours of discharge
§ 7-501 VENDORS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person or persons to sell fireworks of any
description whatsoever, except those approved by the state’s Fire Marshal under
Title 157, Chapter 8, Nebraska Administrative Code. Color wheels, toy cap
pistols and permissible caps may be sold at retail at all times; provided that,
all other fireworks named may be sold only beginning on June 25 and ending on
July 4. If any of the dates beginning on June 25 and ending on July 4 fall on a
Sunday, permitted fireworks may not be sold until after noon on that date.
Fireworks of any description are permissible for purposes of public exhibitions
or displays as authorized by the City Council; and said vendor shall secure a
license prior to such sales. Application shall be filed with the City Clerk
upon forms supplied by the city and requesting such information and documents
as the City Council may deem necessary as to whether or not to grant said
license which includes a current state license. Upon the determination to grant
the license, the City Council shall direct the City Clerk to collect a fee of
$50 and issue said license. Any license so issued may be revoked at any time by
the City Council upon proper notice and hearing, if one is requested by the
licensee.
(Ord. 900, passed 8-13-2007; Ord. 970, passed 1-14-2013)
§ 7-502 HOURS OF DISCHARGE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person or persons to discharge any form of
fireworks, except between the hours of 8:00 a.m. and 10:00 p.m. beginning on
June 25 and ending on July 2 of each year, and except between the hours of 8:00
a.m. and midnight on July 3 and 4 of each year. If any of the dates beginning
June 25 and ending July 4 fall on a Sunday, permitted fireworks may be
discharged only after noon on that day.
(Ord. 900, passed 8-13-2007; Ord. 1086, passed 8-8-2022)
ARTICLE VI: AMBULANCE DEPARTMENT
Section
   
7-601   Operation and funding
   
7-602   Ambulance members
   
7-603   Selection of officers
   
7-604   Duties of Director
   
7-605   Duties of Secretary-Treasurer
   
7-606   Duties of the Training Officer
   
7-607   Adoption of rules and regulations
§ 7-601 OPERATION AND FUNDING.
   The city operates the City Ambulance Department, known as the Central City
Ambulance Service, through the Director and the Ambulance Personnel. The City
Council, for the purpose of defraying the cost of the management, maintenance
and improvement of the ambulance service, shall each year levy a tax not
exceeding the maximum limits prescribed by state law on the actual valuation of
all real estate and personal property within the city that is subject to
taxation. The revenue from the said tax shall be known as the Ambulance Service
Fund. The fund shall be at all times in the possession of the City Treasurer.
§ 7-602 AMBULANCE MEMBERS.
   The Central City Ambulance Service shall consist of so many members as may
be decided by the City Council. The members may organize themselves in any way
they may decide, subject to the review of the City Council. They may hold
meetings and engage in social activities with the approval of the City Council,
and establish such rules and regulations as they determine best for operation
and organization of their membership. Such members shall be eligible for
worker's compensation as allowed by law.
(Ord. 1083, passed 7-11-2022)
§ 7-603 SELECTION OF OFFICERS.
   The Mayor shall annually appoint an Ambulance Director who shall be the
presiding officer of the Ambulance Organization and a department head of the
city. The members will elect from among themselves at an annual meeting to be
held in July of each year hereafter a Secretary-Treasurer and a training
officer to serve one-year terms beginning at the annual meeting in July of each
year.
(Ord. 1083, passed 7-11-2022)
§ 7-604 DUTIES OF DIRECTOR.
   The Director shall be the business and operations manager of the ambulance
service of the city and shall receive an annual salary to be determined by the
Mayor and City Council. The City Administrator shall be the Director’s
immediate supervisor.
§ 7-605 DUTIES OF SECRETARY-TREASURER.
   The Secretary-Treasurer shall be the official keeper of both written and
financial records of the Ambulance Department and shall assume the role of the
Director in the absence of the Director. The Secretary-Treasurer’s immediate
supervisor shall be the Director and, in the absence of the Director, the City
Administrator. The Secretary-Treasurer shall receive such annual salary as
established by the Mayor and City Council.
§ 7-606 DUTIES OF THE TRAINING OFFICER.
   The Training Officer elected by the members shall be responsible for
providing framing and educational programs for all volunteer EMT members. He or
she shall assume the duties of the Secretary-Treasurer in the absence of the
Secretary-Treasurer and shall be under the immediate supervision of the
Director or, in the absence of the Director, the City Administrator. The
Training Officer shall receive an annual salary as determined by the Mayor and
City Council.
§ 7-607 ADOPTION OF RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   The Central City Ambulance Service may adopt such rules and regulations for
the operation of the service as determined to be expedient, necessary or
advisable. Such rules and regulations are hereby incorporated as if set forth
in detail and all members shall be bound by such rules and regulations as
adopted. The City Council shall receive and approve such rules and regulations
for operations and any amendments thereto.
ARTICLE VII: PENAL PROVISION
Section
   
7-701   Violation; penalty
§ 7-701 VIOLATION; PENALTY.
   Any person who shall violate or refuse to comply with the enforcement of any
of the provisions of this chapter, whether set forth at full length herein or
incorporated by reference, shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon
conviction thereof, shall be fined in a sum not exceeding that permitted by
state law for violation of a municipal ordinance for each offense. A new
violation shall be deemed to have been committed every 24 hours of such failure
to comply.
CHAPTER 8: BUILDING REGULATIONS
Article
   
I.   MOBILE HOME PARKS
   
II.   BUILDING CODES
   
III.   MINIMUM LIGHTING AND THERMAL EFFICIENCY
   
IV.   MOVING BUILDINGS
   
V.   FLOODWAY DISTRICTS
   
VI.   PENAL PROVISION
   
VII.   VACANT PROPERTY REGISTRATION
ARTICLE I: MOBILE HOME PARKS
Section
   
8-101   Definitions
   
8-102   Administration; right of entry for inspection
   
8-103   Location outside parks
   
8-104   License; application and issuance
   
8-105   Minimum standards; inspection fee
   
8-106   Plan
   
8-107   Street and access requirements
   
8-108   Water supply and sanitary sewer
   
8-109   Refuse disposal
   
8-110   Skirting of mobile homes required
   
8-111   Additions to mobile homes
   
8-112   Duty of owner and attendant regarding licenses
   
8-113   Unlawful occupancy
   
8-114   Mobile home placement permit
§ 8-101 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this article, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BUILDING SIZE. The outside measurements of the mobile home excluding the
trailer hitch and tongue.
   MOBILE HOME. A detached single-family dwelling unit with all of the
following characteristics:
      (1)   Designed for long-term occupancy and containing sleeping
accommodations, a flush toilet, a tub or shower bath and kitchen facilities,
with plumbing and electrical connections provided for attachment to outside
systems;
      (2)   Designed to be transported after fabrication on its own wheels, or
on flatbed or other trailers or detachable wheels; and
      (3)   Arriving at the site where it is to be occupied as a dwelling
complete, including major appliances and furniture, and ready for occupancy,
except for minor and incidental unpacking and assembly operations, location on
foundation supports, connection to utilities and the like.
   MOBILE HOME PARK. Any park, trailer park, trailer court, camp, site, lot,
parcel or tract of land designed, maintained or intended for the use of
supplying a location or accommodation for two or more mobile homes, and upon
which such mobile homes are parked permanently or temporarily, and shall
include all buildings and utilities used or intended for use as part of the
equipment thereof, whether a charge is made for the use of the trailer park and
its facilities or not. MOBILE HOME PARK shall not include travel trailer parks
or trailer sales lots.
   TRAVEL TRAILER. A vehicular portable structure designed as a temporary
dwelling for travel, recreational and vacation uses, which:
      (1)   Is identified on the unit by the manufacturer as a travel trailer;
      (2)   Is not more than eight feet in body width;
      (3)   Can operate independent of connections to external sewer, water and
electrical systems; and
      (4)   Does not include automobiles, trucks or buses adapted for vacation
use but not identified by the manufacturers as travel trailers.
   TRAVEL TRAILER CAMPGROUND. Any plat or ground on which a camper, travel
trailer, motor home or tent is located for short-term occupancy regardless of
whether or not a charge is made for such accommodation. However, such
definition shall not include the premises of one who stores thereon a single
trailer of which he or she is the owner.
§ 8-102 ADMINISTRATION; RIGHT OF ENTRY FOR INSPECTION.
   (A)   The administration and enforcement of this article shall be under the
supervision and jurisdiction of the Building Official.
   (B)   The Building Official shall have the right and is hereby empowered to
enter upon any premises on which any mobile homes, travel trailers or campers
are or about to be located and inspect the same and all accommodations
connected therewith at any reasonable time.
§ 8-103 LOCATION OUTSIDE PARKS.
   No person shall park or occupy any mobile home, travel trailer or camping
type of vehicle on the premises of any occupied dwelling, or on any other type
of lot situated outside an approved mobile home park or travel trailer
campground; except that, the parking of only one unoccupied travel trailer in
an accessory private garage building or in a rear yard in any district is
permitted providing no living quarters shall be maintained or any business
practiced in the travel trailer while so parked or stored. Temporary parking of
an occupied or unoccupied travel trailer for a period not to exceed seven
consecutive days is permitted on private property.
§ 8-104 LICENSE; APPLICATION AND ISSUANCE.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to establish, operate or maintain
or permit to be established, operated or maintained upon any property owned or
controlled by him or her, a mobile home park or travel trailer campground
within the limits of the city without having first secured a license for each
of them from the city granted and existing in compliance with the terms of this
article. All licenses shall expire on January 1 of each year, but may be
renewed under the provisions of this chapter for additional periods of one
year. Each application for a license shall include a showing that the
applicant’s premises comply with this article or any amendment of the same. A
license fee of $250 for each mobile home lot, whichever is greater, shall
accompany each application for a license or the renewal of an existing license.
   (B)   Mobile home parks in existence at the time of adoption may be granted
a limited license annually without complying with all the restrictions and
requirements imposed by this article. However, all new mobile home parks or
additions to existing mobile home parks must comply with all restrictions and
requirements imposed by this article or any amendment of the same.
   (C)   In no case shall any mobile home be moved into any mobile home park
that does not have a mobile home license or onto an existing mobile home lot
which does not comply with the area and yard requirements of this article.
   (D)   Periodic inspections shall be made or caused to be made by the
Building Official to ensure compliance with the provisions of this article.
Those mobile home parks having deficiencies shall be notified of the
deficiencies and allowed 30 days in which to correct them. At the end of the
30-day period, the Building Official determine if the deficiencies have been
corrected; and if they remain uncorrected, he or she shall suspend the license
of the mobile home park. If such license has been suspended and at a later date
the corrections are made, the mobile home park must make reapplication for a
license and pay the $250 fee. Periodic inspections of those mobile home parks
shall include a list of the deficiencies and the compliance date required.
§ 8-105 MINIMUM STANDARDS; INSPECTION FEE.
   (A)   Mobile homes placed within the corporate limits of the city shall be
well maintained and have no unsightly appearances. Whenever a mobile home, used
or intended to be used for dwelling purposes, is determined by the Building
Official not to meet minimum health, safety, and appearance standards because
of: inadequate maintenance, dilapidation, decay, damage, faulty construction or
arrangement, inadequate light, air or sanitation facilities or otherwise, such
mobile home shall be repaired to city specifications before occupancy or
removed from the city.
   (B)   Each mobile home moved onto a mobile home park lot shall be inspected
by the Building Official and a $50 non-refundable inspection fee paid by the
mobile home owner to the City Clerk prior to utility hook-up and occupancy of
the mobile home. Such inspection shall ensure compliance with the provisions of
this article. Licenses issued under the terms of this article convey no right
to erect any building and are not transferable.
§ 8-106 PLAN.
   (A)   The applicant for a mobile home park license shall submit with his or
her application a plan of construction within the proposed park adhering to and
observing the space limitation and requirements hereinafter prescribed.
   (B)   Within a mobile home park, the following space regulations and other
requirements shall apply: area requirements.
      (1)   Minimum lot area shall be 4,000 square feet.
      (2)   Minimum lot width at building line shall be 40 feet by 100 feet.
      (3)   Minimum space between mobile homes shall be ten feet if a one-hour
fire resistive wall eight feet in height is constructed on the lot line between
the front yard and rear yard lines. In the absence of such a wall, the minimum
space between mobile homes shall be 20 feet.
      (4)   Maximum projection of an attached structure to one side shall be
five feet, and a carport may be attached; said projections shall not be
included in side yard measurements. Any projection other than the two above
specified shall be counted in determining side yard requirements.
      (5)   Side yards and rear yards for the mobile home park shall be at
least 20 feet, except that when adjacent to other mobile home parks or
campgrounds or to zones other than R-1 and R-2, the side and rear yards shall
be at least ten feet.
      (6)   Front yards of 25 feet shall be provided on dedicated streets
measured from the lot line, or 15 feet on private streets measured from the
edge of the roadway or back of curb.
      (7)   In no case shall any mobile home occupy more than one-third of the
total area of any lot.
      (8)   The maximum building site of each mobile home shall be shown on the
park plan for each mobile home lot.
§ 8-107 STREET AND ACCESS REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Minimum roadway widths within a mobile home park shall be 32 feet and
streets must be hard- surfaced in accordance with minimum requirements
established by the city.
   (B)   For mobile home parks with private streets, all mobile home spaces
shall abut upon hard-surfaced streets. Surfacing shall be portland cement
concrete or asphaltic concrete. Completion of surfacing shall be within one
year of the first occupancy.
   (C)   All dead-end streets shall terminate in an open space having a 60-foot
minimum diameter. No dead-end street shall exceed 500 feet in length.
   (D)   Streetlights of 175 watt luminairs at 150 feet maximum spacing shall
be provided for the safe movement of pedestrians and vehicles at night.
   (E)   Exterior sidewalks and sidewalks along public streets shall comply
with the requirements of the ordinances of the city pertaining to public
sidewalks.
   (F)   Every mobile home park shall be located on a well-drained area and the
premises shall be properly graded so as to prevent the accumulation of storm or
other waters.
   (G)   Car parking areas shall be provided at the rate of at least two car
spaces for each mobile home lot and at least one of the spaces shall be located
on the lot. In no case shall parking be permitted on interior drives within 25
feet of public streets or any intersections.
   (H)   Exposed ground surfaces in all parts of every mobile home park shall
be paved, or covered with stone screenings, or other solid material or
protected with a vegetative growth that is capable of preventing soil erosion
and of eliminating objectionable dust.
   (I)   Each mobile home space shall be provided with a hard-stand of
sufficient size and depth to adequately accommodate a mobile home.
   (J)   Within any mobile home park, both new and existing, anchors such as
deadmen, screw augers or arrowhead anchors approved by the Building Official
shall be provided and installed by the owner of each mobile home or by the
owner of the park. Failure to anchor all units shall result in loss of license.
   (K)   Within any mobile home park, both new and existing, each lot in the
mobile home park shall be identified by a clearly visible number at least three
inches in height.
§ 8-108 WATER SUPPLY AND SANITARY SEWER.
   Within any mobile home park, the following regulations applicable to water
supply and sanitary waste removal shall be observed.
   (A)   All units in any mobile home park shall be individually served by an
adequate supply of pure water furnished through a private pipe distribution
system within the park which is connected directly with the city water system.
   (B)   All units in any mobile home park shall be equipped with flush-type
toilets and be connected to the city sewer system.
§ 8-109 REFUSE DISPOSAL.
   Within any mobile home park the following regulations relating to the
collection and disposal of solid and semisolid waste shall be observed.
   (A)   The storage, collection and disposal of refuse in the mobile home park
shall be so managed as to create no health hazards, rodent harborage, insect
breeding areas, accident or fire hazards or air pollution.
   (B)   All refuse shall be stored in fly-tight, water-tight, rodent-proof
containers, which shall be located not more than 150 feet from any mobile home
space. Containers shall be provided in sufficient number and capacity to
properly store all refuse.
   (C)   All refuse shall be collected in accordance with existing ordinances.
Where suitable collection service is not available, the mobile home park
operator shall provide this service. All refuse shall be collected and
transported in covered vehicles or covered containers.
§ 8-110 SKIRTING OF MOBILE HOMES REQUIRED.
   Every mobile home owner shall cause such home to be skirted with material
approved by the Building Official after placement of the home. Areas enclosed
by such skirting shall be maintained so as not to provide a harborage for
rodents or create a fire hazard.
§ 8-111 ADDITIONS TO MOBILE HOMES.
   No additions shall be built onto or become a part of any mobile home unless
approved by the Building Official.
§ 8-112 DUTY OF OWNER AND ATTENDANT REGARDING LICENSES.
   It is hereby made the duty of the attendant or person in charge, together
with the licensee, to:
   (A)   Keep at all times the register of all occupants as hereinbefore
provided;
   (B)   Maintain the park in a clean, orderly and sanitary condition at all
times;
   (C)   Cut and control all noxious weeds;
   (D)   Post speed limit signs meeting the specifications of the City Engineer
at the entrances of the park, restricting motor vehicle traffic to not more
than 15 mph;
   (E)   Notify the Building Official whenever a space is vacated;
   (F)   Notify the Building Official before a mobile home is placed in a new
or vacated space;
   (G)   Cap all sewers not connected to a mobile home trailer; and
   (H)   See that the provision of this article and all other applicable laws
and ordinances are complied with.
§ 8-113 UNLAWFUL OCCUPANCY.
   It shall be unlawful and a violation of this article for any person to
occupy for residential purposes or for the purpose of a home occupation any
mobile home which is not so located, maintained or equipped as to fully comply
with the provisions and requirements of this article.
§ 8-114 MOBILE HOME PLACEMENT PERMIT.
   The mobile home court owner shall submit a permit application to the
Building Official before a mobile home is allowed to be placed in a new or
vacated space in the owner’s court. Such permit shall include the mobile home
owner’s name, mobile home make/model/size, date and time of anticipated arrival
and the court lot location assigned.
ARTICLE II: BUILDING CODES
Section
   
8-201   Building Official
   
8-202   Uniform Building Code adopted
   
8-203   Uniform Code for the Abatement of Dangerous Buildings; adopted
   
8-204   Bath facilities
   
8-205   Means of egress
   
8-206   Heating facilities
   
8-208   Responsibility of the city
   
8-209   Numbering of buildings
   
8-210   Implementation of building standards within the one-mile zoning
jurisdiction of the city
   
8-211   Building permit fees
   
8-212   Basements
   
8-213   Violation; penalty
§ 8-201 BUILDING OFFICIAL.
   There is hereby created the office of Building Official, who may be the City
Engineer or such other person as the Mayor may appoint.
(Ord. 840, passed 7-12-2004)
§ 8-202 UNIFORM BUILDING CODE ADOPTED.
   There is hereby adopted by the city for the purpose of establishing rules
and regulations for the construction, alteration, removal, demolition,
equipment, use and occupancy, location and maintenance of buildings and
structures, including permits and penalties, Chapter Four, Foundations, of the
latest edition of that certain building code known as the International
Residential Code for One- and Two-Family Dwellings, published by the
International Code Council, Inc. of which not less than two copies have been
and are now filed in the office of the city’s Building Official, and the same
is hereby adopted and incorporated as fully as if set out at length herein. All
of the provisions of said code chapter shall be the controlling rules and
regulations in the construction of all residential buildings structures within
the city.
(Ord. 840, passed 7-12-2004)
§ 8-203 UNIFORM CODE FOR THE ABATEMENT OF DANGEROUS BUILDINGS; ADOPTED.
   (A)   There is hereby adopted by the city that certain code known as the
Uniform Code for the Abatement of Dangerous Buildings, published by the
International Conference of Building Officials, 1997 edition, of which not less
than two copies have been and are now filed in the office of the city’s
Building Official, and the same is hereby adopted and incorporated as fully as
if set out at length herein. The provisions of said code shall be the
controlling rules and regulations in the abatement of all dangerous buildings
within the city.
   (B)   The purpose of this code is to provide a just, equitable and
practicable method, to be cumulative with and in addition to any other remedy
provided by the Building Code, Housing Code or otherwise available bylaw,
whereby buildings or structures which from any cause endanger the life, limb,
health, morals, property, safety or welfare of the general public or their
occupants may be required to be repaired, vacated or demolished.
(Ord. 840, passed 7-12-2004)
§ 8-204 BATH FACILITIES.
   Every newly constructed dwelling unit shall contain its own bathtub or
shower, lavatory, water closet and kitchen sink which shall be maintained in a
sanitary, safe working condition. The lavatory shall be placed in the same room
as the water closet or located in close proximity to the door leading directly
into the room in which such water closet is located. A kitchen sink shall not
be used as a substitute for the required lavatory.
(Ord. 840, passed 7-12-2004)
§ 8-205 MEANS OF EGRESS.
   (A)   A safe, continuous and unobstructed path of travel shall be provided
from all habitable rooms to the public way.
   (B)   Emergency escape openings shall be operational from the inside of the
room without the use of keys or tools.
   (C)   Bars, grills, grates or similar devices are permitted to be placed
over emergency escape openings provided the minimum net clear opening size
complies with the International Building Code and such devices shall be
releasable or removable from the inside without the use of a key, tool or force
greater than that which is required for normal operation of the escape and
rescue opening. Where such bar, grills, grates or similar devices are installed
in existing buildings, smoke detectors shall be installed.
(Ord. 840, passed 7-12-2004)
§ 8-206 HEATING FACILITIES.
   Dwellings shall be provided with heating facilities capable of maintaining a
room temperature of 65°F in all habitable rooms, bathrooms and toilet rooms.
Cooking appliances shall not be used to provide space heating to meet these
requirements.
(Ord. 840, passed 7-12-2004)
§ 8-208 RESPONSIBILITY OF THE CITY.
   The city shall not be held, by reason of this chapter, as assuming any
liability for damages to persons or property by reason of inspections
authorized herein, or by reason of the approval or disapproval of any equipment
authorized herein, or by virtue of any other requirement, rule or regulation
herein set forth.
(Ord. 840, passed 7-12-2004)
§ 8-209 NUMBERING OF BUILDINGS.
   (A)   It is hereby made the duty of every person owning or occupying any
house or other building now in existence or which may be hereafter constructed
in the city, fronting or abutting upon any street or avenue therein, to place
or affix upon the door or the front of said building in plain, painted, printed
or metallic numerals of not less than three inches in height the proper number
assigned to such house or other building, as hereinafter provided, and
thereafter keep or maintain the number so placed or affixed so that the same
will at all times be visible and legible by persons in the street immediately
in front of such house or building.
   (B)   The correct number of any house or building shall be determined by the
city’s Building Official. In case any house or building is incorrectly
numbered, the city’s Building Official may order the owner or occupant thereof
to correctly number the same, and it shall be unlawful for such owner or
occupant to refuse to comply with such order. The building address number of
any structure and the number of each individual apartment or suite in any
structure hereafter erected shall be determined by the city’s Building
Official, according to approved policies, and shall be indicated on the
building permit.
(Ord. 840, passed 7-12-2004)
§ 8-210 IMPLEMENTATION OF BUILDING STANDARDS WITHIN THE ONE-MILE ZONING
JURISDICTION OF THE CITY.
   The city shall hereby implement all of the building regulations currently in
effect within this article relating to the erection, construction, alteration,
repair, maintenance, placing or using of any building within the city’s one-
mile zoning jurisdiction.
(Ord. 840, passed 7-12-2004)
§ 8-211 BUILDING PERMIT FEES.
   The building permit fee shall be 0.1% of the anticipated final taxable
valuation of any newly constructed structure. Any improvements to a structure
or improvements under Article III of this chapter shall have a fee of 0.1% of
the full commercial cost of such improvements. Building permit fees shall be
capped at $2,000 per permit.
(Ord. 840, passed 7-12-2004; Ord. 879, passed 1-9-2006; Ord. 1054, passed 12-
14-2020; Ord. 1084, passed 6-13-2022)
§ 8-212 BASEMENTS.
   Any new structure commencing construction on or after April 1, 2021 must be
built to a minimum elevation at or exceeding the base flood elevation for the
walking surface of the lowest floor, as determined by the Zoning Administrator
or Flood Plain Administrator. The term “lowest floor” applies to the top (or
walking) surface of any basements, crawl spaces or slabs of any size.
(Ord. 1059, passed 3-8-2021)
§ 8-213 VIOLATION; PENALTY.
   Any person or persons found violating any provision of this article of the
municipal code shall be subject to a fine not to exceed $500, and not less than
$200. The continuation of a violation of any part of this article shall be
deemed an additional offense for every 24 hours of such continued violation. In
addition, the city may obtain injunctive relief, sue for damages and
rededication, and pursue any other remedy available to it under the laws of the
state or other authority having jurisdiction over such matters.
(Ord. 840, passed 7-12-2004; Ord. 1059, passed 3-8-2021)
ARTICLE III: MINIMUM LIGHTING AND THERMAL EFFICIENCY
Section
   
8-301   Lighting and thermal efficiency standards; need
   
8-302   Terms defined
   
8-303   Standard; applicability
   
8-304   Exemptions
   
8-305   Request for alternative building system; approval
   
8-306   Inspections; investigations
   
8-307   Building plans; submission for approval
   
8-308   Fees
   
8-309   When architect or engineer is retained
   
8-310   Violation; penalty; enforcement
   
8-311   Validity
§ 8-301 LIGHTING AND THERMAL EFFICIENCY STANDARDS; NEED.
   The city finds that there is a present and continuing need to provide for
the development and implementation of minimum lighting and thermal efficiency
standards for buildings to ensure coordination with federal policy under the
Energy Conservation Standards for New Buildings Act of 1976, being 42 U.S.C. §
6833, to promote the conservation of dwindling energy resources and to provide
for the public health, safety and welfare.
§ 8-302 TERMS DEFINED.
   For the purpose of this article, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ADDITION. Any construction added to an existing building which will increase
the floor area of that building by 5% or more.
   ARCHITECT or ENGINEER. Any person registered pursuant to Neb. RS 81-3404 et
seq.
   BUILDING. Any structure which utilizes or will utilize a heating system,
cooling system or domestic hot water system, including new or renovated
buildings and additions, but not including any structure which has a
consumption of traditional energy sources for all purposes not exceeding the
energy equivalent of one watt per square foot.
   FLOOR AREA. The total area of a building, expressed in square feet, which is
within the exterior face of the shell of the structure that is heated or
cooled.
   PRIME CONTRACTOR. The person, persons, entity or entities who has a contract
with the owner and is the one responsible for the overall construction of any
building or the installation of any component which affects the energy
efficiency of the building. PRIME CONTRACTOR shall also mean a property owner
who performs the work of a prime contractor.
   RENOVATION. Alterations on an existing building which will cost more than
50% of the replacement cost of such building at the time work is commenced, or
which was not previously heated or cooled for which a heating or cooling system
is now proposed; except that, the restoration of historic buildings shall not
be included.
   RESIDENTIAL BUILDING. A building three stories or less that is used
primarily as one or more dwelling units.
   STANDARD. Standard 90-75, split into Parts 90.1 and 90.2 of the American
Society of Heating, Refrigeration and Air Conditioning Engineers, Inc..
   TRADITIONAL ENERGY SOURCES. Electricity, petroleum-based fuels, uranium,
coal and all non-renewable forms of energy.
§ 8-303 STANDARD; APPLICABILITY.
   The new standard shall apply to:
   (A)   New residential buildings on which construction is initiated on or
after 4-1-1981; and
   (B)   All other new buildings, or renovations of or additions to any
existing buildings, on which construction is initiated on or after 1-1-1982.
§ 8-304 EXEMPTIONS.
   The following shall be exempt from this article:
   (A)   Any building which has a peak design rate of energy usage for all
purposes of less than one watt, or three- and four-tenths British Thermal Units
per hour, per square foot of floor area;
   (B)   Any building which is neither heated or cooled;
   (C)   Any building or portion thereof which is owned by the United States of
America;
   (D)   Any mobile home as defined by Neb. RS 71-4603;
   (E)   Any manufactured housing unit as defined by Neb. RS 71-1557(1);
   (F)   Any building listed on the National Register of Historic Places; and
   (G)   All residential buildings shall be exempt only from lighting
efficiency standards.
§ 8-305 REQUEST FOR ALTERNATIVE BUILDING SYSTEM; APPROVAL.
   (A)   Any person who owns or constructs a building to which this article
applies may request that an alternative building system, technique, equipment
design or building material be found equivalent to the standard.
   (B)   The Building Official shall make such determination if he or she finds
that the proposed alternative would not result in energy consumption greater
than would result from the strict application of the standard. If the Building
Official fails to approve or disapprove the request within 60 days from the
date of filing, it shall be considered approved.
§ 8-306 INSPECTIONS; INVESTIGATIONS.
   (A)   The Building Official or any person designated by him or her shall
conduct inspections and investigations necessary to enforce the standard and
may, at reasonable hours, enter into any building and upon any premises within
its jurisdiction for the purpose of examination to determine compliance with
this article. Inspections shall be conducted only after permission has been
granted by the owner or occupant, or after a warrant has been issued pursuant
to Neb. RS 29-830 to 29-835.
   (B)   During construction, the Building Official or person designated shall
make periodic inspections to assure compliance with this article.
§ 8-307 BUILDING PLANS; SUBMISSION FOR APPROVAL.
   (A)   Prior to the construction of, renovation of or addition to any
building covered by this article, the prime contractor shall file sufficient
plans and specifications with the Building Official to enable him or her to
make a determination whether such building will comply with the standard. The
Building Official shall, within 30 days of the filing, approve or disapprove
the plans and specifications. If disapproved, the reasons shall be set forth in
writing to the prime contractor.
   (B)   If the Building Official determines that such construction, renovation
or addition will comply with the standard, he or she shall issue a written
permit which the prime contractor shall display in a conspicuous place on the
premises where construction work is to be done. No construction, renovation or
addition shall commence until a permit is issued and displayed as required by
this section.
§ 8-308 FEES.
   The person filing the application for a permit shall, at the time of such
filing, pay to the city a building permit fee as described in §
8-211.
(Ord. 1084, passed 6-13-2022)
§ 8-309 WHEN ARCHITECT OR ENGINEER IS RETAINED.
   If an architect or engineer is retained, the architect or engineer shall
place his or her state registration seal on all construction drawings, which
shall indicate that the design meets the standard. The prime contractor shall
certify that he or she will build in accordance with the construction documents
prepared by the architect or engineer. This certification must accompany the
building plans submitted to the Chief Building Official for approval.
§ 8-310 VIOLATION; PENALTY; ENFORCEMENT.
   Any person violating any provision of this article shall be subject to a
maximum sentence of three months of imprisonment or $500 fine, or both. In
addition, the city may, by an action in the District Court, enforce the
provisions of this article through equity and injunctive processes.
§ 8-311 VALIDITY.
   If any section in this article or any part of any section shall be declared
invalid or unconstitutional, such declaration shall not affect the validity or
constitutionality of the remaining portion thereof.
ARTICLE IV: MOVING BUILDINGS
Section
   
8-401   Permit required
   
8-402   Permit; route specified
   
8-403   Notice to public service companies
   
8-404   Prohibited buildings or structures
   
8-405   Barricades
§ 8-401 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   (A)   Before moving a building or structure occupying 100 or more square
feet from one lot to another inside the corporate limits of the city or before
moving a building or structure from outside of the city into the corporate
limits, a moving permit must be procured from the City Council. The applicant
for the permit shall submit the application to the City Clerk on a form
provided by him or her, along with an application fee of $50.
   (B)   The applicant shall include with the application the following:
      (1)   Sufficient information to show that zoning requirements will be
met;
      (2)   Photographs showing all four sides of the structure, with a drawing
showing the dimensions and legal description of the lot to which the building
or structure is to be moved;
      (3)   A statement showing repairs and alterations to be made on the
building and the time of expected completion of the same;
      (4)   A statement that the building or structure is to be set on a
permanent foundation;
      (5)   A certificate from the County Treasurer showing that all taxes and
special assessments then due on the building and the lot on which it stands
have been paid;
      (6)   If the City Council deems it necessary, a bond in the sum of $1,000
shall be issued by a responsible surety company conditioned upon strict
compliance with this article; provided that, said applicant shall hold harmless
the city from all liability, judgments, costs and expense which may accrue
against it in consequence of issuing said permit; that applicant will pay to
the city any and all damages which may be sustained by any pavement, curb,
gutter, sidewalk, street, crosswalk or other property through the conduct of
such moving operation by applicant; and that applicant will also pay to the
owner any and all damages caused in a like manner to any private property in
the city; and
      (7)   Any other information which the City Council may require.
§ 8-402 PERMIT; ROUTE SPECIFIED.
   Upon compliance with the requirements set out in the preceding section, the
City Council shall issue a permit which shall limit the time of removal and
shall specify the route to be followed in moving said building over and across
the streets and ways of the city, and it shall be unlawful for any applicant to
digress from such specified route without the written consent of the Chief of
Police. In prescribing the route to be followed, the City Council shall
prescribe such route as will least interfere with the wires of the electrical
system and other public service companies. Applicant shall give notice to the
Police Chief of the hour when such moving will actually begin.
§ 8-403 NOTICE TO PUBLIC SERVICE COMPANIES.
   Whenever it shall be necessary for any applicant in moving a building to
interfere with any electric or telephone poles or wires, the public service
company or companies owning, using or operating such poles or wires shall, upon
such notice as is provided in their respective franchises, or if no provision
for notice is made therein, then upon 48 hours’ notice, be present and assist,
or if necessary, remove such poles and wires; and the expense of said removal,
as estimated, shall be paid in advance by applicant, unless it is otherwise
provided in said companies’ franchises.
§ 8-404 PROHIBITED BUILDINGS OR STRUCTURES.
   No building or structure shall be moved from one location to another or from
outside the corporate limits of the city into the city if the same is in such a
decayed or dilapidated condition that its value is less than 50% of the cost of
a similar new building or structure.
§ 8-405 BARRICADES.
   It shall be the duty of the owner, tenant or lessee causing the
construction, demolition or moving of any building or improvement within the
city to have all excavations, open basements, building materials and debris
protected by suitable guards or barricades during such work. The failure,
neglect or refusal of said persons to erect such guards shall constitute a
violation of this article and the city police shall stop all work until guards
are erected and maintained as required.
ARTICLE V: FLOODWAY DISTRICTS
Section
   
8-501   Definitions
   
8-502   Findings of fact
   
8-503   Statement of purpose
   
8-504   Applicable lands
   
8-505   The Enforcement Officer
   
8-506   Rules for interpretation of district boundaries
   
8-507   Compliance
   
8-508   Abrogation and greater restrictions
   
8-509   Interpretation
   
8-510   Warning and disclaimer of liability
   
8-511   Severability
   
8-512   Appeal
   
8-513   Development permit required; application for; administration
   
8-514   Establishment of zoning districts
   
8-515   Standards for floodplain development
   
8-516   Flood Fringe Overlay District - (Including AO and AH Zones); permitted
uses
   
8-517   Standards for the Flood Fringe Overlay District
   
8-518   Floodway Overlay District
   
8-519   Variance procedures
   
8-520   Non-conforming use
   
8-521   Violation, penalties
   
8-522   Amendments
§ 8-501 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this article, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   APPEAL. A request for a review of the Zoning Administrator’s interpretation
of any provision of this article or a request for a variance.
   AREA OF SHALLOW FLOODING. A designated AO or AH Zone on a community’s Flood
Insurance Rate Map (FIRM) with a 1% or greater annual chance of flooding to an
average depth of one to three feet where a clearly defined channel is
unpredictable and where velocity flow may be evident. Such flooding is
characterized by ponding or sheet flow.
   BASE FLOOD. The flood having 1% chance of being equaled or exceeded in any
given year.
   BASEMENT. Any area of the building having its floor subgrade (below ground
level) on all sides.
   DEVELOPMENT. Any human-made change to improved or unimproved real estate,
including, but not limited to, buildings or other structures, mining, dredging,
filling, grading, paving, excavation or drilling operations or storage of
equipment or materials.
   EXISTING CONSTRUCTION. (For the purposes of determining rates) structures
for which the “start of construction” commenced before the effective date of
the FIRM or before 1-1-1975, for IRMs effective before that date. EXISTING
CONSTRUCTION may also be referred to as “existing structures”.
   EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A manufactured home park or
subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including, at a minimum, the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is complete before the effective date
of the floodplain management regulations adopted by a community.
   EXPANSION TO AN EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. The
preparation of additional sites by the construction of facilities for servicing
the lots on which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads).
   FLOOD or FLOODING. A general and temporary condition of partial or complete
inundation of normally dry land areas from:
      (1)   The overflow of inland or tidal waters; and
      (2)   The usual and rapid accumulation of runoff of surface waters from
any source.
   FLOOD FRINGE. The area of the floodplain, outside of the floodway, that on
the average is likely to be flooded once every 100 years (i.e., that has a 1%
chance of flood occurrence in any one year).
   FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAP (FIRM). An official map of a community, on which
the Flood Insurance Study has delineated the flood hazard boundaries and the
zones establishing insurance rates applicable to the community.
   FLOOD INSURANCE STUDY. The official report provided by the Federal Emergency
Management Agency. The report contains flood profiles, as well as the Flood
Boundary Floodway Map and the water surface elevation of the base flood.
   FLOODPLAIN. Any land area susceptible to being inundated by water from any
source. (See definition of FLOODING.)
   FLOODWAY or REGULATORY FLOODWAY. The channel of a river or other watercourse
and the adjacent land areas that must be reserved in order to discharge the
base flood without cumulatively increasing the water surface elevation more
than one foot.
   FREEBOARD. A factor of safety usually expressed in feet above a flood level
for purposes of floodplain management. FREEBOARD tends to compensate for the
many unknown factors that could contribute to flood heights greater than the
height calculated for a selected size flood and floodway conditions, such as
wave action, clogged bridge openings and the hydrological effect of
urbanization of the watershed.
   HIGHEST ADJACENT GRADE. The highest natural elevation of the ground surface
prior to construction next to the proposed walls of a structure.
   HISTORIC STRUCTURE. Any structure that is:
      (1)   Listed individually in the National Register of Historic Places (a
listing maintained by the Department of Interior) or preliminarily determined
by the Secretary of the Interior as meeting the requirements for individual
listing on the National Register;
      (2)   Certified or preliminarily determined by the Secretary of the
Interior as contributing to the historical significance of a registered
historic district or a district preliminarily determined by the Secretary to
qualify as a registered historic district;
      (3)   Individually listed on a state inventory of historic places in
states with historic preservation programs which have been approved by the
Secretary of the Interior; or
      (4)   Individually listed on a local inventory of historic places in
communities with historic preservation programs that have been certified
either:
         (a)   By an approved state program as determined by the Secretary of
the Interior; or
         (b)   Directly by the Secretary of the Interior in states without
approved programs.
   LOWEST FLOOR. The lowest floor of the lowest enclosed area (including
basement). An unfinished or flood-resistant enclosure, usable solely for
parking of vehicles, building access or storage, in an area other than a
basement area, is not considered a building’s LOWEST FLOOR; provided that, such
enclosure is not built so as to render the structure in violation of the
applicable non-elevation design requirements of this article.
   MANUFACTURED HOME. A structure, transportable in one or more sections, which
is built on a permanent chassis and is designed for use with or without a
permanent foundation when attached to the required utilities. The term
MANUFACTURED HOME does not include a “recreational vehicle”.
   MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A parcel (or contiguous parcels) of
land divided into two or more manufactured home lots for rent or sale.
   NEW CONSTRUCTION. For floodplain management purposes, NEW CONSTRUCTION means
structures for which the start of construction commenced on or after the
effective date of the floodplain management regulation adopted by a community
and includes any subsequent improvements to such structures.
   NEW MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A manufactured home park or
subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including at a minimum, the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is completed on or after the effective
date of floodplain management regulations adopted by a community.
   OVERLAY DISTRICT. A district in which additional requirements act in
conjunction with the underlying zoning district(s). The original zoning
district designation does not change.
   PRINCIPALLY ABOVE GROUND. At least 51% of the actual cash value of the
structure is above ground.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE. A vehicle which is:
      (1)   Built on a single chassis;
      (2)   Four hundred square feet or less when measured at the largest
horizontal projections;
      (3)   Designed to be self-propelled or permanently towable by a light
duty truck; and
      (4)   Designed primarily not for use as a permanent dwelling, but as
temporary living quarters for recreational, camping, travel or seasonal use.
   SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREA. The land in the floodplain within a community
subject to 1% or greater chance of flooding in any given year.
   START OF CONSTRUCTION. (For other than new construction or substantial
improvements under the Coastal Barrier Resources Act (Pub. Law No. 97-348, 16
U.S.C. §§ 3501 et seq.), includes substantial improvement, and means the date
the building permit was issued; provided, the actual START of construction,
repair, reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition, placement or other
improvement was within 180 days of the permit date. The actual START means the
first placement of permanent construction of a structure on a site, such as the
pouring of slab or footings, the installation of piles, the construction of
columns or any work beyond the stage of excavation; or the placement of a
manufactured home on a foundation. Permanent construction does not include land
preparation, such as clearing, grading and filling; nor does it include the
installation of streets and/or walkways; nor does it include excavation for a
basement, footings, piers, or foundations or the erection of temporary forms;
nor does it include the installation on the property of accessory buildings,
such as garages or sheds not occupied as dwelling units or not part of the main
structure. For a substantial improvement, the actual START OF CONSTRUCTION
means the first alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor or other structural part
of a building, whether or not the alteration affects the external dimensions of
the building.
   STRUCTURE. A walled and roofed building that is principally above ground, as
well as a manufactured home, and a gas or liquid storage tank that is
principally above ground.
   SUBSTANTIAL DAMAGE. Damage of any origin sustained by a structure whereby
the cost of restoring the structure to its before-damaged condition would equal
or exceed 50% of the market value of the structure before the damage occurred.
   SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT. Any reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition or
other improvement of a structure, the cost of which equals or exceeds 50% of
the market value of the structure before “start of construction” of the
improvement. This includes structures which have incurred “substantial damage”,
regardless of the actual repair work performed. The term does not, however,
include either:
      (1)   Any project for improvement of a structure to correct existing
violations of state or local health, sanitary or safety code specifications
which have been identified by the local code enforcement official and which are
the minimum necessary to assure safe living conditions; or
      (2)   Any alteration of a “historic structure”; provided that, the
alteration will not preclude the structure’s continued designation as a
“historic structure”.
   VARIANCES. A grant of relief to a person from the requirements of this
article which permits construction in a manner otherwise prohibited by this
article where specific enforcement would result in unnecessary hardship.
   VIOLATION. A failure of a structure or other development to be fully
compliant with the community’s floodplain management regulations.
(Ord. 934, passed 12-14-2009)
§ 8-502 FINDINGS OF FACT.
   (A)   Flood losses resulting from periodic inundation. The flood hazard
areas of the city are subject to inundation which results in loss of life and
property, health and safety hazards, disruption of commerce and governmental
services, extraordinary public expenditures for flood protection and relief,
and impairment of the tax base all of which adversely affect the public health,
safety and general welfare.
   (B)   General causes of the flood losses. These flood losses are caused by:
      (1)   The cumulative effect of obstructions in floodplains causing
increases in flood heights and velocities; and
      (2)   The occupancy of flood hazard areas by uses vulnerable to floods or
hazardous to others, which are inadequately elevated or otherwise unprotected
from flood damages.
   (C)   Methods used to analyze flood hazards. This article uses a reasonable
method of analyzing flood hazards which consists of a series of interrelated
steps:
      (1)   Selection of a regulatory flood which is based upon engineering
calculations which permit a consideration of such flood factors as its expected
frequency of occurrence, the area inundated, and the depth of inundation. The
base flood is selected for this article. It is representative of large floods
which are reasonably characteristic of what can be expected to occur on the
particular streams subject to this article. It is in the general order of a
flood which could be expected to have a 1% chance of occurrence in any one
year, as delineated on the Federal Insurance Administration’s Flood Insurance
Study, and illustrative materials dated 1-6-2010 as amended;
      (2)   Calculation of water surface profiles based on a hydraulic
engineering analysis of the capacity of the stream channel and overbank areas
to convey the base flood;
      (3)   Computation of the floodway required to convey this flood without
increasing flood heights more than one foot at any point;
      (4)   Delineation of floodway encroachment lines within which no
obstruction is permitted which would cause any water surface increase along the
floodway profile; and
      (5)   Delineation of floodway fringe (i.e., that area outside the
floodway encroachment lines), but which still is subject to inundation by the
base flood.
(Ord. 934, passed 12-14-2009)
§ 8-503 STATEMENT OF PURPOSE.
   It is the purpose of this article to promote the public health, safety and
general welfare and to minimize those losses described herein by applying the
provisions of this article to:
   (A)   Restrict or prohibit uses which are dangerous to health, safety or
property in times of flooding or cause undue increases in flood heights or
velocities;
   (B)   Require that uses vulnerable to floods, including public facilities
which serve such uses, be provided with flood protection at the time of initial
construction;
   (C)   Protect individuals from buying lands which are unsuited for intended
purposes because of flood hazard; and
   (D)   Assure that eligibility is maintained for property owners in the
community to purchase flood insurance in the National Flood Insurance Program.
(Ord. 934, passed 12-14-2009)
§ 8-504 APPLICABLE LANDS.
   This article shall apply to all lands within the jurisdiction of the city
identified on the Flood Insurance Rate Map (FIRM) dated 1-6-2010 numbered and
unnumbered A Zones (including AE, AO and AH Zones) and within the Zoning
Districts FW and FF established herein. In all areas covered by this article,
no development shall be permitted, except upon the issuance of a floodplain
permit to develop, granted by the City Council or its duly designated
representative under such safeguards and restrictions as the Council or the
designated representative may reasonably impose for the promotion and
maintenance of the general welfare, health of the inhabitants of the community
and where specifically noted herein.
(Ord. 934, passed 12-14-2009)
§ 8-505 THE ENFORCEMENT OFFICER.
   The Zoning Administrator of the community is hereby designated as the
community’s duly designated Enforcement Officer under this article.
(Ord. 934, passed 12-14-2009)
§ 8-506 RULES FOR INTERPRETATION OF DISTRICT BOUNDARIES.
   The boundaries of the floodway and flood fringe overlay districts shall be
determined by scaling distances on the official zoning map or on the Flood
Insurance Rate Map or Floodway Map. Where interpretation is needed to the exact
location of the boundaries of the districts as shown on the official zoning
map, as for example where there appears to be a conflict between a mapped
boundary and actual field conditions, the Enforcement Officer shall make the
necessary interpretation. In such cases where the interpretation is contested,
the Zoning Board of Appeals will resolve the dispute. The regulatory flood
elevation for the point in question shall be the governing factor in locating
the district boundary on the land. The person contesting the location of the
district boundary shall be given a reasonable opportunity to present his or her
case to the Zoning Board of Appeals and to submit his or her own technical
evidence, if he or she so desires.
(Ord. 934, passed 12-14-2009)
§ 8-507 COMPLIANCE.
   Within identified special flood hazard areas of this community, no
development shall be located, extended, converted or structurally altered
without full compliance with the terms of this article and other applicable
regulations.
(Ord. 934, passed 12-14-2009)
§ 8-508 ABROGATION AND GREATER RESTRICTIONS.
   It is not intended by this article to repeal, abrogate or impair any
existent easements, covenants or deed restrictions. However, where this article
imposes greater restrictions, the provision of this article shall prevail. All
other ordinances inconsistent with this article are hereby repealed to the
extent of the inconsistency only.
(Ord. 934, passed 12-14-2009)
§ 8-509 INTERPRETATION.
   In their interpretation and application, the provisions of this article
shall be held to be minimum requirements and shall be liberally construed in
favor of the governing body and shall not be deemed a limitation or repeal of
any other powers granted by state statutes.
(Ord. 934, passed 12-14-2009)
§ 8-510 WARNING AND DISCLAIMER OF LIABILITY.
   The degree of flood protection required by this article is considered
reasonable for regulatory purposes and is based on engineering and scientific
methods of study. Larger floods may occur on rare occasions or the flood height
may be increased by human-made or natural causes, such as ice jams and bridge
openings restricted by debris. This article does not imply that areas outside
floodway and flood fringe district boundaries or land uses permitted within
such districts will be free from flooding or flood damage. This article shall
not create liability on the part of the city or any officer or employee thereof
for any flood damages that may result from reliance on this article or any
administrative decision lawfully made thereunder.
(Ord. 934, passed 12-14-2009)
§ 8-511 SEVERABILITY.
   If any section, clause, provision or portion of this article is adjudged
unconstitutional or invalid by a court of competent jurisdiction, the remainder
of this article shall not be affected thereby.
(Ord. 934, passed 12-14-2009)
§ 8-512 APPEAL.
   Where a request for a permit to develop or a variance is denied by the
Zoning Administrator, the applicant may apply for such permit or variance
directly to the Zoning Board of Appeals.
(Ord. 934, passed 12-14-2009)
§ 8-513 DEVELOPMENT PERMIT REQUIRED; APPLICATION FOR; ADMINISTRATION.
   (A)   General. No person, firm or corporation shall initiate any floodplain
development or substantial improvement or cause the same to be done without
first obtaining a separate permit for development as defined herein.
   (B)   Administration.
      (1)   The Zoning Administrator is hereby appointed to administer and
implement the provisions of this article.
      (2)   Duties of the Zoning Administrator shall include, but not be
limited to:
         (a)   Review all development permit applications to assure that sites
are reasonably safe from flooding and that the permit requirements of this
article have been satisfied;
         (b)   Review applications for proposed development to assure that all
necessary permits have been obtained from those federal, state or local
governmental agencies from which prior approval is required;
         (c)   Review all subdivision proposals and other proposed new
development, including manufactured home parks or subdivisions, to determine
whether such proposals will be reasonably safe from flooding;
         (d)   Notify adjacent communities and the state’s Department of
Natural Resources prior to any alteration or relocation of a watercourse, and
submit evidence of such notification to the Federal Emergency Management
Agency;
         (e)   Assure that maintenance is provided within the altered or
relocated portion of said watercourse so that the flood carrying capacity is
not diminished;
         (f)   Verify, record and maintain record of the actual elevation (in
relation to mean sea level) of the lowest floor (including basement) of all new
or substantially improved structures in special flood hazard areas;
         (g)   Verify, record and maintain record of the actual elevation (in
relation to mean sea level) to which new or substantially improved structures
have been flood-proofed; and
         (h)   When flood-proofing is utilized for a particular structure, the
Zoning Administrator shall be presented certification from a registered
professional engineer or architect.
   (C)   Application for permit. To obtain a floodplain development permit, the
applicant shall first file an application in writing on a form furnished for
that purpose. Every such application shall:
      (1)   Identify and describe the development to be covered by the
floodplain development permit;
      (2)   Describe the land on which the proposed development is to be done
by lot, block, tract and house and street address, or similar description that
will readily identify and definitely locate the proposed building or
development;
      (3)   Indicate the use or occupancy for which the proposed development is
intended;
      (4)   Be accompanied by plans and specifications for proposed
construction;
      (5)   Be signed by the permittee or his or her authorized agent who may
be required to submit evidence to indicate such authority; and
      (6)   Give such other information as reasonably may be required by the
Zoning Administrator.
(Ord. 934, passed 12-14-2009)
§ 8-514 ESTABLISHMENT OF ZONING DISTRICTS.
   Along watercourses where a floodway has been established, the mapped
floodplain areas are hereby divided into the two following districts: a
Floodway Overlay District (FW) and a Flood Fringe Overlay District (FF), as
identified in the Flood Insurance Study and accompanying map(s). Within these
districts, all uses not meeting the standards of this article and those
standards of the underlying zoning district shall be prohibited.
(Ord. 934, passed 12-14-2009)
§ 8-515 STANDARDS FOR FLOODPLAIN DEVELOPMENT.
   (A)   No permit for development shall be granted for new construction,
substantial improvements and other developments) including the placement of
manufactured homes within all numbered and unnumbered A zones (including AE, AO
and AH Zones) unless the conditions of this section are satisfied.
   (B)   All areas identified as unnumbered A Zones on the FIRM are subject to
inundation of the base flood; however, the water surface elevation was not
provided. The unnumbered A Zones shall be subject to all development provisions
hereof. If Flood Insurance Study data is not available, the community shall
utilize any base flood elevation or floodway data currently available from
federal, state or other sources.
   (C)   Until a floodway has been designated, no development or substantial
improvement may be permitted within special flood hazard areas unless the
applicant has demonstrated that the proposed development or substantial
improvement, when combined with all other existing and reasonably anticipated
developments or substantial improvements, will not increase the water surface
elevation of the base flood more than one foot at any location as shown on the
Flood Insurance Study.
   (D)   New construction, subdivision proposals, substantial improvements,
prefabricated buildings, placement of manufactured homes and other developments
shall require:
      (1)   Design or anchorage to prevent flotation, collapse or lateral
movement of the structure resulting from hydrodynamic and hydrostatic loads,
including the effects of buoyancy;
      (2)   New or replacement water supply systems and/or sanitary sewage
systems be designed to minimize or eliminate infiltration of flood waters into
the systems and discharges from the systems into flood waters and on-site waste
disposal systems be located so as to avoid impairment or contamination;
      (3)   Construction with materials resistant to flood damage, utilizing
methods and practices that minimize flood damages, and with electrical,
heating, ventilation, plumbing, and air conditioning equipment and other
service facilities that are designed and/or located so as to prevent water from
entering or accumulating within the components during conditions of flooding;
and
      (4)   All utility and sanitary facilities be elevated or flood-proofed up
to the regulatory flood protection elevation.
   (E)   (1)   The storage or processing of materials that are in time of
flooding buoyant, flammable, explosive or could be injurious to human, animal
or plant life is prohibited.
      (2)   Storage of other material or equipment may be allowed if not
subject to major damage by floods and firmly anchored to prevent flotation or
if readily removable from the area within the time available after flood
warning.
   (F)   Subdivision proposals and other proposed new development, including
manufactured home parks or subdivisions, be required to assure that:
      (1)   All such proposals are consistent with the need to minimize flood
damage;
      (2)   All public utilities and facilities, such as sewer, gas, electrical
and water systems are located, elevated and constructed to minimize or
eliminate flood damage;
      (3)   Adequate drainage is provided so as to reduce exposure to flood
hazards; and
      (4)   Proposals for development (including proposals for manufactured
home parks and subdivision) of five acres or 50 lots, whichever is lesser,
include within such proposals the base flood elevation.
(Ord. 934, passed 12-14-2009)
§ 8-516 FLOOD FRINGE OVERLAY DISTRICT - (INCLUDING AO AND AH ZONES); PERMITTED
USES.
   Any use permitted herein shall be permitted in the Flood Fringe Overlay
District. No use shall be permitted in the district unless the standards hereof
are met.
(Ord. 934, passed 12-14-2009)
§ 8-517 STANDARDS FOR THE FLOOD FRINGE OVERLAY DISTRICT.
   (A)   Require new construction or substantial improvements of residential
structures to have the lowest floor, including basement, elevated to or above
one foot above the base flood elevation.
   (B)   Require new construction or substantial improvements of non-
residential structures to have the lowest floor, including basement, elevated
to or above one foot above the base flood elevation or, together with attendant
utility and sanitary facilities, to be flood-proofed so that below that level
the structure is water-tight with walls substantially impermeable to the
passage of water and with structural components having the capability of
resisting hydrostatic and hydrodynamic loads and effects of buoyancy. A
registered professional engineer or architect shall certify that the standards
of this division (B) are satisfied. Such certification shall be provided to the
Zoning Administrator as set forth herein.
   (C)   Require for all new construction and substantial improvements that
fully enclosed areas below the lowest floor that are usable solely for parking
of vehicles, building access or storage in an area other than a basement and
which are subject to flooding shall be designed to automatically equalize
hydrostatic flood forces on exterior walls by allowing for the entry and exit
of flood waters. Designs for meeting this requirement must either be certified
by a registered professional engineer or architect or meet or exceed the
following minimum criteria: a minimum of two openings having a total net area
of not less than one square inch for every square foot of enclosed area subject
to flooding shall be provided. The bottom of all openings shall be not higher
than one foot above grade. Openings may be equipped with screens, louvers,
valves or other coverings or devices provided that they permit the automatic
entry and exit of flood waters.
   (D)   Within AH Zones, adequate drainage paths around structures on slopes
shall be required in order to guide flood waters around and away from proposed
structures.
   (E)   (1)   All manufactured homes shall be anchored to resist floatation,
collapse or lateral movement. Manufactured homes must be anchored in accordance
with local Building Codes or FEMA guidelines. In the event that over-the-top
frame ties to ground anchors are used, the following specific requirements (or
their equivalent) shall be met:
         (a)   Over-the-top ties be provided at each of the four corners of the
manufactured home, with two additional ties per side at intermediate locations
and manufactured homes less than 50 feet long requiring one additional tie per
side;
         (b)   Frame ties be provided at each corner of the home with five
additional ties per side at intermediate points and manufactured homes less
than 50 feet long requiring four additional ties per side;
         (c)   All components of the anchoring system be capable of carrying a
force of 4,800 pounds; and
         (d)   Any additions to the manufactured home be similarly anchored.
      (2)   Require that all manufactured homes to be placed or substantially
improved within special flood hazard areas on the community’s FIRM on sites:
         (a)   Outside of a manufactured home park or subdivision;
         (b)   In a new manufactured home park or subdivision;
         (c)   In an expansion to an existing manufactured home park or
subdivision; or
         (d)   In an existing manufactured home park or subdivision on which a
manufactured home has incurred “substantial damage” as the result of a flood,
be elevated on a permanent foundation such that the lowest floor of the
manufactured home is at or above one foot above the base flood elevation; and
be securely anchored to an adequately anchored foundation system in accordance
with the provisions hereof.
      (3)   Require that manufactured homes to be placed or substantially
improved on sites in an existing manufactured home park or subdivision within
special flood hazard areas on the community’s FIRM that are not subject to the
provisions hereof be elevated so that either:
         (a)   The lowest floor of the manufactured home is at or above one
foot above the base flood elevation; or
         (b)   The manufactured home chassis is supported by reinforced piers
or other foundation elements of at least equivalent strength that are no less
than 36 inches in height above grade; and be securely anchored to an adequately
anchored foundation system in accordance with the provisions hereof.
   (F)   (1)   Recreational vehicles placed on sites within the special flood
hazard areas on the community’s official map shall either:
         (a)   Be on the site for fewer than 180 consecutive days;
         (b)   Be fully licensed and ready for highway use; or
         (c)   Meet the permit requirements and the elevation and anchoring
requirements for “manufactured homes” of this article.
      (2)   A recreational vehicle is ready for highway use if it is on its
wheels or jacking system, is attached to the site only by quick-disconnect type
utilities and security devices, and has no permanently attached additions.
   (G)   Located within the areas of special flood hazard established herein
are areas designated as AO Zones. These areas have special flood hazards
associated with base flood depths of one to three feet where a clearly defined
channel does not exist and where the path of flooding is unpredictable and
indeterminate; therefore, the following provisions apply within AO Zones.
      (1)   All new construction and substantial improvements of residential
structures shall have the lowest floor (including basement) elevated above the
highest adjacent grade at least as high as one foot above the depth number
specified in feet on the community’s FIRM (at least two feet if no depth number
is specified).
      (2)   All new construction and substantial improvements of non-
residential structures shall:
         (a)   Have the lowest floor elevated above the highest adjacent grade
at least as high as one foot above the depth number specified in feet on the
community’s FIRM (at least two feet if no depth number is specified); or
         (b)   Together with attendant utility and sanitary facilities be
completely flood-proofed to or above that level so that any space below that
level is water-tight with walls substantially impermeable to the passage of
water and with structural components having the capability of resisting
hydrostatic and hydrodynamic loads and effects of buoyancy. Such certification
shall be provided to the official as set forth herein.
      (3)   Adequate drainage paths around structures on slopes shall be
required in order to guide flood waters around and away from proposed
structures.
(Ord. 934, passed 12-14-2009)
§ 8-518 FLOODWAY OVERLAY DISTRICT.
   (A)   Permitted uses. Only uses having a low flood-damage potential and not
obstructing flood flows shall be permitted within the Floodway District to the
extent that they are not prohibited by any other ordinance. The following are
recommended uses for the Floodway District:
      (1)   Agricultural uses such as general farming, pasture, nurseries,
forestry;
      (2)   Residential uses such as lawns, gardens, parking and play areas;
      (3)   Non-residential areas such as loading areas, parking and airport
landing strips; and
      (4)   Public and private recreational uses such as golf courses, archery
ranges, picnic grounds, parks, wildlife and nature preserves.
   (B)   Standards for the Floodway Overlay District. New structures for human
habitation are prohibited. All encroachments, including fill, new construction,
substantial improvements and other development must be prohibited unless
certification by a registered professional engineer or architect is provided
demonstrating that the development shall not result in any increase in water
surface elevations along the floodway profile during occurrence of the base
flood discharge. These uses are subject to the standards hereof. In Zone A
unnumbered, obtain, review and reasonably utilize any flood elevation and
floodway data available through federal, state or other sources or this
article, in meeting the standards of this section.
(Ord. 934, passed 12-14-2009)
§ 8-519 VARIANCE PROCEDURES.
   (A)   General.
      (1)   The Zoning Board of Appeals as established by City Council shall
hear and decide appeals and requests for variances from the requirements of
this article.
      (2)   The Zoning Board of Appeals shall hear and decide appeals when it
is alleged that there is an error in any requirement, decision or determination
made by the Zoning Administrator in the enforcement or administration of this
article.
      (3)   Any person aggrieved by the decision of the Zoning Board of Appeals
or any taxpayer may appeal such decision to the District Court as provided in
Neb. RS 14-408 (for counties) and Neb. RS 19-912 (for municipalities).
      (4)   In passing upon such applications, the Zoning Board of Appeals
shall consider all technical evaluation, all relevant factors, standards
specified in other sections of this article, and:
         (a)   The danger that materials may be swept onto other lands to the
injury of others;
         (b)   The danger to life and property due to flooding or erosion
damage;
         (c)   The susceptibility of the proposed facility and its contents to
flood damage and the effect of such damage on the individual owner;
         (d)   The importance of the services provided by the proposed facility
to the community;
         (e)   The necessity to the facility of a waterfront location, where
applicable;
         (f)   The availability of alternative locations, not subject to
flooding or erosion damage, for the proposed use;
         (g)   The compatibility of the proposed use with existing and
anticipated development;
         (h)   The relationship of the proposed use to the comprehensive plan
and floodplain management program for that area; and
         (i)   The safety of access to the property in times of flood for
ordinary and emergency vehicles:
            1.   The expected heights, velocity, duration, rate of rise and
sediment transport of the flood waters and the effects of wave action, if
applicable, expected at the site; and
            2.   The costs of providing governmental services during and after
flood conditions including maintenance and repair of public utilities and
facilities such as sewer, gas, electrical and water systems and streets and
bridges.
   (B)   Conditions for variances.
      (1)   Generally, variances may be issued for new construction and
substantial improvements to be erected on a lot of one-half acre or less in
size contiguous to and surrounded by lots with existing structures constructed
below the base flood level, providing divisions (B)(2) through (B)(6) below
have been fully considered. As the lot size increases beyond the one-half acre,
the technical justification required for issuing the variance increases.
      (2)   Variances may be issued for the repair or rehabilitation of
historic structures upon a determination that the proposed repair or
rehabilitation will not preclude the structure’s continued designation as a
historic structure and the variance is the minimum necessary to preserve the
historic character and design of the structure.
      (3)   Variances shall not be issued within any designated floodway if any
increase in flood levels along the floodway profile during the base flood
discharge would result.
      (4)   Variances shall only be issued upon a determination that the
variance is the minimum necessary, considering the flood hazard, to afford
relief.
      (5)   Variances shall only be issued upon:
         (a)   A showing of good and sufficient cause;
         (b)   A determination that failure to grant the variance would result
in exceptional hardship to the applicant; and
         (c)   A determination that the granting of a variance will not result
in increased flood heights, additional threats to public safety, extraordinary
public expense, create nuisances, cause fraud on or victimization of the public
or conflict with existing local laws or ordinances.
      (6)   The applicant shall be given a written notice over the signature of
a community official that:
         (a)   The issuance of a variance to construct a structure below the
base flood level will result in increased premium rates for flood insurance up
to amounts as high as $25 for $100 of insurance coverage; and
         (b)   Such construction below the base flood level increases risks to
life and property. Such notification shall be maintained with the record of all
variance actions as required by this article.
(Ord. 934, passed 12-14-2009)
§ 8-520 NON-CONFORMING USE.
   (A)   A structure or the use of a structure or premises which was lawful
before the passage or amendment of the ordinance, but which is not in
conformity with the provisions of this article may be continued subject to the
following conditions.
      (1)   If such use is discontinued for 12 consecutive months, any future
use of the building premises shall conform to this article. The Utility
Department shall notify the Zoning Administrator in writing of instances of
non-conforming uses where utility services have been discontinued for a period
of 12 months.
      (2)   Uses or adjuncts thereof that are or become nuisances shall not be
entitled to continue as non-conforming uses.
   (B)   If any non-conforming use or structure is destroyed by any means,
including flood, it shall not be reconstructed if the cost is more than 50% of
the market value of the structure before the damage occurred; except that, if
it is reconstructed in conformity with the provisions of this article. This
limitation does not include the cost of any alteration to comply with existing
state or local health, sanitary, building or safety codes or regulations or the
cost of any alteration of a structure listed on the National Register of
Historic Places or a State Inventory of Historic Places; provided that, the
alteration shall not preclude its continued designation.
(Ord. 934, passed 12-14-2009)
§ 8-521 VIOLATION, PENALTIES.
   (A)   Violation of the provisions of this article or failure to comply with
any of its requirements (including violations of conditions and safeguards
established in connection with grants of variances or special exceptions) shall
constitute a misdemeanor. Any person who violates this article or fails to
comply with any of its requirements shall, upon conviction thereof, be fined
not more than $500 and, in addition, shall pay all costs and expenses involved
in the case. Each day such violation continues shall be considered a separate
offense.
   (B)   Nothing herein contained shall prevent the Zoning Administrator or
other appropriate authority from taking such other lawful action is as
necessary to prevent or remedy any violation.
(Ord. 934, passed 12-14-2009)
§ 8-522 AMENDMENTS.
   The regulations, restrictions and boundaries set forth in this article may
from time to time be amended, supplemented, changed or appealed to reflect any
and all changes in the National Flood Disaster Protection Act of 1973, being 42
U.S.C. §§ 4001 et seq.; provided, however, that, no such action may be taken
until after a public hearing in relation thereto, at which parties in interest
and citizens shall have an opportunity to be heard. Notice of the time and
place of such hearing shall be published in a newspaper of general circulation
in the Republican Nonpareil. At least ten days shall elapse between the date of
this publication and the public hearing. A copy of such amendments will be
provided to the Federal Emergency Management Agency. The regulations of this
article are in compliance with the National Flood Insurance Program Regulations
as published in C.F.R. Title 44 and the 1983 Nebraska Floodplain Management
Act, being Neb. RS 31-1001 et seq.
(Ord. 934, passed 12-14-2009)
ARTICLE VI: PENAL PROVISION
Section
   
8-601   Penal provision
§ 8-601 PENAL PROVISION.
   Anyone violating any of the terms and conditions of any of articles of this
chapter shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be fined in a sum not
to exceed that permitted by state law for the violation of a municipal
ordinance.
ARTICLE VII: VACANT PROPERTY REGISTRATION
Section
   
8-701   Findings
   
8-702   Purposes
   
8-703   Definitions
   
8-704   Applications
   
8-705   Requirements
   
8-706   Exemptions
   
8-707   Additional requirements
   
8-708   Applicability
§ 8-701 FINDINGS.
   The city finds and declares that:
   (A)   Vacant properties have the potential to create a host of problems for
Nebraska communities, including a propensity to foster criminal activity,
create public health problems and otherwise diminish quality of life;
   (B)   Vacant properties have the potential to reduce the value of area
properties, increase the risk of property damage through arson and vandalism,
and discourage neighborhood stability;
   (C)   Vacant properties represent unrealized economic growth in Nebraska
communities;
   (D)   A vacant property registration ordinance allows a municipality to
discourage property vacancy, maintain unoccupied buildings, provide a data base
of vacant properties and their owners and assess fees for the increased public
costs associated with vacant properties;
   (E)   Fees imposed under a vacant property registration ordinance have the
potential to benefit the owners of vacant properties by helping to finance
additional government services to protect the value and security of such
properties; and
   (F)   Enactment of this vacant property registration ordinance is a proper
exercise of governmental authority to protect the public health, safety and
welfare of community residents and a valid regulatory scheme.
(Ord. 1043, passed 3-9-2020)
§ 8-702 PURPOSES.
   The purposes of this section are to promote the health, safety and welfare
of city residents by providing authority for enacting vacant property
registration requirements. This section will allow the city to identify and
register vacant properties, collect fees to compensate for the public costs of
vacant properties, plan for the rehabilitation of vacant properties and
encourage the occupancy of vacant properties.
(Ord. 1043, passed 3-9-2020)
§ 8-703 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this article, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   EVIDENCE OF VACANCY. Any condition or circumstance that on its own or in
combination with other conditions or circumstances would lead a reasonable
person to believe that a residential building is vacant. Such conditions or
circumstances may include, but are not limited to:
      (1)   Lack of active utility service accounts;
      (2)   Overgrown or dead vegetation, including grass, shrubbery and other
plantings;
      (3)   Visible deterioration or lack of maintenance of any building or
structure on the property;
      (4)   Graffiti or other defacement of any building or structure on the
property; or
      (5)   Any other condition or circumstance reasonably indicating that the
property is not occupied for residential purposes or being used for the
operation of a lawful business;
   OWNER. The person or persons shown to be the owner or owners of record in
the records of the county’s Register of Deeds.
   RESIDENTIAL BUILDING. A house, a condominium, a townhouse, an apartment unit
or building or a trailer house.
   VACANT. A residential building exhibits evidence of vacancy.
(Ord. 1043, passed 3-9-2020)
§ 8-704 APPLICATIONS.
   The city hereby adopts this vacant property registration ordinance which
applies to any type of residential buildings, located within the corporate
limits of the municipality; except that, a vacant property registration
ordinance shall not apply to property owned by the federal government, the
state or any political subdivision thereof. This vacant property registration
ordinance shall create a city-wide vacant property registration data base and
clearly designate a program administrator, which shall be the city’s Zoning
Administrator.
(Ord. 1043, passed 3-9-2020)
§ 8-705 REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Owners of vacant property subject to this article shall be required to
register such property with the program administrator if the property has been
vacant for 180 days or longer. A vacant property registration ordinance
registration form shall be in either paper or electronic form, and the
following information shall be required:
      (1)   The name, street address, mailing address, telephone number and, if
applicable, the facsimile number and email address of the property owner and
his or her agent;
      (2)   The street address and parcel identification number of the vacant
property;
      (3)   The transfer date of the instrument conveying the property to the
owner; and
      (4)   The date on which the property became vacant.
   (B)   This article requires payment of a fee 180 days after initial
registration of the vacant property pursuant to division (A) above or 360 days
after the property becomes vacant, whichever is sooner, and requires the
payment of supplemental registration fees at intervals every six months
thereafter for as long as the property remains on the vacant property
registration database.
      (1)   The initial registration fee shall be $250 for a residential
property. Failure to register within the prescribed timeframe given to the
owner shall result in the city placing the property on the registration list
and the assessment of unpaid fees as a lien against the property.
      (2)   A supplemental registration fee shall be double the previous fee
amount, with a maximum supplemental registration fee of ten times the initial
registration fee amount. Registration fees may be refundable for the year
preceding the date on which the property is no longer vacant.
      (3)   There is an exemption to the registration and fee requirements for
vacant property that is advertised in good faith for sale or lease. Good faith
shall be defined as being advertised at a price no more than 125% of the
assessed value of the County Assessor unless a higher market value is
established by a certified realtor. The owner must accept any bona fide offer
for that amount or more.
(Ord. 1043, passed 3-9-2020; Ord. 1055, passed 12-14-2020)
§ 8-706 EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   The vacant property registration ordinance provides exemptions to the
registration and fee requirements, including, but not limited to, for vacant
property:
      (1)   Only considered to be a seasonal residence;
      (2)   Damaged by fire, weather, an act of God or vandalism;
      (3)   Under construction or renovation;
      (4)   Where the owner is temporarily absent, but who has demonstrated his
or her intent to return; and
      (5)   Which is subject to divorce, probate or estate proceedings.
   (B)   Such exemptions may be granted upon the affirmative vote of three-
fourths of the City Council for a period up to, but not exceeding, one year.
(Ord. 1043, passed 3-9-2020)
§ 8-707 ADDITIONAL REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   A subsequent owner or owners of property subject to the article will
assume the obligations of the previous owner or owners.
   (B)   Property shall be removed from the vacant property registration
database when the property is no longer vacant.
   (C)   Owners of registered property shall submit a plan for occupancy of the
property.
   (D)   Owners have the right to prior notice and to appeal adverse decisions
of the program administrator. Such notice shall be sent by certified mail to
the registered owner at the address maintained in the County Register of Deeds’
office at least ten days prior to such adverse decision.
   (E)   The program administrator or his or her designee may inspect the
interior and exterior of the vacant property upon registration and at one-year
intervals thereafter for so long as the property remains on the vacant property
registration data base.
   (F)   The vacant property registration ordinance may be enforced by
municipal fines for failure to comply with its requirements of $100 per day of
violation.
   (G)   The municipality may enforce the collection of vacant property
registration fees by civil action in any court of competent jurisdiction.
Unpaid vacant property registration fees and unpaid fines for any violation of
a vacant property registration ordinance shall become a lien on the applicable
property upon the recording of a notice of such lien in the office of the
Register of Deeds of the county in which the applicable property is located.
(Ord. 1043, passed 3-9-2020)
§ 8-708 APPLICABILITY.
   The provisions of this article shall be supplemental and in addition to any
other laws of the state relating to vacant property.
(Ord. 1043, passed 3-9-2020)
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to Nebraska Revised Statutes
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO NEBRASKA REVISED STATUTES
Neb. RS Cites Code Section
Neb. RS Cites           Code Section
9-642.01                1-2402
9-646                   1-2401
Ch. 11, Art. 1          1-602
13-1802                 1-603
13-2816                 4-508
14-109                  4-805
14-408                  8-519
15-203                  4-805
16-205                  4-805
17-110                  1-104
17-111                  1-104
17-112                  1-104
17-113                  1-104
17-114                  1-104
17-117                  1-104
                        2-511;
                        2-512;
                        2-514;
17-123                  2-516—
                        2-520;
                        2-522—
                        2-524
17-525                  4-805
17-563                  2-506
                        2-511;
                        2-512;
17-573                  2-514;
                        2-516—
                        2-524
                        2-501—
                        2-503;
                        2-509;
                        2-510;
                        2-512;
18-1720                 2-514;
                        2-516—
                        2-520;
                        2-522—
                        2-524;
                        2-528
18-1722                 2-528
18-1752                 2-530
18-2102.01              1-1101
18-2102-01 et seq.      1-1102
18-2701 et seq.         1-1201
19-710                  2-526
19-912                  8-519
20-301 et seq.          1-1703;
                        1-1709
20-301 through 20-344   1-1701
28-401                  1-1702
28-1321                 2-502;
                        2-503
29-830 to 29-835        8-306
29-4001 et seq.         2-702
29-4003                 2-702
29-4013                 2-702
29-4015                 2-701
31-1001 et seq.         8-522
38-201 et seq.          1-2202
38-601 et seq.          1-2202
38-1201 et seq.         1-2202
38-2201 et seq.         1-2202
38-2501 et seq.         1-2202
38-3101 et seq.         1-2202
39-307                  2-502
39-601 to 39-6,122      3-309;
                        3-324
39-1302                 4-801
49-1401 et seq.         1-111
49-14,103.01            1-111
Ch. 53, Art. 1          1-2402
                        4-302;
53-101 et seq.          4-306;
                        4-307;
                        4-308
53-103                  4-301
53-124(5)               4-304
53-131                  4-310
Ch. 60, Art. 6          3-101
60-311.14               3-430
60-339                  3-201
60-3,113                3-429;
                        3-430
60-6,142                3-501
71-401 et seq.          1-2202
71-501                  1-2201
71-506                  1-2208
71-1557(1)              8-304
71-1572                 1-1602
71-1626                 1-2202
71-1626 et seq.         1-2201
71-1631(10)             1-2206
71-1631.01              1-2208
71-1908 et seq.         2-702
71-4603                 8-304
71-7907                 1-2202
76-2301 et seq.         4-809
Chapter 77, Article 27  4-508
77-2701 to 77-27,135    4-201;
                        4-202
77-2705                 4-101
77-27,142 to 77-27,148  4-201;
                        4-202
81-512                  7-105
81-1501 et seq.         6-501
81-3115                 1-2202
81-3404 et seq.         8-302
Chapter 84, Article 7   4-803
84-1201 through 84-1220 1-203
86-704                  4-805
                        
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
824      4-8-2003    3-402
828      8-11-2003   2-301—
                     2-327
                     8-201—
840      7-12-2004   8-206;
                     8-208—
                     8-212
849      5-10-2004   6-501—
                     6-513
851      6-14-2004   4-201
                     2-301;
858      11-8-2004   2-311;
                     2-325
864      4-11-2005   1-304
869      8-8-2005    3-201—
                     3-213
872      8-8-2005    3-106
874      8-8-2005    2-327
879      1-9-2006    8-211
880      2-13-2006   3-119
887      6-12-2006   2-404
888      6-12-2006   6-406
886      7-10-2006   1-1601—
                     1-1605
889      7-10-2006   1-2201—
                     1-2210
893      8-14-2006   2-701—
                     2-703
897      6-11-2007   5-402
899      7-9-2007    2-116
900      8-13-2007   7-501;
                     7-502
909      4-14-2008   3-409
                     2-302—
                     2-305;
                     2-307;
915      10-13-2008  2-317;
                     2-319;
                     2-320;
                     2-325
921      1-12-2009   6-241
922      1-12-2009   4-101—
                     4-104
934      12-14-2009  8-501—
                     8-522
935      1-11-2010   5-301
936      1-11-2010   2-801—
                     2-808
937      1-11-2010   1-2007
939      5-10-2010   4-501
942      9-13-2010   3-439
949      11-8-2010   3-402
957      1-9-2012    1-1008
958      1-9-2012    1-201
961      7-9-2012    6-101
969      12-10-2012  1-1101
970      1-14-2013   7-501
971      5-13-2013   4-701—
                     4-710
977      7-14-2014   1-104;
                     1-201
979      7-14-2014   1-109
983      9-8-2014    1-1603
986      7-13-2015   2-107—
                     2-116
990      12-14-2015  3-119
992      4-11-2016   3-402
996      7-11-2016   7-309
1001     1-9-2017    4-305
1004     1-9-2017    4-506—
                     4-513
1017     4-9-2018    3-115
1021     6-11-2018   3-119
                     2-501;
1028     5-13-2019   2-502;
                     2-529;
                     2-530
                     2-508;
1034     9-10-2019   2-513;
                     2-530
1039     12-9-2019   2-109
1040     12-9-2019   4-801—
                     4-817
1041     1-13-2020   5-212
1043     3-9-2020    8-701—
                     8-708
1047     9-14-2020   1-909
1054     12-14-2020  8-211
1055     12-14-2020  8-705
1056     12-14-2020  1-1201
1059     3-8-2021    8-212;
                     8-213
1068     9-9-2021    6-205;
                     6-209
1079     3-14-2022   2-109
1080     4-11-2022   7-101—
                     7-105
1083     7-11-2022   7-602;
                     7-603
1084     6-13-2022   8-211;
                     8-308
1085     8-8-2022    3-305—
                     3-326
1086     8-8-2022    7-502
1091     12-12-2022  1-2008
1095     2-6-2023    1-2301
1097     2-6-2023    1-109
1100     3-13-2023   1-2401;
                     1-2402
1103     8-14-2023   1-104
1104     10-9-2023   2-401—
                     2-409
1109     12-11-2023  6-503
1125     8-12-2024   4-501
1126     7-8-2024    1-201
1129     8-12-2024   3-307
1133     9-9-2024    2-109
                    
 
 
