CLARKS, NEBRASKA
CODE OF ORDINANCES
2025 S-1 Supplement Contains:
Local legislation current through Ord. 755, passed 12-11-2024
 
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street Suite 310
Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
Tel: (800) 445-5588
Internet: http://www.amlegal.com
ADOPTING ORDINANCE
ORDINANCE NO. 750
AN ORDINANCE TO REVISE ALL THE GENERAL ORDINANCES OF THE VILLAGE OF CLARKS,
MERRICK COUNTY, NEBRASKA; TO REPEAL PRIOR ORDINANCES AND PARTS OF ORDINANCES IN
CONFLICT HEREWITH; TO REQUIRE FILING; AND TO PROVIDE AN EFFECTIVE DATE.
   BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CHAIRPERSON AND BOARD OF TRUSTEES OF THE VILLAGE OF
CLARKS, NEBRASKA, AS FOLLOWS:
   Section 1.   The general ordinances of the Village of Clarks, Nebraska, are
hereby revised, codified, and printed in book form as the “Code of Ordinances
of Clarks, Nebraska” through adoption of the proposed code book prepared and
published by American Legal Publishing Corporation, and composed of the
following titles set forth below:
                     TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
                           10.   General Provisions
                           11.   Village Standards
                     TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
                           30.   Elected Officials; Ordinances
                           31.   Appointed Village Officials
                           32.   Departments, Boards, and Commissions
                           33.   General Provisions
                           34.   Finance and Revenue
                           35.   General Administrative Policies
                     TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
                           50.   Utilities, Generally
                           51.   Water
                           52.   Sewer
                     TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
                           70.   General Provisions
                           71.   Traffic Regulations
                           72.   Parking Regulations
                           73.   Recreational Vehicles
                     TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
                           90.   Animals
                           91.   Health and Sanitation; Nuisances
                           92.   Sidewalks and Streets
                           93.   Fire Regulations
                           94.   Recreation and Leisure
                           95.   Village Cemetery
                     TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
                           110.   General Business Regulations
                           111.   Business Taxes
                           112.   Alcoholic Beverages
                     TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
                           130.   General Offenses
                     TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
                           150.   Building Regulations
                           151.   Minimum Housing Code
                           152.   Floodplain Management
                           153.   Planning, Development, and Zoning
                     TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
                           Table
                           I.   Franchises and Agreements
                           II.   Street Vacations
                     PARALLEL REFERENCES
                           References to Nebraska Revised Statutes
                           References to Prior Code
                           References to Ordinances
                     INDEX
   Section 2.   The Code of Ordinances contains all of the provisions of a
general nature pertaining to the subjects enumerated and embraced in the Code
of Ordinances. All prior ordinances pertaining to the subjects treated by the
Code of Ordinances and in conflict therewith are repealed, except that nothing
shall affect any rights acquired under, actions involving, or fines, penalties,
forfeitures or liabilities incurred pursuant to such ordinances prior to
repeal.
   Section 3.   All ordinances of a temporary or special nature, and all other
ordinances pertaining to subjects not embraced in the Code of Ordinances,
including ordinances specified in this section, shall remain in effect unless
repealed expressly or by necessary implication, to wit, ordinances:
            1.   vacating of setting the boundaries of streets, alleys, or
other public places;
            2.   annexing or detaching territory;
            3.   granting of accepting easements, plats or dedication of land
to public use;
            4.   providing for the acquisition or conveyance of real or
personal property;
            5.   authorizing or directing public improvements to be made;
            6.   levying taxes or special assessments;
            7.   appropriating money;
            8.   granting franchises or special licenses; or
            9.   providing for the issuance of bonds or other instruments of
indebtedness.
   Section 4.   All boards, commissions, councils, and other such bodies as
established in ordinances or resolutions adopted prior to the adoption of the
Code of Ordinances shall continue in existence and number of members unless
specifically amended in the Code of Ordinances or until an ordinance
abolishing, establishing, or otherwise changing such bodies is adopted or
amended. All fees and charges established in ordinances or resolutions adopted
prior to the adoption of the Code of Ordinance shall remain in effect unless
amended in the Code of Ordinances or until an ordinance adopting a schedule of
fees and charges is adopted or amended.
   Section 5.   At least one copy of the Code of Ordinance shall be on filed in
the office of the Village Clerk and available for inspection by members of the
public during the hours the office is open for the ordinary transaction of
business. The Clerk shall file a copy of the Code of Ordinances with the
Merrick County Court.
   Section 6.   This ordinance shall take effect from and after its passage,
approval, and publication according to law.
   Passed and approved this 13th day of March, 2024.
                                 Norm Manstedt /s/
                                 Chairperson
(SEAL)
Kari Podliska /s/
Kari Podliska, Village Clerk
ORDINANCE NO. 755
AN ORDINANCE ENACTING A CODE OF ORDINANCES FOR THE VILLAGE OF CLARKS, NEBRASKA,
REVISING, AMENDING, RESTATING, CODIFYING AND COMPILING CERTAIN EXISTING GENERAL
ORDINANCES OF THE POLITICAL SUBDIVISION DEALING WITH SUBJECTS EMBRACED IN SUCH
CODE OF ORDINANCES.
   WHEREAS, the Acts of the Legislature of the State of Nebraska empower and
authorize the political subdivision to revise, amend, restate, codify, and
compile any existing ordinances and all new ordinances not heretofore adopted
or published and to incorporate such ordinances into book form; and
   WHEREAS, the Village Board of Trustees for the Village of Clarks has
authorized a general compilation, revision and codification of the ordinances
of the Village of Clarks of a general and permanent nature and publication of
such ordinance in book form.
   NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CHAIRPERSON AND BOARD OF TRUSTEES OF
THE VILLAGE OF CLARKS, NEBRASKA, AS FOLLOWS:
   SECTION 1.   The general ordinances of the Village of Clarks, Nebraska, as
revised, amended, restated, codified and compiled in book form are hereby
adopted and shall constitute the “Code of Ordinances of the Village of Clarks,
Nebraska.”
   SECTION 2.   All prior ordinances pertaining to the subjects treated in such
Code of Ordinances shall be deemed repealed from and after the effective date
of this ordinance except that as they are included and reordained in whole or
in part in such Code; provided, such repeal shall not affect any offense
committed or penalty incurred or any right established prior to the effective
date of this ordinance, nor shall such repeal affect the provisions of
ordinances levying taxes, appropriating money, annexing or detaching territory,
establishing franchises, or granting special rights to certain persons,
authorizing public improvements, authorizing the issuance of bonds or borrowing
of money, authorizing the purchase or sale of real or personal property,
granting or accepting easements, plat or dedication of land to public use,
vacating or setting the boundaries of streets or other public places; nor shall
such repeal affect any other ordinance of a temporary or special nature or
pertaining to subjects not contained in or covered by the Code.
   SECTION 3.   All boards, commissions, councils, and other such bodies as
established in ordinances or resolutions adopted prior to the adoption of the
Code of Ordinances shall continue in existence and number of members unless
specifically amended in the Code of Ordinances or until an ordinance
abolishing, establishing, or otherwise changing such bodies is adopted or
amended. All fees and charges established in ordinances or resolutions adopted
prior to the adoption of the Code of Ordinance shall remain in effect unless
amended in the Code of Ordinances or until an ordinance adopting a schedule of
fees and charges is adopted or amended.
   SECTION 4.   At least one copy of the Code of Ordinance shall be on filed in
the office of the Village Clerk and available for inspection by members of the
public during the hours the office is open for the ordinary transaction of
business. The Clerk shall file a copy of the Code of Ordinances with the County
Court. Such Code shall be deemed published as of the day of its adoption and
approval by the Village Board of Trustees for the Village of Clarks, Nebraska.
   SECTION 5.   Such Code shall be in full force and effect fifteen (15) days
after the passage of this ordinance.
   PASSED AND APPROVED this 11th day of December, 2024.
                                 James Parsons /s/
                                 Chairperson
Attest:
Kari Podliska /s/
Kari Podliska, Village Clerk
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
   Chapter
      
10.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
11.   VILLAGE STANDARDS
CHAPTER 10: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
10.01   Title of code
   
10.02   Interpretation
   
10.03   Application to future ordinances
   
10.04   Captions
   
10.05   Definitions
   
10.06   Rules of interpretation
   
10.07   Severability
   
10.08   Reference to other sections
   
10.09   Reference to offices
   
10.10   Errors and omissions
   
10.11   Official time
   
10.12   Reasonable time
   
10.13   Ordinances repealed
   
10.14   Ordinances unaffected
   
10.15   Repeal or modification of ordinance
   
10.16   Section histories; statutory references
   
10.17   Local changes to this code of ordinances
 
   
10.99   General penalty
§ 10.01 TITLE OF CODE.
   This codification of ordinances shall be designated as the Village of Clarks
Code of Ordinances and may be so cited.
§ 10.02 INTERPRETATION.
   Unless otherwise provided herein, or by law or implication required, the
same rules of construction, definition, and application shall govern the
interpretation of this code as those governing the interpretation of state law.
§ 10.03 APPLICATION TO FUTURE ORDINANCES.
   All provisions of Title I compatible with future legislation shall apply to
ordinances hereafter adopted amending or supplementing this code unless
otherwise specifically provided.
§ 10.04 CAPTIONS.
   Headings and captions used in this code other than the title, chapter, and
section numbers are employed for reference purposes only and shall not be
deemed a part of the text of any section.
§ 10.05 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   General rule. Words and phrases shall be taken in their plain, or
ordinary and usual sense. However, technical words and phrases having a
peculiar and appropriate meaning in law shall be understood according to their
technical import.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this code, the following definitions
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      BOARD OF TRUSTEES, VILLAGE BOARD, or GOVERNING BODY. The legislative body
of the village.
      CODE, THIS CODE, or THIS CODE OF ORDINANCES. This village code as
modified by amendment, revision, and adoption of new titles, chapters, or
sections.
      COUNTY. Merrick County, Nebraska.
      MAY. The act referred to is permissive.
      MONTH. A calendar month.
      OATH. Includes an affirmation in all cases in which, by law, an
affirmation may be substituted for an oath, and in such cases the words SWEAR
and SWORN shall be equivalent to the words AFFIRM and AFFIRMED.
      OFFICER, OFFICE, EMPLOYEE, COMMISSION, or DEPARTMENT. An officer, office,
employee, commission, or department of this village unless the context clearly
requires otherwise.
      PERSON. Includes bodies politic and corporate, societies, communities,
the public generally, individuals, partnerships, limited liability companies,
joint-stock companies, and associations.
(Neb. RS 49-801(16))
      PRECEDING or FOLLOWING. Next before or next after, respectively.
      SHALL. The act referred to is mandatory.
      SIGNATURE or SUBSCRIPTION. Includes a mark when the person cannot write.
      STATE. The State of Nebraska.
      SUBCHAPTER. A division of a chapter, designated in this code by a heading
in the chapter analysis and a capitalized heading in the body of the chapter,
setting apart a group of sections related by the subject matter of the heading.
Not all chapters have SUBCHAPTERS.
      VILLAGE, MUNICIPAL CORPORATION, or MUNICIPALITY. The Village of Clarks,
Nebraska.
      WRITTEN. Any representation of words, letters, or figures, whether by
printing or otherwise.
      YEAR. A calendar year, unless otherwise expressed.
§ 10.06 RULES OF INTERPRETATION.
   The construction of all ordinances of this village shall be by the following
rules, unless that construction is plainly repugnant to the intent of the
Village Board or of the context of the same ordinance.
   (A)   AND or OR. Either conjunction shall include the other as if written
“and/or,” if the sense requires it.
   (B)   Acts by assistants. When a statute or ordinance requires an act to be
done which, by law, an agent or deputy as well may do as the principal, the
requisition shall be satisfied by the performance of the act by an authorized
agent or deputy.
   (C)   Gender; singular and plural; tenses. Words denoting the masculine
gender shall be deemed to include the feminine and neuter genders; words in the
singular shall include the plural, and words in the plural shall include the
singular; the use of a verb in the present tense shall include the future, if
applicable.
   (D)   General term. A general term following specific enumeration of terms
is not to be limited to the class enumerated unless expressly so limited.
§ 10.07 SEVERABILITY.
   If any provision of this code as now or later amended or its application to
any person or circumstance is held invalid, the invalidity does not affect
other provisions that can be given effect without the invalid provision or
application.
§ 10.08 REFERENCE TO OTHER SECTIONS.
   Whenever a section refers to another section hereof, that reference shall
extend and apply to the section referred to as subsequently amended, revised,
recodified, or renumbered unless the subject matter is materially altered by
the amendment or revision.
§ 10.09 REFERENCE TO OFFICES.
   Reference to a public office or officer shall be deemed to apply to any
office, officer, or employee of this village exercising the powers, duties, or
functions contemplated in the provision, irrespective of any transfer of
functions or change in the official title of the functionary.
§ 10.10 ERRORS AND OMISSIONS.
   If a manifest error is discovered, consisting of the misspelling of any
words; the omission of any word or words necessary to express the intention of
the provisions affected; the use of a word or words to which no meaning can be
attached; or the use of a word or words when another word or words was clearly
intended to express the intent, the spelling shall be corrected and the word or
words supplied, omitted, or substituted as will conform with the manifest
intention, and the provisions shall have the same effect as though the correct
words were contained in the text as originally published. No alteration shall
be made or permitted if any question exists regarding the nature or extent of
the error.
§ 10.11 OFFICIAL TIME.
   The official time, as established by applicable state/federal laws, shall be
the official time within this village for the transaction of all village
business.
§ 10.12 REASONABLE TIME.
   (A)   In all cases where an ordinance requires an act to be done in a
reasonable time or requires reasonable notice to be given, REASONABLE TIME OR
NOTICE shall be deemed to mean the time which is necessary for a prompt
performance of the act or the giving of the notice.
   (B)   The time within which an act is to be done, as herein provided, shall
be computed by excluding the first day and including the last. If the last day
is Sunday, it shall be excluded.
§ 10.13 ORDINANCES REPEALED.
   This code contains all of the provisions of a general nature pertaining to
the subjects enumerated and embraced in this code. All prior ordinances
pertaining to the subjects treated by this code are repealed, except that
nothing shall affect any rights acquired under, actions involving, or fines,
penalties, forfeitures, or liabilities incurred pursuant to those ordinances
prior to repeal.
§ 10.14 ORDINANCES UNAFFECTED.
   All ordinances of a temporary or special nature and all other ordinances
pertaining to subjects not embraced in this code, including ordinances
specified in this section, shall remain in full force and effect unless
repealed expressly or by necessary implication:
   (A)   Vacating or setting the boundaries of streets, alleys, or other public
places;
   (B)   Annexing or detaching territory;
   (C)   Granting or accepting easements, plats, or dedication of land to
public use;
   (D)   Providing for the acquisition or conveyance of real or personal
property;
   (E)   Authorizing or directing public improvements to be made;
   (F)   Levying taxes or special assessments;
   (G)   Appropriating money;
   (H)   Granting franchises or special licenses; or
   (I)   Providing for the issuance of bonds or other instruments of
indebtedness.
§ 10.15 REPEAL OR MODIFICATION OF ORDINANCE.
   (A)   Whenever any ordinance or part of an ordinance is repealed or modified
by a subsequent ordinance, the ordinance or part of an ordinance thus repealed
or modified shall continue in force until the publication of the ordinance
repealing or modifying it to give effect thereto.
   (B)   No suit, proceedings, right, liability, fine, forfeiture, or penalty
instituted, created, given, secured, or accrued under any ordinance previous to
its repeal shall in any way be affected, released, or discharged, but may be
prosecuted, enjoyed, and recovered as fully as if the ordinance had continued
in force, unless it is otherwise expressly provided.
   (C)   When any ordinance repealing a former ordinance, clause, or provision
is itself repealed, the repeal shall not be construed to revive the former
ordinance, clause, or provision, unless it is expressly provided.
Statutory reference:
   Requirements for amendments and revisions, see Neb. RS 17-614
§ 10.16 SECTION HISTORIES; STATUTORY REFERENCES.
   (A)   A statutory cite included in the history indicates that the text of
the section reads substantially the same as the statute.
      Example: (Neb. RS 18-132)
   (B)   A statutory cite set forth as a “statutory reference” following the
text of the section indicates that the reader should refer to that statute for
further information.
      Example:
         § 39.01 PUBLIC RECORDS AVAILABLE.
            This municipality shall make available to any person for inspection
or copying all public records, unless otherwise exempted by state law.
         Statutory reference:
            Inspection of public records, see Neb. RS 84-712 et seq.
§ 10.17 LOCAL CHANGES TO THIS CODE OF ORDINANCES.
   Any provision of this code of ordinances may be repealed, modified or
superseded by an ordinance passed by the Village Board.
§ 10.99 GENERAL PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who violates any of the provisions of this village code,
unless otherwise specifically provided herein, shall be deemed guilty of an
offense and upon conviction thereof shall be fined in any sum not exceeding
$500. A new violation shall be deemed to have been committed every 24 hours of
failure to comply with the provisions of this code.
   (B)   (1)   Whenever a nuisance exists as defined in Title IX of this code,
the village may proceed by a suit in equity to enjoin and abate the same, in
the manner provided by law.
      (2)   Whenever, in any action, it is established that a nuisance exists,
the court may, together with the fine or penalty imposed, enter an order of
abatement as a part of the judgment in the case.
Statutory reference:
   Authority to abate nuisances, see Neb. RS 18-1720 and 18-1722
   Authority to impose fines, see Neb. RS 17-207 and 17-505
CHAPTER 11: VILLAGE STANDARDS
Section
   
11.01   Corporate seal
§ 11.01 CORPORATE SEAL.
   The official corporate seal of the village shall be kept in the office of
the Village Clerk, and shall bear the following inscription, “Clarks, Village
Seal, Merrick County, Nebraska.” The Village Clerk shall affix an impression of
the said official seal to all warrants, licenses, permits, ordinances, and all
other official papers issued by order of the Board of Trustees and
countersigned by the Village Clerk.
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-502
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
   Chapter
      
30.   ELECTED OFFICIALS; ORDINANCES
      
31.   APPOINTED VILLAGE OFFICIALS
      
32.   DEPARTMENTS, BOARDS, AND COMMISSIONS
      
33.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
34.   FINANCE AND REVENUE
      
35.   GENERAL ADMINISTRATIVE POLICIES
CHAPTER 30: ELECTED OFFICIALS; ORDINANCES
Section
Board of Trustees
   
30.01   Election; terms; qualifications
   
30.02   General powers
   
30.03   Oath; organization; Chairperson
   
30.04   Chairperson; powers and duties; absence
   
30.05   Standing committees
   
30.06   Vacancy; general provisions
   
30.07   Vacancy due to unexcused absences
Ordinances, Resolutions, and Motions
   
30.35   Grant of power
   
30.36   Procedure for resolutions and motions
   
30.37   Introduction of ordinances
   
30.38   Ordinances; style, title
   
30.39   Reading and passage of ordinances, resolutions, orders, bylaws
   
30.40   Publication or posting
   
30.41   Certificate of publication or posting
   
30.42   Effective date; emergency ordinances
   
30.43   Amendments and revisions
BOARD OF TRUSTEES
§ 30.01 ELECTION; TERMS; QUALIFICATIONS.
   (A)   The corporate powers and duties of the village shall be vested in a
Board of Trustees which shall consist of five members. At the first statewide
general election held after the incorporation of the village, two Trustees
shall be elected to serve two years and three Trustees shall be elected to
serve four years. Thereafter the Board members shall be elected as provided in
the Election Act. The terms shall begin on the first regular meeting of the
Board in December following the statewide general election.
(Neb. RS 17-202)
   (B)   The members of the Board of Trustees shall be elected at the statewide
general election as provided in division (A) above and each four years
thereafter. Except as provided in that division, the term of each Board member
shall be four years or until his or her successor is elected and qualified.
(Neb. RS 32-532)
   (C)   Any person may be a Trustee who is a citizen of the United States,
resides in the village, and is a registered voter.
(Neb. RS 17-203)
   (D)   Unless the village provides otherwise, members of the Board of
Trustees shall be elected from the village at large on a nonpartisan ballot.
   (E)   The Board of Trustees shall determine whether the person meets all
requirements before swearing in a Trustee.
(Neb. RS 32-602)
Statutory reference:
   Ability to elect Trustees at large or by ward, see Neb. RS 32-554
   Ability to provide for a partisan ballot, see Neb. RS 32-557
   Election Act, see Neb. RS 32-101
   Holding other office or employment, see Neb. RS 17-209.02 and 32-604
§ 30.02 GENERAL POWERS.
   (A)   The village Board of Trustees shall have the power to pass ordinances:
      (1)   To prevent and remove nuisances within the village or within its
one-mile zoning jurisdiction;
      (2)   To restrain and prohibit gambling;
      (3)   To provide for licensing and regulating theatrical and other
amusements within the village;
      (4)   To prevent the introduction and spread of contagious diseases;
      (5)   To establish and regulate markets;
      (6)   To erect and repair bridges;
      (7)   To erect, repair, and regulate wharves;
      (8)   To regulate the landing of watercraft;
      (9)   To provide for the inspection of building materials to be used or
offered for sale in the village;
      (10)   To govern the planting and protection of shade trees in the
streets and the building of structures projecting upon or over and adjoining,
and all excavations through and under, the sidewalks of the village;
      (11)   To maintain the peace, good government, and welfare of the village
and its trade and commerce; and
      (12)   To enforce all ordinances by inflicting penalties upon inhabitants
or other persons for violation of such ordinances not exceeding $500 for any
one offense, recoverable with costs.
(Neb. RS 17-207)
   (B)   The village has the power and authority by ordinance to define,
regulate, suppress, and prevent nuisances, and to declare what constitutes a
nuisance, and to abate and remove the same. The village may exercise this power
and authority within its corporate limits and extraterritorial zoning
jurisdiction.
   (C)   The village may enter into an interlocal agreement pursuant to the
Interlocal Cooperation Act with a county in which the extraterritorial zoning
jurisdiction of the city or village is located to provide for joint and
cooperative action to abate, remove, or prevent nuisances within such
extraterritorial zoning jurisdiction. The governing body of such city or
village and the county board of such county shall first approve such interlocal
agreement by ordinance or resolution.
(Neb. RS 18-1720)
§ 30.03 OATH; ORGANIZATION; CHAIRPERSON.
   Every village Trustee, before entering upon the duties of his or her office,
shall take an oath to support the Constitution of the United States and the
Constitution of Nebraska and faithfully and impartially to discharge the duties
of his or her office. All Trustees elected to office shall qualify and meet on
the first regular meeting of the Board of Trustees in December thereafter,
organize, elect a Chairperson of the Board of Trustees, and appoint the
officers required by law.
(Neb. RS 17-204)
Statutory reference:
   Oath, see Neb. RS 11-101
§ 30.04 CHAIRPERSON; POWERS AND DUTIES; ABSENCE.
   (A)   The Chairperson shall preside at all meetings of the Board of Trustees
and perform all duties of his or her office in accordance with the laws of the
state and the ordinances of the village.
   (B)   The Chairperson of the Board of Trustees shall cause the ordinances of
the Board to be printed and published for the information of the inhabitants
and cause such ordinances to be carried into effect. In the absence of the
Chairperson from any meeting of the Board, the Board shall have power to
appoint a Chairperson pro tempore, who shall exercise and have the powers and
perform the same duties as the regular Chairperson.
(Neb. RS 17-210)
   (C)   The Chairperson and the Chairperson pro tempore shall have the same
powers and privileges as other members of the Board of Trustees.
§ 30.05 STANDING COMMITTEES.
   (A)   At the organizational meeting of the Board of Trustees each year, the
Chairperson shall appoint members of those standing committees as the Board may
create by ordinance or resolution. The membership of the standing committees
may be changed at any time by the Chairperson. The Chairperson shall be an ex
officio member of each standing committee. The members of the standing
committees shall serve terms of office of one year, unless reappointed.
   (B)   The standing committees shall be appointed or reappointed each year
until changed by the Board of Trustees.
§ 30.06 VACANCY; GENERAL PROVISIONS.
   (A)   Every elective office shall be vacant upon the happening of any of the
events specified in Neb. RS 32-560 except as provided in Neb. RS 32-561.
   (B)   (1)   Except as otherwise provided in division (C) or (D) below,
vacancies in village elected offices shall be filled by the Board of Trustees
for the balance of the unexpired term. Notice of a vacancy, except a vacancy
resulting from the death of the incumbent, shall be in writing and presented to
the Board at a regular or special meeting and shall appear as a part of the
minutes of that meeting. The Board shall at once give public notice of the
vacancy by causing to be published in a newspaper of general circulation within
the village or by posting in three public places in the village the office
vacated and the length of the unexpired term.
      (2)   The Chairperson of the Board shall call a special meeting of the
Board or place the issue of filling the vacancy on the agenda at the next
regular meeting at which time the Chairperson shall submit the name of a
qualified registered voter to fill the vacancy for the balance of the unexpired
term. The regular or special meeting shall occur upon the death of the
incumbent, or within four weeks after the meeting at which such notice of
vacancy has been presented. The Board shall vote upon the nominee, and if a
majority votes in favor of the nominee, the vacancy shall be declared filled.
If the nominee fails to receive a majority of the votes, the nomination shall
be rejected and the Chairperson shall, at the next regular or special meeting,
submit the name of another qualified registered voter to fill the vacancy. If
the subsequent nominee fails to receive a majority of the votes, the
Chairperson shall continue at that meeting to submit the names of qualified
registered voters in nomination and the Board shall continue to vote upon the
nominations at such meeting until the vacancy is filled. All Trustees present
shall cast a ballot for or against the nominee. Any member of the Board who has
been appointed to fill a vacancy on the Board shall have the same rights,
including voting, as if that person were elected.
   (C)   The Chairperson and Board of Trustees may, in lieu of filling a
vacancy in a village elected office as provided in division (B) above, call a
special election to fill that vacancy.
   (D)   If vacancies exist in the offices of one-half or more of the members
of the Board of Trustees, the Secretary of State shall conduct a special
village election to fill those vacancies.
(Neb. RS 32-569)
Statutory reference:
   Additional and similar provisions, see Neb. RS 32-560 through 32-572
   Ineligibility of official subjected to recall, see Neb. RS 32-1308
§ 30.07 VACANCY DUE TO UNEXCUSED ABSENCES.
   (A)   In addition to the events listed in Neb. RS 32-560 and any other
reasons for a vacancy provided by law, after notice and a hearing, a vacancy on
the Board of Trustees shall exist if a member is absent from more than five
consecutive regular meetings of the Board unless the absences are excused by a
majority vote of the remaining members.
(Neb. RS 19-3101)
   (B)   The Board shall take a vote on whether to excuse a member’s absence
from a meeting upon either:
      (1)   A written request from the member submitted to the Village Clerk;
or
      (2)   A motion of any other Board member.
   (C)   If a member has been absent from six consecutive regular meetings and
none of the absences have been excused by a majority vote of the remaining
members, the Clerk shall include this as an item on the agenda for the next
regular meeting. At that meeting, the Board shall set a date for a hearing and
direct the Clerk to give the member notice of the hearing by personal service
or first class mail to the member’s last known address.
   (D)   At the hearing, the Board member shall have the right to present
information on why one or more of the absences should be excused. If the Board
does not excuse one or more of the member’s absences by a majority vote at the
conclusion of the hearing, there shall be a vacancy on the Board.
ORDINANCES, RESOLUTIONS, AND MOTIONS
§ 30.35 GRANT OF POWER.
   In addition to its special powers, the village shall have the power to make
all ordinances, bylaws, rules, regulations, and resolutions, not inconsistent
with the laws of the state, as may be expedient for maintaining the peace, good
government, and welfare of the village and its trade and commerce and to
enforce all ordinances by inflicting fines or penalties for the breach thereof,
not exceeding $500 for any one offense, recoverable with costs.
(Neb. RS 17-505)
Statutory reference:
   Adoption of standard codes, see Neb. RS 18-132 and 19-922
   Prosecution in county court, see Neb. RS 25-2703
§ 30.36 PROCEDURE FOR RESOLUTIONS AND MOTIONS.
   Unless the Board of Trustees has specified other procedures, resolutions and
motions shall be introduced in one of the methods prescribed in §
30.37 for the introduction of ordinances. The issue raised by the resolution or
motion shall be disposed of in accordance with the usage of parliamentary law
adopted for the guidance of the Board of Trustees. A majority vote shall be
required to pass any resolution or motion. The vote on any resolution or motion
shall be by roll call vote.
§ 30.37 INTRODUCTION OF ORDINANCES.
   Unless the Board of Trustees has specified other procedures, ordinances
shall be introduced by members of the Board of Trustees in one of the following
ways:
   (A)   With the recognition of the Chairperson, a member may, in the presence
and hearing of a majority of the members elected to the Board of Trustees, read
aloud the substance of the proposed ordinance and file a copy with the Village
Clerk for future consideration; or
   (B)   With the recognition of the Chairperson, a member may present the
proposed ordinance to the Clerk who, in the presence and hearing of a majority
of the members elected to the Board of Trustees, shall read aloud the substance
of the ordinance and file it for future consideration.
§ 30.38 ORDINANCES; STYLE, TITLE.
   (A)   The style of all village ordinances shall be: “Be it ordained by the
Chairperson and Board of Trustees of the Village of Clarks, Nebraska:....”
(Neb. RS 17-613)
   (B)   No ordinance shall contain a subject which is not clearly expressed in
the title.
(Neb. RS 17-614)
§ 30.39 READING AND PASSAGE OF ORDINANCES, RESOLUTIONS, ORDERS, BYLAWS.
   (A)   All ordinances and resolutions or orders for the appropriation or
payment of money shall require for their passage or adoption the concurrence of
a majority of all elected members of the Board of Trustees. Ordinances of a
general or permanent nature shall be read by title on three different days
unless three-fourths of the Board of Trustees vote to suspend this requirement.
Such requirement shall not be suspended for any ordinance for the annexation of
territory, or the redrawing of boundaries for village board of trustees
election districts or wards or as otherwise provided by law. In case this
requirement is suspended, the ordinance shall be read by title and then moved
for final passage. Three-fourths of the Board of Trustees may require a reading
of any such ordinance in full before enactment under either procedure set out
in this section.
(Neb. RS 17-614)
   (B)   On the passage or adoption of every bylaw or ordinance, and every
resolution or order to enter into a contract by the Board of Trustees, the yeas
and nays shall be called and recorded. To pass or adopt any bylaw, ordinance,
or any such resolution or order a concurrence of a majority of the whole number
of members elected to the Board of Trustees shall be required. All appointments
of the officers by the Board of Trustees shall be made viva voce, and the
concurrence of a like majority shall be required, and the names of those, and
for whom they voted, on the vote resulting in an appointment, shall be
recorded. The requirements of a roll call or viva voce vote shall be satisfied
by a village which utilizes an electronic voting device which allows the yeas
and nays of each member of the Board of Trustees to be readily seen by the
public.
(Neb. RS 17-616)
Statutory reference:
   Adjustments to boundaries of election districts, see Neb. RS 17-614
§ 30.40 PUBLICATION OR POSTING.
   All ordinances of a general nature shall, before they take effect, be
published within 15 days after they are passed:
   (A)   In legal newspaper in or of general circulation in the village or, if
no paper is published in the village, then by posting a written or printed copy
in each of three public places in the village; or
   (B)   In book, pamphlet, or electronic form.
(Neb. RS 17-613)
Statutory reference:
   Chairperson of Board of Trustees; duties, see Neb. RS 17-210
   Additional provisions, see Neb. RS 18-131
§ 30.41 CERTIFICATE OF PUBLICATION OR POSTING.
   The passage, approval, and publication or posting of an ordinance shall be
sufficiently proved by a certificate under the seal of the village from the
Village Clerk showing that the ordinance was passed and approved, and when and
in what paper the ordinance was published, or when and by whom and where the
ordinance was posted.
(Neb. RS 17-613)
Statutory reference:
   Passage; rules and regulations, see Neb. RS 17-615
§ 30.42 EFFECTIVE DATE; EMERGENCY ORDINANCES.
   (A)   Except as provided in §
30.40 and division (B) below, an ordinance for the government of the village
which has been adopted by the Board of Trustees without submission to the
voters of the village shall not go into effect until 15 days after the passage
of the ordinance.
(Neb. RS 19-3701)
   (B)   In the case of riot, infectious or contagious diseases, or other
impending danger, failure of a public utility, or any other emergency requiring
its immediate operation, an ordinance shall take effect upon the proclamation
of the Chairperson and the posting thereof in at least three of the most public
places in the village. The emergency ordinance shall recite the emergency, be
passed by a three-fourths vote of the Board of Trustees, and be entered of
record on the Village Clerk’s minutes.
(Neb. RS 17-613)
§ 30.43 AMENDMENTS AND REVISIONS.
   No ordinance or section thereof shall be revised or amended unless the new
ordinance contains the entire ordinance or section as revised or amended and
the ordinance or section so amended is repealed, except that an ordinance
revising all the ordinances of the village and modifications to zoning or
building districts may be adopted as otherwise provided by law.
(Neb. RS 17-614)
Statutory reference:
   Modifications to zoning or building districts, see Neb. RS 19-915
   Ordinances revising all the ordinances of the village, see Neb. RS 17-614
CHAPTER 31: APPOINTED VILLAGE OFFICIALS
Section
   
31.01   Appointment; terms; removal; powers; duties
   
31.02   Qualification for office
   
31.03   Merger of offices
   
31.04   Village Clerk
   
31.05   Village Treasurer
   
31.06   Village Attorney
   
31.07   Overseer of Streets
   
31.08   Village Chief of Police
   
31.09   Fire Chief
   
31.10   Water Commissioner/Public Works Commissioner
   
31.11   Village Engineer; Special Engineer
   
31.12   Village Marshal
   
31.13   Village Police
   
31.14   Code Enforcement Officer
§ 31.01 APPOINTMENT; TERMS; REMOVAL; POWERS; DUTIES.
   (A)   (1)   The Board of Trustees may appoint a Village Clerk, Treasurer,
Attorney, Engineer, Overseer of the Streets, and Chief of Police, and other
such officers as shall be required by ordinance or otherwise required by law.
Pursuant to division (A)(2) below, the Village Chief of Police or any other
police officer may appeal to the Village Board his or her removal, demotion, or
suspension with or without pay. After a hearing, the Village Board of Trustees
may uphold, reverse, or modify the action.
      (2) The Village Board of Trustees shall by ordinance adopt rules and
regulations governing the removal, demotion, or suspension with or without pay
of any police officer, including the Chief of Police, in accordance with the
requirements of Neb. RS 17-208. Nothing in this section shall be construed to
prevent the preemptory suspension or immediate removal from duty of an officer
by the appropriate authority, pending the hearing authorized by this section,
in cases of gross misconduct, neglect of duty, or disobedience of orders.
      (3)   Division (A)(2) above does not apply to a police officer during his
or her probationary period.
   (B)   The Village Clerk, Treasurer, Attorney, Overseer of the Streets,
members of the Board of Health, and other appointed officers, except regular
police officers, shall hold office for one year unless removed by the
Chairperson of the Village Board with the advice and consent of the Trustees.
(Neb. RS 17-208)
   (C)   (1)   The village may enact ordinances or bylaws to regulate and
prescribe the powers and duties of officers not provided for in state law.
(Neb. RS 17-604)
      (2)   If the Village Board of Trustees appoints any of the officials
specified in this chapter or any other officials, the officials shall have the
powers and duties, if any, provided in this chapter or as otherwise provided by
village ordinances and state law.
§ 31.02 QUALIFICATION FOR OFFICE.
   Each appointive officer who is required to give bond shall qualify by filing
the required bond and oath as provided in §§
33.30 and
33.31. Each appointive officer who is not required to give bond shall qualify
by filing the required oath as provided in §
33.31.
§ 31.03 MERGER OF OFFICES.
   (A)   (1)   The Board of Trustees may, by ordinance, combine or merge any
elective or appointive village office or village employment or any combination
of duties of any such offices or employments, except that the office of Trustee
shall not be combined or merged with any other village office or village
employment except as provided in division (B) below.
      (2)   The village offices or village employments combined or merged shall
always be construed to be separate and the effect of the combination or merger
shall be limited to a consolidation of official duties only.
   (B)   (1)   The office of Trustee shall not be combined or merged with any
other village office or village employment, except that a member of the Board
of Trustees may receive compensation to perform seasonal or emergency work upon
approval by the Board of Trustees.
      (2)   No member of the Board of Trustees shall receive compensation from
the village in excess of the maximum amount provided by law.
   (C)   For purposes of this section, volunteer firefighters and volunteer
rescue squad personnel shall not be considered village officers.
(Neb. RS 17-209.02)
§ 31.04 VILLAGE CLERK.
   (A)   The Village Clerk shall have the custody of all laws and ordinances
and shall keep a correct journal of the proceedings of the Board of Trustees.
After the period of time specified by the State Records Administrator pursuant
to the Records Management Act, the Clerk may transfer the journal of the
proceedings of the Board of Trustees to the State Archives of the Nebraska
State Historical Society for permanent preservation. The Clerk shall also
perform such other duties as may be required by the ordinances of the village.
If the Clerk is acting as the Treasurer, he or she shall also comply with the
requirements of §
31.05(A)(3).
(Neb. RS 17-605)
   (B)   (1)   It shall be the duty of the Clerk to prepare and publish the
official proceedings of the Board of Trustees within 30 days after any meeting
of the Board. The publication shall be in a newspaper of general circulation in
the village, shall set forth a statement of the proceedings of the meeting, and
shall also include the amount of each claim allowed, the purpose of the claim,
and the name of the claimant, except that the aggregate amount of all payroll
claims may be included as one item. Between July 15 and August 15 of each year,
the employee job titles and the current annual, monthly, or hourly salaries
corresponding to such job titles shall be published. Each job title published
shall be descriptive and indicative of the duties and functions of the
position. The charge for the publication shall not exceed the rates provided
for in Neb. RS 23-122.
(Neb. RS 19-1102)
      (2)   Publication under division (B)(1) above shall be made in one legal
newspaper of general circulation in the village. If no legal newspaper is
published in the village, then the publication shall be made in one legal
newspaper published or of general circulation within the county in which the
village is located. The cost of publication shall be paid out of the general
funds of the village.
(Neb. RS 19-1103)
   (C)   The Clerk shall dispose of or destroy village public records when the
records have been determined to be of no further legal, administrative, fiscal,
or historical value by the State Records Administrator pursuant to the Records
Management Act. This shall not apply to the minutes of the Clerk and the
permanent ordinance and resolution books, or any other record classified as
permanent by the State Records Administrator.
(Neb. RS 18-1701)
   (D)   (1)   The Clerk shall permit any person to examine and copy the public
records in the Clerk’s custody, and may charge a fee for providing copies of a
public record, as provided in Neb. RS 84-712 through 84-712.09.
      (2)   The Clerk may charge a reasonable fee for certified copies of any
record in his or her office as set by resolution of the Board of Trustees.
   (E)   The Clerk shall permit no records, public papers, or other documents
of the village kept and preserved in his or her office to be taken therefrom,
except by such officers of the village as may be entitled to the use of the
same, but only upon their leaving a receipt therefor, and except pursuant to
Neb. RS 84-712(2). He or she shall keep all the records of his or her office,
including a record of all licenses issued by him or her, in a blank book with a
proper index. He or she shall include as part of his or her records all
petitions under which the Board of Trustees shall order public work to be done
at the expense of the property fronting thereon, together with references to
all resolutions and ordinances relating to the same. He or she shall endorse
the date and hour of filing upon every paper or document so filed in his or her
office. All such filings made by him or her shall be properly docketed.
Included in his or her records shall be all standard codes, amendments thereto,
and other documents incorporated by reference and arranged in triplicate in a
manner convenient for reference. He or she shall keep an accurate and complete
account of the appropriation of the several funds and draw, sign, and attest
all warrants ordered for the payment of money on the particular fund from which
the same is payable. At the end of each month, he or she shall then make a
report of the amounts appropriated to the various funds and the amount of the
warrants drawn thereon.
   (F)   The Clerk shall deliver all warrants, ordinances, and resolutions
under his or her charge to the Chairperson for his or her signature. He or she
shall also deliver to officers, employees, and committees all resolutions and
communications which are directed at such officers, employees, or committees.
With the seal of the village, he or she shall duly attest the Chairperson’s
signature to all ordinances, deeds, and papers required to be attested to when
ordered to do so by the Board of Trustees.
   (G)   The Clerk shall issue and sign all licenses, permits, and occupation
tax receipts authorized by law and required by the village ordinances. He or
she shall collect all occupation taxes and license money, except where some
other village officer is specifically charged with that duty. He or she shall
keep a register of all licenses granted in the village and the purpose for
which they have been issued.
   (H)   The Clerk shall keep in a book with a proper index, copies of all
notices required to be published or posted by the Clerk by order of the Board
of Trustees or under the ordinances of the village. To each of the file copies
of the notices shall be attached the printer’s affidavit of publication, if the
notices are required to be published, or the Clerk’s certificate under seal
where the same are required to be posted only.
   (I)   The Clerk shall receive all objections to creation of paving districts
and other street improvements. He or she shall receive the claims of any person
against the village, and in the event that the claim is disallowed in part or
in whole, the Clerk shall notify the claimant or his or her agent or attorney
by letter within five days after the disallowance, and the Clerk shall then
prepare transcripts on appeals of any disallowance of a claim in all proper
cases.
§ 31.05 VILLAGE TREASURER.
   (A)   (1)   The Village Treasurer shall be the custodian of all money
belonging to the village. He or she shall keep a separate account of each fund
or appropriation and the debts and credits belonging thereto. He or she shall
give every person paying money into the treasury a receipt for such money,
specifying the date of payment and on what account paid. He or she shall also
file copies of such receipts with his or her monthly reports. The Treasurer
shall, at the end of every month, and as often as may be required, render an
account to the Board of Trustees, under oath, showing the state of the treasury
at the date of such account and the balance of money in the treasury. He or she
shall also accompany such accounts with a statement of all receipts and
disbursements, together with all warrants redeemed and paid by him or her,
which warrants, with any and all vouchers held by him or her, shall be filed
with his or her account in the Village Clerk’s office. If the Treasurer fails
to render his or her account within 20 days after the end of the month, or by a
later date established by the Board of Trustees, the Chairperson with the
advice and consent of the Board may use this failure as cause to remove the
Treasurer from office.
      (2)   The Treasurer shall keep a record of all outstanding bonds against
the village, showing the number and amount of each bond, for and to whom the
bonds were issued, and the date upon which any bond is purchased, paid, or
canceled. He or she shall accompany the annual statement submitted pursuant to
Neb. RS 19-1101 with a description of the bonds issued and sold in that year
and the terms of sale, with every item of expense thereof.
      (3)   The Treasurer shall annually complete continuing education through
a program approved by the Auditor of Public Accounts, and proof of completion
of such program shall be submitted to the Auditor of Public Accounts.
(Neb. RS 17-606)
   (B)   (1)   The Treasurer shall prepare and publish annually within 60 days
after the close of the village fiscal year a statement of the receipts and
expenditures of funds of the village for the preceding fiscal year. The
statement shall also include the information required by Neb. RS 16-318(3) or
17-606(2). Not more than the legal rate provided for in Neb. RS 33-141 shall be
charged and paid for such publication.
(Neb. RS 19-1101)
      (2)   Publication shall be made in one legal newspaper of general
circulation in the village. If no legal newspaper is published in the village,
then such publication shall be made in one legal newspaper published or of
general circulation within the county in which the village is located.
(Neb. RS 19-1103)
   (C)   (1)   All warrants upon the Treasurer shall be paid in the order of
their presentation therefor and as otherwise provided in Neb. RS 77-2201
through 77-2215.
(Neb. RS 77-2201)
      (2)   The Treasurer shall keep a warrant register, which register shall
show in columns arranged for that purpose the number, the date, and the amount
of each warrant presented and registered, the particular fund upon which the
same is drawn, the date of presentation, the name and address of the person in
whose name the warrant is registered, the date of payment, the amount of
interest, and the total amount paid thereon, with the date when notice to the
person in whose name such warrant is registered is mailed.
(Neb. RS 77-2202)
      (3)   The Treasurer shall make duplicate receipts for all sums which
shall be paid into his or her office, which receipts shall show the source from
which such funds are derived, and shall, by distinct lines and columns, show
the amount received to the credit of each separate fund, and whether the same
was paid in cash, in warrants, or otherwise. The Treasurer shall deliver one of
the duplicates to the person making the payment and retain the other in his or
her office.
(Neb. RS 77-2209)
      (4)   The Treasurer shall daily, as money is received, foot the several
columns of the cash book and of the register, and carry the amounts forward,
and at the close of each year, in case the amount of money received by the
Treasurer is insufficient to pay the warrants registered, he or she shall close
the account for that year in the register and shall carry forward the excess.
(Neb. RS. 77-2210)
      (5)   The cash book, register, and retained receipts of the Treasurer
shall at all times be open to the inspection of any person in whose name any
warrants are registered and unpaid.
(Neb. RS 77-2212)
   (D)   The Treasurer shall permit any person to examine and copy the public
records in the Treasurer’s custody, and may charge a fee for providing copies
of a public record, as provided in Neb. RS 84-712 through 84-712.09.
   (E)   The Treasurer shall keep all money belonging to the village separate
and distinct from his or her own money. He or she shall cancel all bonds,
coupons, warrants, and other evidences of debt against the village, whenever
paid by him or her, by writing or stamping on the face thereof, “Paid by the
Village Treasurer,” with the date of payment written or stamped thereon. He or
she shall collect all special taxes, allocate special assessments to the
several owners, and obtain from the County Treasurer a monthly report as to the
collection of delinquent taxes.
§ 31.06 VILLAGE ATTORNEY.
   (A)   The Village Attorney shall be the legal advisor of the Board of
Trustees. He or she shall commence, prosecute, and defend all suits and actions
necessary to be commenced, prosecuted, or defended on behalf of the village, or
that may be ordered by the Board. When requested, he or she shall attend
meetings of the Board and give them his or her opinion upon any matters
submitted to him or her, either orally or in writing, as may be required. He or
she shall draft or review for legal correctness ordinances, contracts,
franchises, and other instruments as may be required, and he or she shall
perform such other duties as may be imposed upon him or her by general law or
ordinance. The Board shall have the right to pay the Village Attorney
compensation for legal services performed by him or her for it on such terms as
the Board and Attorney may agree, and to employ additional legal assistance and
to pay for such legal assistance out of the funds of the village.
(Neb. RS 17-610)
   (B)   The Village Attorney shall also examine, when requested to do so by
the Board of Trustees, the ordinance records and advise and assist the Village
Clerk as much as may be necessary to the end that each procedural step will be
taken in the passage of each ordinance to insure that it will be a valid and
subsisting local law in so far as its passage and approval are concerned.
§ 31.07 OVERSEER OF STREETS.
   The Overseer of Streets shall, subject to the order of the Board of
Trustees, have general charge, direction, and control of all works on streets,
sidewalks, culverts, and bridges of the village, and shall perform such other
duties as the Board may direct.
(Neb. RS 17-214)
Statutory reference:
   Incentive payments to street superintendents, see Neb. RS 39-2512
§ 31.08 VILLAGE CHIEF OF POLICE.
   (A)   The Village Chief of Police shall at all times have power to make or
order an arrest, with proper process, for any offense against the laws of the
state or ordinances of the village and bring the offender to trial before the
proper officer and to arrest without process in all cases where any such
offense shall be committed or attempted to be committed in his or her presence.
(Neb. RS 17-213)
   (B)   The Village Chief of Police shall direct the police work of the
village and shall be responsible for the maintenance of law and order. Unless
the Board of Trustees provides otherwise, he or she shall act as Health
Inspector and Building Inspector. He or she shall file the necessary complaints
in cases arising out of violations of village ordinances and shall make all
necessary reports required by the village ordinances or the laws of the state.
   (C)   If the village has an agreement with the County Sheriff for law
enforcement purposes, the County Sheriff shall have all the powers and duties
of the Village Chief of Police and village police officers as specified in the
agreement.
§ 31.09 FIRE CHIEF.
   The Fire Chief shall be elected by the members of the Fire Department. He or
she shall enforce all laws and ordinances covering the prevention of fires, the
storage and use of explosives and flammable substances, the installation of
fire alarm systems, the maintenance of fire extinguishing equipment, the
regulation of fire escapes, and the inspection of all premises requiring
adequate fire escapes.
Cross-reference: 
   Fire Department provisions, see §
32.35 et seq.
§ 31.10 WATER COMMISSIONER/PUBLIC WORKS COMMISSIONER.
   (A)   (1)   As soon as a system of waterworks or mains or portion or
extension of any system of waterworks or water supply has been established by
the village, the Chairperson shall nominate and by and with the advice and
consent of the Board of Trustees shall appoint any competent person who shall
be known as the Water Commissioner of the village and whose term of office
shall be for one fiscal year or until his or her successor is appointed and
qualified. Annually at the first regular meeting of the Board of Trustees in
December, the Water Commissioner shall be appointed as provided in this
section.
      (2)   The Water Commissioner may at any time, for sufficient cause, be
removed by a two-thirds vote of the Board of Trustees. Any vacancy occurring in
the office of Water Commissioner by death, resignation, removal from office, or
removal from the village may be filled in the manner provided in this section
for the appointment of the Commissioner.
      (3)   The Water Commissioner shall, before he or she enters upon the
discharge of his or her duties, execute a bond or provide evidence of
equivalent insurance to the village in a sum to be fixed by the Board of
Trustees, but not less than $5,000, conditioned upon the faithful discharge of
his or her duties, and such bond shall be signed by two or more good and
sufficient sureties, to be approved by the Board of Trustees or executed by a
corporate surety.
      (4)   The Water Commissioner, subject to the supervision of the Board of
Trustees, shall have the general management and control of the system of
waterworks or mains or portion or extension of any system of waterworks or
water supply in the village.
      (5)   In a village where no Board of Public Works exists, and the village
has other public utilities than its waterworks system, the Board of Trustees
shall by ordinance designate Water Commissioner as Public Works Commissioner
with authority to manage not only the system of waterworks but also other
public utilities, and all of the provisions of this division (A) applying to
the Water Commissioner shall apply to the Public Works Commissioner.
(Neb. RS 17-541)
   (B)   (1)   The Water Commissioner shall collect all money received by the
village on account of its system of waterworks and shall faithfully account for
and pay over the same to the Village Treasurer, taking his or her receipt
therefor in duplicate, filing one of the same with the Village Clerk.
      (2)   He or she shall make a detailed report to the Board of Trustees, at
least once every six months, of the condition of the water system, of all
mains, pipes, hydrants, reservoirs, and machinery, and such improvements,
repairs, and extension thereof as he or she may think proper. The report shall
show the amount of receipts and expenditures on account thereof for the
preceding six months. No money shall be expended for improvements, repairs, or
extension of the waterworks system except upon recommendation of the Water
Commissioner.
      (3)   The Water Commissioner shall perform such other duties as may be
prescribed by ordinance.
      (4)   The Water Commissioner shall be paid such salary as the Board of
Trustees may by ordinance provide, and upon his or her written recommendation,
the Board shall employ such laborers and clerks as may to them seem necessary.
      (5)   If the village owns public utilities other than the waterworks
system and the Water Commissioner has been designated by ordinance as the
Public Works Commissioner under the authority of division (A) above, then all
provisions of this division (B) in reference to a Water Commissioner shall
apply to the Public Works Commissioner.
(Neb. RS 17-543)
§ 31.11 VILLAGE ENGINEER; SPECIAL ENGINEER.
   (A)   The Village Engineer shall, when requested by the Board of Trustees,
make estimates of the cost of labor and material which may be done or furnished
by contract with the village and make all surveys, estimates, and calculations
necessary to be made for the establishment of grades, the building of culverts,
sewers, electric light systems, waterworks, power plants, public heating
systems, bridges, curbing, and gutters, the improvement of streets, and the
erection and repair of buildings and shall perform such other duties as the
Board may require.
(Neb. RS 17-568.01)
   (B)   The Village Engineer, when ordered to do so by the Village Board of
Trustees, shall make surveys, estimates, and calculations necessary to be made
for the establishment and maintenance of public works by the village.
(Neb. RS 17-213.01)
   (C)   The Board of Trustees may employ a special engineer to make, or assist
in making, any estimate necessary or to perform any other duty provided for in
Neb. RS 17-568.01. Any work executed by such special engineer shall have the
same validity and serve in all respects as though executed by the Village
Engineer.
(Neb. RS 17-568)
   (D)   The Village Engineer shall make a record of the minutes of his or her
surveys and of all work done for the village and, when directed by the Board of
Trustees, shall accurately make such plats, sections, profiles, and maps as may
be necessary in the prosecution of any public work, which shall be public
records and belong to the village and be turned over to his or her successor.
Statutory reference:
   Duties related to areas to be annexed, see Neb. RS 18-3301
   Duties related to sewerage systems, see Neb. RS 17-919
§ 31.12 VILLAGE MARSHAL.
   (A)   The Village Marshal shall direct the police work of the village and
shall be responsible for the maintenance of law and order.
   (B)   He, she, or they shall act as Health Inspector, and Building
Inspector, except in the event the village appoints another person. He, she, or
they shall file the necessary complaints in cases arising out of violations of
village ordinances, and shall make all necessary reports required by the
village ordinances, or the laws of the state.
(Prior Code, § 1-208)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-213
§ 31.13 VILLAGE POLICE.
   (A)   The village police, whether regular, or special shall have the power
to arrest all offenders against the laws of the state, or the village, by day
or by night, and keep the said offenders in the municipal jail, or some other
place to prevent then-escape until trial can be held before the proper official
of the state, or the village. They shall have full power, and authority to call
on any person whenever necessary to assist them in performing public duties,
and failure, neglect, or refusal to render such assistance shall be deemed a
misdemeanor punishable upon conviction by a fine. Every village police officer
shall be expected to be conversant, and knowledgeable with the village and
state laws, and no law enforcement official shall have any interest in any
establishment having a liquor license. Village police officers shall have the
duty to file such complaints and reports as may be required by the village
ordinances, and the laws of the state.
   (B)   Any village police officer who shall willfully fail, neglect, or
refuse to make an arrest, or who purposely, and willfully fails to make a
complaint after an arrest is made shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor, and
upon conviction shall be fined. It shall be unlawful for the governing body to
retain any village police officer in that position after he, she, or they shall
have been duly convicted of the willful violation of any law of the United
States, the State of Nebraska, or any ordinance of the village, except minor
traffic violations. It shall be the duty of every village police officer making
a lawful arrest to search all persons in the presence of some other person,
whenever possible, and shall carefully keep, and produce to the proper judicial
official upon the trial everything found upon the person of such prisoners. All
personal effects so taken from prisoners aforesaid shall be restored to them
upon their release. Suitable uniforms and badges shall be furnished to the
village police by the village. Any member who shall lose or destroy the same
shall be required to pay the replacement costs, and in the event that any
member shall leave the force, he, she, or they shall immediately deliver his,
her, or their badge to the Village Marshal. The governing body may from time to
time provide the village police with such uniforms, equipment, and
transportation as may be essential in the performance of their official duties.
(Prior Code, § 1-209)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-213
§ 31.14 CODE ENFORCEMENT OFFICER.
   (A)   The Village Board may appoint a Code Enforcement Officer. The Code
Enforcement Officer shall be charged with the responsibility of enforcing
village ordinances. The primary focus of the Code Enforcement Officer shall be
the enforcement and prevention of nuisance properties as set forth in §§
91.35 through
91.39. The Code Enforcement Officer shall inspect all properties within the
village limits and the village’s zoning jurisdiction to ensure compliance with
the village’s nuisance ordinances. He, she, or they may initiate proceedings
upon personal inspections or upon receipt of complaints by interested citizens.
   (B)   The Code Enforcement Officer shall also enforce the municipal code
provisions with respect to dogs and other animals, set forth in Chapter 90 of
this code of ordinances.
   (C)   The Code Enforcement Officer shall also be charged with the
enforcement of the other municipal code provisions as directed by the Village
Board of Trustees.
   (D)   Persons found to be in violation of this code of ordinances shall be
informed of the violation in writing. If such person(s) fail to take corrective
action, the Code Enforcement Officer shall forward reports to the Village
Attorney who shall file a citation in lieu of arrest and a complaint in county
court for prosecution of the municipal code violation.
   (E)   The Code Enforcement Officer is not a licensed law enforcement officer
and does not have power to make arrest or to prevent the commission of a crime
in progress.
(Ord. 736, passed 3-14-2018)
CHAPTER 32: DEPARTMENTS, BOARDS, AND COMMISSIONS
Section
Boards and Commissions
   
32.01   Board of Health
   
32.02   Planning Commission
   
32.03   Board of Adjustment
   
32.04   Board of Park Commissioners
   
32.05   Cemetery Board
   
32.06   Housing Authority; continued existence as housing agency
   
32.07   Library Board
   
32.08   Community Development Agency
Fire Department
   
32.35   Operation and funding
   
32.36   Fire Chief
   
32.37   Membership
   
32.38   Records
   
32.39   Fires
   
32.40   Distant fires
   
32.41   Inspections
   
32.42   Notice of violation
   
32.43   Power of arrest
   
32.44   Fire investigation
Public Safety Department
   
32.55   Duties
   
32.56   Equipment; use
   
32.57   Arrest and enforcement jurisdiction
   
32.58   Police officers; discipline or removal from duty; notice and hearing;
determination
BOARDS AND COMMISSIONS
§ 32.01 BOARD OF HEALTH.
   (A)   (1)   The Board of Trustees shall appoint a Board of Health consisting
of three members: The Chairperson of the Board of Trustees, who shall be
chairperson, and two other members. One member shall be a physician or health
care provider, if one can be found who is willing to serve. Such physician or
health care provider, if appointed, shall be the Board of Health's medical
advisor. If the Board of Trustees has appointed a Chief of Police, the Chief of
Police may be appointed to the Board of Health and serve as secretary and
quarantine officer.
      (2)   A majority of the Board of Health shall constitute a quorum and
shall enact rules and regulations, which shall have the force and effect of
law, to safeguard the health of the people of such village and prevent
nuisances and unsanitary conditions. The Board of Health shall enforce such
rules and regulations and provide fines and punishments for violations.
      (3)   The appointees shall hold office for one year unless removed by the
Chairperson of the Board of Trustees with the advice and consent of the
Trustees.
(Neb. RS 17-208)
   (B)   The Board of Health shall reorganize at its meeting each year after
the Board of Trustees’ meeting when appointments are regularly made and, if
necessary, select a member to serve as secretary. No member of the Board of
Health shall hold more than one Board of Health position. The secretary shall
keep full and correct minutes and records of all meetings and file the same
with the Village Clerk where they shall be available for public inspection
during office hours.
   (C)   The Board shall meet at such times as the Board of Trustees may
designate. Special meetings may be held upon the call of the Chairperson or any
two members of the Board of Health.
   (D)   The members of the Board of Health shall serve without compensation.
The Board of Health shall be funded by the Board of Trustees from time to time
out of the general fund.
   (E)   The Board of Health may regulate, suppress, and prevent the occurrence
of nuisances and enforce all laws of the state and ordinances of the village
relating to nuisances and to matters of sanitation which affect the health and
safety of the people. The Board shall regularly inspect such premises and
businesses as the Board of Trustees may direct.
   (F)   All members of the Board of Health shall be responsible for making
such reports and performing such other duties as the Board of Trustees may,
from time to time, designate.
§ 32.02 PLANNING COMMISSION.
   (A)   (1)   If the Board of Trustees adopts zoning or other regulations
pursuant to Neb. RS 19-901 et seq., the Planning Commission shall consist of
five, seven, or nine regular members, as specified by the Board of Trustees by
ordinance, who shall represent, insofar as is possible, the different
professions or occupations in the village and shall be appointed by the
Chairperson of the Board of Trustees by and with the approval of a majority
vote of the members elected to the Board. Two of the regular members may be
residents of the area over which the village is authorized to exercise
extraterritorial zoning and subdivision regulation. When there are 200
residents in the area over which the village exercises extraterritorial zoning
and subdivision regulation, one regular member of the Commission shall be a
resident from such area. If it is determined by the Board of Trustees that 200
residents reside in the area subject to extraterritorial zoning or subdivision
regulation, and no such resident is a regular member of the Commission, the
first available vacancy on the Commission shall be filled by the appointment of
such an individual. A number of commissioners equal to a majority of the number
of regular members appointed to the Commission shall constitute a quorum for
the transaction of any business. All regular members of the Commission shall
serve without compensation. The term of each regular member shall be three
years, except that one-third or fewer of the regular members of the first
commission to be so appointed shall serve for terms of one year, one-third or
fewer for terms of two years, and the remaining members for terms of three
years. All regular members shall hold office until their successors are
appointed. Any member may, after a public hearing before the Board of Trustees,
be removed by the Chairperson of the Board with the consent of a majority vote
of the members elected to the Board for inefficiency, neglect of duty, or
malfeasance in office or other good and sufficient cause. Vacancies occurring
otherwise than through the expiration of term shall be filled for the unexpired
portion of the term by the Chairperson of the Board.
      (2)   The Chairperson of the Board of Trustees may, with the approval of
a majority vote of the elected members of the Board, appoint one alternate
member to the Planning Commission. The alternate member shall serve without
compensation and shall hold no other village office. The term of the alternate
member shall be three years, and he or she shall hold office until his or her
successor is appointed and approved. The alternate member may be removed from
office in the same manner as a regular member. If the alternate member position
becomes vacant other than through the expiration of the term, the vacancy shall
be filled for the unexpired portion of the term by the Chairperson of the Board
with the approval of a majority vote of the elected members of the Board. The
alternate member may attend any meeting and may serve as a voting and
participating member of the Commission at any time when less than the full
number of regular Commission members is present and capable of voting.
(Neb. RS 19-926)
      (3)   A regular or alternate member of the Planning Commission may hold
any other municipal office except Chairperson, a member of the Board of
Trustees, a member of any community redevelopment authority or limited
community redevelopment authority created under Neb. RS 18-2102.01, or a member
of any citizen advisory review committee created under Neb. RS 18-2715.
   (B)   The Commission shall elect its Chairperson from its members and create
and fill such other of its offices as it may determine. The term of the
Chairperson shall be one year, and he or she shall be eligible for reelection.
The Commission shall hold at least one regular meeting in each calendar
quarter, except as provided in this section. The Board of Trustees may require
the Commission to meet more frequently and the Chairperson of the Commission
may call for a meeting when necessary to deal with business pending before the
Commission. If no business is pending before the Commission, the Chairperson
may cancel a quarterly meeting, but no more than three quarterly meetings may
be cancelled per calendar year. The Commission shall adopt rules and
regulations for the transaction of business and shall keep a record of its
resolutions, transactions, findings, and determinations, which shall be a
public record.
(Neb. RS 19-927)
   (C)   No member of the Commission shall serve in the capacity of both the
Chairperson and Secretary of the Commission. The Secretary shall keep the full
and correct minutes and records of all meetings and file them with the Village
Clerk where they shall be available for public inspection during office hours.
   (D)   The Board of Trustees may provide the funds, equipment, and
accommodations necessary for the work of the Commission, but the expenditures
of the Commission, exclusive of gifts, shall be within the amounts appropriated
for that purpose by the Board; and no expenditures nor agreements for
expenditures shall be valid in excess of such amounts.
(Neb. RS 19-928)
   (E)   (1)   (a)   Except as provided in Neb. RS 19-930 to 19-933, the
Planning Commission shall:
            1.   Make and adopt plans for the physical development of the
village, including any areas outside its boundaries which in the Commission's
judgment bear relation to the planning of such village and including a
comprehensive development plan as defined by Neb. RS 19-903;
            2.   Prepare and adopt such implemental means as a capital
improvement program, subdivision regulations, building codes, and a zoning
ordinance in cooperation with other interested village departments; and
            3.   Consult with and advise public officials and agencies, public
utilities, civic organizations, educational institutions, and citizens with
relation to the promulgation and implementation of the comprehensive
development plan and its implemental programs. The Commission may delegate
authority to any such group to conduct studies and make surveys for the
commission, make preliminary reports on its findings, and hold public hearings
before submitting its final reports.
         (b)   The Board of Trustees shall not take final action on matters
relating to the comprehensive development plan, capital improvements, building
codes, subdivision development, the annexation of territory, or zoning until it
has received the recommendation of the Planning Commission, provided that the
Planning Commission shall make its recommendation so that it is received by the
Board of Trustees within 60 days after the Commission begins consideration of a
matter or within such other number of days as the Board of Trustees has set by
ordinance.
         (c)   A recommendation from the Planning Commission shall not be
required for subdivision of existing lots and blocks whenever all required
public improvements have been installed, no new dedication of public rights-of-
way or easements is involved, and such subdivision complies with the ordinance
requirements concerning minimum areas and dimensions of such lots and blocks,
if the Board of Trustees has designated, by ordinance, an agent pursuant to
Neb. RS 19-916.
      (2)   (a)   The Commission may, with the consent of the Board of
Trustees, in its own name:
            1.   Make and enter into contracts with public or private bodies;
            2.   Receive contributions, bequests, gifts, or grant funds from
public or private sources;
            3.   Expend the funds appropriated to it by the village;
            4.   Employ agents and employees; and
            5.   Acquire, hold, and dispose of property.
         (b)   The Commission may on its own authority make arrangements
consistent with its program, conduct or sponsor special studies or planning
work for any public body or appropriate agency, receive grants, remuneration,
or reimbursement for such studies or work, and at its public hearings, summon
witnesses, administer oaths, and compel the giving of testimony.
      (3)   (a)   The Commission may grant conditional uses or special
exceptions to property owners for the use of their property if the Board of
Trustees has, through a zoning ordinance or special ordinance, generally
authorized the Commission to exercise such powers and has approved the
standards and procedures adopted by the Commission for equitably and
judiciously granting such conditional uses or special exceptions. The granting
of a conditional use permit or special exception shall only allow property
owners to put their property to a special use if it is among those uses
specifically identified in the zoning ordinance as classifications of uses
which may require special conditions or requirements to be met by the owners
before a use permit or building permit is authorized.
         (b)   The power to grant conditional uses or special exceptions shall
be the exclusive authority of the Commission, except that the Board of Trustees
may choose to retain for itself the power to grant conditional uses or special
exceptions for those classifications of uses specified in the zoning ordinance.
The Board may exercise such power if it has formally adopted standards and
procedures for granting such conditional uses or special exceptions in a manner
that is equitable and will promote the public interest.
         (c)   An appeal of a decision by the Commission or Board regarding a
conditional use or special exception shall be made to the district court.
(Neb. RS 19-929)
Statutory reference: 
   Other provisions on planning commissions, see Neb. RS 19-925 through 19-933
§ 32.03 BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT.
   (A)   If the Board of Trustees adopts zoning or other regulations pursuant
to Neb. RS 19-901 et seq., except as provided in division (C), the Board shall
provide for the appointment of a Board of Adjustment. Any actions taken by the
Board of Adjustment shall not exceed the powers granted by division (G) below.
(Neb. RS 19-907)
   (B)   Notwithstanding the provisions of divisions (A) and (D) herein, the
Board of Trustees may, except as set forth in division (C) below, provide by
ordinance that it shall constitute a Board of Adjustment, and in the
regulations and restrictions adopted pursuant to the authority of Neb. RS 19-
901 to 19-905 may provide that as such Board of Adjustment it may exercise only
the powers granted to boards of adjustment by division (G) below. As such Board
of Adjustment it shall adopt rules and procedures that are in harmony with
divisions (A), (D), (F), and (G) herein and shall have the powers and duties
therein provided for the Board of Adjustment, and other parties shall have all
the rights and privileges therein provided for. The concurring vote of two-
thirds of the members of the Board of Trustees acting as a Board of Adjustment
shall decide any question upon which it is required to pass as such Board.
(Neb. RS 19-911)
   (C)   If the county has adopted a comprehensive development plan, as defined
by Neb. RS 23-114.02, and is enforcing zoning regulations based upon such a
plan, the zoning board of adjustment of the county shall, upon request of the
Board of Trustees, serve as the zoning Board of Adjustment for the village. If
the village is located in more than one county, it shall be served by request
or otherwise only by the county zoning board of adjustment of the county in
which the greatest area of the village is located, and the jurisdiction of such
county zoning board of adjustment shall include all portions of the village and
its extraterritorial control, regardless of county lines.
(Neb. RS 19-912.01)
   (D)   (1)   The Board of Adjustment shall consist of five regular members,
plus one additional member designated as an alternate who shall attend and
serve only when one of the regular members is unable to attend for any reason,
each to be appointed for a term of three years and removable for cause by the
appointing authority upon written charges and after public hearings. Vacancies
shall be filled for the unexpired term of any member whose term becomes vacant.
One member only of the Board of Adjustment shall be appointed from the
membership of the Planning Commission, and the loss of membership on the
Planning Commission by such member shall also result in his or her immediate
loss of membership on the Board of Adjustment and the appointment of another
Planning Commissioner to the Board of Adjustment. The first vacancy occurring
on the Board of Adjustment shall be filled by the appointment of a person who
resides in the extraterritorial zoning jurisdiction of the village at such time
as more than 200 persons reside within such area. Thereafter, at all times, at
least one member of the Board of Adjustment shall reside outside of the
corporate boundaries of the village but within its extraterritorial zoning
jurisdiction.
      (2)   The Board of Adjustment shall adopt rules in accordance with the
provisions of any ordinance adopted pursuant to Neb. RS 19-901 to 19-914.
Meetings of the Board of Adjustment shall be held at the call of the
Chairperson and at such other times as the Board may determine. Such
Chairperson, or in his or her absence the Acting Chairperson, may administer
oaths and compel the attendance of witnesses. All meetings of the Board shall
be open to the public. The Board shall keep minutes of its proceedings, showing
the vote of each member upon each question, or, if absent or failing to vote,
indicating such fact, and shall keep records of its examinations and other
official actions, all of which shall be immediately filed in the office of the
Board and shall be a public record.
(Neb. RS 19-908)
   (E)   A number of members equal to a majority of the number of regular
members appointed to the Board of Adjustment shall constitute a quorum for the
transaction of any business. All members of an appointed Board of Adjustment
shall serve without compensation and shall hold no other village office except
for the member of the Planning Commission appointed to serve on the Board of
Adjustment. No member of the Board of Adjustment shall serve in the capacity of
both Chairperson and Secretary of the Board. The Secretary shall keep the full
and correct minutes and records of all meetings and file them with the Village
Clerk where they shall be available for public inspection during office hours.
   (F)   Appeals to the Board of Adjustment may be taken by any person
aggrieved or by any officer, department, board or bureau of the village
affected by any decision of the administrative officer. Such appeal shall be
taken within a reasonable time, as provided by the rules of the Board, by
filing with the officer from whom the appeal is taken and with the Board of
Adjustment a notice of appeal specifying the grounds thereof. The officer from
whom the appeal is taken shall forthwith transmit to the Board all the papers
constituting the record upon which the action appealed from was taken. An
appeal stays all proceedings in furtherance of the action appealed from, unless
the officer from whom the appeal is taken certifies to the Board of Adjustment,
after the notice of appeal shall have been filed with him or her, that by
reason of facts stated in the certificate a stay would, in his or her opinion,
cause imminent peril to life or property. In such case proceedings shall not be
stayed otherwise than by a restraining order which may be granted by the Board
of Adjustment or by a court of record on application on notice to the officer
from whom the appeal is taken and on due cause shown. The Board of Adjustment
shall fix a reasonable time for the hearing of the appeal, give public notice
thereof, as well as due notice to the parties in interest, and decide the same
within a reasonable time. Upon the hearing any party may appear in person or by
agent or by attorney.
(Neb. RS 19-909)
   (G)   (1)   The Board of Adjustment shall, subject to such appropriate
conditions and safeguards as may be established by the Board of Trustees, have
only the following powers:
         (a)   To hear and decide appeals when it is alleged there is error in
any order, requirement, decision, or determination made by an administrative
official or agency based on or made in the enforcement of any zoning regulation
or any regulation relating to the location or soundness of structures, except
that the authority to hear and decide appeals shall not apply to decisions made
by the Board of Trustees or Planning Commission regarding a conditional use or
special exception under Neb. RS 19-929(3);
         (b)   To hear and decide, in accordance with the provisions of any
zoning regulation, requests for interpretation of any map; and
         (c)   When by reason of exceptional narrowness, shallowness, or shape
of a specific piece of property at the time of the enactment of the zoning
regulations, or by reason of exceptional topographic conditions or other
extraordinary and exceptional situation or condition of such piece of property,
the strict application of any enacted regulation under Neb. RS 19-901 and 19-
903 to 19-904.01 and divisions (D) and (G) herein would result in peculiar and
exceptional practical difficulties to or exceptional and undue hardships upon
the owner of such property, to authorize, upon an appeal relating to the
property, a variance from such strict application so as to relieve such
difficulties or hardship, if such relief may be granted without substantial
detriment to the public good and without substantially impairing the intent and
purpose of any ordinance or resolution.
      (2)   (a)   No such variance shall be authorized by the Board unless it
finds that:
            1.   The strict application of the zoning regulation would produce
undue hardship;
            2.   Such hardship is not shared generally by other properties in
the same zoning district and the same vicinity;
            3.   The authorization of such variance will not be of substantial
detriment to adjacent property and the character of the district will not be
changed by the granting of the variance; and
            4.   The granting of such variance is based upon reason of
demonstrable and exceptional hardship as distinguished from variations for
purposes of convenience, profit, or caprice.
         (b)   No variance shall be authorized unless the Board finds that the
condition or situation of the property concerned or the intended use of the
property is not of so general or recurring a nature as to make reasonably
practicable the formulation of a general regulation to be adopted as an
amendment to the zoning regulations.
      (3)   In exercising the powers granted in this division (G), the Board
may, in conformity with Neb. RS 19-901 to 19-915, reverse or affirm, wholly or
partly, or may modify the order, requirement, decision, or determination
appealed from, and may make such order, requirement, decision, or determination
as ought to be made, and to that end shall have all the powers of the officer
from whom the appeal is taken. The concurring vote of four members of the board
shall be necessary to reverse any order, requirement, decision, or
determination of any such administrative official or to decide in favor of the
applicant on any matter upon which it is required to pass under any such
regulation or to effect any variation in such regulation.
(Neb. RS 19-910)
   (H)   Any person or persons, jointly or severally, aggrieved by any decision
of the Board of Adjustment, or any taxpayer, or any officer, department, board,
or bureau of the village, may present to the district court a petition duly
verified, setting forth that such decision is illegal, in whole or in part, and
specifying the grounds of such illegality. Such petition must be presented to
the court within 15 days after the filing of the decision in the office of the
board. Upon the filing of such petition a summons shall be issued and be served
upon the Board of Adjustment, together with a copy of the petition. Return of
service shall be made within four days after the issuance of the summons.
Within ten days after the return day of such summons, the Board of Adjustment
shall file an answer to the petition which shall admit or deny the substantial
averments of the petition and shall state the contentions of the Board with
reference to the matters in dispute as disclosed by the petition. The answer
shall be verified in like manner as required for the petition. At the
expiration of the time for filing answer, the court shall proceed to hear and
determine the cause without delay and shall render judgment thereon according
to the forms of law. If, upon the hearing, it appears to the court that
testimony is necessary for the proper disposition of the matter, it may take
evidence or appoint a referee to take such evidence as it may direct and report
the same to the court with his or her findings of fact and conclusions of law,
which shall constitute a part of the proceedings upon which the determination
of the court shall be made. The court may reverse or affirm, wholly or partly,
or may modify the decision brought up for review. The appeal to the district
court shall not stay proceedings upon the decision appealed from, but the court
may, on application, on notice to the Board and on due cause shown, grant a
restraining order. Any appeal from such judgment of the district court shall be
prosecuted in accordance with the general laws of the state regulating appeals
in actions at law.
(Neb. RS 19-912)
§ 32.04 BOARD OF PARK COMMISSIONERS.
   (A)   If the Board of Trustees has provided for the creation of a Board of
Park Commissioners or Board of Park and Recreation Commissioners pursuant to
Neb. RS 17-952, the Board shall be composed of not less than three members, who
shall be residents of the village, and who shall have charge of all parks and
recreational facilities belonging to the village, and shall have the power to
establish rules for the management, care, and use of the same.
(Neb. RS 17-952)
   (B)   No member of the Board of Trustees shall serve as a member of the Park
Board while serving a term of office as member of the Board of Trustees. The
members of the Park Board shall serve terms of office of the length specified
by the Board of Trustees and may be reappointed.
   (C)   The Park Board shall organize at its meeting after appointments are
regularly considered by the Board of Trustees and select members to serve as
chairperson and secretary. No member of the Park Board shall hold more than one
Board position. The secretary shall keep full and correct minutes and records
of all meetings and file the same with the Village Clerk where they shall be
available for public inspection during office hours.
   (D)   The Park Board shall meet at such times as the Board of Trustees may
designate. Special meetings may be held upon the call of the Chairperson of the
Park Board or any two members of the Board. A majority of the Park Board
members shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of business.
   (E)   The members of the Park Board shall serve without compensation. The
Park Board shall be funded by the Board of Trustees from time to time out of
the general fund.
   (F)   All members of the Park Board shall be responsible for making such
reports and performing such other duties as the Board of Trustees may, from
time to time, designate.
§ 32.05 CEMETERY BOARD.
   (A)   The governing body shall appoint the Cemetery Board which shall
consist of six members who are residents of the village and who shall serve
without compensation for a term of three years. Two members shall be appointed
each year and may be required in the discretion of the governing body, to give
a bond in a sum set by resolution of the governing body, and conditioned upon
the faithful performance of their duties.
   (B)   At the first meeting in June of each year, the Board shall organize by
selecting from its membership a chairperson and secretary. The secretary shall
keep the full and correct minutes and records of all meetings and file the same
with the Village Clerk where they shall be available for public inspection at
any reasonable time. A majority of the Board members shall constitute a quorum
for the purpose of doing business. The Board shall meet at such times as the
governing body may designate. Special meetings may be held upon the call of the
Chairperson or any three members of the Board.
   (C)   The Board shall have the general care, management, and supervision of
the village cemetery with the power and authority to limit and regulate the
number of cemetery lots that may be owned by the same person; to prescribe
rules for enclosing, adorning and erecting monuments and tombstones on cemetery
lots; and to prohibit any diverse or improper use thereof; provided, no
religious tests shall be made as to the ownership of lots, the burial therein
and the ornamentation of graves. The Board shall pass rules and regulations for
the proper use of the cemetery and prescribe penalties and fines for violations
thereof.
   (D)   The Board shall use all revenue received from the sale of lots, gifts,
or by devise for the care, management, and administration of the cemetery. All
actions of the Board shall be subject to the review and supervision of the
governing body and it shall be responsible for making such reports and
performing such additional duties as the governing body may designate. No
member of the governing body shall serve as a member of the Board while serving
a term of office as a member of the governing body. No member of the Cemetery
Board shall hold more than one Cemetery Board office.
(Prior Code, § 2-202)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 12-401 through 12-403
§ 32.06 HOUSING AUTHORITY; CONTINUED EXISTENCE AS HOUSING AGENCY.
   (A)   The local housing authority established under prior state law and in
existence on January 1, 2000, shall have continued existence as a housing
agency under the State Housing Agency Act.
   (B)   (1)   The local housing agency shall conduct its operations consistent
with the State Housing Agency Act. All property, rights in land, buildings,
records, and equipment and any funds, money, revenue, receipts, or assets of
the authority belong to the agency as successor.
      (2)   All obligations, debts, commitments, and liabilities of the
authority are obligations, debts, commitments, and liabilities of the successor
agency.
   (C)   Any resolution by the authority and any action taken by the authority
prior to January 1, 2000, with regard to any project or program which is to
completed within or to be conducted for a 12-month period following January 1,
2000, and which resolution or action is lawful under state law as it existed
prior to January 1, 2000, is a lawful resolution or action of the successor
agency and binding upon the successor agency and enforceable by or against the
agency notwithstanding that such resolution or action is inconsistent with, not
authorized by, or prohibited under the provisions of the State Housing Agency
Act.
   (D)   All commissioners of the local housing agency and all officers, legal
counsel, technical experts, directors, and other appointees or employees of the
agency holding office or employment by virtue of any such prior law on January
1, 2000, shall be deemed to have been appointed or employed under the State
Housing Agency Act, being Neb. RS 71-1572 et seq.
(Prior Code, § 2-205) (Ord. 599, passed 6-14-2000)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 71-1576
§ 32.07 LIBRARY BOARD.
   (A)   (1)   The Library Board shall consist of five members. Four members
shall be residents of the village and be appointed by a majority of the Village
Board.
      (2)   One member shall be a resident of the Clarksville Township and be
nominated by the Clarksville Township Board. Such nominations shall be approved
by the Clarks Village Board.
      (3)   All Library Board members shall serve a three-year term of office.
   (B)   The initial five-member Board shall be appointed such that two persons
shall serve a three-year term, two persons shall serve an initial two-year
term, and one person shall serve and initial one-year term. The initial Library
Board shall be appointed such that the Village of Clarks shall appoint one
person for a three-year term, two persons for a one-year term and one person
for a one-year term. The Clarksville Township Board shall appoint one person
for a three-year term. The initial term shall expire on June 30, 2001.
Thereafter, as such terms expire, said members shall serve a three-year term of
office.
   (C)   The Board shall serve without compensation and may be required, in the
discretion of the governing body, to give a bond in a sum set by resolution of
the governing body, and conditioned upon the faithful performance of their
duties.
   (D)   At the time of the Board’s first meeting in July of each year, the
Board shall organize by selecting from their number a chairperson and
secretary. It shall be the duty of the secretary to keep the full and correct
minutes and records of all meetings, and to file the same with the Village
Clerk where they shall be available for public inspection at any reasonable
time. A majority of the Board members shall constitute a quorum for the
transaction of business. The Board shall meet at such times it deems necessary
and as the governing body may designate. Special meetings may be held upon the
call of the Chairperson, or any three members of the Board.
   (E)   The Library Board shall have the authority to appoint a librarian and
all other employees. It shall be the duty of the Board to have general charge
of the village library and to establish appropriate rules and regulations for
the management, operation, and use of the same. The Board shall have the
supervisory authority over all employees of the library including the
librarian.
   (F)   All actions of the Board shall be subject to the review and
supervision of the governing body. The Board shall be responsible for making
such reports and performing such additional duties as the governing body may
designate from time to time.
   (G)   No member of the governing body shall serve as a member of the Library
Board while serving a term of office as a member of the governing body. No
member of the Library Board shall serve in the capacity of both Chairperson and
Secretary of the Board.
(Prior Code, § 2-206) (Ord. 600, passed 3-14-2001)
§ 32.08 COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT AGENCY.
   (A)   Creation. A community development agency is hereby created pursuant to
Neb. RS 18-2101.01. The Agency shall be known as the Community Development
Agency.
   (B)   Members. In accordance with Neb. RS 18-2101.01, this Agency shall
consist of the Chairperson, three of the Board of Trustees members, and three
at-large citizens who shall be appointed by the Chairperson. The initial
appointed members of the Community Development Agency shall serve staggered
terms. Thereafter, all appointed members shall be appointed to four-year terms.
There shall be no limit on the number of terms for which a member can be
reappointed.
   (C)   Officers. The Chairperson of the Board of Trustees shall serve as the
Chairperson of the Community Development Agency. The Community Development
Agency shall elect one of the members as Vice Chairperson. The Village Clerk/
Treasurer shall serve as ex officio secretary and treasurer of the Community
Development Agency.
   (D)   Powers and authority. The Community Development Agency shall function
in the manner prescribed herein or otherwise by ordinance and have all powers
and authority granted by applicable law, including, but not limited to, Neb. RS
18-2101 to 18-2157, as now existing, and as hereafter amended in the future.
(Ord. 744, passed 7-26-2023)
FIRE DEPARTMENT
§ 32.35 OPERATION AND FUNDING.
   (A)   The village may operate a Fire Department through the Fire Chief and
firefighters.
   (B)   If the village has only a voluntary fire department or companies, the
Board of Trustees may levy a tax annually of not more than $0.07 on each $100
upon the taxable value of all the taxable property within the village for the
maintenance and benefit of the fire department or companies. The amount of such
tax shall be established at the beginning of the year and shall be included in
the adopted budget statement. Upon collection of such tax, the Village
Treasurer shall disburse the same upon the order of the Fire Chief with the
approval of the Board of Trustees.
(Neb. RS 17-718)
Statutory reference:
   Fire station acquisition, construction, and maintenance, see Neb. RS 17-953
et seq.
§ 32.36 FIRE CHIEF.
   The Fire Chief shall manage the Fire Department, and it shall be his or her
duty to inform the Board of Trustees when any of the fire engines, hose,
ladders, or other apparatus needs repair. Upon the written consent and
directive of the Board of Trustees, the Fire Chief shall cause the repair,
improvement, or maintenance of the equipment and shall personally supervise and
approve of the same. It shall be the duty of the Fire Chief to come before the
Board of Trustees at the regular meeting in January of each year to give an
annual report to the Board of Trustees of the general condition and the
proposed additions or improvements recommended by him or her.
§ 32.37 MEMBERSHIP.
   (A)   The Fire Department shall consist of so many members as may be decided
by the Board of Trustees. The members may organize themselves in any way they
may decide, subject to the review of the Board of Trustees.
   (B)   The volunteer Fire Department shall not have upon its rolls at one
time more than 25 persons, for each engine and hose company in the Fire
Department, and no hook and ladder company shall have upon its rolls at any one
time more than 25 members. No organization shall be deemed to be a bona fide
fire or hook and ladder company until it has procured for active service
apparatus for the extinguishment or prevention of fires, in case of a hose
company, to the value of $700, and of a hook and ladder company to the value of
$500.
(Neb. RS 35-102)
   (C)   Members in good standing are those who keep their dues promptly paid
up and are present and render active service when called out for the legitimate
purposes of the Fire Department.
(Neb. RS 35-103)
   (D)   Volunteer firefighters of the Fire Department shall be deemed
employees of the village while in the performance of their duties as members of
the Department. Members of the volunteer Fire Department, before they are
entitled to benefits under the Nebraska Workers’ Compensation Act, shall be
recommended by the Fire Chief or some person authorized to act for the Chief
for membership therein to the Chairperson and Board of Trustees and upon
confirmation shall be deemed employees of the village. Members of the Fire
Department after confirmation to membership may be removed by a majority vote
of the Board of Trustees and thereafter shall not be considered employees of
the village. Firefighters of the Fire Department shall be considered as acting
in the performance and within the course and scope of their employment when
performing activities outside of the corporate limits of the village, but only
if directed to do so by the Fire Chief or some person authorized to act for the
Chief.
(Neb. RS 48-115)
   (E)   The Board of Trustees shall purchase and maintain in force a policy of
group term life insurance to age 65 covering the lives of all of the active
volunteer fire and rescue personnel, except that when any such person serves
more than one village or rural or suburban fire protection district, the policy
shall be purchased only by the first village or district which he or she
serves. The policy shall provide a minimum death benefit of $10,000 for death
from any cause and shall, at the option of the insured, be convertible to a
permanent form of life insurance at age 65. The coverage of such policy shall
terminate as to any individual who ceases to be an active volunteer member of
the Fire Department.
(Neb. RS 35-108)
   (F)   For purposes of the prohibition on receipt of any witness fee,
attendance fee, or mileage fee by an employee of the village called as a
witness in connection with his or her officially assigned duties, volunteer
firefighters and rescue squad members testifying in that capacity alone shall
not be deemed employees of the village.
(Neb. RS 33-139.01)
   (G)   The Board of Trustees may compensate or reimburse any member of the
Fire Department for expenses incurred in carrying out his or her duties in an
amount set by resolution.
   (H)   All members of the Fire Department shall be subject to such rules and
regulations, and shall perform such duties, as may be prescribed or required of
them by the Fire Chief or the Board of Trustees. The members of the Fire
Department shall, during the time of a fire or great public danger, have and
exercise the powers and duties of police officers and shall have full power and
authority to arrest all persons guilty of any violation of the village code or
the laws of the state.
   (I)   Members of the Fire Department may hold meetings and engage in social
activities with the approval of the Board of Trustees. The secretary shall,
upon request, keep a record of all meetings and shall make a report to the
Board of Trustees of all meetings and activities of the Fire Department.
§ 32.38 RECORDS.
   The Fire Chief shall keep or cause to be kept a record of all meetings of
the Fire Department, the attendance record of all members, and a record of all
fires and shall make a full report of these records to the Village Clerk during
the last week in April each year. The record of any fire shall include the
cause, origin, circumstances, property involved, and whether criminal conduct
may have been involved. In the event of sizable property damage, the Fire Chief
shall include the information of whether the losses were covered by insurance,
and if so, in what amount. All records shall be available to the public at any
reasonable time.
§ 32.39 FIRES.
   It shall be the duty of the Fire Department to use all proper means for the
extinguishment of fires, to protect property within the village, and to secure
the observance of all ordinances, laws, and other rules and regulations with
respect to fires and fire prevention.
§ 32.40 DISTANT FIRES.
   (A)   Upon the permission of the Chairperson of the Board of Trustees or the
Fire Chief, or pursuant to any agreement with a rural fire district for mutual
aid protection, such fire equipment of the village as may be designated by the
Board of Trustees as rural equipment may be used beyond the corporate limits to
extinguish reported fires.
   (B)   The firefighters of the village shall be considered as acting in the
performance and within the scope of their duties in fighting fire or saving
property or life outside the corporate limits of the village when directed to
do so by the Board of Trustees or the Fire Chief or some person authorized to
act for the Chief, and in so doing, may take such fire equipment of the village
as may be designated by the Board of Trustees.
§ 32.41 INSPECTIONS.
   (A)   The Fire Chief where a Fire department is established or the
Chairperson of the Board of Trustees where no Fire Department exists, at all
reasonable hours, may enter into all buildings and upon all premises within his
or her jurisdiction for the purposes of examination, in harmony with Neb. RS
81-501.01 to 81-531, the Nebraska Natural Gas Pipeline Safety Act of 1969, the
Petroleum Products and Hazardous Substances Storage and Handling Act, and any
other statutory duties imposed upon the State Fire Marshal.
(Neb. RS 81-512)
   (B)   It shall be the duty of the Fire Chief, when directed to do so by the
Board of Trustees, to inspect or cause to be inspected by Fire Department
officers, members, or some other official as often as may be necessary, but not
less than two times a year, all buildings, premises, and public thoroughfares,
except the interiors of private dwellings, for the purpose of ascertaining and
causing to be corrected any conditions liable to create a fire hazard. The
inspection shall be of the storage, sale, and use of flammable liquids,
combustibles, and explosives; electric wiring and heating; the means and
adequacy of exits, in case of fire in schools, churches, hotels, halls,
theaters, factories, hospitals, and all other buildings in which numbers of
persons congregate from time to time for any purpose whether publicly or
privately owned; the design, construction, location, installation, and
operation of equipment for storing, handling, and utilizing liquefied petroleum
gases, specifying the odorization of such gases and the degree thereof; and
chemicals, prozylin plastics, nitrocellulose films, or any other hazardous
material that may now or hereafter exist.
§ 32.42 NOTICE OF VIOLATION.
   (A)   Upon the finding that the village code has been violated, the Fire
Chief shall notify, or cause to be notified, the owner, occupant, or manager of
the premises where a violation has occurred. Notice may be made personally or
by delivering a copy to the premise and affixing it to the door of the main
entrance of the premises. Whenever it may be necessary to serve such an order
upon the owner, the order may be served personally, or by mailing a copy to the
owner’s last known post office address if the owner is absent from the
jurisdiction.
   (B)   Any such order shall be immediately complied with by the owner,
occupant, or manager of the premises or building. The owner, occupant, or
manager may, within five days after such an order by the Fire Chief or his or
her agent, appeal the order with the Board of Trustees requesting a review and
it shall be the duty of the Board of Trustees to hear the same within not less
than five days nor more than ten days from the time when the request was filed
in writing with the Village Clerk. The Board of Trustees shall then affirm,
modify, or rescind the order as safety and justice may require and the decision
shall then be final, subject only to any remedy which the aggrieved person may
have at law or equity. The order shall be modified or rescinded only where it
is evident that reasonable safety exists and that conditions necessitate a
variance due to the probable hardship in complying literally with the order of
the Fire Chief. A copy of any decision so made shall be sent to both the Fire
Chief and the owner, occupant, or manager making the appeal.
§ 32.43 POWER OF ARREST.
   The Fire Chief or the Assistant Fire Chief shall have the power, during the
time of a fire and for a period of 36 hours after its extinguishment, to arrest
any suspected arsonist, or other person hindering or resisting the firefighting
effort, or any person who conducts himself or herself in a noisy or disorderly
manner. The officials shall be severally vested with the usual powers and
authority of village police officers to command all persons to assist them in
the performance of their duties. Failure to obey a lawful order of the Fire
Chief or Assistant Fire Chief shall be an offense.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 32.44 FIRE INVESTIGATION.
   The Fire Chief shall investigate or cause to be investigated the cause,
origin, and circumstances of every fire occurring in the village by which
property has been destroyed or damaged. All fires of unknown origin shall be
reported, and such officer shall especially make an investigation and report as
to whether such fire was the result of carelessness, accident, or design. The
investigation shall begin immediately after the occurrence of the fire, and the
State Fire Marshal shall have the right to supervise and direct the
investigation whenever he or she deems it expedient or necessary. The officer
making the investigation of fires occurring in the village shall forthwith
notify the State Fire Marshal and shall within one week of the occurrence of
the fire furnish him or her a written statement of all the facts relating to
the cause and origin of the fire and such further information as he or she may
call for.
(Neb. RS 81-506)
PUBLIC SAFETY DEPARTMENT
§ 32.55 DUTIES.
   (A)   There is hereby established the Department of Public Safety which
shall consist of the Public Safety Director and such further number of
assistants as may be duly ordered by resolution of the Trustees. The Director
of Public Safety shall, subject to the direction of the Chairperson of the
Village Board of Trustees, have control and management of all matters relating
to law enforcement and shall have custody and control of all property and books
belonging to the Police Department. The Director of Public Safety shall be
Chief of Police of the village and shall execute and enforce all laws and
orders of the Village Board.
   (B)   It shall be the duty of the Department of Public Safety and the Public
Safety Director to protect the rights of persons and property, to respond to
all calls for an emergency medical technician, police emergencies, and fires.
The Department of Public Safety shall take notice of all nuisances,
impediments, obstructions, and defects in the streets, avenues, alleys,
business places, and residences of the village. The Director of Public Safety
shall become thoroughly conversant with the laws of the village and shall see
that the same are strictly enforced and shall make sworn complaints against any
person or persons for violation of the same.
(Prior Code, § 3-401) (Ord. 475, passed 8-7-1995)
§ 32.56 EQUIPMENT; USE.
   Equipment belonging to the Department of Public Safety may be utilized for
response to emergency situations within a three-mile radius of the village. The
Director and officers of the Department of Public Safety may, in appropriate
situations, respond to emergencies outside the three-mile radius of the
village, however, in such an event, said persons shall not operate the
emergency lights and siren on village police cruisers and village police
vehicles.
(Prior Code, § 3-402) (Ord. 475, passed 8-7-1995)
§ 32.57 ARREST AND ENFORCEMENT JURISDICTION.
   (A)   A law enforcement officer has the power and authority to enforce the
laws of this state and the village or otherwise perform the functions of that
office anywhere within his, her, or their primary jurisdiction.
   (B)   Any village law enforcement officer who is within this state but
beyond his, her, or their primary jurisdiction, has the power and authority to
enforce the laws of this state or any legal ordinance of any city or
incorporated village or otherwise perform the functions of his, her, or their
office, including the authority to arrest and detain suspects, as if enforcing
the laws or performing the functions within his, her, or their primary
jurisdiction in the following cases:
      (1)   Any village law enforcement officer, if in a fresh attempt to
apprehend a person suspected of committing a felony, may follow such person
into any other jurisdiction in this state and there arrest and detain such
person and return such person to the officer’s primary jurisdiction;
      (2)   Any village law enforcement officer, if in a fresh attempt to
apprehend a person suspected of committing a misdemeanor or a traffic
infraction, may follow such person anywhere in an area within 25 miles of the
boundaries of the officer’s primary jurisdiction and there arrest and detain
such person and return such person to the officer’s primary jurisdiction;
      (3)   Any village law enforcement officer shall have such enforcement and
arrest and detention authority when responding to a call in which a local,
state, or federal law enforcement officer is in need of assistance. A LAW
ENFORCEMENT OFFICER IN NEED OF ASSISTANCE shall mean:
         (a)   A law enforcement officer whose life is in danger; or
         (b)   A law enforcement officer who needs assistance in making an
arrest and the suspect:
            1.   Will not be apprehended unless immediately arrested;
            2.   May cause injury to himself, herself, themself, or others, or
damage to property unless immediately arrested; or
            3.   May destroy or conceal evidence of the commission of a crime.
      (4)   If the village, under the provisions of the Interlocal Cooperation
Act, being Neb. RS 13-825 et seq., or the Joint Public Agency Act, being Neb.
RS 13-2501 et seq., enters into a contract with any other village or county for
law enforcement services or joint law enforcement services, law enforcement
personnel may have such enforcement authority within the jurisdiction of each
of the participating political subdivisions if provided for in the agreement.
Unless otherwise provided in the agreement, the village shall provide liability
insurance coverage for its own law enforcement personnel as provided in Neb. RS
13-1802.
   (C)   When probable cause exists to believe that a person is operating or in
the actual physical control of any motor vehicle, motorboat, personal
watercraft, or aircraft while under the influence of alcoholic liquor or of any
drug or otherwise in violation of Neb. RS 28-1465, 28-1466, 28-1472, 37-
1254.01, 37-1254.02, 60-4,163, 60-4,164, 60-6,196, 60-6,197, 60-6,211.01, or
60-6,211.02, the law enforcement officer has the power and authority to do any
of the following or any combination thereof:
      (1) Transport such person to a facility outside of the law enforcement
officer's primary jurisdiction for appropriate chemical testing of the person;
      (2)   Administer outside of the law enforcement officer’s primary
jurisdiction any post-arrest test advisement to the person; or
      (3)   With respect to such person, perform other procedures or functions
outside of the law enforcement officer’s primary jurisdiction which are
directly and solely related to enforcing the laws that concern a person
operating or being in the actual physical control of any motor vehicle,
motorboat, personal watercraft, or aircraft while under the influence of
alcoholic liquor or of any other drug or otherwise in violation of Neb. RS 28-
1465, 28-1466, 28-1472, 37-1254.01, 37-1254.02, 60-4,163, 60-4,164, 60-6,196,
60-6,197, 60-6,211.01, or 60-6,211.02.
   (D)   For purposes of this section:
      (1)   Class I railroad has the same meaning as in Neb. RS 81-1401;
      (2)   Law enforcement officer has the same meaning as peace officer as
defined in Neb. RS 49-801 and also includes conservation officers of the Game
and Parks Commission and Class I railroad police officers; and
      (3)   Primary jurisdiction means the geographic area within the
territorial limits of the state or political subdivision which employs the law
enforcement officer.
   (E)   If village law enforcement personnel are rendering aid in their law
enforcement capacity outside the limits of the village in the event of
disaster, emergency, or civil defense emergency or in connection with any
program of practice or training for such disaster, emergency or civil defense
emergency when such program is conducted or participated in by the State
Emergency Management Agency or with any other related training program, the law
enforcement personnel shall have the power and authority to enforce the laws of
this state or any legal ordinances or resolutions of the local government where
they are rendering aid or otherwise perform the functions of their office,
including the authority to arrest and detain suspects, as if enforcing the laws
or performing the functions within the territorial limits of their primary
jurisdiction. The village shall self-insure or contract for insurance against
any liability for personal injuries or property damage that may be incurred by
it or by its personnel as the result of any movement of its personnel outside
the limits of the village pursuant to this section.
(Prior Code, § 3-403) (Ord. 475, passed 8-7-1995; Ord. 566, passed 8-12-1998)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 29-215 and 81-829.65
§ 32.58 POLICE OFFICERS; DISCIPLINE OR REMOVAL FROM DUTY; NOTICE AND HEARING;
DETERMINATION.
   (A)   No police officer, including the Village Marshal, shall be
disciplined, suspended, demoted, removed, or discharged except upon written
notice stating the reasons for such disciplinary action, suspension, demotion,
removal, or discharge. Such notice shall also contain a statement informing the
police officer of his, her, or their right to a hearing before the Board of
Trustees.
   (B)   Any police officer so disciplined, suspended, demoted, removed, or
discharged may, within ten days after being notified of such disciplinary
action, suspension, demotion, removal, or discharge, file with the Village
Clerk a written demand for a hearing before the Board of Trustees. The Board of
Trustees shall set the matter for hearing not less than ten nor more than 20
days after the filing of the written demand for a hearing. The Board of
Trustees shall give the police officer written notice of the hearing not less
than seven nor more than 14 days prior to the hearing.
   (C)   At the hearing, the police officer shall have the right to:
      (1)   Respond in person to the charges and to present witnesses and
documentary evidence;
      (2)   Confront and cross-examine available adverse witnesses; and
      (3)   To be represented by counsel.
   (D)   Not later than 30 days following the adjournment of the meeting at
which the hearing was held, the Board of Trustees shall vote to uphold,
reverse, or modify the disciplinary action, suspension, demotion, removal, or
discharge. The failure of the Board of Trustees to act within 30 days or the
failure of a majority of the elected Board members to vote to reverse or modify
the disciplinary action, suspension, demotion, removal, or discharge shall be
construed as a vote to uphold the disciplinary action, suspension, demotion,
removal, or discharge. The decision of the Board of Trustees shall be based
upon its determination that, under the facts and evidence presented at the
hearing, the challenged disciplinary action, suspension, demotion, removal, or
discharge was necessary for the proper management and the effective operation
of the Police Department in the performance of its duties under the state
statutes.
   (E)   Nothing in this section shall be construed to prevent the preemptory
suspension or immediate removal from duty of an officer, pending the hearing
authorized by this section, in cases of gross misconduct, neglect of duty, or
disobedience of orders.
   (F)   If the initial decision to discipline, suspend, demote, remove, or
discharge a police officer is made by the Chairperson of the Board of Trustees,
the Chairperson shall not be considered a member of the Board of Trustees for
purposes of the appeal from his, her, or their decision.
(Prior Code, § 3-404) (Ord. 475, passed 8-7-1995; Ord. 500, passed 2-7-1996)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-208
CHAPTER 33: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
Meetings
   
33.01   Definitions
   
33.02   Open to public; notice; agenda
   
33.03   Notice to news media
   
33.04   Village Board meetings; when; where; quorum
   
33.05   Emergency meetings
   
33.06   Attendance other than in person
   
33.07   Closed sessions
   
33.08   Prohibited acts; exempt events
   
33.09   Public participation
   
33.10   Village Board; order of business
   
33.11   Votes
   
33.12   Village Board; parliamentary procedure
   
33.13   Minutes
   
33.14   Village Board; change in office
Bonds and Oaths
   
33.30   Bonds; requirements
   
33.31   Oath of office; village officials
Compensation; Conflicts of Interest
   
33.45   Compensation; how fixed; limitations
   
33.46   Conflict of interest involving contracts
Notices
   
33.60   Publication of notices
MEETINGS
§ 33.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   MEETING. All regular, special, or called meetings, formal or informal, of
any public body for the purposes of briefing, discussion of public business,
formation of tentative policy, or the taking of any action of the public body.
   PUBLIC BODY.
      (1)   (a)   The Board of Trustees;
         (b)   All independent boards, commissions, bureaus, committees,
councils, subunits, or any other bodies created by the Constitution of
Nebraska, statute, ordinance, or otherwise pursuant to law; and
         (c)   Advisory committees of the bodies listed above.
      (2)   PUBLIC BODY does not include subcommittees of such bodies unless a
quorum of the public body attends a subcommittee meeting or unless the
subcommittees are holding hearings, making policy, or taking formal action on
behalf of their parent body.
(Neb. RS 84-1409)
§ 33.02 OPEN TO PUBLIC; NOTICE; AGENDA.
   (A)   The formation of public policy is public business and may not be
conducted in secret. Every meeting of a public body shall be open the public in
order that citizens may exercise their democratic privilege of attending and
speaking at meetings of public bodies; except as otherwise provided by the
Constitution of Nebraska, federal statutes, and the Open Meetings Act.
(Neb. RS 84-1408)
   (B)   (1)   Each public body shall give reasonable advance publicized notice
of the time and place of each meeting as provided in division (B)(2) below. The
notice shall be transmitted to all members of the public body and to the
public.
      (2)   The notice shall be published by:
         (a)   Publication in a newspaper of general circulation within the
public body’s jurisdiction and, if available, on such newspaper’s web site; or
         (b)   Posting written notice in three conspicuous public places in the
village. The notice shall be posted in the same three places for each meeting.
      (3)   In addition to a method of notice required by division (B)(2)
above, the notice shall also be provided by any other appropriate method
designated by the public body.
      (4)   Each public body shall record the methods and dates of the notice
in its minutes.
      (5)   The notice shall contain an agenda of subjects known at the time of
the publicized notice or a statement that the agenda, which shall be kept
continually current, is readily available for public inspection at the office
of the public body during normal business hours. Agenda items shall be
sufficiently descriptive to give the public reasonable notice of the matters to
be considered at the meeting. Except for items of an emergency nature, the
agenda shall not be altered later than 24 hours before the scheduled
commencement of the meeting or 48 hours before the scheduled commencement of a
meeting of the City Council scheduled outside the corporate limits of the city.
The public body shall have the right to modify the agenda to include items of
an emergency nature only at such public meeting.
(Neb. RS 84-1411)
Statutory reference: 
   Videoconferencing when emergency is declared by the Governor under the
Emergency Management Act, see Neb. RS 84-1411(7)
§ 33.03 NOTICE TO NEWS MEDIA.
   The Village Clerk, in the case of the Board of Trustees, and the secretary
or other designee of each other public body shall maintain a list of the news
media requesting notification of meetings and shall make reasonable efforts to
provide advance notification to them of the time and place of each meeting and
the subjects to be discussed at that meeting.
(Neb. RS 84-1411)
§ 33.04 VILLAGE BOARD MEETINGS; WHEN; WHERE; QUORUM.
   (A)   (1)   The Village Board of Trustees shall, by ordinance, fix the time
and place of holding its stated meetings and may be convened at any time by the
Chairperson.
(Neb. RS 17-204)
      (2)   Unless otherwise provided by the Board, special meetings may also
be called by any three members of the Board of Trustees. The object of a
special meeting shall be submitted to the Village Clerk in writing. The call
and object, as well as the disposition thereof, shall be entered upon the
journal by the Clerk. On filing the call for a special meeting, the Clerk shall
notify the members of the Board of Trustees of the special meeting, stating the
time and its purpose.
   (B)   At the hour specified for a meeting, the Village Clerk shall proceed
to call the roll of members and announce whether a quorum is present. If a
quorum is present, the Board shall be called to order by the Chairperson.
   (C)   (1)   At all meetings of the Village Board of Trustees, a majority of
the trustees shall constitute a quorum to do business. A smaller number may
adjourn from day to day and may compel the attendance of absent members in such
manner and under such penalties as prescribed by the Village Board of Trustees.
(Neb. RS 17-205)
      (2)   Unless otherwise provided by the Board, on the request of any two
members, whether a quorum is present or not, all absent members shall be sent
for and compelled to attend.
§ 33.05 EMERGENCY MEETINGS.
   When it is necessary to hold an emergency meeting without reasonable advance
public notice, the nature of the emergency shall be stated in the minutes and
any formal action taken in that meeting shall pertain only to the emergency.
Such emergency meetings may be held by means of electronic or telecommunication
equipment. The provisions of §
33.03 shall be complied with in conducting emergency meetings. Complete minutes
of such emergency meetings specifying the nature of the emergency and any
formal action taken at the meeting shall be made available to the public by no
later than the end of the next regular business day.
(Neb. RS 84-1411)
§ 33.06 ATTENDANCE OTHER THAN IN PERSON.
   A public body may allow a member of the public or any other witness other
than a member of the public body to appear before the public body by means of
video or telecommunications equipment.
(Neb. RS 84-1411)
§ 33.07 CLOSED SESSIONS.
   (A)   (1)   Any public body may hold a closed session by the affirmative
vote of a majority of its voting members if a closed session is clearly
necessary for the protection of the public interest or for the prevention of
needless injury to the reputation of an individual and if that individual has
not requested a public meeting. The subject matter and the reason necessitating
the closed session shall be identified in the motion to close. Closed sessions
may be held for, but shall not be limited to, such reasons as:
         (a)   Strategy sessions with respect to collective bargaining, real
estate purchases, pending litigation, or litigation which is imminent as
evidenced by communication of a claim or threat of litigation to or by the
public body;
         (b)   Discussion regarding deployment of security personnel or
devices;
         (c)   Investigative proceedings regarding allegations of criminal
misconduct; or
         (d)   Evaluation of the job performance of a person when necessary to
prevent needless injury to the reputation of a person and if that person has
not requested a public meeting.
      (2)   Nothing in this section shall permit a closed meeting for
discussion of the appointment or election of a new member to any public body.
   (B)   The vote to hold a closed session shall be taken in open session. The
entire motion, the vote of each member on the question of holding a closed
session, and the time when the closed session commenced and concluded shall be
recorded in the minutes. If the motion to close passes, then the presiding
officer immediately prior to the closed session shall restate on the record the
limitation of the subject matter at the closed session. The public body holding
such a closed session shall restrict its consideration of matters during the
closed portions to only those purposes set forth in the motion to close as the
reason for the closed session. The meeting shall be reconvened in open session
before any formal action may be taken. For purposes of this section, formal
action means a collective decision or a collective commitment or promise to
make a decision on any question, motion, proposal, resolution, order, or
ordinance or formation of a position or policy but shall not include
negotiating guidance given by members of the public body to legal counsel or
other negotiators in closed sessions authorized under division (A)(1)(a) above.
   (C)   Any member of any public body shall have the right to challenge the
continuation of a closed session if the member determines that the session has
exceeded the reason stated in the original motion to hold a closed session or
if the member contends that the closed session is neither clearly necessary for
the protection of the public interest or the prevention of needless injury to
the reputation of an individual. Such challenge shall be overruled only by a
majority vote of the members of the public body. The challenge and its
disposition shall be recorded in the minutes.
   (D)   Nothing in this section shall be construed to require that any meeting
be closed to the public.
(Neb. RS 84-1410)
§ 33.08 PROHIBITED ACTS; EXEMPT EVENTS.
   (A)   No person or public body shall fail to invite a portion of its members
to a meeting, and no public body shall designate itself a subcommittee of the
whole body for the purpose of circumventing this subchapter or the Open
Meetings Act. No closed session, informal meeting, chance meeting, social
gathering, email, fax, or electronic communication shall be used for the
purpose of circumventing the requirements of this subchapter or the Act.
   (B)   This subchapter and the Act do not apply to chance meetings or to
attendance at or travel to conventions or workshops of members of a public body
at which there is no meeting of the body then intentionally convened, if there
is no vote or other action taken regarding any matter over which the public
body has supervision, control, jurisdiction, or advisory power.
(Neb. RS 84-1410)
§ 33.09 PUBLIC PARTICIPATION.
   (A)   Subject to this subchapter and the Open Meetings Act, the public has
the right to attend and the right to speak at meetings of public bodies, and
all or any part of a meeting of a public body, except for closed sessions
called pursuant to §
33.07, may be videotaped, televised, photographed, broadcast, or recorded by
any person in attendance by means of a tape recorder, a camera, video
equipment, or any other means of pictorial or sonic reproduction or in writing.
   (B)   It shall not be a violation of division (A) above for any public body
to make and enforce reasonable rules and regulations regarding the conduct of
persons attending, speaking at, videotaping, televising, photographing,
broadcasting, or recording its meetings, including meetings held by virtual
conferencing. A body may not be required to allow citizens to speak at each
meeting, but it may not forbid public participation at all meetings.
   (C)   No public body shall require members of the public to identify
themselves as a condition for admission to the meeting nor shall such body
require that the name of any member of the public be placed on the agenda prior
to such meeting in order to speak about items on the agenda. The body shall
require any member of the public desiring to address the body to identify
himself or herself, including an address and the name of any organization
represented by such person unless the address requirement is waived to protect
the security of the individual.
   (D)   No public body shall, for the purpose of circumventing this subchapter
or the Open Meetings Act, hold a meeting in a place known by the body to be too
small to accommodate the anticipated audience.
   (E)   No public body shall be deemed in violation of this section if it
holds its meeting in its traditional meeting place which is located in this
state.
   (F)   No public body shall be deemed in violation of this section if it
holds a meeting outside of this state if, but only if, a member entity of the
public body is located outside of this state and the other requirements of Neb.
RS 84-1412 are met.
   (G)   The public body shall, upon request, make a reasonable effort to
accommodate the public’s right to hear the discussion and testimony presented
at the meeting.
   (H)   Public bodies shall make available at the meeting, for examination and
copying by members of the public, at least 1 copy of all reproducible written
material to be discussed at an open meeting, either in paper or electronic
form. Public bodies shall make available at least 1 current copy of the Open
Meetings Act posted in the meeting room at a location accessible to members of
the public. At the beginning of the meeting, the public shall be informed about
the location of the posted information.
(Neb. RS 84-1412)
§ 33.10 VILLAGE BOARD; ORDER OF BUSINESS.
   Promptly at the hour set by law on the day of each regular meeting, the
members of the Village Board, the Village Clerk, and such other village
officials that may be required shall take their regular stations in the meeting
place, and the business of the village shall be taken up for consideration and
disposition in the order prescribed by the official agenda on file at the
office of the Village Clerk.
§ 33.11 VOTES.
   (A)   Any action taken on any question or motion duly moved and seconded
shall be by roll call vote of the public body in open session, and the record
shall state how each member voted, or if the member was absent or not voting.
The requirements of a roll call or viva voce vote shall be satisfied by a
village which utilizes an electronic voting device which allows the yeas and
nays of each member of the Board of Trustees to be readily seen by the public.
   (B)   The vote to elect leadership within a public body may be taken by
secret ballot, but the total number of votes for each candidate shall be
recorded in the minutes.
(Neb. RS 84-1413)
Cross-reference: 
   Votes on ordinances, appropriations of money, and contracts, see §
30.39
§ 33.12 VILLAGE BOARD; PARLIAMENTARY PROCEDURE.
   Unless the Board of Trustees provides otherwise, the rules of parliamentary
procedure specified in this section shall apply to meetings of the Board of
Trustees. The Chairperson shall preserve order during meetings of the Board of
Trustees and shall decide all questions of order, subject to an appeal to the
Board. When any person is called to order, he or she shall be seated until the
point is decided. When the Chairperson is putting the question, no person shall
leave the meeting room. Every person present, previous to speaking, shall rise
from his or her seat and address the presiding officer and while speaking shall
confine his or her comments to the question. When two or more persons rise at
once, the Chairperson shall recognize the one who spoke first. All resolutions
or motions shall be reduced to writing before being acted upon, if requested by
the Village Clerk or any member of the Board. Every member of the Board who is
present when a question is voted upon shall cast his or her vote unless excused
by a majority of the members of the Board present. No motion shall be put or
debated unless seconded. When seconded, it shall be stated by the Chairperson
before being debatable. In all cases where a motion or resolution is entered on
the minutes, the name of the member of the Board making the motion or
resolution shall be entered also. After each vote, the “yeas” and “nays” shall
be taken and entered in the minutes. Before the vote is actually taken, any
resolution, motion, or proposed ordinance may be withdrawn from consideration
by the sponsor with the consent of the member of the Board seconding the
resolution, motion, or ordinance. When, in the consideration of an ordinance,
different times or amounts are proposed, the question shall be put on the
largest sum, or the longest time. A question to reconsider shall be in order
when made by a member voting with the majority, but the motion to reconsider
must be made before the expiration of the third regular meeting after the
initial consideration of the question. When any question is under debate, no
motion shall be made, entertained, or seconded except the previous question, a
motion to table, and to adjourn. Each of those motions shall be decided without
debate. Any of the rules of the Board for meetings may be suspended by a two-
thirds vote of the members present. In all cases in which provisions are not
made by these rules, Robert’s Rules of Order is the authority by which the
Board shall decide all procedural disputes that may arise.
§ 33.13 MINUTES.
   (A)   Each public body shall keep minutes of all meetings showing the time,
place, members present and absent, and the substance of all matters discussed.
   (B)   The minutes of all meetings and evidence and documentation received or
disclosed in open session shall be public records and open to public inspection
during normal business hours.
   (C)   Minutes shall be written or kept as an electronic record and shall be
available for inspection within ten working days or prior to the next convened
meeting, whichever occurs earlier, except that the village may have an
additional ten working days if the employee responsible for writing or keeping
the minutes is absent due to a serious illness or emergency.
(Neb. RS 84-1413)
§ 33.14 VILLAGE BOARD; CHANGE IN OFFICE.
   (A)   The Board of Trustees shall meet at the time and place of the regular
meeting in December in each election year, and the outgoing officers and the
outgoing members of the Board shall present their reports. Upon the outgoing
Board having completed its business, the outgoing Trustees shall surrender
their offices to the incoming Trustees, and the outgoing officers shall
thereupon each surrender to their successors in office all property, records,
papers, and moneys belonging to the same.
   (B)   The newly elected Trustees and those continuing in office shall
convene immediately after the prior Board adjourns and proceed to organize
themselves for the ensuing year. The Chairperson pro tempore shall call the
meeting to order. The Clerk shall report to the Board the names of all
Trustees- elect who have qualified for their respective offices. The Board
shall examine the credentials of its members and any other elective officers of
the village to see that each has been duly and properly elected and to see that
such oaths and bonds as are required have been given. The Clerk’s report shall
be spread upon the minutes of the meeting preceding the roll call.
   (C)   After ascertaining that all Trustees and officers are duly qualified
and after the Clerk has called the roll, the Board shall elect a Chairperson
and shall appoint the officers required by state law or village ordinance. The
Chairperson shall then proceed with the regular order of business.
BONDS AND OATHS
§ 33.30 BONDS; REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   The village may enact ordinances or bylaws to require from all
officers and servants, elected or appointed, bonds and security or evidence of
equivalent insurance for the faithful performance of their duties. The village
may pay the premium for such bonds or insurance coverage.
(Neb. RS 17-604)
   (B)   (1)   All official bonds of officers of the village shall be in form
joint and several and made payable to the village in such penalty as the Board
of Trustees may fix.
      (2)   In place of the individual bonds required to be furnished by
municipal officers, a schedule, position, blanket bond or undertaking, or
evidence of equivalent insurance may be given by municipal officers, or a
single corporate surety fidelity, schedule, position, or blanket bond or
undertaking, or evidence of insurance coverage covering all the officers,
including officers required by law to furnish an individual bond or
undertaking, may be furnished. The municipality may pay the premium for the
bond or insurance coverage. The bond or insurance coverage shall be, at a
minimum, an aggregate of the amounts fixed by law or by the Board of Trustees,
and with such terms and conditions as may be required.
(Neb. RS 11-104)
      (3)   The penalty amount on any bond shall not fall below the legal
minimum, when one has been set by the state, for each particular official.
   (C)   (1)   Official bonds, with the oath endorsed thereon, shall be filed
in the Village Clerk's office within the following time:
         (a)    Of all officers elected at any general election, following
receipt of their election certificate and not later than ten days before the
first Thursday after the first Tuesday in January next succeeding the election;
         (b)   Of all appointed officers, within 30 days after their
appointment; and
         (c)   Of officers elected at any special election and village
officers, within 30 days after the canvass of the votes of the election at
which they were chosen.
      (2)   The filing of the bond with the oath endorsed thereon does not
authorize a person to take any official action prior to the beginning of his or
her term of office pursuant to Article XVII, section 5, of the Constitution of
Nebraska.
(Neb. RS 11-105)
   (D)   All official bonds of village officers shall be executed by the
principal named in such bonds and by at least 2 sufficient sureties who shall
be freeholders of the county in which such bonds are given, or any official
bond of a village officer may be executed by the officer as principal and by a
guaranty, surety, fidelity, or bonding company as surety, or by two or more
such companies. Only such companies as are legally authorized to transact
business in this state shall be eligible to suretyship on the bond of a village
officer.
(Neb. RS 11-109)
   (E)   The Village Clerk shall carefully record and preserve the bonds in his
or her office and shall give certified copies thereof, when required, under the
seal of his or her office, and shall be entitled to receive for the same the
usual fee allowed by law for certified copies of records in other cases.
(Neb. RS 11-110)
   (F)   (1)   The approval of each official bond shall be endorsed upon such
bond by the officer approving the same, and no bond shall be filed and recorded
until so approved.
(Neb. RS 11-111)
      (2)   No bond shall be deemed to be given or complete until the approval
of the Board of Trustees and all sureties are endorsed in writing on the
instrument by the Chairperson and Village Clerk pursuant to the approval of the
Board of Trustees.
   (G)   All official bonds shall obligate the principal and sureties for the
faithful discharge of all duties required by law of such principal and shall
inure to the benefit of any persons injured by a breach of the conditions of
such bonds.
(Neb. RS 11-112)
   (H)   No official bond shall be rendered void by reason of any informality
of irregularity in its execution or approval.
(Neb. RS 11-113)
   (I)   No village official shall be taken as security on the bond of any
administrator, executor, or other officer from whom by law bond is or may be
required.
(Neb. RS 11-114)
   (J)   If any person elected or appointed to any office neglects to have his
or her official bond executed and approved as provided by law and filed for
record within the time limited by this section, the Village Clerk shall
immediately issue an order to such person to show cause why he or she has
failed to properly file such bond and why his or her office should not be
declared vacant. If such person properly files the official bond within ten
days of the issuance of the show cause order for appointed officials or before
the date for taking office for elected officials, such filing shall be deemed
to be in compliance with this section. If such person does not file the bond
within ten days of the issuance of such order for appointed officials or before
the date for taking office for elected officials and sufficient cause is not
shown within that time, his or her office shall thereupon ipso facto become
vacant and such vacancy shall thereupon immediately be filled by election or
appointment as the law may direct in other cases of vacancy in the same office.
(Neb. RS 11-115)
   (K)   Any person appointed to fill a vacancy, before entering upon the
duties of the office, must give a bond corresponding in substance and form with
the bond required of the officer originally elected or appointed, as herein
provided.
(Neb. RS 11-116)
   (L)   When the incumbent of an office is reelected or reappointed, he or she
shall qualify by taking the oath and giving the bond as above directed, but
when such officer has had public funds or property in his or her control, his
or her bond shall not be approved until he or she has produced and fully
accounted for such funds and property. When it is ascertained that the
incumbent of an office holds over by reason of the nonelection or
nonappointment of a successor or of the neglect or refusal of the successor to
qualify, he or she shall qualify anew within ten days from the time at which
his or her successor, if elected, should have qualified.
(Neb. RS 11-117)
   (M)   No person shall be surety for the same officer for more than two
successive terms of the same office, but this provision shall not apply to
incorporated surety companies.
(Neb. RS 11-118)
   (N)   If the sureties on the official bond of any appointed officer of the
village, in the opinion of the Board of Trustees, become insufficient, the
Board may, by resolution, fix a reasonable time within which the officer may
give a new bond or additional sureties as directed. If the officer fails,
refuses, or neglects to give a new bond or additional sureties to the
satisfaction and approval of the Board, the office shall, by such failure,
refusal, or neglect, become vacant and it shall be the duty of the Board to
appoint a competent and qualified person to fill the office.
§ 33.31 OATH OF OFFICE; VILLAGE OFFICIALS.
   (A)   All officials of the village, whether elected or appointed, except
when a different oath is specifically provided herein, shall before entering
upon their respective duties take and subscribe the following oath, which shall
be endorsed upon their respective bonds:
“I, ______________________________, do solemnly swear that I will support the
constitution of the United States and the constitution of the State of
Nebraska, against all enemies foreign and domestic; that I will bear true faith
and allegiance to the same; that I take this obligation freely and without
mental reservation or for the purpose of evasion; and that I will faithfully
and impartially perform the duties of the office of ____________________,
according to law and to the best of my ability. And I do further swear that I
do not advocate nor am I a member of any political party or organization that
advocates the overthrow of the government of the United States or of this state
by force or violence; and that during such time as I am in this position I will
not advocate nor become a member of any political party or organization that
advocates the overthrow of the government of the United States or of this state
by force or violence. So help me God.”
   (B)   If any such officer is not required to give bond, the oath shall be
filed with the Village Clerk.
(Neb. RS 11-101)
COMPENSATION; CONFLICTS OF INTEREST
§ 33.45 COMPENSATION; HOW FIXED; LIMITATIONS.
   (A)   The appointive officials and other employees of the village shall
receive such compensation as the Board of Trustees shall designate by
ordinance; and the annual salary of the Chairperson and other members of the
Board of Trustees shall be fixed by ordinance.
(Neb. RS 17-209)
   (B)   Trustees may perform and upon Village Board of Trustees approval
receive compensation for seasonal or emergency work subject to §
33.46.
(Neb. RS 17-209.02)
   (C)   The village may enact ordinances or bylaws to regulate and prescribe
the compensation of officers not provided for in state law.
(Neb. RS 17-604)
   (D)   No officer shall receive any pay or perquisites from the village other
than his or her salary. The Board of Trustees shall not pay or appropriate any
money or other valuable thing to any person not an officer for the performance
of any act, service, or duty, the doing or performance of which shall come
within the proper scope of the duties of any officer of the village.
(Neb. RS 17-611)
   (E)   The salary of any elective officer shall not be increased or
diminished during the term for which he or she shall have been elected, except
when there has been a combination and merger of offices as provided in §
31.03, except that when there are officers elected to the Board of Trustees, or
any other board or commission having more than one member and the terms of one
or more members commence and end at different times, the compensation of all
members of such board or commission may be increased or diminished at the
beginning of the full term of any member thereof. No person who shall have
resigned or vacated any office shall be eligible to the same during the time
for which he or she was elected if during the same time the salary was
increased.
(Neb. RS 17-612)
§ 33.46 CONFLICT OF INTEREST INVOLVING CONTRACTS.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      BUSINESS ASSOCIATION. 
         (a)   A business:
            1.   In which the individual is a partner, limited liability
company member, director, or officer; or
            2.   In which the individual or a member of the individual’s
immediate family is a stockholder of closed corporation stock worth $1,000 or
more at fair market value or which represents more than a 5% equity interest or
is a stockholder of publicly traded stock worth $10,000 or more at fair market
value or which represents more than 10% equity interest.
         (b)   An individual who occupies a confidential professional
relationship protected by law shall be exempt from this definition. This
definition shall not apply to publicly traded stock under a trading account if
the filer reports the name and address of the stockbroker.
(Neb. RS 49-1408)
      IMMEDIATE FAMILY. A child residing in an individual’s household, a spouse
of an individual, or an individual claimed by that individual or that
individual’s spouse as a dependent for federal income tax purposes.
(Neb. RS 49-1425)
      OFFICER.
         (a)   Includes:
            1.   A member of any board or commission of the village which
spends and administers its own funds, who is dealing with a contract made by
that board or commission; or
            2.   Any elected village official.
         (b)   OFFICER does not mean volunteer firefighters or ambulance
drivers with respect to their duties as firefighters or ambulance drivers.
   (B)   (1)   Except as provided in Neb. RS 49-1499.04 or 70-624.04, no
officer may have an interest in any contract to which his or her governing
body, or anyone for its benefit, is a party. The existence of such an interest
in any contract shall render the contract voidable by decree of a court of
competent jurisdiction as to any person who entered into the contract or took
assignment of the contract with actual knowledge of the prohibited conflict. An
action to have a contract declared void under this section may be brought by
the County Attorney, the governing body, or any resident within the
jurisdiction of the governing body, and shall be brought within one year after
the contract is signed or assigned. The decree may provide for the
reimbursement of any person for the reasonable value of all money, goods,
material, labor, or services furnished under the contract, to the extent that
the governing body has benefitted thereby.
      (2)   The prohibition in this division (B) shall apply only when the
officer or his or her parent, spouse, or child:
         (a)   Has a business association with the business involved in the
contract; or
         (b)   Will receive a payment, fee, or commission as a result of the
contract.
   (C)   Division (B) above does not apply if the contract is an agenda item
approved at a meeting of the governing body and the interested officer:
      (1)   Makes a declaration on the record to the governing body responsible
for approving the contract regarding the nature and extent of his or her
interest prior to official consideration of the contract;
      (2)   Does not vote on the matters of granting the contract, making
payments pursuant to the contract, or accepting performance of work under the
contract, or similar matters relating to the contract, except that if the
number of members of the governing body declaring an interest in the contract
would prevent the body with all members present from securing a quorum on the
issue, then all members may vote on the matters; and
      (3)   Does not act for the governing body which is a party to the
contract as to inspection or performance under the contract in which he or she
has an interest.
   (D)   The receiving of deposits, cashing of checks, and buying and selling
of warrants and bonds of indebtedness of any such governing body by a financial
institution shall not be considered a contract for purposes of this section.
The ownership of less than 5% of the outstanding shares of a corporation shall
not constitute an interest within the meaning of this section.
   (E)   If an officer’s parent, spouse, or child is an employee of the
officer’s governing body, the officer may vote on all issues of the contract
which are generally applicable to all employees, or all employees within a
classification, and do not single out his or her parent, spouse, or child for
special action.
   (F)   Neb. RS 49-14,102 does not apply to contracts covered by this section.
(Neb. RS 49-14,103.01)
   (G)   (1)   The person charged with keeping records for the governing body
shall maintain separately from other records a ledger containing the
information listed in divisions (G)(1)(a) through (G)(1)(e) of this section
about every contract entered into by the governing body in which an officer of
the body has an interest and for which disclosure is made pursuant to division
(C) above. This information shall be kept in the ledger for five years from the
date of the officer’s last day in office and shall include:
         (a)   The names of the contracting parties;
         (b)   The nature of the interest of the officer in question;
         (c)   The date that the contract was approved by the governing body;
         (d)   The amount of the contract; and
         (e)   The basic terms of the contract.
      (2)   The information supplied relative to the contract shall be provided
no later than ten days after the contract has been signed by both parties. The
ledger kept pursuant to this division (G) shall be available for public
inspection during the normal working hours of the office in which it is kept.
(Neb. RS 49-14,103.02)
   (H)   An open account established for the benefit of any governing body with
a business in which an officer has an interest shall be deemed a contract
subject to this section. The statement required to be filed by division (G)
above shall be filed within ten days after the account is opened. Thereafter,
the person charged with keeping records for the governing body shall maintain a
running account of amounts purchased on the open account. Purchases made from
petty cash or a petty cash fund shall not be subject to this section.
(Neb. RS 49-14,103.03)
   (I)   Notwithstanding divisions (A) through (H) above, the governing body
may prohibit contracts over a specific dollar amount in which an officer of the
governing body may have an interest.
(Neb. RS 49-14,103.05)
   (J)   The governing body may exempt from divisions (A) through (H) above,
contracts involving $100 or less in which an officer of that body may have an
interest.
(Neb. RS 49-14,103.06)
Statutory reference:
   Other provisions on conflicts of interest, see Neb. RS 18-305 through 18-312
and 49-1499.03 through 49-14,103
   Penalty for violation of restrictions on contracts, see Neb. RS 49-14,103.04
NOTICES
§ 33.60 NOTICES; PUBLICATION.
   If the village is required to publish a notice or advertisement in a legal
newspaper in or of general circulation in the village, and if there is no legal
newspaper in or of general circulation in the village, then the village shall
publish such notice or advertisement in a legal newspaper in or of general
circulation in the county in which the village is located. If there is no legal
newspaper in or of general circulation in such county, then the village shall
publish such notice or advertisement by posting a written or printed copy
thereof in each of three public places in the village for the same period of
time the village is required to publish the notice or advertisement in a legal
newspaper.
CHAPTER 34: FINANCE AND REVENUE
Section
General Provisions
   
34.01   Definitions
   
34.02   Annual audit; financial statements
   
34.03   Contracts and purchases; bidding and other requirements
   
34.04   Orders or warrants for money; contracts; expenditures; requirements
   
34.05   Claims and accounts payable
   
34.06   Collection of special assessments; procedure
   
34.07   Special assessment fund
   
34.08   Sinking funds; gifts of money or property
   
34.09   Deposit of funds
   
34.10   Certificates of deposit; time deposits; conditions
   
34.11   Investment and use of surplus funds
   
34.12   Bond issues
   
34.13   Debt collection; authority to contract with collection agency
   
34.14   Credit cards; authority to accept
Annual Budget
   
34.25   Fiscal year
   
34.26   Budget procedures
   
34.27   Expenditures prior to adoption of budget
   
34.28   Proposed budget statement; contents; availability; correction
   
34.29   Proposed budget statement; hearing; adoption; certification of tax
amount
   
34.30   Adopted budget statement; filing; certification of tax amount
   
34.31   Appropriation bill
   
34.32   General Fund
   
34.33   Transfer of funds
   
34.34   Budget revision
   
34.35   Proprietary functions; fiscal year; budget statements; filing; hearing;
adoption; reconciliation
Tax Levies
   
34.45   Property tax levy for general revenue purposes
   
34.46   Levies for other taxes and special assessments
   
34.47   All-purpose levy; extraordinary levies; allocation; abandonment
   
34.48   Property tax levy; maximum; authority to exceed
   
34.49   Property tax levy; certification of amount; collection
   
34.50   Property tax request; procedure for setting
   
34.51   Property tax request; increase by more than allowable growth
percentage; procedure for setting
   
34.52   Motor vehicle fee
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 34.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definition shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BIENNIAL BUDGET. A budget by the village that provides for a biennial period
to determine and carry on the village’s financial and taxing affairs.
   BIENNIAL PERIOD. The two fiscal years comprising a biennium commencing in
odd-numbered or even-numbered years used by the village in determining and
carrying on its financial and taxing affairs.
   PUBLIC FUNDS. All money, including non-tax money, used in the operation and
functions of governing bodies. If the village has a lottery established under
the Nebraska County and Village Lottery Act, only those net proceeds which are
actually received by the village from a licensed lottery operator shall be
considered PUBLIC FUNDS, and PUBLIC FUNDS shall not include amounts awarded as
prizes.
(Neb. RS 13-503)
§ 34.02 ANNUAL AUDIT; FINANCIAL STATEMENTS.
   (A)   (1)   For the purpose of this division (A), the following definitions
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
         ACCOUNTANT. A duly licensed public accountant or certified public
accountant who otherwise is not an employee of or connected in any way with the
village.
         ANNUAL AUDIT REPORT. The written report of the accountant and all
appended statements and schedules relating thereto presenting or recording the
findings of an examination or audit of the financial transactions, affairs, or
financial condition of the village and its proprietary functions for the fiscal
year immediately prior to the making of the annual report.
         FISCAL YEAR. The fiscal year for the village or the fiscal year
established in Neb. RS 18-2804 for a proprietary function if different than the
village fiscal year.
(Neb. RS 19-2902)
      (2)   The Board of Trustees shall cause an audit of the village’s
accounts to be made by a recognized independent and qualified accountant as
expeditiously as possible following the close of the fiscal year and to cover
all financial transactions and affairs of the village for that preceding fiscal
year. The audit shall be made on a cash or accrual method at the discretion of
the Board of Trustees. The audit shall be completed and the annual audit report
made by the accountant shall be submitted within six months after the close of
the fiscal year in any event, unless an extension of time is granted by a
written resolution adopted by the Board of Trustees. The Board of Trustees may
request a waiver of the audit requirement subject to the requirements of Neb.
RS 84-304. If the village is required to conduct an audit under Neb. RS 84-304
and owns or operates any type of public utility or other enterprise which
substantially generates its own revenue, the Board of Trustees shall have that
phase of the village’s affairs reported separately from the other functions of
the village. The result of that audit shall appear separately in the annual
audit report made by the accountant to the village, and the audit shall be on a
cash or accrual basis at the discretion of the Board of Trustees.
(Neb. RS 19-2903)
      (3)   The annual audit report shall set forth, insofar as possible, the
financial position and results of financial operations for each fund or group
of accounts of the village. When the accrual method is selected for the annual
audit report, the report shall be in accordance with generally accepted
accounting principles. The annual audit report shall also include the
professional opinion of the accountant with respect to the financial
statements, or, if an opinion cannot be expressed, a declaration that the
accountant is unable to express such an opinion with an explanation of the
reasons why he or she cannot do so.
(Neb. RS 19-2904)
      (4)   At least three copies of such annual audit report shall be properly
signed and attested by the accountant; two copies shall be filed with the
Village Clerk, and one copy shall be filed with the Auditor of Public Accounts.
The annual audit report filed, together with any accompanying comment or
explanation, shall become a part of the public records of the Village Clerk and
shall at all times thereafter be open and subject to public inspection.
(Neb. RS 19-2905)
   (B)   The Board of Trustees shall provide and file with the Village Clerk,
not later than August 1 of each year, financial statements showing the
village’s actual and budgeted figures for the most recently completed fiscal
year.
(Neb. RS 13-606)
Statutory reference:
   Other provisions on audits, Neb. RS 19-2906 through 19-2909
§ 34.03 CONTRACTS AND PURCHASES; BIDDING AND OTHER REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Except as provided in Neb. RS 18-412.01 for a contract with a public
power district to operate, renew, replace, or add to the electric distribution,
transmission, or generation system of the village, no contract for enlargement
or general improvements, such as water extensions, sewers, public heating
systems, bridges, work on streets, or any other work or improvement when the
cost of the enlargement or improvement is assessed to the property, costing
over $30,000, shall be made unless it is first approved by the Board of
Trustees.
   (B)   Except as provided in Neb. RS 18-412.01, before the Board of Trustees
makes any contract in excess of $30,000 for enlargement or general
improvements, such as water extensions, sewers, public heating systems,
bridges, work on streets, or any other work or improvement when the cost of the
enlargement or improvement is assessed to the property, an estimate of the cost
shall be made by the Village Engineer and submitted to the Board of Trustees.
In advertising for bids as provided in divisions (C) and (E) of this section,
the Board of Trustees may publish the amount of the estimate.
   (C)   Advertisements for bids shall be required for any contract costing
over $30,000 entered into:
      (1)   For enlargement or general improvements, such as water extensions,
sewers, public heating systems, bridges, work on streets, or any other work or
improvement when the cost of the enlargement or improvement is assessed to the
property; or
      (2)   For the purchase of equipment used in the construction of the
enlargement or general improvements.
   (D)   A village electric utility may enter into a contract for the
enlargement or improvement of the electric system or for the purchase of
equipment used for the enlargement or improvement without advertising for bids
if the price is:
      (1)   $30,000 or less;
      (2)   $60,000 or less and the village electric utility has gross annual
revenue from retail sales in excess of $1,000,000;
      (3)   $90,000 or less and the village electric utility has gross annual
revenue from retail sales in excess of $5,000,000; or
      (4)   $120,000 or less and the village electric utility has gross annual
revenue from retail sales in excess of $10,000,000.
   (E)   The advertisement provided for in division (C) above shall be
published at least seven days prior to the bid closing in a legal newspaper
published in or of general circulation in the village. In case of a public
emergency resulting from infectious or contagious diseases, destructive
windstorms, floods, snow, war, or an exigency or pressing necessity or
unforeseen need calling for immediate action or remedy to prevent a serious
loss of or serious injury or damage to life, health, or property, estimates of
costs and advertising for bids may be waived in the emergency ordinance
authorized by Neb. RS 17-613 when adopted by a three-fourths vote of the Board
of Trustees and entered of record.
   (F)   If, after advertising for bids as provided in this section, the Board
of Trustees receives fewer than two bids on a contract or if the bids received
by the Board of Trustees contain a price which exceeds the estimated cost, the
Board of Trustees may negotiate a contract in an attempt to complete the
proposed enlargement or general improvements at a cost commensurate with the
estimate given.
   (G)   If the materials are of such a nature that, in the opinion of the
manufacturer and with the concurrence of the Board of Trustees, no cost can be
estimated until the materials have been manufactured or assembled to the
specific qualifications of the village, the Board of Trustees may authorize the
manufacture and assemblage of those materials and may thereafter approve the
estimated cost expenditure when it is provided by the manufacturer.
(Neb. RS 17-568.01)
   (H)   Any village bidding procedure may be waived by the Board of Trustees:
      (1)   When materials or equipment are purchased at the same price and
from the same seller as materials or equipment which have formerly been
obtained pursuant to the state bidding procedure in Neb. RS 81-145 through 81-
162;
      (2)   When the contract is negotiated directly with a sheltered workshop
pursuant to Neb. RS 48-1503; or
      (3)   When required to comply with any federal grant, loan, or program.
(Neb. RS 17-568.02)
   (I)   (1)   Notwithstanding any other provisions of law or a home rule
charter, a village which has established, by an interlocal agreement with any
county, a joint purchasing division or agency may purchase personal property
without competitive bidding if the price for the property has been established
by the federal General Services Administration or the materiel division of the
Department of Administrative Services.
      (2)   For the purpose of this division (I), the following definitions
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
         PERSONAL PROPERTY. Includes but is not limited to supplies, materials,
and equipment used by or furnished to any officer, office, department,
institution, board, or other agency.
         PURCHASING or PURCHASE. The obtaining of personal property by sale,
lease, or other contractual means.
(Neb. RS 18-1756)
Statutory reference:
   Requirements for public lettings, see Neb. RS 73-101 et seq.
§ 34.04 ORDERS OR WARRANTS FOR MONEY; CONTRACTS; EXPENDITURES; REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   The Board of Trustees shall have no power to appropriate, issue, or
draw any order or warrant on the Village Treasurer for money, unless the same
has been appropriated or ordered by ordinance, or the claim for the payment of
which such order or warrant is issued has been allowed according to the
provisions of §
34.05, and funds for the class or object out of which such claim is payable
have been included in the adopted budget statement or transferred according to
law.
(Neb. RS 17-708)
   (B)   No contract shall be hereafter made by the Board of Trustees, or any
committee or member thereof, and no expense shall be incurred by any of the
officers or departments of the village, whether the object of the expenditures
shall have been ordered by the Board of Trustees or not, unless an
appropriation shall have been previously made concerning such expense, except
as otherwise expressly provided in division (A) above.
(Neb. RS 17-709)
   (C)   All warrants drawn upon the Village Treasurer must be signed by the
Chairperson and countersigned by the Village Clerk, stating the particular fund
to which the same is chargeable, the person to whom payable, and for what
particular object. No money shall be otherwise paid than upon such warrants so
drawn. Each warrant shall specify the amount included in the adopted budget
statement for such fund upon which it is drawn and the amount already expended
of such fund.
(Neb. RS 17-711)
§ 34.05 CLAIMS AND ACCOUNTS PAYABLE.
   (A)   (1)   All liquidated and unliquidated claims and accounts payable
against the village shall:
         (a)   Be presented in writing;
         (b)   State the name and address of the claimant and the amount of the
claim; and
         (c)   Fully and accurately identify the items or services for which
payment is claimed or the time, place, nature, and circumstances giving rise to
the claim.
      (2)   As a condition precedent to maintaining an action for a claim,
other than a tort claim as defined in Neb. RS 13-903, the claimant shall file
such claim within 90 days of the accrual of the claim in the office of the
Village Clerk.
      (3)   The Village Clerk shall notify the claimant or his or her agent or
attorney by letter mailed to the claimant's address within five days if the
claim is disallowed by the Board of Trustees.
      (4)   No costs shall be recovered against the village in any action
brought against it for any claim or for any claim allowed in part which has not
been presented to the Board of Trustees to be audited, unless the recovery is
for a greater sum than the amount allowed with the interest due.
(Neb. RS 17-714)
   (B)   Upon the allowance of claims by the Board of Trustees, the order for
their payment shall specify the particular fund or appropriation out of which
they are payable as specified in the adopted budget statement; and no order or
warrant shall be drawn in excess of 85% of the current levy for the purpose for
which it is drawn, unless there is sufficient money in the treasury at the
credit of the proper fund for its payment; provided that if there exists at the
time such warrant is drawn, obligated funds from the federal government or the
state, or both from the federal government and the state, for the general
purpose or purposes of such warrant, then such warrant may be drawn in excess
of 85% of the current levy for the purpose for which it is drawn to the
additional extent of 100% of such obligated federal or state funds. No claim
shall be audited or allowed unless an order or warrant for the payment thereof
may legally be drawn.
(Neb. RS 17-715)
§ 34.06 COLLECTION OF SPECIAL ASSESSMENTS; PROCEDURE.
   (A)   The village shall have authority to collect the special assessments
which it levies and to perform all other necessary functions related thereto
including foreclosure.
   (B)   The Board of Trustees of any village collecting its own special
assessments shall direct that notice that special assessments are due shall be
mailed or otherwise delivered to the last known address of the person against
whom those special assessments are assessed or to the lending institution or
other party responsible for paying those special assessments. Failure to
receive the notice shall not relieve the taxpayer from any liability to pay the
special assessments and any interest or penalties accrued thereon.
   (C)   A village collecting its own assessments shall:
      (1)   File notice of the assessments and the amount of assessment being
levied for each lot or tract of land to the Register of Deeds; and
      (2)   File a release of assessment upon final payment of each assessment
with the Register of Deeds.
(Neb. RS 18-1216)
Statutory reference: 
   Refunding erroneously paid special assessments, see Neb. RS 17-703
§ 34.07 SPECIAL ASSESSMENT FUND.
   All money received on special assessments shall be held by the Village
Treasurer as a special fund to be applied to the payment of the improvement for
which the assessment was made, and this money shall be used for no other
purpose whatever, unless to reimburse the village for money expended for any
such improvement.
(Neb. RS 17-710)
§ 34.08 SINKING FUNDS; GIFTS OF MONEY OR PROPERTY.
   (A)   The village is hereby empowered to receive money or property by
donation, bequest, gift, devise, or otherwise for the benefit of any one or
more of the public purposes for which sinking funds are established by the
provisions of this section, as stipulated by the donor. Title to any money or
property so donated shall vest in the Board of Trustees, or in its successors
in office, who shall become the owners thereof in trust to the uses of the
sinking fund or funds; provided. In the event of a donation of real estate, the
Board of Trustees may manage the real estate as in the case of real estate
donated to the village for village library purposes under the provisions of
Neb. RS 51-215 and 51-216.
(Neb. RS 19-1301)
   (B)   The Board of Trustees, subject to all the limitations set forth in
this section, shall have the power to levy a tax of not to exceed $0.105 on
each $100 in any one year upon the taxable value of all the taxable property
within the village for a term of not to exceed ten years, in addition to the
amount of tax which may be annually levied for the purposes of the adopted
budget statement of the village, for the purpose of establishing a sinking fund
for the construction, purchase, improvement, extension, original equipment, or
repair, not including maintenance, of any one or more of the following public
improvements, including acquisition of any land incident to the making thereof:
village libraries; village auditoriums or community houses for social or
recreational purposes; village halls; village public libraries, auditoriums, or
community houses in a single building; village swimming pools; village jails;
village fire stations, together with firefighting equipment or apparatus;
village parks; village cemeteries; village medical buildings, together with
furnishings and equipment; or village hospitals. The village shall not be
authorized to levy the tax or to establish the sinking fund as provided in this
division if, having bonded indebtedness, such village has been in default in
the payment of interest thereon or principal thereof for a period of ten years
prior to the date of the passage of the resolution providing for the submission
of the proposition for establishment of the sinking fund as required in
division (C) below.
(Neb. RS 19-1302)
   (C)   Before any sinking fund or funds are established or before any annual
tax is levied for any such planned village improvements mentioned in division
(B) above by the village, the Board of Trustees shall declare its purpose by
resolution to submit to the qualified electors of the village at the next
general village election the proposition to provide the village with the
specific village improvement planned under this section. The resolution of
submission shall, among other things, set forth a clear description of the
improvement planned, the estimated cost according to the prevailing costs, the
amount of annual levy over a definite period of years, not exceeding ten years,
required to provide such cost, and the specific name or designation for the
sinking fund sought to be established to carry out the planned improvement,
together with a statement of the proposition for placement upon the ballot at
the election. Notice of the submission of the proposition, together with a copy
of the official ballot containing the same, shall be published in its entirety
three successive weeks before the day of the election in a legal newspaper in
or of general circulation in the village or, if no legal newspaper is in or of
general circulation in the village, in a legal newspaper in or of general
circulation in the county in which the village is located. No such sinking fund
shall be established unless the same has been authorized by a majority or more
of the legal votes of the village cast for or against the proposition. If less
than a majority of the legal votes favor the establishment of the sinking fund,
the planned improvement shall not be made, no annual tax shall be levied
therefor, and no sinking fund or sinking funds shall be established in
connection therewith, but such resolution of submission shall immediately be
repealed. If the proposition shall carry at such election in the manner
prescribed in this division, the Board of Trustees and its successors in office
shall proceed to do all things authorized under such resolution of submission
but never inconsistent with this section. The election provided for under this
section shall be conducted as provided under the Election Act.
(Neb. RS 19-1303)
   (D)   All funds received by the Village Treasurer, by donation or by tax
levy, as hereinbefore provided, shall, as they accumulate, be immediately
invested by the Treasurer, with the written approval of the Board of Trustees,
in the manner provided in §
34.11. Whenever investments of such sinking fund or funds are made, as
aforesaid, the nature and character of the same shall be reported to the Board
of Trustees, and the investment report shall be made a matter of record by the
Village Clerk in the proceedings of the Village Board. The sinking fund, or
sinking funds, accumulated under the provisions of this section, shall
constitute a special fund, or funds, for the purpose or purposes for which the
same was authorized and shall not be used for any other purpose unless
authorized by 60% of the qualified electors of the village voting at a general
election favoring such change in the use of the sinking fund or sinking funds;
provided that the question of the change in the use of the sinking fund or
sinking funds, when it fails to carry, shall not be resubmitted in substance
for a period of one year from and after the date of such election.
(Neb. RS 19-1304)
Statutory reference:
   Additional levy limitations, see Neb. RS 17-702
§ 34.09 DEPOSIT OF FUNDS.
   (A)   (1)   The Village Treasurer shall deposit, and at all times keep on
deposit, for safekeeping, in banks, capital stock financial institutions, or
qualifying mutual financial institutions of approved and responsible standing,
all money collected, received, or held by him or her as Village Treasurer.
These deposits shall be subject to all regulations imposed by law or adopted by
the Board of Trustees for the receiving and holding thereof. The fact that a
stockholder, director, or other officer of the bank, capital stock financial
institution, or qualifying mutual financial institution is also serving as a
member of the Board of Trustees or as any other officer of the village shall
not disqualify the bank, capital stock financial institution, or qualifying
mutual financial institution from acting as a depository for the village funds.
      (2)   The Board of Trustees shall require from all banks, capital stock
financial institutions, or qualifying mutual financial institutions a bond in
such penal sum as may be the maximum amount on deposit at any time less the
amount insured or guaranteed by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation or,
in lieu thereof, security given as provided in the Public Funds Deposit
Security Act, to secure the payment of all such deposits and accretions. The
Board of Trustees shall approve this bond or giving of security. The Village
Treasurer shall not be liable for any loss of any money sustained by reason of
the failure of any such depository so designated and approved.
(Neb. RS 17-607)
   (B)   The insurance afforded to depositors in banks, capital stock financial
institutions, or qualifying mutual financial institutions through the Federal
Deposit Insurance Corporation shall be deemed and construed to be a surety bond
or bonds to the extent that the deposits are insured or guaranteed by that
corporation, and for deposits so insured or guaranteed, no other surety bond or
bonds or other security shall be required.
(Neb. RS 77-2362)
   (C)   Neb. RS 77-2366 shall apply to deposits in capital stock financial
institutions. Neb. RS 77-2365.01 shall apply to deposits in qualifying mutual
financial institutions.
(Neb. RS 17-607 and 77-2362)
Statutory reference: 
   Other provisions on deposits of public funds, see Neb. RS 77-2363 and 77-
2364
   Public Funds Deposit Security Act, see Neb. RS 77-2386
§ 34.10 CERTIFICATES OF DEPOSIT; TIME DEPOSITS; CONDITIONS.
   The Village Treasurer may, upon resolution of the Board of Trustees
authorizing the same, purchase certificates of deposit from and make time
deposits in any bank, capital stock financial institution, or qualifying mutual
financial institution in the state to the extent that those certificates of
deposit or time deposits are insured or guaranteed by the Federal Deposit
Insurance Corporation. Deposits may be made in excess of the amounts so secured
by the corporation, and the amount of the excess deposit shall be secured by a
bond or by security given in the same manner as is provided for cities of the
first class in Neb. RS 16-714 through 16-716 as of the time the deposit is
made. Neb. RS 77-2366 shall apply to deposits in capital stock financial
institutions. Neb. RS 77-2365.01 shall apply to deposits in qualifying mutual
financial institutions.
(Neb. RS 17-720)
§ 34.11 INVESTMENT AND USE OF SURPLUS FUNDS.
   (A)   When the Village Treasurer holds funds of the village in excess of the
amount required for maintenance or set aside for betterments and improvements,
the Board of Trustees may, by resolution, direct and authorize the Treasurer to
invest the surplus funds in the outstanding bonds or registered warrants of the
village, bonds and debentures issued either singly or collectively by any of
the 12 federal land banks, the 12 intermediate credit banks, or the 13 banks
for cooperatives under the supervision of the Farm Credit Administration, or in
interest-bearing bonds or the obligations of the United States. The interest on
such bonds or warrants shall be credited to the fund out of which the bonds or
warrants were purchased.
(Neb. RS 17-608)
   (B)   All income received by the village from public utilities and from the
payment and collection of water taxes, rents, rates or assessments shall be
applied to the payment of running expenses, interest on bonds or money borrowed
and the erection and construction of public utilities; should there be any
surplus, it shall be annually created into a sinking fund for the payment of
public utility bonds or for the improvements of the works, or into the general
fund as the Board may direct. The surplus remaining, if any, may, if the Board,
be invested in interest-bearing bonds or obligations of the United States.
(Neb. RS 17-540)
   (C)   The Board of Trustees may, by resolution, direct and authorize the
Treasurer to dispose of the surplus electric light, water, or gas funds, or the
funds arising from the sale of electric light, water, or natural gas
distribution properties, by the payment of outstanding electric light, water,
or gas distribution bonds or water warrants then due. The excess, if any, after
such payments, may be transferred to the general fund of the village.
(Neb. RS 17-609)
   (D)   (1)   Whenever the village has accumulated a surplus of any fund in
excess of its current needs or has accumulated a sinking fund for the payment
of its bonds and the money in such sinking fund exceeds the amount necessary to
pay the principal and interest of any such bonds which become due during the
current year, the Board of Trustees may invest any such surplus in excess of
current needs or such excess in its sinking fund in certificates of deposit, in
time deposits, and in any securities in which the State Investment Officer is
authorized to invest pursuant to the Nebraska Capital Expansion Act and the
Nebraska State Funds Investment Act and as provided in the authorized
investment guidelines of the Nebraska Investment Council in effect on the date
the investment is made. The State Investment Officer shall upon request furnish
a copy of current authorized investment guidelines of the Nebraska Investment
Council.
      (2)   Nothing in division (D)(1) shall be construed to authorize
investments in venture capital.
(Neb. RS 77-2341)
§ 34.12 BOND ISSUES.
   The Board of Trustees may, after meeting all the requirements of state law,
issue bonds, fund bonds, and retire bonds for such purposes as may be permitted
by state law. The Board of Trustees shall have the authority to levy special
assessments for the payment of interest and principal on these bonds and may
spread the payments up to the maximum number of years permitted by state law.
Statutory reference:
   Bonds in general, see Neb. RS 18-1801 through 18-1805
   General provisions, see Neb. RS 10-101 through 10-143
§ 34.13 DEBT COLLECTION; AUTHORITY TO CONTRACT WITH COLLECTION AGENCY.
   (A)   The village may contract to retain a collection agency licensed
pursuant to the Collection Agency Act, within or without this state, for the
purpose of collecting public debts owed by any person to the village.
   (B)   No debt owed pursuant to division (A) above may be assigned to a
collection agency unless:
      (1)   There has been an attempt to advise the debtor by first-class mail,
postage prepaid, at the last known address of the debtor:
         (a)   Of the existence of the debt; and
         (b)   That the debt may be assigned to a collection agency for
collection if the debt is not paid; and
      (2)   At least 30 days have elapsed from the time the notice was sent.
   (C)   A collection agency which is assigned a debt under this section shall
have only those remedies and powers which would be available to it as an
assignee of a private creditor.
   (D)   For purposes of this section, debt shall include all delinquent fees
or payments except delinquent property taxes on real estate. In the case of
debt arising as a result of an order or judgment of a court in a criminal or
traffic matter, a collection fee may be added to the debt. The collection fee
shall be $25 or 4.5% of the debt, whichever is greater. The collection fee
shall be paid by the person who owes the debt directly to the person or agency
providing the collection service.
(Neb. RS 45-623)
§ 34.14 CREDIT CARDS; AUTHORITY TO ACCEPT.
   (A)   If authorized by the Board of Trustees, any village official may
accept credit cards, charge cards, or debit cards, whether presented in person
or electronically, or electronic funds transfers as a method of cash payment of
any tax, levy, excise, duty, custom, toll, interest, penalty, fine, license,
fee, or assessment of whatever kind or nature, whether general or special, as
provided by Neb. RS 77-1702.
   (B)   The total amount of the taxes, levies, excises, duties, customs,
tolls, interest, penalties, fines, licenses, fees, or assessments of whatever
kind or nature, whether general or special, paid for by credit card, charge
card, debit card, or electronic funds transfer shall be collected by the
village official.
   (C)   With respect to a facility which it operates in a proprietary
capacity, the Board of Trustees may choose to accept credit cards, charge
cards, or debit cards, whether presented in person or electronically, or
electronic funds transfers as a means of cash payment and may adjust the price
for services to reflect the handling and payment costs.
   (D)   The village official shall obtain, for each transaction, authorization
for use of any credit card, charge card, or debit card used pursuant to this
section from the financial institution, vending service company, credit card or
charge card company, or third-party merchant bank providing that service.   
   (E)   The types of credit cards, charge cards, or debit cards accepted and
the payment services provided shall be determined by the State Treasurer and
the Director of Administrative Services with the advice of a committee convened
by the State Treasurer and the director. The committee shall consist of the
State Treasurer, the Tax Commissioner, the director, and representatives from
counties, cities, and other political subdivisions as may be appropriate. The
committee shall develop recommendations for the contracting of such services.
The State Treasurer and the director shall contract with one or more credit
card, charge card, or debit card companies or third-party merchant banks for
services on behalf of the state and those counties, cities, and political
subdivisions that choose to participate in the state contract for such
services. The State Treasurer and the director shall consider, for purposes of
this section, any negotiated discount, processing, or transaction fee imposed
by a credit card, charge card, or debit card company or third-party merchant
bank as an administrative expense. If the Board of Trustees chooses not to
participate in the state contract, it may choose types of credit cards, charge
cards, and debit cards and may negotiate and contract independently or
collectively as a governmental entity with one or more financial institutions,
vending service companies, credit card, charge card, or debit card companies,
or third-party merchant banks for the provision of these services.
   (F)   Subject to the direction of the Board of Trustees, a village official
authorizing acceptance of credit card or charge card payments shall be
authorized but not required to impose a surcharge or convenience fee upon the
person making a payment by credit card or charge card so as to wholly or
partially offset the amount of any discount or administrative fees charged to
the village, but the surcharge or convenience fee shall not exceed the
surcharge or convenience fee imposed by the credit card or charge card
companies or third-party merchant banks which have contracted under division
(E) above. The surcharge or convenience fee shall be applied only when allowed
by the operating rules and regulations of the credit card or charge card
involved or when authorized in writing by the credit card or charge card
company involved. When a person elects to make a payment to the village by
credit card or charge card and such a surcharge or convenience fee is imposed,
the payment of the surcharge or convenience fee shall be deemed voluntary by
that person and shall be in no case refundable. If a payment is made
electronically by credit card, charge card, debit card, or electronic funds
transfer as part of a system for providing or retrieving information
electronically, the village official shall be authorized but not required to
impose an additional surcharge or convenience fee upon the person making a
payment.
   (G)   For the purpose of this section, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      ELECTRONIC FUNDS TRANSFER. The movement of funds by nonpaper means,
usually through a payment system, including, but not limited to, an automated
clearinghouse or the Federal Reserve’s Fedwire system.
(Neb. RS 13-609)
ANNUAL BUDGET
§ 34.25 FISCAL YEAR.
   The fiscal year of the village and any public utility of the village
commences on October 1 and extends through the following September 30 except as
provided in the Municipal Proprietary Function Act.
(Neb. RS 17-701)
§ 34.26 BUDGET PROCEDURES.
   The budget instruction manual prepared by the Auditor of Public Accounts is
incorporated by reference for the purpose of proper budget preparation.
§ 34.27 EXPENDITURES PRIOR TO ADOPTION OF BUDGET.
   (A)   On and after the first day of its fiscal year in 1993 and of each
succeeding year or on or after the first day of its biennial period and until
the adoption of the budget by the Board of Trustees in September, the Board of
Trustees may expend any balance of cash on hand for the current expenses of the
village. Except as provided in division (B) below, the expenditures shall not
exceed an amount equivalent to the total amount expended under the last budget
in the equivalent period of the prior budget year or biennial period. The
expenditures shall be charged against the appropriations for each individual
fund or purpose as provided in the budget when adopted.
(Neb. RS 13-509.01)
   (B)   The restriction on expenditures in division (A) above may be exceeded
upon the express finding of the Board of Trustees that expenditures beyond the
amount authorized are necessary to enable the village to meet its statutory
duties and responsibilities. The finding and approval of the expenditures in
excess of the statutory authorization shall be adopted by the Board of Trustees
in open public session. Expenditures authorized by this section shall be
charged against appropriations for each individual fund or purpose as provided
in the budget when adopted, and nothing in this section shall be construed to
authorize expenditures by the village in excess of that authorized by any other
statutory provision.
(Neb. RS 13-509.02)
§ 34.28 PROPOSED BUDGET STATEMENT; CONTENTS; AVAILABILITY; CORRECTION.
   (A)   The Board of Trustees shall annually or biennially prepare a proposed
budget statement on forms prescribed and furnished by the Auditor of Public
Accounts. The proposed budget statement shall be made available to the public
prior to publication of the notice of the hearing on the proposed budget
statement pursuant to §
34.29. A proposed budget statement shall contain the following information,
except as provided by state law:
      (1)   For the immediately preceding fiscal year or biennial period, the
revenue from all sources, including motor vehicle taxes, other than revenue
received from personal and real property taxation, allocated to the funds and
separately stated as to each such source: the unencumbered cash balance at the
beginning and end of the year or biennial period; the amount received by
taxation of personal and real property; and the amount of actual expenditures;
      (2)   For the current fiscal year or biennial period, actual and
estimated revenue from all sources, including motor vehicle taxes, allocated to
the funds and separately stated as to each such source: the actual unencumbered
cash balance available at the beginning of the year or biennial period; the
amount received from personal and real property taxation; and the amount of
actual and estimated expenditures, whichever is applicable. This statement
shall contain the cash reserve for each fiscal year or biennial period and
shall note whether or not the reserve is encumbered. The cash reserve
projections shall be based upon the actual experience of prior years or
biennial periods. The cash reserve shall not exceed 50% of the total budget
adopted exclusive of capital outlay items;
      (3)   For the immediately ensuing fiscal year or biennial period, an
estimate of revenue from all sources, including motor vehicle taxes, other than
revenue to be received from taxation of personal and real property, separately
stated as to each such source: the actual or estimated unencumbered cash
balances, whichever is applicable, to be available at the beginning of the year
or biennial period; the amounts proposed to be expended during the year or
biennial period; and the amount of cash reserve, based on actual experience of
prior years or biennial periods, which cash reserve shall not exceed 50% of the
total budget adopted exclusive of capital outlay items;
      (4)   A statement setting out separately the amount sought to be raised
from the levy of a tax on the taxable value of real property:
         (a)   For the purpose of paying the principal or interest on bonds
issued or authorized to be issued by the Board of Trustees or the legal voters
of the political subdivision; and
         (b)   For all other purposes.
      (5)   A uniform summary of the proposed budget statement, including each
proprietary function fund included in a separate proprietary budget statement
prepared pursuant to the Municipal Proprietary Function Act, and a grand total
of all funds maintained by the Board of Trustees; and
      (6)   A list of the proprietary functions which are not included in the
budget statement. These proprietary functions shall have a separate budget
statement which is approved by the Board of Trustees as provided in the
Municipal Proprietary Function Act.
   (B)   The actual or estimated unencumbered cash balance required to be
included in the budget statement by this section shall include deposits and
investments of the village as well as any funds held by the County Treasurer
for the village and shall be accurately stated on the proposed budget
statement.
   (C)   The village shall correct any material errors in the budget statement
detected by the Auditor of Public Accounts or by other sources.
(Neb. RS 13-504)
   (D)   The estimated expenditures plus the required cash reserve for the
ensuing fiscal year or biennial period less all estimated and actual
unencumbered balances at the beginning of the year or biennial period and less
the estimated income from all sources, including motor vehicle taxes, other
than taxation of personal and real property shall equal the amount to be
received from taxes, and that amount shall be shown on the proposed budget
statement pursuant to this section. The amount to be raised from taxation of
personal and real property, as determined above, plus the estimated revenue
from other sources, including motor vehicle taxes, and the unencumbered
balances shall equal the estimated expenditures, plus the necessary required
cash reserve, for the ensuing year or biennial period.
(Neb. RS 13-505)
§ 34.29 PROPOSED BUDGET STATEMENT; HEARING; ADOPTION; CERTIFICATION OF TAX
AMOUNT.
   (A)   The Board of Trustees shall each year or biennial period conduct a
public hearing on its proposed budget statement. Such hearing shall be held
separately from any regularly scheduled meeting of the governing body and shall
not be limited by time. Notice of the place and time of the hearing, together
with a summary of the proposed budget statement, shall be published at least
four calendar days prior to the date set for hearing in a newspaper of general
circulation within the village’s jurisdiction. For purposes of such notice, the
four calendar days shall include the day of publication but not the day of
hearing. When the total operating budget, not including reserves, does not
exceed $10,000 per year or $20,000 per biennial period, the proposed budget
summary may be posted at the Board of Trustee’s principal headquarters. At such
hearing, the governing body shall make at least three copies of the proposed
budget statement available to the public and shall make a presentation
outlining key provisions of the proposed budget statement, including, but not
limited to, a comparison with the prior year’s budget. Any member of the public
desiring to speak on the proposed budget statement shall be allowed to address
the governing body at the hearing and shall be given a reasonable amount of
time to do so.
   (B)   After the hearing, the proposed budget statement shall be adopted, or
amended and adopted as amended, and a written record shall be kept of the
hearing. The amount to be received from personal and real property taxation
shall be certified to the levying board after the proposed budget statement is
adopted or is amended and adopted as amended. The certification of the amount
to be received from personal and real property taxation shall specify
separately the amount to be applied to the payment of principal or interest on
bonds issued or authorized to be issued by the Board of Trustees or the legal
voters of the political subdivision and the amount to be received for all other
purposes.
   (C)   If the adopted budget statement reflects a change from that shown in
the published proposed budget statement, a summary of the changes shall be
published within 20 calendar days after its adoption in the manner provided in
this section, but without provision for hearing, setting forth the items
changed and the reasons for the changes.
   (D)   Upon approval by Board of Trustees, the budget shall be filed with the
Auditor of Public Accounts. The Auditor may review the budget for errors in
mathematics, improper accounting, and noncompliance with the Nebraska Budget
Act or Neb. RS 13-518 to 13-522. If the Auditor detects such errors, he or she
shall immediately notify the Board of such errors. The Board shall correct any
such error as provided in §
34.34. Warrants for the payment of expenditures provided in the budget adopted
under this section shall be valid notwithstanding any errors or noncompliance
for which the Auditor has notified the Board.
(Neb. RS 13-506)
   (E)   When a levy increase has been authorized by vote of the electors, the
adopted budget statement shall indicate the amount of the levy increase.
(Neb. RS 13-507)
§ 34.30 ADOPTED BUDGET STATEMENT; FILING; CERTIFICATION OF AMOUNT OF TAX.
   (A)   (1)   After publication and hearing on the proposed budget statement
and within the time prescribed by law, the Board of Trustees shall file with
and certify to the levying board or boards on or before September 30 of each
year or September 30 of the final year of a biennial period and file with the
Auditor of Public Accounts a copy of the adopted budget statement which
complies with Neb. RS 13-518 to 13-522, together with the amount of the tax
required to fund the adopted budget, setting out separately:
         (a)   The amount to be levied for the payment of principal or interest
on bonds issued or authorized to be issued by the Board of Trustees or the
legal voters of the political subdivision; and
         (b)   The amount to be levied for all other purposes.
      (2)   Proof of publication shall be attached to the statements.
   (B)   If the prime rate published by the Federal Reserve Board is 10% or
more at the time of the filing and certification required under this division
(B), the Board of Trustees, in certifying the amount required, may make
allowance for delinquent taxes not exceeding 5% of the amount required plus the
actual percentage of delinquent taxes for the preceding tax year or biennial
period and for the amount of estimated tax loss from any pending or anticipated
litigation which involves taxation and in which tax collections have been or
can be withheld or escrowed by court order. For purposes of this section,
anticipated litigation shall be limited to the anticipation of an action being
filed by a taxpayer who or which filed a similar action for the preceding year
or biennial period which is still pending. Except for such allowances, the
Board of Trustees shall not certify an amount of tax more than 1% greater or
lesser than the amount determined under §
34.28.
   (C)   The Board of Trustees shall use the certified taxable values as
provided by the County Assessor pursuant to Neb. RS 13-509 for the current year
in setting or certifying the levy. The Board of Trustees may designate one of
its members to perform any duty or responsibility required of the Board by this
section.
(Neb. RS 13-508)
§ 34.31 APPROPRIATION BILL.
   The Board of Trustees shall adopt a budget statement pursuant to the
Nebraska Budget Act, to be termed, “The Annual Appropriation Bill,” in which
the Board may appropriate those sums of money as may be deemed necessary to
defray all necessary expenses and liabilities of the village.
(Neb. RS 17-706)
§ 34.32 GENERAL FUND.
   If the village has not decided to follow the all-purpose levy method of
financing for the fiscal year, all money not specifically appropriated in the
annual appropriation bill shall be deposited in and known as the General Fund.
§ 34.33 TRANSFER OF FUNDS.
   (A)   Whenever during the current fiscal year it becomes apparent to the
Board of Trustees that due to unforeseen emergencies there is temporarily
insufficient money in a particular fund to meet the requirements of the adopted
budget of expenditures for that fund, the Board may by a majority vote, unless
otherwise provided by state law, transfer money from other funds to such fund.
   (B)   No expenditure during any fiscal year shall be made in excess of the
amounts indicated in the adopted budget statement, except as authorized in §
34.34 or by state law.
   (C)   Any officer or officers of the Board who obligate funds contrary to
the provisions of this section shall be guilty of an offense.
(Neb. RS 13-510) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 34.34 BUDGET REVISION.
   (A)   (1)   Unless otherwise provided by law, the Board of Trustees may
propose to revise the previously adopted budget statement and shall conduct a
public hearing on that proposal whenever during the current fiscal year it
becomes apparent to the Board of Trustees that:
         (a)   There are circumstances which could not reasonably have been
anticipated at the time the budget for the current year was adopted;
         (b)   The budget adopted violated Neb. RS 13-518 through 13-522, such
that the revenue of the current fiscal year for any fund thereof will be
insufficient, additional expenses will be necessarily incurred, or there is a
need to reduce the budget requirements to comply with Neb. RS 13-518 through
13-522; or
         (c)   The Board of Trustees has been notified by the Auditor of Public
Accounts of a mathematical or accounting error or noncompliance with the
Nebraska Budget Act.
      (2)   The public hearing requirement shall not apply to emergency
expenditures pursuant to Neb. RS 81-829.51.
   (B)   Notice of the time and place of the hearing shall be published at
least four calendar days prior to the date set for hearing in a newspaper of
general circulation within the Board’s jurisdiction. For purposes of such
notice, the four calendar days shall include the day of publication but not the
day of hearing. This published notice shall set forth:
      (1)   The time and place of the hearing;
      (2)   The amount in dollars of additional or reduced money required and
for what purpose;
      (3)   A statement setting forth the nature of the unanticipated
circumstances and, if the budget requirements are to be increased, the reasons
why the previously adopted budget of expenditures cannot be reduced during the
remainder of the current year to meet the need for additional money in that
manner;
      (4)   A copy of the summary of the originally adopted budget previously
published; and
      (5)   A copy of the summary of the proposed revised budget.
   (C)   At the hearing any taxpayer may appear or file a written statement
protesting any application for additional money. A written record shall be kept
of all such hearings.
   (D)   Upon conclusion of the public hearing on the proposed revised budget
and approval of the proposed revised budget by the Board of Trustees, the Board
shall file with the County Clerk of the county or counties in which the Board
of Trustees is located, and with the Auditor of Public Accounts, a copy of the
revised budget, as adopted. The Board of Trustees may then issue warrants in
payment for expenditures authorized by the adopted revised budget. These
warrants shall be referred to as registered warrants and shall be repaid during
the next fiscal year from funds derived from taxes levied therefor.
   (E)   Within 30 days after the adoption of the budget under §
34.29, the Board of Trustees may, or within 30 days after notification of an
error by the Auditor of Public Accounts, the Board shall correct an adopted
budget which contains a clerical, mathematical, or accounting error which does
not affect the total amount budgeted by more than 1% or increase the amount
required from property taxes. No public hearing shall be required for such a
correction. After correction, the Board of Trustees shall file a copy of the
corrected budget with the County Clerk of the county or counties in which the
Board of Trustees is located and with the Auditor of Public Accounts. The Board
of Trustees may then issue warrants in payment for expenditures authorized by
the budget.
(Neb. RS 13-511)
§ 34.35 PROPRIETARY FUNCTIONS; FISCAL YEAR; BUDGET STATEMENTS; FILING; HEARING;
ADOPTION; RECONCILIATION.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      PROPRIETARY FUNCTION. A water supply or distribution utility, a
wastewater collection or treatment utility, an electric generation,
transmission, or distribution utility, a gas supply, transmission, or
distribution utility, an integrated solid waste management collection,
disposal, or handling utility, or a hospital or a nursing home owned by the
village.
(Neb. RS 18-2803)
      SUBSIDIZATION. The costs of operation of a proprietary function are
regularly financed by appropriations from the village’s general fund in excess
of the amount paid by the village to the proprietary function for actual
service or services received.
(Neb. RS 18-2804)
   (B)   The Board of Trustees may establish a separate fiscal year for each
proprietary function, except that any proprietary function which is subsidized
by appropriations from the village’s general fund shall have the same fiscal
year as the village.
   (C)   (1)   At least 30 days prior to the start of the fiscal year of each
proprietary function, a proposed proprietary budget statement shall be prepared
in writing and filed with the Village Clerk containing the following
information:
         (a)   For the immediately preceding fiscal year, the revenue from all
sources, the unencumbered cash balance at the beginning and end of the year,
the amount received by taxation, and the amount of actual expenditure;
         (b)   For the current fiscal year, actual and estimated revenue from
all sources separately stated as to each such source, the actual unencumbered
cash balance available at the beginning of the year, the amount received from
taxation, and the amount of actual and estimated expenditure, whichever is
applicable;
         (c)   For the immediately ensuing fiscal year, an estimate of revenue
from all sources separately stated as to each such source, the actual or
estimated unencumbered cash balance, whichever is applicable, to be available
at the beginning of the year, the amounts proposed to be expended during the
fiscal year, and the amount of cash reserve based on actual experience of prior
years; and
         (d)   A uniform summary of the proposed budget statement which shall
include a total of all funds maintained for the proprietary function.
      (2)   The statement shall contain the estimated cash reserve for each
fiscal year and shall note whether or not the reserve is encumbered. The cash
reserve projections shall be based upon the actual experience of prior years.
      (3)   Each proprietary budget statement shall be filed on forms
prescribed and furnished by the Auditor of Public Accounts following
consultation with representatives of such governing bodies as operate
proprietary functions subject to the provisions of the Municipal Proprietary
Function Act.
(Neb. RS 18-2805)
   (D)   (1)   After a proposed proprietary budget statement is filed with the
Village Clerk, the Board of Trustees shall conduct a public hearing on the
statement. Notice of the time and place of the hearing, a summary of the
proposed proprietary budget statement, and notice that the full proposed
proprietary budget statement is available for public review with the Village
Clerk during normal business hours shall be published one time at least five
days prior to the hearing in a legal newspaper in or of general circulation
within the Board’s jurisdiction or by mailing to each resident within the
Board’s jurisdiction.
      (2)   After the hearing, the proposed proprietary budget statement shall
be adopted or amended and adopted as amended, and a written record shall be
kept of the hearing. If the adopted proprietary budget statement reflects a
change from the proposed proprietary statement presented at the hearing, a copy
of the adopted proprietary budget statement shall be filed with the Village
Clerk within 20 days after its adoption and published in a legal newspaper in
or of general circulation within the Board’s jurisdiction or by mailing to each
resident within the Board’s jurisdiction.
(Neb. RS 18-2806)
   (E)   If the actual expenditures for a proprietary function exceed the
estimated expenditures in the proprietary budget statement during its fiscal
year, the Board of Trustees shall adopt a proprietary function reconciliation
statement within 90 days after the end of the fiscal year which reflects any
difference between the adopted proprietary budget statement for the previous
fiscal year and the actual expenditures and revenue for that fiscal year. After
the adoption of a proprietary function reconciliation statement, it shall be
filed with the Village Clerk and published in a legal newspaper in or of
general circulation within the Board’s jurisdiction or by mailing to each
resident within the Board’s jurisdiction. If the difference between the adopted
proprietary budget for the previous fiscal year and the actual expenditures and
revenues for that fiscal year is greater than 10%, the proprietary function
reconciliation statement shall only be adopted following a public hearing.
(Neb. RS 18-2807)
   (F)   If the budget of a proprietary function is included in the village
budget statement created pursuant to the Nebraska Budget Act, the Municipal
Proprietary Function Act need not be followed for that proprietary function.
Any income from a proprietary function which is transferred to the general fund
of the village shall be shown as a source of revenue in the village budget
statement created pursuant to the Nebraska Budget Act.
(Neb. RS 18-2808)
TAX LEVIES
§ 34.45 PROPERTY TAX LEVY FOR GENERAL REVENUE PURPOSES.
   The village shall have power to levy taxes for general revenue purposes in
any one year not to exceed $0.35 on each $100 upon the taxable value of all the
taxable property in the village. The valuation of such property shall be
ascertained from the books or assessment rolls of the County Assessor.
(Neb. RS 17-506)
§ 34.46 LEVIES FOR OTHER TAXES AND SPECIAL ASSESSMENTS.
   The village shall have power to levy any other tax or special assessment
authorized by law.
(Neb. RS 17-507)
§ 34.47 ALL-PURPOSE LEVY; EXTRAORDINARY LEVIES; ALLOCATION; ABANDONMENT.
   (A)   Notwithstanding provisions in the statutes of Nebraska and this code
to the contrary, for any fiscal year the Board of Trustees may decide to
certify to the County Clerk for collection one all-purpose levy required to be
raised by taxation for all village purposes instead of certifying a schedule of
levies for specific purposes added together. Subject to the limits in §
34.48, the all-purpose levy shall not exceed an annual levy of $1.05 on each
$100 upon the taxable valuation of all the taxable property in the village.
Otherwise authorized extraordinary levies to service and pay bonded
indebtedness of the village may be made by the village in addition to such all-
purpose levy.
(Neb. RS 19-1309)
   (B)   If the method provided in division (A) above is followed in village
financing, the village shall allocate the amount so raised to the several
departments of the village in its annual budget and appropriation ordinance, or
in other legal manner, as the Board of Trustees deems wisest and best.
(Neb. RS 19-1310)
   (C)   If the village elects to follow the method provided in division (A)
above, it shall be bound by that election during the ensuing fiscal year but
may abandon such method in succeeding fiscal years.
(Neb. RS 19-1311)
   (D)   If it is necessary to certify the amount to county officers for
collection, the same shall be certified as a single amount for general fund
purposes.
(Neb. RS 19-1312)
§ 34.48 PROPERTY TAX LEVY; MAXIMUM; AUTHORITY TO EXCEED.
   (A)   Property tax levies for the support of the village for fiscal years
beginning on or after July 1, 1998, shall be limited to the amounts set forth
in this division (A), except as provided in division (C) below. The village may
levy a maximum levy of $0.45 per $100 of taxable valuation of property subject
to the levy plus an additional $0.05 per $100 of taxable valuation to provide
financing for the village’s share of revenue required under an agreement or
agreements executed pursuant to the Interlocal Cooperation Act or the Joint
Public Agency Act. The maximum levy shall include amounts levied to pay for
sums to support a library pursuant to Neb. RS 51-201, museum pursuant to Neb.
RS 51-501, visiting community nurse, home health nurse, or home health agency
pursuant to Neb. RS 71-1637, or statue, memorial, or monument pursuant to Neb.
RS 80-202. Property tax levies for judgments, except judgments or orders from
the Commission of Industrial Relations, obtained against the village which
require or obligate the village to pay that judgment, to the extent the
judgment is not paid by liability insurance coverage of the village, for
preexisting lease-purchase contracts approved prior to July 1, 1998, for bonded
indebtedness approved according to law and secured by a levy on property, and
for payments by a public airport to retire interest-free loans from the
Department of Aeronautics in lieu of bonded indebtedness at a lower cost to the
public airport are not included in the levy limits established by this division
(A). The limitations on tax levies provided in this division (A) are to include
all other general or special levies provided by law. Notwithstanding other
provisions of law, the only exceptions to the limits in this division (A) are
those provided by or authorized by this section. Tax levies in excess of the
limitations in this section shall be considered unauthorized levies under Neb.
RS 77-1606 unless approved under division (C) below.
(Neb. RS 77-3442)
   (B)   (1)   All village airport authorities established under the Cities
Airport Authorities Act, and community redevelopment authorities established
under the Community Development Law may be allocated property taxes as
authorized by law which are authorized by the village and are counted in the
village levy limit provided by division (A) above, except that such limitation
shall not apply to property tax levies for preexisting lease-purchase contracts
approved prior to July 1, 1998, for bonded indebtedness approved according to
law and secured by a levy on property, and for payments by a public airport to
retire interest-free loans from the Department of Aeronautics in lieu of bonded
indebtedness at a lower cost to the public airport. The Board of Trustees shall
review and approve or disapprove the levy request of the political subdivisions
subject to this division (B). The Board of Trustees may approve all or a
portion of the levy request and may approve a levy request that would allow a
levy greater than that permitted by law. The levy allocated by the village may
be exceeded as provided in division (C).
      (2)   On or before August 1, all political subdivisions subject to
village levy authority under this division (B) shall submit a preliminary
request for levy allocation to the Board of Trustees. The preliminary request
of the political subdivision shall be in the form of a resolution adopted by a
majority vote of members present of the political subdivision’s governing body.
The failure of a political subdivision to make a preliminary request shall
preclude that political subdivision from using procedures set forth in Neb. RS
77-3444 to exceed the final levy allocation as determined in this division (B).
      (3)   (a)   The Board of Trustees shall:
            1.   Adopt a resolution by a majority vote of members present which
determines a final allocation of levy authority to its political subdivisions;
and
            2.   Forward a copy of that resolution to the chairperson of the
governing body of each of its political subdivisions.
         (b)   No final levy allocation shall be changed after September 1
except by agreement between both the Board of Trustees and the governing body
of the political subdivision whose final levy allocation is at issue.
(Neb. RS 77-3443)
   (C)   (1)   The village may exceed the limits provided in division (A) above
by an amount not to exceed a maximum levy approved by a majority of registered
voters voting on the issue in a primary, general, or special election at which
the issue is placed before the registered voters. A vote to exceed the limits
must be approved prior to October 10 of the fiscal year which is to be the
first to exceed the limits.
      (2)   The Board of Trustees may call for the submission of the issue to
the voters:
         (a)   By passing a resolution calling for exceeding the limits by a
vote of at least two-thirds of the members of the Board of Trustees and
delivering a copy of the resolution to the County Clerk or Election
Commissioner of every county which contains all or part of the village; or
         (b)   Upon receipt of a petition by the County Clerk or Election
Commissioner of every county containing all or part of the village requesting
an election signed by at least 5% of the registered voters residing in the
village.
      (3)   The resolution or petition shall include the amount of levy which
would be imposed in excess of the limits provided in division (A) above and the
duration of the excess levy authority. The excess levy authority shall not have
a duration greater than five years. Any resolution or petition calling for a
special election shall be filed with the County Clerk or Election Commissioner
on or before the fifth Friday prior to the election, and the time of
publication and providing a copy of the notice of election required in Neb. RS
32-802 shall be no later than 20 days prior to the election.
      (4)   The County Clerk or Election Commissioner shall place the issue on
the ballot at an election as called for in the resolution or petition which is
at least 31 days after receipt of the resolution or petition. The election
shall be held pursuant to the Election Act. For petitions filed with the County
Clerk or Election Commissioner on or after May 1, 1998, the petition shall be
in the form as provided in Neb. RS 32-628 through 32-631.
      (5)   Any excess levy authority approved under this division (C) shall
terminate pursuant to its terms, on a vote of the Board of Trustees to
terminate the authority to levy more than the limits, at the end of the fourth
fiscal year following the first year in which the levy exceeded the limit, or
as provided in division (C)(9) below, whichever is earliest.
      (6)   The Board of Trustees may pass no more than one resolution calling
for an election pursuant to this division (C) during any one calendar year.
Only one election may be held in any one calendar year pursuant to a petition
initiated under this division (C). The ballot question may include any terms
and conditions set forth in the resolution or petition and shall include the
language specified in Neb. RS 77-3444.
      (7)   If a majority of the votes cast upon the ballot question are in
favor of the tax, the County Board shall authorize a tax in excess of the
limits in division (A) above, but the tax shall not exceed the amount stated in
the ballot question. If a majority of those voting on the ballot question are
opposed to the tax, the Board of Trustees shall not impose the tax.
      (8)   In lieu of the election procedures in this division (C), the
village may approve a levy in excess of the limits in division (A) above for a
period of one year at a meeting of the residents of the village, called after
notice is published in a newspaper of general circulation in the village at
least 20 days prior to the meeting. At least 10% of the registered voters
residing in the village shall constitute a quorum for purposes of taking action
to exceed the limits or final levy allocation. A record shall be made of the
registered voters residing in the political subdivision or village who are
present at the meeting. The method of voting at the meeting shall protect the
secrecy of the ballot. If a majority of the registered voters present at the
meeting vote in favor of exceeding the limits, a copy of the record of that
action shall be forwarded to the County Board prior to October 10 and the
County Board shall authorize a levy as approved by the residents for the year.
If a majority of the registered voters present at the meeting vote against
exceeding the limits, the limit shall not be exceeded and the village shall
have no power to call for an election under this division (C).
      (9)   (a)   The village may rescind or modify a previously approved
excess levy authority prior to its expiration by a majority of registered
voters voting on the issue in a primary, general, or special election at which
the issue is placed before the registered voters. A vote to rescind or modify
must be approved prior to October 10 of the fiscal year for which it is to be
effective.
         (b)   The Board of Trustees may call for the submission of the issue
to the voters:
            1.   By passing a resolution calling for the rescission or
modification by a vote of at least two-thirds of the members of the Board of
Trustees and delivering a copy of the resolution to the County Clerk or
Election Commissioner of every county which contains all or part of the
village; or
            2.   Upon receipt of a petition by the County Clerk or Election
Commissioner of every county containing all or part of the village requesting
an election signed by at least 5% of the registered voters residing in the
village.
         (c)   The resolution or petition shall include the amount and the
duration of the previously approved excess levy authority and a statement that
either the excess levy authority will be rescinded or the excess levy authority
will be modified. If the excess levy authority will be modified, the amount and
duration of the modification shall be stated. The modification shall not have a
duration greater than five years. The County Clerk or Election Commissioner
shall place the issue on the ballot at an election as called for in the
resolution or petition which is at least 31 days after receipt of the
resolution or petition, and the time of publication and providing a copy of the
notice of election required in Neb. RS 32-802 shall be no later than 20 days
prior to the election. The election shall be held pursuant to the Election Act.
(Neb. RS 77-3444)
§ 34.49 PROPERTY TAX LEVY; CERTIFICATION OF AMOUNT; COLLECTION.
   The Board of Trustees shall, at the time and in the manner provided by law,
cause to be certified to the County Clerk the amount of tax to be levied upon
the taxable value of all the taxable property of the village which the village
requires for the purposes of the adopted budget statement for the ensuing year,
including all special assessments and taxes assessed as otherwise provided. The
County Clerk shall place the same on the property tax lists to be collected in
the manner provided by law for the collection of county taxes in the county
where the village is situated. In all sales for any delinquent taxes for
municipal purposes, if there are other delinquent taxes due from the same
person or a lien on the same property, the sale shall be for all the delinquent
taxes. Such sales and all sales made under or by virtue of this section or the
provision of law herein referred to shall be of the same validity and in all
respects be deemed and treated as though such sales had been made for the
delinquent county taxes exclusively.
(Neb. RS 17-702)
§ 34.50 PROPERTY TAX REQUEST; PROCEDURE FOR SETTING.
   (A)   If the annual assessment of property would result in an increase in
the total property taxes levied by a county, municipality, school district,
learning community, sanitary and improvement district, natural resources
district, educational service unit, or community college, as determined using
the previous year’s rate of levy, the village’s property tax request for the
current year shall be no more than its property tax request in the prior year,
and the village’s rate of levy for the current year shall be decreased
accordingly when such rate is set by the County Board of Equalization pursuant
to Neb. RS 77-1601. The Board of Trustees shall pass a resolution or ordinance
to set the amount of its property tax request after holding the public hearing
required in division (C) below. If the Board of Trustees seeks to set its
property tax request at an amount that exceeds its property tax request in the
prior year, it may do so to the extent allowed by law after holding the public
hearing required in division (C) below and by passing a resolution or ordinance
that complies with division (D) below. If any county, city, school district, or
community college seeks to increase its property tax request by more than the
allowable growth percentage, such political subdivision shall comply with the
requirements of Neb. RS 77-1633 in lieu of the requirements in divisions (C)
and (D) below.
   (B)   If the annual assessment of property would result in no change or a
decrease in the total property taxes levied by a county, city, village, school
district, learning community, sanitary and improvement district, natural
resources district, educational service unit, or community college, as
determined using the previous year’s rate of levy, the village's property tax
request for the current year shall be no more than its property tax request in
the prior year, and the Board of Trustee’s rate of levy for the current year
shall be adjusted accordingly when such rate is set by the County Board of
Equalization pursuant to Neb. RS 77-1601. The Board of Trustees shall pass a
resolution or ordinance to set the amount of its property tax request after
holding the public hearing required in division (C) below. If the Board of
Trustees seeks to set its property tax request at an amount that exceeds its
property tax request in the prior year, it may do so to the extent allowed by
law after holding the public hearing required in division (C) below and by
passing a resolution or ordinance that complies with division (D) below. If any
county, city, school district, or community college seeks to increase its
property tax request by more than the allowable growth percentage, such
political subdivision shall comply with the requirements of Neb. 77-1633 in
lieu of the requirements in divisions (C) and (D) below.
   (C)   The resolution or ordinance required under this section shall only be
passed after a special public hearing called for the purpose is held and after
notice is published in a newspaper of general circulation in the area of the
village at least four calendar days prior to the hearing. For purposes of such
notice, the four calendar days shall include the day of publication but not the
day of hearing, If the village’s total operating budget, not including
reserves, does not exceed $10,000 per year or $20,000 per biennial period, the
notice may be posted at the Board of Trustee’s principal headquarters.
   (D)   The hearing notice shall contain the following information:
      (1)   The certified taxable valuation under Neb. RS 13-509 for the prior
year, the certified taxable valuation under Neb. RS 13-509 for the current
year, and the percentage increase or decrease in such valuations from the prior
year to the current year;
      (2)   The dollar amount of the prior year’s tax request and the property
tax rate that was necessary to fund that tax request;
      (3)   The property tax rate that would be necessary to fund last year’s
tax request if applied to the current year’s valuation;
      (4)   The proposed dollar amount of the tax request for the current year
and the property tax rate that will be necessary to fund that tax request;
      (5)   The percentage increase or decrease in the property tax rate from
the prior year to the current year; and
      (6)   The percentage increase or decrease in the total operating budget
from the prior year to the current year.
   (E)   Any resolution or ordinance setting a village’s property tax request
under Neb. RS 77-1632 at an amount that exceeds the village’s property tax
request in the prior year shall include, but not be limited to, the following
information:
      (1)   The name of the village;
      (2)   The amount of the property tax request;
      (3)   The following statements:
         (a)   The total assessed value of property differs from last year’s
total assessed value by        percent;
         (b)   The tax rate which would levy the same amount of property taxes
as last year, when multiplied by the new total assessed value of property,
would be $        per $100 of assessed value;
         (c)   The (name of village) proposes to adopt a property tax request
that will cause its tax rate to be $        per $100 of assessed value; and
         (d)   Based on the proposed property tax request and changes in other
revenue, the total operating budget of (name of village) will exceed last
year’s by        percent; and
      (4)   The record vote of the Board of Trustees in passing such resolution
or ordinance.
   (F)   Any resolution or ordinance setting a property tax request under this
section shall be certified and forwarded to the County Clerk on or before
October 15 of the year for which the tax request is to apply.
   (G)   Any tax levy which is not in compliance with this section and Neb. RS
77-1601 shall be construed as an unauthorized levy under Neb. RS 77-1606.
(Neb. RS 77-1632)
§ 34.51 PROPERTY TAX REQUEST; INCREASE BY MORE THAN ALLOWABLE GROWTH
PERCENTAGE; PROCEDURE FOR SETTING.
   (A)   For purposes of this section, POLITICAL SUBDIVISION means any county,
city, school district, or community college.
   (B)   If any political subdivision seeks to increase its property tax
request by more than the allowable growth percentage, such political
subdivision may do so to the extent allowed by law if:
      (1)   A public hearing is held and notice of such hearing is provided in
compliance with division (C) below; and
      (2)   The governing body of such political subdivision passes a
resolution or an ordinance that complies with division (D) below.
   (C)   (1)   Each political subdivision within a county that seeks to
increase its property tax request by more than the allowable growth percentage
shall participate in a joint public hearing. Each such political subdivision
shall designate one representative to attend the joint public hearing on behalf
of the political subdivision. If a political subdivision includes area in more
than one county, the political subdivision shall be deemed to be within the
county in which the political subdivision’s principal headquarters are located.
At such hearing, there shall be no items on the agenda other than discussion on
each political subdivision’s intent to increase its property tax request by
more than the allowable growth percentage.
      (2)   At least one elected official from each participating political
subdivision shall attend the joint public hearing. An elected official may be
the designated representative from a participating political subdivision. The
presence of a quorum or the participation of elected officials at the joint
public hearing does not constitute a meeting as defined by Neb. RS 84-1409 of
the Open Meetings Act.
      (3)   The joint public hearing shall be held on or after September 14 and
prior to September 24 and before any of the participating political
subdivisions file their adopted budget statement pursuant to Neb. RS 13-508.
      (4)   The joint public hearing shall be held after 6:00 p.m. local time
on the relevant date.
      (5)   The joint public hearing shall be organized by the county clerk or
his or her designee. At the joint public hearing, the designated representative
of each political subdivision shall give a brief presentation on the political
subdivision’s intent to increase its property tax request by more than the
allowable growth percentage and the effect of such request on the political
subdivision's budget. The presentation shall include:
         (a)   The name of the political subdivision;
         (b)   The amount of the property tax request; and
         (c)   The following statements:
            1.   The total assessed value of property differs from last year’s
total assessed value by       percent;
            2.   The tax rate which would levy the same amount of property
taxes as last year, when multiplied by the new total assessed value of
property, would be $       per $100 of assessed value;
            3.   The (name of political subdivision) proposes to adopt a
property tax request that will cause its tax rate to be $       per $100 of
assessed value;
            4.   Based on the proposed property tax request and changes in
other revenue, the total operating budget of (name of political subdivision)
will exceed last year’s by       percent; and
            5.   To obtain more information regarding the increase in the
property tax request, citizens may contact the (name of political subdivision)
at (telephone number and email address of political subdivision).
      (6)   Any member of the public shall be allowed to speak at the joint
public hearing and shall be given a reasonable amount of time to do so.
      (7)   Notice of the joint public hearing shall be provided:
         (a)   By sending a postcard to all affected property taxpayers. The
postcard shall be sent to the name and address to which the property tax
statement is mailed;
         (b)   By posting notice of the hearing on the home page of the
relevant county’s website, except that this requirement shall only apply if the
county has a population of more than 25,000 inhabitants; and
         (c)   By publishing notice of the hearing in a legal newspaper in or
of general circulation in the relevant county.
      (8)   Each political subdivision that participates in the joint public
hearing shall electronically send the information prescribed in division (C)(9)
below to the county assessor by September 4. The county clerk shall notify the
County Assessor of the date, time, and location of the joint public hearing no
later than September 4. The County Clerk shall notify each participating
political subdivision of the date, time, and location of the joint public
hearing. The County Assessor shall send the information required to be included
on the postcards pursuant to division (C)(9) below to a printing service
designated by the county board. The initial cost for printing the postcards
shall be paid from the county general fund. Such postcards shall be mailed at
least seven calendar days before the joint public hearing. The cost of creating
and mailing the postcards, including staff time, materials, and postage, shall
be charged proportionately to the political subdivisions participating in the
joint public hearing based on the total number of parcels in each participating
political subdivision. Each participating political subdivision shall also
maintain a prominently displayed and easily accessible link on the home page of
the political subdivision's website to the political subdivision’s proposed
budget, except that this requirement shall not apply if the political
subdivision is a county with a population of less than 10,000 inhabitants, a
village with a population of less than 1,000 inhabitants, or, for joint public
hearings prior to January 1, 2024, a school district.
      (9)   The postcard sent under this subsection and the notice posted on
the county’s website, if required under division (C)(7)(b) above, and published
in the newspaper shall include the date, time, and location for the joint
public hearing, a listing of and telephone number for each political
subdivision that will be participating in the joint public hearing, and the
amount of each participating political subdivision's property tax request. The
postcard shall also contain the following information:
         (a)   The following words in capitalized type at the top of the
postcard: NOTICE OF PROPOSED TAX INCREASE;
         (b)   The name of the county that will hold the joint public hearing,
which shall appear directly underneath the capitalized words described in
division (C)(9)(a) below;
         (c)   The following statement: The following political subdivisions
are proposing a revenue increase which would result in an overall increase in
property taxes in (insert current tax year). THE ACTUAL TAX ON YOUR PROPERTY
MAY INCREASE OR DECREASE. This notice contains estimates of the tax on your
property as a result of this revenue increase. These estimates are calculated
on the basis of the proposed (insert current tax year) data. The actual tax on
your property may vary from these estimates.
         (d)   The parcel number for the property;
         (e)   The name of the property owner and the address of the property;
         (f)   The property’s assessed value in the previous tax year;
         (g)   The amount of property taxes due in the previous tax year for
each participating political subdivision;
         (h)   The property’s assessed value for the current tax year;
         (i)   The amount of property taxes due for the current tax year for
each participating political subdivision;
         (j)   The change in the amount of property taxes due for each
participating political subdivision from the previous tax year to the current
tax year; and
         (k)   The following statement: To obtain more information regarding
the tax increase, citizens may contact the political subdivision at the
telephone number provided in this notice.
   (D)   After the joint public hearing required in division (C) above, the
governing body of each participating political subdivision shall pass an
ordinance or resolution to set such political subdivision's property tax
request. If the political subdivision is increasing its property tax request
over the amount from the prior year, including any increase in excess of the
allowable growth percentage, then such ordinance or resolution shall include,
but not be limited to, the following information:
      (1)   The name of the political subdivision;
      (2)   The amount of the property tax request;
      (3)   The following statements:
         (a)   The total assessed value of property differs from last year’s
total assessed value by        percent;
         (b)   The tax rate which would levy the same amount of property taxes
as last year, when multiplied by the new total assessed value of property,
would be $       per $100 of assessed value;
         (c)   The (name of political subdivision) proposes to adopt a property
tax request that will cause its tax rate to be $       per $100 of assessed
value; and
         (d)   Based on the proposed property tax request and changes in other
revenue, the total operating budget of (name of political subdivision) will
exceed last year’s by       percent; and
      (4)   The record vote of the governing body in passing such resolution or
ordinance.
   (E)   Any resolution or ordinance setting a property tax request under this
section shall be certified and forwarded to the county clerk on or before
October 15 of the year for which the tax request is to apply.
   (F)   The County Clerk, or his or her designee, shall prepare a report which
shall include:
      (1)   The names of the representatives of the political subdivisions
participating in the joint public hearing;
      (2)   The name and address of each individual who spoke at the joint
public hearing, unless the address requirement is waived to protect the
security of the individual, and the name of any organization represented by
each such individual;
      (3)   The name of each political subdivision that participated in the
joint public hearing;
      (4)   The real growth value and real growth percentage for each
participating political subdivision;
      (5)   The amount each participating political subdivision seeks to
increase its property tax request in excess of the allowable growth percentage;
and
      (6)   The number of individuals who signed in to attend the joint public
hearing.
      Such report shall be delivered to the political subdivisions
participating in the joint public hearing within ten days after such hearing.
(Neb. RS 77-1633)
§ 34.52 MOTOR VEHICLE FEE.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      LIMITS OF THE VILLAGE. Includes the extraterritorial zoning jurisdiction
of the village.
      PERSON. Includes bodies corporate, societies, communities, the public
generally, individuals, partnerships, limited liability companies, joint-stock
companies, cooperatives, and associations. Person does not include any federal,
state, or local government or any political subdivision thereof.
   (B)   (1)   Except as otherwise provided in division (D) below, the
governing body of the village shall have power to require any individual whose
primary residence or person who owns a place of business which is within the
limits of the village and that owns and operates a motor vehicle within such
limits to pay an annual motor vehicle fee and to require the payment of such
fee upon the change of ownership of such vehicle. All such fees which may be
provided for under this section shall be used exclusively for constructing,
repairing, maintaining, or improving streets, roads, alleys, public ways, or
parts thereof or for the amortization of bonded indebtedness when created for
such purposes.
      (2)   To ensure compatibility with the Vehicle Title and Registration
System maintained by the Department of Motor Vehicles:
         (a)   Any village that collects the annual motor vehicle fee
authorized under this section shall use the plate types listed under Neb. RS
60-3,104 and, as applicable, weight categories listed under the Motor Vehicle
Registration Act when reporting information to the Vehicle Title and
Registration System; and
         (b)   Any village that adopts an annual motor vehicle fee under this
section or that modifies an existing motor vehicle fee shall notify the
Department of Motor Vehicles of such new or modified fee within ten business
days after the passage of the ordinance authorizing such new or modified fee
and at least 60 days prior to the implementation of such new or modified fee.
   (C)   No motor vehicle fee shall be required under this section if:
      (1)   A vehicle is used or stored but temporarily in the village for a
period of six months or less in a 12-month period;
      (2)   An individual does not have a primary residence or a person does
not own a place of business within the limits of the village and does not own
and operate a motor vehicle within the limits of the village; or
      (3)   An individual is a full-time student attending a postsecondary
institution within the limits of the village and the motor vehicle’s situs
under the Motor Vehicle Certificate of Title Act is different from the place at
which he or she is attending such institution.
   (D)   After December 31, 2012, no motor vehicle fee shall be required of any
individual whose primary residence is or person who owns a place of business
within the extraterritorial zoning jurisdiction of the village.
   (E)   The fee shall be paid to the County Treasurer of the county in which
the village is located when the registration fees as provided in the Motor
Vehicle Registration Act are paid. These fees shall be credited by the County
Treasurer to the road fund of the village.
(Neb. RS 18-1214)
Statutory reference:
   Motor Vehicle Registration Act, see Neb. RS 60-301
CHAPTER 35: GENERAL ADMINISTRATIVE POLICIES
Section
General Provisions
   
35.01   Intergovernmental risk management
Elections
   
35.15   Elections, generally
   
35.16   Election of officers; certification required
   
35.17   Filing fee
   
35.18   Joint, general notice
   
35.19   Special elections
   
35.20   Special election notice
   
35.21   Petition, write-in and other candidates for general election ballot;
procedures
   
35.22   Voter qualifications
   
35.23   Caucus candidates
   
35.24   Ballots
   
35.25   Recall procedure
   
35.26   Exit polls
 
   
35.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 35.01 INTERGOVERNMENTAL RISK MANAGEMENT.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      PUBLIC AGENCY. Any county, city, village, school district, public power
district, rural fire district, or other political subdivision of this state,
the State of Nebraska, The University of Nebraska, and any corporation whose
primary function is to act as an instrumentality or agency of the state.
   (B)   The Board of Trustees and any one or more public agencies may make and
execute an agreement providing for joint and cooperative action in accordance
with the Intergovernmental Risk Management Act, being Neb. RS 44-4301 et seq.
to form, become members of, and operate a risk management pool for the purpose
of providing to members risk management services and insurance coverages in the
form of group self-insurance or standard insurance, including any combination
of group self-insurance and standard insurance, to protect members against
losses arising, from any of the following:
      (1)   General liability;
      (2)   Damage, destruction, or loss of real or personal properly,
including but not limited to, loss of use or occupancy, and loss of income or
extra expense resulting from loss of use or occupancy;
      (3)   Errors and omissions liability; and
      (4)   Workers’ compensation liability.
   (C)   The Board of Trustees and any one or more public agencies, other than
school districts and educational service units, may make and execute an
agreement providing for joint and cooperative action in accordance with the act
to form, become members of, and operate a risk management pool for the purpose
of providing to members risk management services and insurance coverages in the
form of group self-insurance or standard insurance, including any combination
of group self-insurance and standard insurance, to provide health, dental,
accident, and life insurance to member’s employees and officers.
(Prior Code, § 1-1101) (Ord. 383, passed 11-3-1987; Ord. 618, passed 6-12-2002)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 44-4301 through 44-4339
ELECTIONS
§ 35.15 ELECTIONS, GENERALLY.
   (A)   (1)   All municipal issues and offices shall be combined on the
statewide primary and general election ballots whenever possible.
      (2)   The issuance of separate ballots shall be avoided in a statewide
election if municipal offices or issues can reasonably be combined with the
nonpartisan ballot and state law does not require otherwise.
      (3)   All municipal elections involving the election of officers shall be
held in accordance with the Election Act and in conjunction with the statewide
primary or general election.
   (B)   When the village holds an election in conjunction with the statewide
primary or general election, the election shall be held as provided in the
Election Act, being Neb. RS 32-101 et seq. Any other election held by the
village shall be held as provided in the Election Act unless otherwise provided
by the charter, code, or bylaws of the village.
(Prior Code, § 1-701) (Ord. 482, passed 2-7-1996; Ord. 587, passed 6-14-2000;
Ord. 689, passed 3-9-2005)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 32-404 and 32-556
§ 35.16 ELECTION OF OFFICERS; CERTIFICATION REQUIRED.
   No later than June 15 of each even-numbered year, the Village Board shall
certify to the Election Commissioner or the County Clerk, on forms prescribed
by such official, the name of the village, the number of officers to be
elected, the length of the terms of office, the vacancies to be filled by
election and length of remaining term, and the number of votes to be cast by a
registered voter for each office.
(Prior Code, § 1-701.1) (Ord. 689, passed 3-9-2005)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 32-404
§ 35.17 FILING FEE.
   Prior to the filing of any nomination papers, there shall be paid to the
Village Treasurer a filing fee which shall amount to 1% of the annual salary
for the office for which the candidate will file; provided, there shall be no
filing fee for any candidate filing for an office in which a per diem is paid
rather than a salary, or an office for which there is a salary of less than
$500 per year. No nominating papers shall be filed until the proper Village
Treasurer’s receipt, showing the payment of the filing fee, shall be presented
to the election officer with whom the nomination papers are to be filed.
(Prior Code, § 1-702) (Ord. 318, passed 2-1-1977)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 32-608(2)
§ 35.18 JOINT, GENERAL NOTICE.
   (A)   The County Clerk shall publish in a newspaper designated by the County
Board the notice of the election no less than 40 days prior to the primary or
general election.
   (B)   This notice will serve the notice requirement for all village
elections which are held in conjunction with the county.
(Prior Code, § 1-703) (Ord. 310, passed 3-2-1976; Ord. 321, passed 2-1-1977)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 32-402.01
§ 35.19 SPECIAL ELECTIONS.
   (A)   (1)   Except as provided in Neb. RS 77-3444, any issue to be submitted
to the registered voters at a special election by the village shall be
certified by the Village Clerk to the Election Commissioner or County Clerk on
or before the eighth Friday prior to the election. A special election may be
held by mail as provided in Neb. RS 32-952 through 32-959. Any other special
election shall be subject to division (B) below.
      (2)   In lieu of submitting the issue at a special election, the village
may submit the issue at a statewide primary or general election or at any
scheduled county election, except that no such issue shall be submitted at a
statewide election or scheduled county election unless the issue to be
submitted has been certified by the Village Clerk to the Election Commissioner
or County Clerk by March 1 for the primary election and by September 1 for the
general election.
      (3)   (a)   After the Election Commissioner or County Clerk has received
the certification of the issue to be submitted, he, she, or they shall be
responsible for all matters relating to the submission of the issue to the
registered voters, except that the Village Clerk shall be responsible for the
publication or posting of any required special notice of the submission of such
issue other than the notice required to be given of the statewide election
issues.
         (b)   The Election Commissioner or County Clerk shall prepare the
ballots and issue absentee ballots and shall also conduct the submission of the
issue, including the receiving and counting of ballots on the issue. The
election returns shall be made to the Election Commissioner or County Clerk.
The ballots, including absentee ballots, shall be counted and canvassed at the
same time and in the same manner as the other ballots. Upon completion of the
canvass of the vote by the County Canvassing Board, the Election Commissioner
or County Clerk shall certify the election results to the Board of Trustees.
The canvass by the County Canvassing Board shall have the same force and effect
as if made by the Board of Trustees.
   (B)   (1)   Any special election under the Election Act, being Neb. R 32-101
et seq. shall be held on the first Tuesday following the second Monday of the
selected month unless otherwise specifically provided.
      (2)   No special election shall be held under the Election Act in April,
May, June, October, November, or December of an even-numbered year unless it is
held in conjunction with the statewide primary or general election.
      (3)   No special election shall be held under the Election Act in
September of an even-numbered year except for a special election by a political
subdivision pursuant to Neb. RS 13-519 or 77-3444 to approve a property tax
levy or exceed a property tax levy limitation.
(Prior Code, § 1-704) (Ord. 355, passed 12-4-1984; Ord. 516, passed 7-9-1997;
Ord. 673, passed 3-10-2004)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 32-559 and 32-405
§ 35.20 SPECIAL ELECTION NOTICE.
   (A)   No less than five days nor more than ten days, prior to any special
village election, the Village Clerk shall prepare and cause to be published
once in a newspaper that is in or of general circulation in the village, but if
no newspaper is published in or is of general circulation in the village, then
by posting in each of three public places in the village, a notice containing
the proclamation concerning the said special election.
   (B)   The notice shall be in the form prescribed by state law.
(Prior Code, § 1-705)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 32-559
§ 35.21 PETITION, WRITE-IN AND OTHER CANDIDATES FOR GENERAL ELECTION BALLOT;
PROCEDURES.
   (A)   (1)   Any registered voter who was not a candidate in the primary
election and who was not registered to vote with a party affiliation on or
after March 1 and before the general election in the calendar year of the
general election may have his or her name placed on the general election ballot
for a partisan office by filing petitions as prescribed in this section and
Neb. RS 32-621 or by nomination by political party convention or committee
pursuant to Neb. RS 32-627 or 32-710.
      (2)   Any candidate who was defeated in the primary election and any
registered voter who was not a candidate in the primary election may have his
or her name placed on the general election ballot if a vacancy exists on the
ballot under Neb. RS 32-625(2) and the candidate files for the office by
petition as prescribed in divisions (B) and (C) below, files as a write-in
candidate as prescribed in Neb. RS 32-615, or is nominated by political party
convention or committee pursuant to Neb. RS 32-710.
(Neb. RS 32-616)
   (B)   Petitions for nomination shall conform to the requirements of Neb. RS
32-628. Petitions shall state the office to be filled and the name and address
of the candidate. Petitions for partisan office shall also indicate the party
affiliation of the candidate. A sample copy of the petition shall be filed with
the filing officer prior to circulation. Petitions shall be signed by
registered voters residing in the village, if candidates are chosen at large,
or in the ward in which the officer is to be elected, if candidates are chosen
by ward, and shall be filed with the filing officer in the same manner as
provided for candidate filing forms in Neb. RS 32-607. Petition signers and
petition circulators shall conform to the requirements of Neb. RS 32-629 and
32-630. No petition for nomination shall be filed unless there is attached
thereto a receipt showing the payment of the filing fee required pursuant to
Neb. RS 32-608. The petitions shall be filed by September 1 in the year of the
general election.
(Neb. RS 32-617)
   (C)   (1)   The number of signatures of registered voters needed to place
the name of a candidate upon the nonpartisan ballot for the general election
shall be at least 10% of the total number of registered voters voting for
Governor or President of the United States at the immediately preceding general
election in the village or in the ward in which the officer is to be elected,
not to exceed 2,000.
      (2)   The number of signatures of registered voters needed to place the
name of a candidate for an office upon the partisan ballot for the general
election shall be as follows:
         (a)   For each partisan office to be filled by the registered voters
of the entire state, at least 4,000, and at least 750 signatures shall be
obtained in each congressional district in the state;
         (b)   For each partisan office to be filled by the registered voters
of a county, at least 20% of the total number of registered voters voting for
Governor or President of the United States at the immediately preceding general
election within the county, not to exceed 2,000, except that the number of
signatures shall not be required to exceed 25% of the total number of
registered voters voting for the office at the immediately preceding general
election; and
         (c)   For each partisan office to be filled by the registered voters
of a political subdivision other than a county, at least 20% of the total
number of registered voters voting for Governor or President of the United
States at the immediately preceding general election within the political
subdivision, not to exceed 2,000.
(Neb. RS 32-618)
§ 35.22 VOTER QUALIFICATIONS.
   ELECTORS shall mean every person of the constitutionally prescribed age or
upwards, who shall have the right to vote for all officers to be elected to
public office, and upon all questions and proposals, lawfully submitted to the
voters at any and all elections authorized or provided for by the Constitution
or the laws of the state, except school elections; provided, no person shall be
qualified to vote at any election unless such person shall be a resident of the
state and shall have been properly registered with the election official of the
county.
(Prior Code, § 1-707)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-602 and 32-102
§ 35.23 CAUCUS CANDIDATES.
   (A)   The Board of Trustees of the village may, by ordinance call a caucus
for the purpose of nominating candidates for offices to be filled in the
village election.
   (B)   Such caucus shall be held at least ten days prior to the filing
deadline for such election.
   (C)   Notice of such caucus must be published in one newspaper of general
circulation in the village, at least once in each of two consecutive weeks
prior to said caucus.
   (D)   The Village Clerk shall notify the person so nominated of his, her, or
their nomination and such notification shall take place not less than five days
after the said caucus.
   (E)   A candidate so nominated shall not have his, her, or their name placed
upon the ballot unless, not more than ten days after the holding of such
caucus, he, she, or they shall have filed with the Village Clerk a written
statement accepting the nomination of the caucus and shall have paid the filing
fee, if any, for the office for which he, she, or they was nominated.
(Prior Code, § 1-710)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-601.01 through 17-603
§ 35.24 BALLOTS.
   It shall be the duty of the County Clerk to provide printed ballots for
every general village election and the expense of printing and delivering the
ballots and cards of instruction shall be a charge upon the village.
(Prior Code, § 1-711)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 32-417 and 32-418
§ 35.25 RECALL PROCEDURE.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      FILING CLERK. The Election Commissioner or County Clerk.
(Neb. RS 32-1301)
   (B)   Any member of the Board of Trustees may be removed from office by
recall pursuant to this section.
(Neb. RS 32-1302)
   (C)   (1)   A petition demanding that the question of removing a member of
the Board of Trustees be submitted to the registered voters shall be signed by
registered voters equal in number to at least 45% of the total vote cast for
the person receiving the most votes for that office in the last general
election. The signatures shall be affixed to petition papers and shall be
considered part of the petition.
      (2)   Petition circulators shall conform to the requirements of Neb. RS
32-629 and 32-630.
      (3)   The petition papers shall be procured from the filing clerk. Prior
to the issuance of such petition papers, a recall petition filing form shall be
signed and filed with the filing clerk by at least 1 registered voter. Such
voter or voters shall be deemed to be the principal circulator or circulators
of the recall petition. The filing form shall state the name and office of the
Trustee sought to be removed, shall include in concise language of 60 words or
less the reason or reasons for which recall is sought, and shall request that
the filing clerk issue initial petition papers to the principal circulator for
circulation. The filing clerk shall notify the Trustee by any method specified
in Neb. RS 25-505.01 or, if notification cannot be made with reasonable
diligence by any of the methods specified in Neb. RS 25-505.01, by leaving a
copy of the filing form at the Trustee’s usual place of residence and mailing a
copy by first-class mail to the Trustee’s last-known address. If the Trustee
chooses, he or she may submit a defense statement in concise language of 60
words or less for inclusion on the petition. Any such defense statement shall
be submitted to the filing clerk within 20 days after the Trustee receives the
copy of the filing form. The filing clerk shall prepare the petition papers
within five business days after receipt of the defense statement. The principal
circulator or circulators shall gather the petition papers within 20 days after
being notified by the filing clerk that the petition papers are available. The
filing clerk shall notify the principal circulator or circulators that the
necessary signatures must be gathered within 30 days from the date of issuing
the petitions.
      (4)   The filing clerk, upon issuing the initial petition papers or any
subsequent petition papers, shall enter in a record, to be kept in his or her
office, the name of the principal circulator or circulators to whom the papers
were issued, the date of issuance, and the number of papers issued. The filing
clerk shall certify on the papers the name of the principal circulator or
circulators to whom the papers were issued and the date they were issued. No
petition paper shall be accepted as part of the petition unless it bears such
certificate. The principal circulator or circulators who check out petitions
from the filing clerk may distribute such petitions to persons who may act as
circulators of such petitions.
      (5)   Petition signers shall conform to the requirements of Neb. RS 32-
629 and 32-630. Each signer of a recall petition shall be a registered voter
and qualified by his or her place of residence to vote for the office in
question.
(Neb. RS 32-1303)
   (D)   Each petition paper shall conform to the requirements of Neb. RS 32-
1304.
   (E)   (1)   The principal circulator or circulators shall file, as one
instrument, all petition papers comprising a recall petition for signature
verification with the filing clerk within 30 days after the filing clerk issues
the initial petition papers to the principal circulator or circulators as
provided in division (C) above.
      (2)   Within 15 business days after the filing of the petition, the
filing clerk shall ascertain whether or not the petition is signed by the
requisite number of registered voters. No new signatures may be added after the
initial filing of the petition papers. No signatures may be removed unless the
filing clerk receives an affidavit signed by the person requesting his or her
signature be removed before the petitions are filed with the filing clerk for
signature verification. If the petition is found to be sufficient, the filing
clerk shall attach to the petition a certificate showing the result of such
examination. If the requisite number of signatures has not been gathered, the
filing clerk shall file the petition in his or her office without prejudice to
the filing of a new petition for the same purpose.
(Neb. RS 32-1305)
   (F)   (1)   If the recall petition is found to be sufficient, the filing
clerk shall notify the Trustee whose removal is sought and the Board of
Trustees that sufficient signatures have been gathered. Notification of the
Trustee may be by any method specified in Neb. RS 25-505.01 or, if notification
cannot be made with reasonable diligence by any of the methods specified in
Neb. RS 25-505.01, by leaving such notice at the Trustee’s usual place of
residence and mailing a copy by first-class mail to the Trustee’s last-known
address.
      (2)   The Board of Trustees shall, within 21 days after receipt of the
notification from the filing clerk pursuant to division (F)(1) above, order an
election. The date of the election shall be the first available date that
complies with Neb. RS 32-405 and that can be certified to the Election
Commissioner or County Clerk at least 50 days prior to the election, except
that if any other election is to be held in the village within 90 days after
such notification, the Board shall provide for the holding of the recall
election on the same day.
      (3)   All resignations shall be tendered as provided in Neb. RS 32-562.
If the Trustee whose removal is sought resigns before the recall election is
held, the Board may cancel the recall election if the Board notifies the
election commissioner or county clerk of the cancellation on or before the
fourth Thursday prior to the election, otherwise the recall election shall be
held as scheduled.
      (4)   If a filing clerk is subject to a recall election, the Secretary of
State shall conduct the recall election.
(Neb. RS 32-1306)
   (G)   The form of the official ballot at a recall election held pursuant to
division (F) above shall conform to the requirements of Neb. RS 32-1307.
   (H)   (1)   If a majority of the votes cast at a recall election are against
the removal of the Trustee named on the ballot or the election results in a
tie, the Trustee shall continue in office for the remainder of his or her term
but may be subject to further recall attempts as provided in division (I)
below.
      (2)   If a majority of the votes cast at a recall election are for the
removal of the Trustee named on the ballot, he or she shall, regardless of any
technical defects in the recall petition, be deemed removed from office unless
a recount is ordered. If the Trustee is deemed removed, the removal shall
result in a vacancy in the office which shall be filled as otherwise provided
in this section and Neb. RS 32-567 to 32-570 and 32-574.
      (3)   If the election results show a margin of votes equal to 1% or less
between the removal or retention of the Trustee in question, the Secretary of
State, Election Commissioner, or County Clerk shall order a recount of the
votes cast unless the Trustee files a written statement with the filing clerk
that he or she does not want a recount.
      (4)   If there are vacancies in the offices of one-half or more of the
members of the Board of Trustees at one time due to the recall of such members,
a special election to fill such vacancies shall be conducted as expeditiously
as possible by the Secretary of State, Election Commissioner, or County Clerk.
      (5)   No Trustee who is removed at a recall election or who resigns after
the initiation of the recall process shall be appointed to fill the vacancy
resulting from his or her removal or the removal of any other member of the
Board of Trustees during the remainder of his or her term of office.
(Neb. RS 32-1308)
   (I)   No recall petition filing form shall be filed against an elected
Trustee within 12 months after a recall election has failed to remove him or
her from office or within six months after the beginning of his or her term of
office or within six months prior to the incumbent filing deadline for the
office.
(Neb. RS 32-1309)
§ 35.26 EXIT POLLS.
   No person shall conduct any exit poll, public opinion poll, or any other
interview with voters on election day seeking to determine voter preference
within 20 feet of the entrance of any polling place room or, if inside the
polling place building, within 100 feet of any voting booth.
(Prior Code, § 1-716) (Ord. 368, passed 11-5-1985) Penalty, see §
35.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 32-1221
§ 35.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   (1)   Any person, or any person’s agent or servant, who violates any
of the provisions of this chapter, unless otherwise specifically provided
herein, shall be deemed guilty of an offense and upon conviction thereof shall
be fined in any sum not exceeding $500. A new violation shall be deemed to have
been committed every 24 hours of failure to comply with the provisions of this
chapter.
      (2)   (a)   Whenever a nuisance exists as defined in this chapter, the
village may proceed by a suit in equity to enjoin, abate, and remove the same
in the manner provided by law.
         (b)   Whenever, in any action, it is established that a nuisance
exists, the court may, together with the fine or penalty imposed, enter an
order of abatement as a part of the judgment in the case.
(Prior Code, § 1-1201) (Ord. 593, passed 6-14-2000)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-207, 17-505, 18-1720, 18-1722, and 18-
2532 through 18-2535
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
   Chapter
      
50.   UTILITIES, GENERALLY
      
51.   WATER
      
52.   SEWER
CHAPTER 50: UTILITIES, GENERALLY
Section
   
50.01   Discontinuance of service; notice procedure
   
50.02   Diversion of services, meter tampering, unauthorized reconnection,
prohibited; evidence
   
50.03   Denial of utility service; when prohibited
   
50.04   Civil action
§ 50.01 DISCONTINUANCE OF SERVICE; NOTICE PROCEDURE.
   (A)   The village shall not discontinue utility service to any domestic
subscriber for nonpayment of any past-due account unless the village first
gives written notice by mail to any subscriber whose service is proposed to be
terminated at least seven days prior to termination, weekends and holidays
excluded. As to any subscriber who has previously been identified as a welfare
recipient to the village by the Department of Health and Human Services, such
notice shall be by certified mail and notice of such proposed termination shall
be given to the Department of Health and Human Services.
   (B)   Prior to the discontinuance of service to any domestic subscriber by
the village, the domestic subscriber, upon request, shall be provided a
conference with the governing body. The governing body has established
procedures to resolve utility bills when a conference is requested by a
domestic subscriber. These procedures, three copies of which are on file in the
office of the Village Clerk, are hereby incorporated by reference in addition
to any amendments thereto and are made a part of this section as though set out
in full. A copy of such procedures shall be furnished upon the request of any
domestic subscriber. The governing body shall notify the domestic subscriber of
the time, place, and date scheduled for such conference.
   (C)   This section shall not apply to any disconnections or interruptions of
services made necessary by the village for reasons of repair or maintenance or
to protect the health or safety of the domestic subscriber or of the general
public.
(Prior Code, § 3-701) (Ord. 360, passed 12-4-1984; Ord. 522, passed 7-9-1997)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 70-1603 and 70-1604 
§ 50.02 DIVERSION OF SERVICES, METER TAMPERING, UNAUTHORIZED RECONNECTION,
PROHIBITED; EVIDENCE.
   (A)   It is an offense for any person:
      (1)   To connect any pipe or conduit supplying water, without the
knowledge and consent of the village, in such manner that any portion thereof
may be supplied to any instrument by or at which water may be consumed without
passing through the meter made or provided for measuring or registering the
amount or quantity passing through it;
      (2)   To knowingly use or knowingly permit the use of water obtained
unlawfully pursuant to this section;
      (3)   To reconnect water service without the knowledge and consent of the
village if the service has been disconnected pursuant to §
50.01 or Neb. RS 70-1601 to 70-1615 ; or
      (4)   To willfully injure, alter, or by any instrument, device, or
contrivance in any manner interfere with or obstruct the action or operation of
any meter made or provided for measuring or registering the amount or quantity
of water passing through it, without the knowledge and consent of the village.
   (B)   Proof of the existence of any pipe or conduit connection or
reconnection or of any injury, alteration, or obstruction of a meter is prima
facie evidence of the guilt of the person in possession of the premises where
such connection, reconnection, injury, alteration, interference, or obstruction
is proved to exist.
(Prior Code, § 3-702) (Ord. 503, passed 2-7-1996; Ord. 660, passed 4-9-2003)
Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 28-515 through 28-515.02, and 70-1601
through 70-1615
§ 50.03 DENIAL OF UTILITY SERVICE; WHEN PROHIBITED.
   No applicant for the services of a public or private utility company
furnishing water, natural gas, or electricity at retail in the village shall be
denied service because of unpaid bills for similar service which are not
collectible at law because of statutes of limitations or discharge in
bankruptcy proceedings.
(Prior Code, § 3-703) (Ord. 580, passed 7-14-1999)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 70-1601
§ 50.04 CIVIL ACTION.
   (A)   For purposes of this section, the definitions found in Neb. RS 25-
21,275 shall apply.
   (B)   (1)   The village may bring a civil action for damages against any
person who commits, authorizes, solicits, aids, abets, or attempts bypassing,
tampering, or unauthorized metering when such act results in damages to a
village utility. The village may bring a civil action for damages pursuant to
this section against any person receiving the benefit of utility service
through means of bypassing, tampering or unauthorized metering.
      (2)   In any civil action brought pursuant to this section, the village
shall be entitled, upon proof of willful or intentional bypassing, tampering or
unauthorized metering to recover as damages:
         (a)   The amount of actual damage or loss if the amount of the damage
or loss is susceptible of reasonable calculation; or
         (b)   Liquidated damages of $750 if the amount of actual damage or
loss is not susceptible of reasonable calculation.
      (3)   In addition to damage or loss under division (B)(2) above, the
village may recover all reasonable expenses and costs incurred on account of
the bypassing, tampering or unauthorized metering including, but not limited
to, disconnection, reconnection, service calls, equipment, costs of the suit,
and reasonable attorneys’ fees in cases with the scope of Neb. RS 25-1801.
   (C)   (1)   There shall be a rebuttable presumption that a tenant or
occupant at any premises where bypassing, tampering, or unauthorized metering
is proven to exist caused or had knowledge of such bypassing, tampering, or
unauthorized metering if the tenant or occupant:
         (a)   Had access to the part of the utility supply system on the
premises where the bypassing, tampering or unauthorized metering is proven to
exist; and
         (b)   Was responsible or partially responsible for payment, either
directly or indirectly, to the utility or to any other person for utility
services to the premises.
      (2)   There shall be a rebuttable presumption that a customer at any
premises where bypassing, tampering, or unauthorized metering is proven to
exist caused or had knowledge of such bypassing, tampering, or unauthorized
metering if the customer controlled access to the part of the utility supply
system on the premises where the bypassing, tampering, or unauthorized metering
was proven to exist.
   (D)   The remedies provided by this section shall be deemed to be
supplemental and additional to powers conferred by existing laws. The remedies
provided in this section are in addition to or not in limitation of any other
civil or criminal statutory or common-law remedies.
(Prior Code, § 3-704) (Ord. 661, passed 4-9-2003) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 25-21,276 through 25-21,278
CHAPTER 51: WATER
Section
   
51.01   Operation and funding
   
51.02   Definitions
   
51.03   Water contract
   
51.04   Installation expense
   
51.05   Repairs
   
51.06   Fees and collections
   
51.07   Deposit on services
   
51.08   Minimum rates
   
51.09   Water bills
   
51.10   Lien
   
51.11   Lien, landlord or owner liable
   
51.12   Single premises
   
51.13   Restriction of water use
   
51.14   Adoption of drought emergency contingency plan
   
51.15   Fire hydrants
   
51.16   Pollution
   
51.17   Inspection
   
51.18   Destruction of property
   
51.19   Discontinuance of service, notice procedure
   
51.20   Backflow prevention devices required; customer installation and
maintenance testing
   
51.21   Unsafe physical connection to water distribution system prohibited;
potential backflow hazards; customer assessment
   
51.22   Drilling and operation of wells and other underground facilities or
contaminating facilities without permit unlawful
   
51.23   Utilizing the geothermal properties of the ground
   
51.24   Procedure to obtain permit
   
51.25   Drilling or installation of other facilities within designated distance
from village water sources is prohibited
 
   
51.99   Penalty
§ 51.01 OPERATION AND FUNDING.
   The village owns and operates the Village Water Department through the Water
Commissioner. The governing body, for the purpose of defraying the cost of the
care, management, and maintenance of the Village Water Department may each year
levy a tax not exceeding the maximum limit prescribed by state law, on the
actual valuation of all real estate and personal properly within the corporate
limits that is subject to taxation. The revenue from the said tax shall be
known as the Water Fund and shall remain in the custody of the Village
Treasurer. The Water Commissioner shall have the direct management and control
of the Village Water Department and shall faithfully carry out the duties of
his, her, or their office. The Water Commissioner shall have the authority to
adopt rules and regulations for the sanitary and efficient management of the
Water Department subject to the supervision and review of the governing body.
The governing body shall set the rates to be charged for services rendered by
ordinance and shall file a copy of the rates in the office of the Village Clerk
for public inspection at any reasonable time.
(Prior Code, § 3-101)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-531, 17-534, and 19-1305
§ 51.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   MAIN. Any pipe other than a supply or service pipe that is used for the
purpose of carrying water to, and dispersing the same in the village.
   SERVICE PIPE. Any pipe extending from the shutoff, stop box, or curb cock at
or near the lot line to and beyond the property line of the consumer to the
location on the premises where the water is to be dispersed.
   SEPARATE PREMISES. More than one consumer procuring water from the same
service or supply pipe. The second premises may be a separate dwelling,
apartment, building, or structure used for a separate business.
   SUPPLY PIPE. Any pipe tapped into a main and extending from there to a point
at or near the lot line of the consumer’s premises where the shutoff, stop box,
or curb cock is located.
(Prior Code, § 3-102)
§ 51.03 WATER CONTRACT.
   The village through its Water Department, shall furnish water to persons
within its corporate limits whose premises abut a street or alley in which a
commercial main now is or may hereafter be laid. The village may furnish water
to persons within its corporate limits whose premises do not abut a street or
alley in which a village commercial main is now or may hereafter be laid and
may also furnish water to persons whose premises are situated outside the
corporate limits of the village, as and when, according to law, the governing
body may see fit to do so. The rules, regulations, and water rates hereinafter
named in this chapter, shall be considered a part of every application
hereafter made for water service and shall be considered a part of the contract
between every consumer now or hereafter served. Without further formality, the
making of application on the part of any applicant or the use or consumption of
water service by present consumers thereof and the furnishing of water service
to said consumer shall constitute a contract between the consumer and the
village, to which said contract both parties are bound. If the consumer shall
violate any of the provisions of said contract or any reasonable rules and
regulations that the governing body may hereafter adopt, the Water Commissioner
or his, her, or their agent, may cut off or disconnect the water service from
the building or premises or place of such violation. No further connection for
water service to said building, premises, or place shall again be made save or
except by order of said Commissioner or his, her, or their agent.
(Prior Code, § 3-103)
§ 51.04 INSTALLATION EXPENSE.
   The expense of providing water service to the lot line shall be paid by the
village. The consumer shall then pay the cost of installation and pipe from the
lot line to the place of dispersion; provided, no water tap or service will be
provided until the applicant has paid a tap fee in the amount of $2,000. The
consumer shall be required to pay the expense of procuring the services of a
plumber and shall pay the expense of furnishing and installing pipe, trenching,
and necessary labor to bring water service from the said lot line to the place
of dispersion.
(Prior Code, § 3-104) (Ord. 735, passed 11-8-2017)
§ 51.05 REPAIRS.
   Repairs to the service pipe shall be made by and at the expense of the
customer. All other repairs to the property of the Water Department, shall be
made by the village.
(Prior Code, § 3-105)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-542
§ 51.06 FEES AND COLLECTIONS.
   (A)   The governing body has the power and authority to fix the rates to be
paid by the water consumers for the use of water from the Water Department. All
such fees shall be on file for public inspection at the office of the Village
Clerk.
   (B)   The Water Commissioner shall bill the consumers and collect all money
received by the village on the account of the Water Department. He, she, or
they shall faithfully account for, and pay to the Village Treasurer all revenue
collected by him, her, or them, taking his, her, or their receipt therefore in
duplicate, filing one with the Village Clerk and keeping the other on file in
the Water Department’s official records.
(Prior Code, § 3-106)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-540
§ 51.07 DEPOSIT ON SERVICES.
   (A)   All applicants for water service from the municipal water system,
shall on and after the effective date of this chapter, be required to pay a
deposit in the amount of $150 to the Water Department of the village before
such water service is supplied.
   (B)   From such deposit, the village may, without notice, deduct all
delinquent water payments or any unpaid claims due the water department of the
village.
   (C)   If, by decision of the Village Board of Trustees, the water deposit
has been refunded, and in any subsequent year charges are not being paid when
due, and if the consumer is late for two times, an additional water deposit of
$150 will be required by the village.
(Prior Code, § 3-106.01) (Ord. 709, passed 5-9-2007)
§ 51.08 MINIMUM RATES.
   (A)   All water consumers shall be liable for the following rates provided
by ordinance unless and until the consumer shall, by written order, direct the
Water Commissioner to shut off the water at the stop box, in which case he,
she, or they shall not be liable thereafter for water rental until the water is
turned on again: Residential and Business, per month plus $1 per 1,000 gallons.
   (B)   All water consumers will be subject to a $25 connection fee when the
Water Commissioner first connects or reconnects their water service. This
connection fee will double if the Water Commissioner has to connect the service
after 6:00 p.m., or on legal holidays or weekends.
(Prior Code, § 3-107) (Ord. 305, passed 12-2-1975; Ord. 329, passed 10-3-1978;
Ord. 338, passed 5-5-1981; Ord. 346, passed 11-3-1982; Ord. 404, passed 3-6-
1990; Ord. 540, passed 9-10-1997; Ord. 703, passed 7-12-2006; Ord. 741, passed
4-13-2022)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-542
§ 51.09 WATER BILLS.
   (A)   Water bills shall be due and payable monthly according to usage, for
their water service. It shall be the duty of the customers of the Water
Department to pay their bills monthly. The village shall charge and collect
from each customer for the amount of water bill together with any other
charges, properly itemized, due the Water Department. Bills shall be due on the
fifteenth day after their bill is rendered. Bills paid after the payment due
date shall have a penalty charge added thereto in an amount of $15. Bills not
paid by the payment due date shall be deemed to be delinquent. Upon being
deemed delinquent, as herein defined, the Village Clerk shall give a written
notice to the customer of such delinquency and shall demand payment
immediately. In the event the bill is not paid within seven days after the
sending of said notice, it shall be discretionary with the village to
disconnect service at any time; provided, if the delinquent customer is a known
welfare recipient, it shall be the duty of the Village Clerk to notify the
customer and the County Welfare Department by certified mail of the proposed
termination.
   (B)   In the event that utility service is disconnected for non-payment of
the bill, the customer thereof shall have the right to have the same
reconnected only upon payment of the amount due, and in addition thereto, a
reconnection fee of $50, when such reconnection is made during normal business
hours of Monday through Friday, 8:00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m. excluding holidays. A
reconnection fee of $100 is due when such reconnection is made at any time
other than during normal business hours as stated above.
   (C)   The notice required by Neb. RS 70-1605 shall contain the following
information:
      (1)   The reason for the proposed disconnection;
      (2)   A statement of intention to disconnect unless the domestic
subscriber either pays the bill or reaches an agreement with the utility
regarding payment of the bill;
      (3)   The date upon which service will be disconnected if the domestic
subscriber does not take appropriate action;
      (4)   The name, address, and telephone number of the utility’s employee
or department to whom the domestic subscriber may address any inquiry or
complaint;
      (5)   The domestic subscriber’s right, prior to the disconnection date,
to request a conference regarding any dispute over such proposed disconnection;
      (6)   A statement that the utility may not disconnect service pending the
conclusion of the conference;
      (7)   A statement to the effect that disconnection shall be postponed or
prevented upon presentation of a duly licensed physician’s, physician
assistant’s, or advanced practice registered nurse’s certificate, which shall
certify that a domestic subscriber or resident within such subscriber’s
household has an existing illness or handicap which would cause such subscriber
or resident to suffer an immediate and serious health hazard by the
disconnection of the utility’s service to that household. Such certificate
shall be filed with the utility within five days of receiving notice under this
section, excluding holidays and weekends, and will prevent the disconnection of
the utility’s service for a period of at least 30 days from such filing. Only
one postponement of disconnection shall be required under this division (C)(7)
for each incidence of nonpayment of any past-due account;
      (8)   The cost that will be borne by the domestic subscriber for
restoration of service;
      (9)   A statement that the domestic subscriber may arrange with the
utility for an installment payment plan;
      (10)   A statement to the effect that those domestic subscribers who are
welfare recipients may qualify for assistance in payment of their utility bill
and that they should contact their caseworker in that regard; and
      (11)   Any additional information not inconsistent with this section
which has received prior approval from the board of directors or administrative
board of any utility.
   (D)   A public or private utility company, other than a municipal utility
owned and operated by a village, shall make the service termination information
required under divisions (C)(4) through (C)(7) (C)(9) through(11) readily
accessible to the public on the website of the utility company and available by
mail upon request.
(Neb. RS 70-1606)
(Prior Code, § 3-108) (Ord. 330, passed 11-6-1978; Ord. 534, passed 7-9-1997;
Ord. 542, passed 11-12-1997; Ord. 743, passed 5-23-2023) Penalty, see §
51.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-542 and 70-1605
§ 51.10 LIEN.
   In addition to all other remedies, if a customer shall for any reason remain
indebted to the village for water service furnished, such amount due, together
with any rents and charges in arrears, shall be considered a delinquent water
rent which is hereby declared to be a lien upon the real estate for which the
same was used. The Village Clerk shall notify in writing or cause to be
notified in writing, all owners of premises or their agents whenever their
tenants or lessees are 60 days or more delinquent in the payment of water rent.
If not paid, the village may levy and assess such delinquent bill in the same
manner as other special assessments are levied and assessed, and the village
may collect said assessments in the same procedure as other special assessments
are collected. The village may also recover said delinquent bill in a civil
action in the courts of the appropriate county in the state.
(Prior Code, § 3-109) (Ord. 743, passed 5-23-2023)
§ 51.11 LIEN, LANDLORD OR OWNER LIABLE.
   (A)   Landlords and owners of property within the village remain liable to
the village for water and sewer service furnished to said property; regardless
of whether their tenants or lessees are primarily indebted to the village for
such service used or supplied to them. All such delinquent water or sewer
service rates, taxes, or rent shall be paid by the landlord or property owner;
or shall become a lien upon the premises, or real estate, upon or for which the
same is used or supplied.
   (B)   (1)   Upon approval of the governing body, the Village Clerk shall
certify to the County Clerk a list of all unpaid accounts due for water and
sewer service together with a legal description of the premises, or real
estate, upon or for which the same is used or supplied, and the name and/or
business address of the landlord or owner of the property.
      (2)   The County Clerk shall cause the lien against the property to be
collected from the landlord or property owner as a special tax, or other
enforcement as provided by law.
(Prior Code, § 3-109.01) (Ord. 342, passed 11-2-1981)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-538
§ 51.12 SINGLE PREMISES.
   (A)   No consumer shall supply water to other families, or allow them to
take water from his, her, or their premises, nor after water is supplied into a
building shall any person make or employ a plumber or other person to make a
tap or connection with the pipe upon the premises for alteration, extension, or
attachment without the written permission of the Water Commissioner.
   (B)   It shall further be unlawful for any person to tamper with any water
meter or by means of any contrivance or device to divert the water from the
service pipe so that the water will not pass through the meter or while passing
through said meter to cause the meter to register inaccurately.
(Prior Code, § 3-110) Penalty, see §
51.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-537
§ 51.13 RESTRICTION OF WATER USE.
   (A)   Upon notice from the Village Board Chairperson, the use of water for
all uses, except domestic uses, shall cease during a fire alarm ordering a
fire. Water may resume upon notice by the Chairperson.
   (B)   The governing body or water commissioner may order a reduction in the
use of water or shut off the water on any premises in the event of a water
shortage due to fire or good and sufficient cause.
   (C)   In the case of a shortage, imminent shortage or possible contamination
of the public water supply, the use of water may be restricted according to a
restriction plan adopted by resolution by the Village Board.
   (D)   (1)   Any person who shall violate or refuse to comply with the
enforcement of any of the provisions of this chapter, and who shall
specifically refuse to comply with any water restriction plan adopted by
resolution of the Village Board shall upon conviction thereof be fined not more
than $500 for each offense.
      (2)   A new violation shall be deemed to have been committed every 24
hours of such failure to comply.
   (E)   The village shall not be liable for any damages caused by shutting off
the supply of water of any consumer while the system or any part thereof is
undergoing repairs or when there is a shortage of water due to circumstances to
which the village has no control.
(Prior Code, § 3-111) (Ord. 670, passed 6-11-2003) Penalty, see §
51.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-537
§ 51.14 ADOPTION OF DROUGHT EMERGENCY CONTINGENCY PLAN.
   (A)   The village shall address any short-term water shortage problems
through a series of stages based on conditions of supply and demand with
accompanying triggers, goals, and actions. Each stage is more stringent in
water use than the previous stage since there will be a greater deterioration
in water supply conditions. The Chairperson of the Board of Trustees is hereby
authorized to implement the appropriate conservation measures as set forth in
this section when any of the conditions have been reached which would qualify
for any of the specific stages. The Chairperson of the Board of Trustees is
given discretion to declare each particular stage as deemed appropriate by the
Board of Trustees by reviewing the severity of the trigger conditions and other
additional information, and is further authorized to implement conservation
measures within the guidelines provided for each particular stage.
   (B)   The stages of water conservation measures are as follows.
      (1)   Stage one: water watch. 
         (a)   This stage is triggered by any one of the following conditions.
            1.   Groundwater levels have fallen five feet below normal seasonal
levels.
            2.   System pressure falls below 35 pounds per square inch.
            3.   Demand for one day is in excess of 500,000 gallons per day.
         (b)   The goals of this stage are to heighten awareness of the public
of the water conditions and to maintain the integrity of the system.
         (c)   Management actions of this stage are as follows.
            1.   Leaks will be repaired within 48 hours of detection.
            2.   The village will monitor its use of water and will curtail
activities such as hydrant flushing and street cleaning.
         (d)   The public will be informed through the local media and legal
postings of the water watch and be asked to voluntarily reduce outdoor water
use and to efficiently use water for indoor purposes (e.g., washing full loads
of clothing and/or dishes, limiting the length and frequency of showers,
checking for water leaks and dripping of faucets) to prevent any unnecessary
use of water.
      (2)   Stage two: water warning.
         (a)   This stage is triggered by any one of the following conditions:
            1.   Groundwater levels have fallen ten feet below normal seasonal
levels.
            2.   System pressure falls below 35 pounds per square inch.
            3.   Plant operations are at 80% capacity for more than three
consecutive days.
            4.   Demand for one day is in excess of 500,000 gallons per day.
         (b)   The goals of this stage are to reduce peak demands by 20% and to
reduce overall weekly consumption by 10%.
         (c)   Management actions are as follows.
            1.   Water supply will be monitored daily.
            2.   Leaks will be repaired within 24 hours of detection.
            3.   Pumpage at wells will be reduced to decrease drawdown and to
maintain water levels over well screens.
            4.   Village will curtail its water usage, including watering of
village grounds and washing of vehicles.
         (d)   In addition to the regulatory actions under stage one, the Board
of Trustees may exercise the following regulatory authority:
            1.   An odd/even lawn watering system will be imposed on village
residents. Residents with odd-numbered houses will water on odd days, even-
numbered houses on even days.
            2.   Outdoor water use, including lawn watering and car washing,
will be restricted to before 10:00 a.m. and after 9:00 p.m.
            3.   Refilling of swimming pools will be limited to one day a week
after sunset.
            4.   Excess water use charges for usage of water over the amount
used in the winter will be imposed at a rate twice the normal rate for water
usage.
            5.   Waste of water will be prohibited.
      (3)   Stage three: water emergency.
         (a)   This stage is triggered by any one of the following conditions:
            1.   Groundwater levels have fallen 15 feet below normal seasonal
levels.
            2.   System pressure falls below 35 pounds per square inch.
            3.   Pumping lowers water levels to within five feet of the top of
the well screens.
            4.   Plant operations are at 90% capacity for more than three
consecutive days.
            5.   Demand for one day is in excess of 500,000 gallons per day.
         (b)   The goals of this stage are to reduce peak demands by 50% and to
reduce overall consumption by 25%.
         (c)   Education actions are as follows.
            1.   The village will make news releases to local media describing
current conditions and indicate the water supply outlook for the village.
            2.   The village will hold public meeting(s) to discuss the
emergency, the status of the water supply and further actions that need to be
taken.
         (d)   Management actions are as follows.
            1.   The village water supplies will be monitored daily.
            2.   Leaks will be repaired within 24 hours of detection.
            3.   Standby wells will be activated for contingency operation.
            4.   Pumpage at wells will be reduced to decrease drawdown and to
maintain water levels over well screens.
            5.   The village will seek additional emergency supplies from other
users, or the state or federal government.
         (e)   In addition to the regulatory actions available under stage two,
the Board of Trustees may exercise the following regulatory authority.
            1.   Outdoor water use will be banned, except for businesses that
require outdoor water use to operate.
            2.   Waste of water will be prohibited.
   (C)   In the event that any water consumer fails to comply with the
regulatory action taken by the village, the Board of Trustees may direct the
Water Superintendent to perform the immediate discontinuance of water service
to the location that is not in compliance with the restrictions imposed. Water
services may be resumed upon the Board of Trustees being provided adequate
evidence to show that compliance has been instituted and that compliance will
continue under the restrictions imposed.
(Prior Code, § 3-111.01) (Ord. 701, passed 5-10-2006) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.15 FIRE HYDRANTS.
   All hydrants for the purpose of extinguishing fires are hereby declared to
be public hydrants, and it shall be unlawful for any person other than members
of the Village Fire Department under the orders of the Fire Chief, or the
Assistant Fire Chief; or members of the Water Department to open or attempt to
open any of the hydrants and draw water from the same, or in any manner to
interfere with fire hydrants.
(Prior Code, § 3-112) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.16 POLLUTION.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to pollute or attempt to pollute any
stream or source of water for the supply of the Village Water Department.
(Prior Code, § 3-113) Penalty, see §
51.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-536
§ 51.17 INSPECTION.
   The Water Commissioner, or his, her, or their duly authorized agents, shall
have free access, at any reasonable time, to all parts of each premises and
building to, or in which, water is delivered for the purpose of examining the
pipes, fixtures, and other portions of the system to ascertain whether there is
any disrepair or unnecessary waste of water.
(Prior Code, § 3-114)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-537
§ 51.18 DESTRUCTION OF PROPERTY.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to willfully or carelessly break,
injure, or deface any building, machine, apparatus, fixture, attachment, or
appurtenance of the Village Water Department.
   (B)   No person may deposit anything in a stop box or commit any act tending
to obstruct or impair the intended use of any of the above mentioned properly
without the written permission of the Water Commissioner.
(Prior Code, § 3-115) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.19 DISCONTINUANCE OF SERVICE, NOTICE PROCEDURE.
   (A)   (1)   The Village Water Department shall be amended to not discontinue
service to any domestic subscriber for non-payment of any due account unless
such utility shall first give written notice by mail to any subscriber whose
service is proposed to be terminated at least seven days prior to termination.
      (2)   As to any subscriber who has previously been identified as a
welfare recipient to the utility by the County Welfare Department, such notice
shall be by certified mail and notice of such proposed termination shall be
given to the County Welfare Department.
   (B)   (1)   Prior to the discontinuance of service to any domestic
subscriber by a village utility, the domestic subscriber, upon request, shall
be provided a conference with the Board of Trustees.
      (2)   The Board of Trustees has established procedures to resolve utility
bills when a conference is requested by a domestic subscriber. These
procedures, three copies of which are on file in the office of the Village
Clerk, are set forth below and are hereby incorporated by reference in addition
to any amendments thereto and are made a part hereof as though set out in full.
A copy of such procedures shall be furnished upon the request of any domestic
subscriber.
         (a)   The subscriber shall request such conference in writing.
         (b)   The conference shall be held within seven days after receipt of
such request, during which period the service shall not be discontinued.
         (c)   Notice of the time, place and date scheduled for the conference
shall be given to the subscriber within three days after receipt of the
request.
         (d)   The subscriber may be present and represented by counsel or
other spokesperson, may present witnesses and offer evidence, and may question
any person presenting testimony or other evidence at the conference.
         (e)   Following the conference, the Board of Trustees shall make a
final decision as to whether the service shall be discontinued, and shall
notify the subscriber in writing of its decision within three days thereafter.
Service may not be discontinued until five days after delivery of such notice
of decision.
(Prior Code, § 3-116) (Ord. 347, passed 1-4-1983)
§ 51.20 BACKFLOW PREVENTION DEVICES REQUIRED; CUSTOMER INSTALLATION AND
MAINTENANCE TESTING.
   (A)   A customer of the Village Water Department shall install and maintain
a properly located backflow prevention device at the customer’s expense
appropriate to the potential hazards set forth in Title 179, State Department
of Health, and approved by the Utilities Superintendent.
   (B)   (1)   The customer shall make application to the Utilities
Superintendent to install a required backflow prevention device on a form
provided by the village.
      (2)   The application shall contain at a minimum the name and address of
the applicant, the type of potential hazard required, protection, and the type
of backflow device to be installed including brand and model number.
   (C)   The Utilities Superintendent shall approve the application if such
installation will protect the village water distribution system from potential
backflow and backsiphonage hazards.
   (D)   (1)   The installation of the device shall be subject to all other
sections of this code dealing with installation of plumbing.
      (2)   Such customer shall also certify to the village at least one time
annually that the backflow prevention device has been tested by a State
Department of Health Grade VI Certified Water Operator if the device is
equipped with a test port.
      (3)   Such certification shall be made on a form available at the office
of the Village Clerk.
   (E)   The Utilities Superintendent shall have the authority to inspect the
installed backflow prevention device, and disconnect water service to the
customer if the backflow prevention device is not installed correctly.
   (F)   Any decision of the Utilities Superintendent may be appealed to the
village governing body.
(Prior Code, § 3-117) (Ord. 423, passed 5-5-1993; Ord. 685, passed 7-14-2004)
§ 51.21 UNSAFE PHYSICAL CONNECTION TO WATER DISTRIBUTION SYSTEM PROHIBITED;
POTENTIAL BACKFLOW HAZARDS; CUSTOMER ASSESSMENT.
   (A)   No customer or other person shall cause, allow, or create any physical
connection between the village water distribution system and any pipes, pumps,
hydrants, tanks, steam condensate returns, engine jackets, heat exchangers,
other water supplied or any other connection whereby potentially unsafe or
contaminating materials may be discharged or drawn into the village water
distribution system.
   (B)   (1)   At least one time every five years, customers of the village
water distribution and supply system shall be required to assess and report
potential backflow and backsiphonage hazards to the village on a form supplied
by the village to the customer.
      (2)   The customer shall take any steps necessary for protection of
public health and safety as determined by the Utilities Superintendent.
(Prior Code, § 3-118) (Ord. 424, passed 5-5-1993) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.22 DRILLING AND OPERATION OF WELLS AND OTHER UNDERGROUND FACILITIES OR
CONTAMINATING FACILITIES WITHOUT PERMIT UNLAWFUL.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, corporation or other legal entity to
drill and/or operate any of the following facilities within the corporate
limits or zoning jurisdiction of the village without first having obtained the
proper permit from the governing body of the village: potable water well; any
other well; sewage lagoon; absorption or disposal field for water; cesspool;
dumping grounds; feedlot; livestock pasture or corral; chemical product storage
facility; petroleum product storage facility; pit toilet; sanitary landfill;
septic tank; sewage treatment plant; sewage wet well.
(Prior Code, § 3-119) (Ord. 506, passed 9-4-1996) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.23 UTILIZING THE GEOTHERMAL PROPERTIES OF THE GROUND.
   The following provisions apply when utilizing the geothermal properties of
the ground:
   (A)   Must be a closed loop system;
   (B)   Joints must be made by heat fusion;
   (C)   Antifreeze must be potassium acetate, propylene glycol, or other food
grade substance;
   (D)   Wells must be sealed from bottom to top with a cement slurry;
   (E)   Piping will consist of polybutylene or polyethylene pipe; and
   (F)   Will be located no closer than 100 feet to the village drinking water
source.
(Prior Code, § 3-120) (Ord. 506, passed 9-4-1996)
§ 51.24 PROCEDURE TO OBTAIN PERMIT.
   (A)   In order to obtain a permit to drill and/or operate any of the
facilities listed in §§
51.22 and
51.23, the owner of the property on which the proposed facility is to be
located must make application on the proper form provided by the governing body
of the village.
   (B)   Such application must be presented to the Village Council at any
regular or special meeting.
   (C)   After reviewing the application of any person desiring to drill or
operate any of the above described facilities, the Village Council must approve
or deny said permit.
(Prior Code, § 3-121) (Ord. 506, passed 9-4-1996)
§ 51.25 DRILLING OR INSTALLATION OF OTHER FACILITIES WITHIN DESIGNATED DISTANCE
FROM VILLAGE WATER SOURCES IS PROHIBITED.
   (A)   Under no circumstances shall the Village Council approve any permit to
drill or operate any of the below described facilities within the indicated
number of feet from the village water wells:
Facility Distance from Water Well
Facility                               Distance from Water Well
Absorption or disposal field for water Within 500 feet
Cesspool                               Within 500 feet
Chemical product storage facility      Within 500 feet
Closed loop geothermal well            Within 100 feet
Dumping grounds                        Within 500 feet
Feedlot or feedlot runoff              Within 500 feet
Livestock pasture or corral            Within 500 feet
Petroleum product storage facility     Within 500 feet
Pit toilet                             Within 500 feet
Potable water well                     Within 1,000 feet
Sanitary landfill                      Within 500 feet
Septic tank                            Within 500 feet
Sewage lagoon                          Within 1,000 feet
Sewage treatment plant                 Within 500 feet
Sewage wet well                        Within 500 feet
Any other well                         Within 1,000 feet
 
   (B)   These footages are taken from Nebraska Regulation Title 179, Chapter
2, and will change automatically if said title footages are revised.
(Prior Code, § 3-122) (Ord. 506, passed 9-4-1996)
§ 51.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person, corporation, or other legal entity found violating any
provision of §§
51.22 through
51.25 shall be subject to a fine, not to exceed $100. The continuation of a
violation of this chapter shall be deemed an additional crime for every 24
hours of such continued violation. In addition, the village may obtain
injunctive relief, and sue for damages and remediation, and pursue any other
remedy available to it under the laws of the state or other authority having
jurisdiction over such matters.
(Prior Code, § 3-123) (Ord. 506, passed 9-4-1996)
CHAPTER 52: SEWER
Section
Village Sewer Department
   
52.001   Operation and funding
   
52.002   Definitions
   
52.003   Sewer contract
   
52.004   Installation; expense
   
52.005   Inspections
   
52.006   Classification
   
52.007   Rate setting
   
52.008   Fees and collections
   
52.009   Delinquent sewer rental; lien upon property
   
52.010   Rate reviews
   
52.011   User notification
   
52.012   Special assessments
   
52.013   Sewer funds
   
52.014   Fund transfers
   
52.015   Violation; notice and liability
   
52.016   Village powers
Use of Public Sewers Required
   
52.030   Unlawful deposit of wastes
   
52.031   Unlawful discharge of untreated sewage
   
52.032   Cesspools, privies, and septic tanks prohibited
   
52.033   Mandatory hookup
Private Sewage Disposal System
   
52.045   Permit required
   
52.046   Permit; when effective; inspections
   
52.047   Specifications
   
52.048   Maintenance
   
52.049   Additional requirements
   
52.050   Abandonment
Building Sewer Installation
   
52.065   Direct connections
   
52.066   Permit required
   
52.067   Expense
   
52.068   Tap inspection fee
   
52.069   Construction codes
   
52.070   Inspections
   
52.071   Unlawful connection
Village Sewer System
   
52.085   Repairs and replacement
   
52.086   Destruction of property
Hazardous and Prohibited Discharges
   
52.100   Stormwater, surface water, groundwater, cooling water, and process
water
   
52.101   Flammable, toxic, corrosive, and obstructive substances
   
52.102   Specific prohibitions as determined by Superintendent
   
52.103   Rejection, pretreatment, control of discharge rate or use fee
surcharge
   
52.104   Toxic substances; payment for increased treatment costs
   
52.105   Grease, oil, and sand interceptors; when required
   
52.106   Preliminary treatment or flow-equalizing facilities; maintenance by
owner
   
52.107   Special exceptions permitted; use fee surcharge
Control Manholes/Sampling Stations
   
52.120   When required; installation and maintenance
   
52.121   Method
 
   
52.999   Penalty
VILLAGE SEWER DEPARTMENT
§ 52.001 OPERATION AND FUNDING.
   The village owns and operates the village sewer system through the Utilities
Superintendent. For the purpose of defraying the cost of the maintenance and
repairing of any sewer or water utilities in the village, the governing body
may each year levy a tax not exceeding the maximum limit prescribed by state
law on the taxable value of all taxable property in the village. The revenue
from the tax shall be known as the Water and Sewer Maintenance Fund and shall
be used exclusively for the purpose of maintenance and repairs of the water and
sewer system. The Utilities Superintendent shall have the direct management and
control of the Sewer Department, shall faithfully carry out the duties of the
office, and he, she, or they shall have the authority to adopt rules and
regulations for the sanitary and efficient management of the Department subject
to the supervision and review of the governing body.
(Prior Code, § 3-201) (Ord. 389, passed 10-4-1988; Ord. 562, passed 8-12-1998)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-925.01
§ 52.002 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning. SHALL is
mandatory, MAY is permissive.
   BOD (BIOCHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND). The quantity of oxygen utilized in the
biochemical oxidation of organic matter under standard laboratory procedure in
five days at 20°C, expressed in milligrams per liter.
   BUILDING OR HOUSE DRAIN. The part of the lowest horizontal piping of a
drainage system which receives the discharge from soil, waste, or other
drainage pipes inside the walls of the building and conveys it to the building
sewer, beginning five feet (one and one-half meters) outside the inner face of
the building wall.
   BUILDING SEWER. The extension from the building drain to the public sewer or
other place of disposal.
   COMBINED SEWER. A sewer receiving both surface runoff and sewage.
   GARBAGE. Solid wastes from the domestic and commercial preparation, cooking,
and dispensing of food, and from the handling, storage, and sale of produce.
   INDUSTRIAL WASTES. The liquid wastes from industrial manufacturing
processes, trade, or business as distinct from sanitary sewage.
   NATURAL OUTLET. Any outlet into a watercourse, pond, ditch, lake, or other
body of surface or groundwater.
   OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE. All expenditures during the useful life of the
treatment works for materials, labor, utilities, and other items which are
necessary for managing and maintaining the sewage works to achieve the capacity
and performance for which such works are designed and constructed.
   PERSON. Any individual, firm, company, association, society, corporation, or
group.
   pH. The logarithm of the reciprocal of the weight of hydrogen ions in grams
per liter of solution.
   PROPERLY SHREDDED GARBAGE. The wastes from the preparation, cooking, and
dispensing of food that have been shredded to such a degree that all particles
will be carried freely under the flow conditions normally prevailing in public
sewers, with no particle greater than one-half inch (1.27 centimeters) in any
dimension.
   PUBLIC SEWER. A sewer in which all owners of abutting properties have equal
rights, and is controlled by public authority.
   REPLACEMENT. Expenditures for obtaining and installing equipment,
accessories or appurtenances which are necessary during the useful life of the
treatment works to maintain the capacity and performance for which such works
were designed and constructed. The term “operation and maintenance” includes
REPLACEMENT.
   SANITARY SEWER. A sewer which carries sewage and to which storm, surface,
and groundwaters are not intentionally admitted.
   SEWAGE. A combination of the water-carried wastes from residences, business
buildings, institutions, and industrial establishments together with such
ground, surface, and stormwaters as may be present.
   SEWER SYSTEM. All facilities for collecting, pumping, treating, and
disposing of sewage.
   SLUG. Any discharge of water, sewage, or industrial waste which in
concentration of any given constituent or in quantity of flow exceeds for any
period of duration longer than 15 minutes more than five times the average 24-
hour concentration or flows during normal operation.
   STORM SEWER. A sewer for conveying water, groundwater, subsurface water, or
unpolluted water from any source.
   SUPERINTENDENT. The Utilities Superintendent of the village, or his, her, or
their authorized deputy, agent, or representative.
   SUSPENDED SOLIDS. Solids that either float on the surface of, or are in
suspension in water, sewage, or other liquids, and are removable by filtering.
   TREATMENT WORKS. Any devices and systems for the storage, treatment,
recycling, and reclamation of village sewage, domestic sewage, or liquid
industrial wastes. These include intercepting sewers, outfall sewers, sewage
collection system, individual systems, pumping, power, and other equipment and
their appurtenances; extensions, improvement, remodeling, additions and
alterations thereof; and any works, including site acquisition of the land that
will be an integral part of the treatment process or is used for ultimate
disposal of residues resulting from such treatment; or any other method or
system for preventing, abating, reducing, storing, treating, separating, or
disposing of village waste or industrial waste.
   VILLAGE. The Village of Clarks, Nebraska.
   WATERCOURSE. A natural or artificial channel for the passage of water either
continuously or intermittently.
(Prior Code, § 3-202) (Ord. 389, passed 10-4-1988)
§ 52.003 SEWER CONTRACT.
   (A)   The village through the Village Sewer Department shall furnish sewer
service to persons within its corporate limits whose premises abut a street or
alley in which a commercial main is now or may hereafter be laid.
   (B)   The village may also furnish sewer service to persons whose premises
are situated outside the corporate limits of the village, as and when,
according to law, the governing body may see fit to do so.
   (C)   The rules, regulations, and sewer rental rates hereinafter named in
this chapter shall be considered a part of every application hereafter made for
sewer service and shall be considered a part of the contract between every
customer now or hereafter served.
   (D)   Without further formality, the making of the application on the part
of any applicant or the use of sewer service by present customers thereof shall
constitute a contract between the customer and the village to which said
contract both parties are bound.
   (E)   If the customer shall violate any of the provisions of said contract
or any reasonable rules and regulations that the governing body may hereafter
adopt, the Superintendent or his, her, or their agent may cut off or disconnect
the sewer service from the building or premises of such violation.
   (F)   No further connection for sewer service to said building or premises
shall again be made save or except by order of the Superintendent or his, her,
or their agent.
(Prior Code, § 3-213) (Ord. 389, passed 10-4-1988)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-901, 17-902, and 18-503
§ 52.004 INSTALLATION; EXPENSE.
   (A)   In making excavations in streets, alleys, or sidewalks for the purpose
of installing pipe, or making repairs, the paving, stones, and earth must be
removed and deposited in a manner that will occasion the least inconvenience to
the public and provide for adequate drainage.
   (B)   No person shall leave an excavation made in the street, alley, or
sidewalk open at any time without a barricade, and during the night, warning
lights.
   (C)   After the house sewer is laid, the public ways and property shall be
restored to good condition.
   (D)   If the excavation in the public ways and property is left unfinished
for a period of 24 hours or more, the Superintendent shall have the duty to
finish or correct the work, and all expenses so incurred shall be charged to
the owner, occupant, or lessee of the property.
(Prior Code, § 3-219) (Ord. 389, passed 10-4-1988)
§ 52.005 INSPECTIONS.
   The Superintendent and other duly authorized employees of the village
bearing proper credentials and identification shall have free access at any
reasonable time to all parts of each premises and building which is connected
with the sewer system to ascertain whether there is any disrepair or violations
of this chapter therein.
(Prior Code, § 3-234) (Ord. 389, passed 10-4-1988)
§ 52.006 CLASSIFICATION.
   (A)   The governing body may classify for the purpose of rental fees the
customers of the Village Sewer Department; provided, that such classifications
are reasonable and do not discriminate unlawfully against any consumer or group
of consumers.
   (B)   The following classes of users are hereby established:
      (1)   Residential and Light Commercial;
      (2)   Heavy Commercial; and
      (3)   Institutional.
   (C)   Since the village does not utilize individual water meters, the method
by which commercial users shall be classified as heavy or light will be at the
discretion of the governing body.
   (D)   In order to be classified as Heavy Commercial, the user must:
      (1)   Have significantly higher water usage that would be expected from
an average residential or commercial customer; or
      (2)   Contribute waste having organic strength significantly higher than
that from a typical residential user.
   (E)   In the case of multi-family residential users, including apartment
complexes, the charge shall be the Residential class rate times the number of
dwelling units.
(Prior Code, § 3-235) (Ord. 389, passed 10-4-1988)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-925.02
§ 52.007 RATE SETTING.
   Customers of the Village Sewer Department shall be charged a flat rate for
the use of sewer service. Rates shall be set by the governing body by
reference, and the current rate schedule shall be kept on file for inspection
in the Village Clerk’s office.
(Prior Code, § 3-236) (Ord. 389, passed 10-4-1988)
§ 52.008 FEES AND COLLECTIONS.
   The governing body has the power and authority to fix the rates to be paid
by the customers of the Sewer Department quarterly at the same time and in the
same manner as the water rates are collected. Charges shall be delinquent 20
days after the due date. Upon being deemed delinquent, the chief sewer official
shall proceed to give notice to the delinquent customer and demand payment
immediately. In the event the said bill is not paid within seven days after
sending such written notice, it shall be discretionary with the chief sewer
official to cut off service immediately; provided, that if the delinquent
customer in a known welfare recipient, it shall be the duty of the chief sewer
official to notify the customer and the County Welfare Department by certified
mail of the proposed termination.
(Prior Code, § 3-237) (Ord. 389, passed 10-4-1988)
§ 52.009 DELINQUENT SEWER RENTAL; LIEN UPON PROPERTY.
   In addition to all other remedies, if a customer shall, for any reason,
remain indebted to the village for sewer service furnished, such amount due,
together with any rents and charges in arrears, shall be considered a
delinquent sewer rent, which is hereby declared to be a lien upon the premises
or real estate to which the sewer service was furnished. The Village Clerk
shall notify in writing, or cause to be notified in writing, all owners of
premises or their agents whenever their tenants or lessees are 60 days or more
delinquent in the payment of sewer rent. It shall be the duty of the
Superintendent on June 1 of each year to report to the governing body a list of
all unpaid accounts due for sewer service together with a description of the
premises served. The report shall be examined and, if approved by the governing
body, shall be certified by the Village Clerk to the County Clerk to be
collected as a special tax in the manner provided by law.
(Prior Code, § 3-238) (Ord. 389, passed 10-4-1988)
§ 52.010 RATE REVIEWS.
   At least once every two years, the governing body shall review the sewer
user charge system in order to maintain its adequacy to pay the costs of
operation and maintenance, including replacement costs.
(Prior Code, § 3-239) (Ord. 389, passed 10-4-1988)
§ 52.011 USER NOTIFICATION.
   The village will notify each user, at least annually, in conjunction with a
regular bill, of the rate being charged for operation and maintenance,
including replacement of the treatment works.
(Prior Code, § 3-240) (Ord. 389, passed 10-4-1988)
§ 52.012 SPECIAL ASSESSMENTS.
   The governing body shall have the power, by resolution, to establish fair
and reasonable special assessments to the sewer users of said village to apply
only in special cases which are not covered by the schedule of rates adopted by
reference in this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 3-241) (Ord. 389, passed 10-4-1988)
§ 52.013 SEWER FUNDS.
   (A)   The portion of the total user charge collected which is designated for
operation and maintenance, including replacement purposes, shall be deposited
in a separate non-lapsing fund known as the Operation, Maintenance, and
Replacement Fund.
   (B)   The Operation, Maintenance, and Replacement Fund shall be a sub-fund
of the Utilities Fund. The Operation, Maintenance, and Replacement Fund will be
maintained in two primary accounts and sub-accounts, as follows:
      (1)   An account designated for the specific purpose of defraying
operation and maintenance costs, excluding replacement of the treatment works,
known as the Operation and Maintenance Account, provided that the village may
maintain separate sub-accounts known as the Operation Account and Maintenance
Account; and
      (2)   An account designated for the specific purpose of ensuring
replacement needs over the useful life of the treatment works, known as the
Replacement Account. Deposits in the Replacement Account shall be made annually
from the operation, maintenance, and replacement revenue in the amount of $500.
(Prior Code, § 3-242) (Ord. 389, passed 10-4-1988)
§ 52.014 FUND TRANSFERS.
   Fiscal year-end balances in the operation and maintenance account and the
replacement account shall be carried over to the same accounts in the
subsequent fiscal year, and shall be used for no other purposes than those
designated for these accounts. Monies which have been transferred from other
sources to meet temporary shortages in the Operation, Maintenance, and
Replacement Fund shall be returned to their respective accounts upon
appropriate adjustment of the user charge rates. The user charge rate shall be
adjusted such that the transferred monies will be returned to their respective
accounts within the fiscal year following the fiscal year in which the monies
were borrowed.
(Prior Code, § 3-243) (Ord. 389, passed 10-4-1988)
§ 52.015 VIOLATION; NOTICE AND LIABILITY.
   (A)   Any person found to be violating any provision of this chapter except
§
52.086 shall be served by the village with written notice stating the nature of
the violation and providing a reasonable time limit for the satisfactory
correction thereof. The offender shall, within the period of time stated in
such notice, permanently cease all violations.
   (B)   Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall
become liable to the village for any expense, loss, or damage occasioned the
village by reason of such violation.
(Prior Code, § 3-244) (Ord. 389, passed 10-4-1988) Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.016 VILLAGE POWERS.
   The village has the legal authority to enforce its system of user charges,
and sewer use regulations on all existing or future users of the system whether
located inside or outside the village limits. The user charge system take
precedence over any terms or conditions of agreements or contracts between the
village and its users.
(Prior Code, § 3-245) (Ord. 389, passed 10-4-1988)
USE OF PUBLIC SEWERS REQUIRED
§ 52.030 UNLAWFUL DEPOSIT OF WASTES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to place, deposit, or permit to be
deposited in any unsanitary manner on public or private property within the
village, or in any area under the jurisdiction of said village, any human or
animal excrement, garbage, or other objectionable waste.
(Prior Code, § 3-203) (Ord. 389, passed 10-4-1988) Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.031 UNLAWFUL DISCHARGE OF UNTREATED SEWAGE.
   It shall be unlawful to discharge to any natural outlet within the village,
or in any area under the jurisdiction of said village, any sewage or other
polluted waters, except where suitable treatment has been provided in
accordance with subsequent provisions of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 3-204) (Ord. 389, passed 10-4-1988) Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.032 CESSPOOLS, PRIVIES, AND SEPTIC TANKS PROHIBITED.
   Except as hereinafter provided, it shall be unlawful to construct or
maintain any privy, privy vault, septic tank, cesspool, or other facility
intended or used for the disposal of sewage.
(Prior Code, § 3-205) (Ord. 389, passed 10-4-1988) Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.033 MANDATORY HOOKUP.
   The owner of all houses, buildings, or properties used for human occupancy,
employment, recreation, or other purposes, situated within the village abutting
on any street, alley, or right-of-way in which there is now located or may in
the future be located a public sanitary or combined sewer of the village is
hereby required at his, her, or their expense to install suitable toilet
facilities therein, and to connect such facilities directly with the proper
public sewer in accordance with the provisions of this chapter, within 90 days
after date of official notice to do so, provided, that said public sewer is
within 150 feet of the property line.
(Prior Code, § 3-206) (Ord. 389, passed 10-4-1988) Penalty, see §
52.999
PRIVATE SEWAGE DISPOSAL SYSTEM
§ 52.045 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   (A)   Before commencement of construction of a private sewage disposal
system, the owner shall first obtain a written permit signed by the
Superintendent.
   (B)   The application for such permit shall be made on a form furnished by
the village which the applicant shall supplement by any plans, specifications,
and other information as are deemed necessary by the Superintendent.
(Prior Code, § 3-207) (Ord. 389, passed 10-4-1988) Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.046 PERMIT; WHEN EFFECTIVE; INSPECTIONS.
   (A)   A permit for a private sewage disposal system shall not become
effective until the installation is completed to the satisfaction of the
Superintendent. He, she, or they shall be allowed to inspect the work at any
stage of construction and, in any event, the applicant for the permit shall
notify the Superintendent when the work is ready for final inspection, and
before any underground portions are covered.
   (B)   The inspection shall be made within 24 hours of the receipt of notice
by the Superintendent.
(Prior Code, § 3-208) (Ord. 389, passed 10-4-1988)
§ 52.047 SPECIFICATIONS.
   (A)   The type, capacities, location, and layout of a private sewage
disposal system shall comply with all recommendations of the Department of
Public Health of the state.
   (B)   No permit shall be issued for any private sewage disposal system
employing subsurface soil absorption facilities where the area of the lot is
less than 10,000 square feet.
   (C)   No septic tank or cesspool shall be permitted to discharge to any
natural outlet.
(Prior Code, § 3-209) (Ord. 389, passed 10-4-1988) Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.048 MAINTENANCE.
   The owner shall operate and maintain the private sewage disposal facilities
in a sanitary manner at all times, at no expense to the village.
(Prior Code, § 3-210) (Ord. 389, passed 10-4-1988)
§ 52.049 ADDITIONAL REQUIREMENTS.
   No statement contained in this chapter shall be construed to interfere with
any additional requirements that may be imposed by the Health Officer.
(Prior Code, § 3-211) (Ord. 389, passed 10-4-1988)
§ 52.050 ABANDONMENT.
   At such time as a public sewer becomes available to a property served by a
private sewage disposal system, as provided in §
52.033, direct connection shall be made to the public sewer in compliance with
this chapter within 90 days, and any septic tanks, cesspools, and similar
private sewage disposal facilities shall be cleaned of sludge and filled with
clean bank-run gravel or dirt.
(Prior Code, § 3-212) (Ord. 389, passed 10-4-1988)
BUILDING SEWER INSTALLATION
§ 52.065 DIRECT CONNECTIONS.
   A separate and independent building sewer shall be provided for every
building; except where one building stands at the rear of another on an
interior lot and no private sewer is available or can be constructed to the
rear building through an adjoining alley, court, yard, or driveway, the
building sewer from the front building may be extended to the rear building and
the whole considered as one building sewer, but the village does not and will
not assume any obligation or responsibility for damage caused by or resulting
from any such single connection aforementioned.
(Prior Code, § 3-214) (Ord. 389, passed 10-4-1988)
§ 52.066 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   No unauthorized person shall uncover, make any connections with or opening
into, use, alter, or disturb any public sewer or appurtenance thereof without
first obtaining a written permit from the Superintendent.
(Prior Code, § 3-215) (Ord. 389, passed 10-4-1988) Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.067 EXPENSE.
   All costs and expense incidental to the installation and connection of the
building sewer shall be borne by the owner. The owner shall indemnify the
village from any loss or damage that may directly be occasioned by the
installation of the building sewer.
(Prior Code, § 3-216) (Ord. 389, passed 10-4-1988)
§ 52.068 TAP INSPECTION FEE.
   The customer, upon approval of his, her, or their application for sewer
service, shall pay to the Village Clerk a $100 tap inspection fee which
compensates the village for the expense of the Superintendent’s inspection of
the tapping of the sewer main.
(Prior Code, § 3-217) (Ord. 389, passed 10-4-1988; Ord. 536, passed 7-9-1997)
§ 52.069 CONSTRUCTION CODES.
   (A)   The size, slope, alignment, materials of construction of a building
sewer, and the methods to be used in excavating, placing of the pipe, jointing,
testing, and backfilling the trench, shall all conform to the requirements of
the building and plumbing code or other applicable rules and regulations of the
village. In the absence of code provisions or in amplification thereof, the
materials and procedures set forth in appropriate specifications of the
A.S.T.M. and W.P.C.F. Manual of Practice No. 9 shall apply.
   (B)   Whenever possible, the building sewer shall be brought to the building
at an elevation below the basement floor. In all buildings in which any
building drain is too low to permit gravity flow to the public sewer, sanitary
sewage carried by such building drain shall be lifted by an approved means and
discharged to the building sewer.
   (C)   The connection of the building sewer into the public sewer shall
conform to the requirements of the building and plumbing code or other
applicable rules and regulations of the village, or the procedures set forth in
appropriate specifications of the A.S.T.M. and the W P.C.F. Manual of Practice
No. 9. All such connections shall be made gastight and watertight. Any
deviation from the prescribed procedures and materials must be approved by the
Superintendent before installation.
(Prior Code, § 3-218) (Ord. 389, passed 10-4-1988)
§ 52.070 INSPECTIONS.
   The applicant for the building sewer permit shall notify the Superintendent
when the building sewer is ready for inspection and connection to the public
sewer. The connection shall be made under the supervision of the Superintendent
or his, her, or their representatives.
(Prior Code, § 3-220) (Ord. 389, passed 10-4-1988)
§ 52.071 UNLAWFUL CONNECTION.
   No person shall make connection of roof downspouts, exterior and/or interior
foundation drains, areaway drains, or other sources of surface runoff or
groundwater to a building sewer or building drain which in turn is connected
directly or indirectly to a public sanitary sewer unless such connection is
approved by the Superintendent for purposes of disposal of polluted surface
drainage; provided, that if responsibility can be determined, the party
responsible for disposal of polluted surface drainage into the public sanitary
sewer shall pay a user charge equivalent to the cost of treating the polluted
drainage.
(Prior Code, § 3-221) (Ord. 389, passed 10-4-1988) Penalty, see §
52.999
VILLAGE SEWER SYSTEM
§ 52.085 REPAIRS AND REPLACEMENT.
   (A)   The Village Sewer Department may require the owner of any property
which is within the village and connected to the public sewers to repair or
replace any connection line which serves the owner’s property and is broken,
clogged, or otherwise in need of repair or replacement. The property owner’s
duty to repair or replace such a connection line shall include those portions
upon the owner’s property and those portions upon public property or easements
up to and including the point of junction with the public main.
   (B)   The Village Clerk shall give the property owner notice by registered
letter or certified mail, direct to the last-known address of such owner or the
agent of such owner, directing the repair or replacement of such connection
line. If within 30 days of mailing such notice the property owner fails or
neglects to cause such repairs or replacements to be made, the Superintendent
may cause such work to be done and assess the cost upon the property served by
such connection.
(Prior Code, § 3-222) (Ord. 389, passed 10-4-1988)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 18-1748
§ 52.086 DESTRUCTION OF PROPERTY.
   Entrance into a manhole or opening for any purpose except by authorized
persons is hereby prohibited. No person or persons shall maliciously,
willfully, or negligently break, damage, destroy, uncover, deface, or tamper
with any structure, appurtenance, or equipment which is a part of the sanitary
sewer. Any person or persons violating this provision shall be subject to
immediate arrest and may be prosecuted to the full extent of the law.
(Prior Code, § 3-223) (Ord. 389, passed 10-4-1988) Penalty, see §
52.999
HAZARDOUS AND PROHIBITED DISCHARGES
§ 52.100 STORMWATER, SURFACE WATER, GROUNDWATER, COOLING WATER, AND PROCESS
WATER.
   (A)   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged any stormwater,
surface water, groundwater, roof runoff, subsurface drainage, including
interior and exterior foundation drains, uncontaminated cooling water, or
unpolluted industrial waters to any sanitary sewer.
   (B)   Stormwater and all other unpolluted drainage shall be discharged to
such sewers as are specifically designated as combined sewers or storm sewers,
or to a natural outlet approved by the Superintendent. Industrial cooling water
or unpolluted process water may be discharged, on approval of the
Superintendent, to a storm sewer, combined sewer, or natural outlet.
(Prior Code, § 3-224) (Ord. 389, passed 10-4-1988) Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.101 FLAMMABLE, TOXIC, CORROSIVE, AND OBSTRUCTIVE SUBSTANCES.
   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged any of the following
described waters or wastes to any public sewers:
   (A)   Any gasoline, benzene, naphtha, fuel oil, or other flammable or
explosive liquid, solid, or gas;
   (B)   Any waters or wastes containing toxic or poisonous solids, liquids, or
gases in sufficient quantity, either singly or by interaction with other
wastes, to injure or interfere with any sewage treatment process, constitute a
hazard to humans or animals, create a public nuisance, or create any hazard in
the receiving waters of the sewage treatment plant;
   (C)   Any waters or wastes having a pH lower than 5.5, or having any other
corrosive property capable of causing damage or hazard to structures,
equipment, and personnel of the sewage works; or
   (D)   Solid or viscous substances in quantities or of such size capable of
causing obstruction to the flow in sewers, or other interference with the
proper operation of the sewage facilities such as, but not limited to, ashes,
cinders, sand, mud, straw, shavings, metal, glass, rags, feathers, tar,
plastics, wood, unground garbage, whole blood, paunch manure, hair and
fleshings, entrails and paper dishes, cups, milk containers, and the like,
either whole or ground by garbage grinders.
(Prior Code, § 3-225) (Ord. 389, passed 10-4-1988) Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.102 SPECIFIC PROHIBITIONS AS DETERMINED BY SUPERINTENDENT.
   (A)   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged the following
described substances, materials, waters, or wastes if it appears likely in the
opinion of the Superintendent that such wastes can harm either the sewers,
sewage treatment process, or equipment, have an adverse effect on the receiving
stream, or can otherwise endanger life, limb, public property, or constitute a
nuisance. In forming his, her, or their opinion as to the acceptability of
these wastes, the Superintendent will give consideration to such factors as the
quantities of subject wastes in relation to flows and velocities in the sewers,
materials of construction of the sewers, nature of the sewage treatment
process, capacity of the sewage treatment plant, degree of treatability of
wastes in the sewage treatment plant, and other pertinent factors.
   (B)   The substances prohibited are:
      (1)   Any liquid or vapor having a temperature higher than 150°F (65°C);
      (2)   Any water or waste containing fats, wax, grease, or oils, whether
emulsified or not, in excess of 100 mg/l or containing substances which may
solidify or become viscous at temperatures between 32°F and 150°F (0°C and
65°C);
      (3)   Any garbage that has not been properly shredded. The installation
and operation of any garbage grinder equipped with a motor three-fourths
horsepower (0.76 hp metric) or greater shall be subject to the review and
approval of the Superintendent;
      (4)   Any waters or wastes containing strong acid iron pickling wastes,
or concentrated plating solutions whether neutralized or not;
      (5)   Any water or wastes containing iron, chromium, copper, zinc, and
similar objectionable or toxic substances; or wastes exerting an excessive
chlorine requirement, to such degree that any such material received in the
composite sewage at the sewage treatment works exceeds the limits established
by the Superintendent for such materials;
      (6)   Any waters or wastes containing phenols or other taste- or odor-
producing substances, in such concentrations exceeding limits which may be
established by the Superintendent as necessary, after treatment of the
composite sewage, to meet the requirements of state, federal, or other public
agencies of jurisdiction for such discharge to the receiving waters;
      (7)   Any radioactive wastes or isotopes of such half-life or
concentration as may exceed limits established by the Superintendent in
compliance with applicable state or federal regulations;
      (8)   Any waters of wastes having a pH in excess of 9.5;
      (9)   Materials which exert or cause:
         (a)   Unusual concentrations of inert suspended solids (such as, but
not limited to, Fuller’s earth, lime slurries, and lime residues) or of
dissolved solids, (such as but not limited to, sodium chloride or sodium
sulfate);
         (b)   Excessive discoloration (such as, but not limited to, dye wastes
and vegetable tanning solutions);
         (c)   Unusual BOD, chemical oxygen demand, or chlorine requirements in
such quantities as to constitute a significant load on the sewage treatment
works; and/or
         (d)   Unusual volume of flow or concentration of wastes constituting
“slugs” as defined herein.
      (10)   Waters or wastes containing substances which are not amenable to
treatment or reduction by the sewage treatment processes employed, or are
amenable to treatment only to such degree that the sewage treatment plant
effluent cannot meet the requirements of other agencies having jurisdiction
over discharge to the receiving waters; and/or
      (11)   Any waters or wastes having a five-day BOD greater than 300
milligrams per liter (mg/l), containing more than 350 mg/l of suspended solids,
or having an average daily flow greater than 2% of the average sewage flow of
the village shall be subject to the review of the Superintendent. Where
necessary in the opinion of the Superintendent, the owner shall provide, at
his, her, or their expense, such preliminary treatment as may be necessary to
reduce the BOD to 300 mg/l, reduce the suspended solids to 350 mg/l, or
pertinent information relating to proposed preliminary treatment facilities
shall be submitted for the approval of the Superintendent and no construction
of such facilities shall commence until said approvals are obtained in writing.
(Prior Code, § 3-226) (Ord. 389, passed 10-4-1988) Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.103 REJECTION, PRETREATMENT, CONTROL OF DISCHARGE RATE OR USE FEE
SURCHARGE.
   (A)   If any waters or wastes are discharged, or are proposed to be
discharged to the public sewers, which waters contain the substances or possess
the characteristics enumerated in §
52.102, and which in the judgment of the Superintendent, may have a deleterious
effect upon the sewage works, processes, equipment, or receiving waters, or
which otherwise create a hazard to life to constitute a public nuisance, the
Superintendent may:
      (1)   Reject the wastes;
      (2)   Require pretreatment to an acceptable condition for discharge to
the public sewers;
      (3)   Require control over the quantities and rates of discharge; and/or
      (4)   Require payment to cover the added cost of handling and treating
the wastes not covered by existing taxes or sewer charges under the provisions
of §
52.107.
   (B)   If the Superintendent permits the pretreatment or equalization of
waste flows, the design and installation of the plants and equipment shall be
subject to the review and approval of the Superintendent, and subject to the
requirements of all applicable codes, ordinances, and laws.
(Prior Code, § 3-227) (Ord. 389, passed 10-4-1988)
§ 52.104 TOXIC SUBSTANCES; PAYMENT FOR INCREASED TREATMENT COSTS.
   Any user which discharges any toxic pollutants which cause an increase in
the cost of managing the effluent or the sludge from the village’s treatment
works, or any user which discharges any substance, which singly or by
interaction with other substances causes identifiable increases in the cost of
operation, maintenance, or replacement of the treatment works, shall pay for
such increased costs. The charge to each such user will be as determined by the
responsible plant operation personnel, and approved by the governing body.
(Prior Code, § 3-228) (Ord. 389, passed 10-4-1988)
§ 52.105 GREASE, OIL, AND SAND INTERCEPTORS; WHEN REQUIRED.
   All private sewers draining areas where cars or other vehicles are washed or
greased, livestock are butchered, meals are served for profit, or any other
areas where gravel, dirt, soil, grease or any other hydrocarbon is likely to
enter the public sewer system shall be equipped with a gravel or grease trap of
adequate design to eliminate such gravel, dirt, soil, grease, or other
hydrocarbon from the line to the public sewer system. Such trap shall be
cleaned as necessary to enable such trap to prevent such gravel, dirt, soil,
grease, or hydrocarbon from entering the sanitary sewer system.
(Prior Code, § 3-229) (Ord. 389, passed 10-4-1988)
§ 52.106 PRELIMINARY TREATMENT OR FLOW-EQUALIZING FACILITIES; MAINTENANCE BY
OWNER.
   Where preliminary treatment or flow-equalizing facilities are provided for
any waters or wastes, they shall be maintained continuously in satisfactory and
effective operation by the owner at his, her, or their expense.
(Prior Code, § 3-230) (Ord. 389, passed 10-4-1988)
§ 52.107 SPECIAL EXCEPTIONS PERMITTED; USE FEE SURCHARGE.
   No statement contained in this chapter shall be construed as preventing any
special agreement or arrangement between the village and any industrial concern
whereby an industrial waste of unusual strength or character may be accepted by
the village for treatment, subject to payment therefor, by the industrial
concern.
(Prior Code, § 3-233) (Ord. 389, passed 10-4-1988)
CONTROL MANHOLES/SAMPLING STATIONS
§ 52.120 WHEN REQUIRED; INSTALLATION AND MAINTENANCE.
   When required by the Superintendent, the owner of any property serviced by a
building sewer carrying industrial wastes shall install a suitable control
manhole together with such necessary meters and other appurtenances in the
building sewer to facilitate observation, sampling, and measurement of the
wastes. Such manhole, when required, shall be accessibly and safely located,
and shall be constructed in accordance with plans approved by the
Superintendent. The manhole shall be installed by the owner at his, her, or
their expense, and shall be maintained by him, her, or them so as to be safe
and accessible at all times.
(Prior Code, § 3-231) (Ord. 389, passed 10-4-1988)
§ 52.121 METHOD.
   All measurements, tests, and analyses of the characteristics of waters and
wastes to which reference is made in this chapter shall be determined in
accordance with the latest edition of Standard Methods for the Examination of
Water and Wastewater, published by the American Public Health Association, and
shall be determined at the control manhole provided, or upon suitable samples
taken at said control manhole. In the event no special manhole has been
required, the control manhole shall be considered to be the nearest downstream
manhole in the public sewer to the point at which the building sewer is
connected. Sampling shall be carried out by customarily accepted methods to
reflect the effect of constituents upon the sewage works and to determine the
existence of hazards to life, limb, and property.
(Prior Code, § 3-232) (Ord. 389, passed 10-4-1988)
§ 52.999 PENALTY.
   Any person shall continue any violation beyond the time limit provided for
herein shall be guilty of a misdemeanor, and upon conviction thereof shall be
fined in the amount not exceeding $100 for each violation. Each day in which
any such violation shall continue shall be deemed a separate offense.
(Prior Code, § 3-244) (Ord. 389, passed 10-4-1988)
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
   Chapter
      
70.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
71.   TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
      
72.   PARKING REGULATIONS
      
73.   RECREATIONAL VEHICLES
CHAPTER 70: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
70.01   Definitions
   
70.02   Traffic regulations; general authority
   
70.03   Regulation of highways; police powers
   
70.04   Prohibitions on operation of vehicles
   
70.05   Ordinances contrary to state law prohibited
   
70.06   Placement and maintenance of traffic control devices
   
70.07   Enforcement of rules and laws
   
70.08   Failure or refusal to obey order
   
70.09   Obedience to traffic control devices; exceptions
   
70.10   Authorized emergency vehicles; privileges
   
70.11   Traffic officers
 
   
70.99   Traffic infractions; penalty
Statutory reference:
   Nebraska Rules of the Road, see Neb. RS 60-601
§ 70.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this title, the following definitions and the other
definitions in Neb. RS 60-606 through 60-676 shall apply unless the context
clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ALLEY. A highway intended to provide access to the rear or side of lots or
buildings and not intended for the purpose of through vehicular traffic.
(Neb. RS 60-607)
   AUTHORIZED EMERGENCY VEHICLE. Such fire department vehicles, police
vehicles, rescue vehicles, and ambulances as are publicly owned, such other
publicly or privately owned vehicles as are designated by the Director of Motor
Vehicles, and such publicly owned military vehicles of the National Guard as
are designated by the Adjutant General pursuant to Neb. RS 55-133.
(Neb. RS 60-610)
   BUSINESS DISTRICT. The territory contiguous to and including a highway when
within any 600 feet along such highway there are buildings in use for business
or industrial purposes, including, but not limited to, hotels, banks, office
buildings, railroad stations, or public buildings which occupy at least 300
feet of frontage on one side or 300 feet collectively on both sides of a
highway.
(Neb. RS 60-613)
   HIGHWAY. The entire width between the boundary limits of any street, road,
avenue, boulevard, or way which is publicly maintained when any part thereof is
open to the use of the public for purposes of vehicular travel.
(Neb. RS 60-624)
   MANUAL. The Manual on Uniform Traffic Control Devices adopted by the
Department of Transportation pursuant to Neb. RS 60-6,118.
(Neb. RS 60-631)
   MOTOR VEHICLE. Every self-propelled land vehicle, not operated upon rails,
except bicycles, mopeds, self-propelled chairs used by persons who are
disabled, and electric personal assistive mobility devices.
(Neb. RS 60-638)
   PEACE OFFICER. The Village Marshal or other chief law enforcement official,
any village police officer, or any other person authorized to enforce village
ordinances. With respect to directing traffic only, peace officer shall also
include any person authorized to direct or regulate traffic.
(Neb. RS 60-646)
   RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT. The territory contiguous to and including a highway
not comprising a business district when the property on such highway for a
distance of 300 feet or more is in the main improved with residences or
residences and buildings in use for business.
(Neb. RS 60-654)
   ROADWAY. That portion of a highway improved, designed, or ordinarily used
for vehicular travel, exclusive of the berm or shoulder. If a highway includes
two or more separate ROADWAYS, the term ROADWAY shall refer to any such roadway
separately but not to all such roadways collectively.
(Neb. RS 60-656)
   SCHOOL CROSSING ZONE. The area of a roadway designated to the public by the
Board of Trustees as a SCHOOL CROSSING ZONE through the use of a sign or
traffic control device as specified by the Board in conformity with the Manual
but does not include any area of a freeway. A SCHOOL CROSSING ZONE starts at
the location of the first sign or traffic control device identifying the SCHOOL
CROSSING ZONE and continues until a sign or traffic control device indicates
that the school crossing zone has ended.
(Neb. RS 60-658.01)
   SHOULDER. That part of the highway contiguous to the roadway and designed
for the accommodation of stopped vehicles, for emergency use, and for lateral
support of the base and surface courses of the roadway.
(Neb. RS 60-661)
   TRAFFIC. Pedestrians, ridden or herded animals, and vehicles and other
conveyances either singly or together while using any highway for purposes of
travel.
(Neb. RS 60-669)
   TRAFFIC CONTROL DEVICE. Any sign, signal, marking, or other device not
inconsistent with the Nebraska Rules of the Road placed or erected by authority
of the Board of Trustees or any official having jurisdiction for the purpose of
regulating, warning, or guiding traffic.
(Neb. RS 60-670)
   TRAFFIC CONTROL SIGNAL. Any signal, whether manually, electrically, or
mechanically operated, by which traffic is alternately directed to stop and
permitted to proceed.
(Neb. RS 60-671)
   TRAFFIC INFRACTION. The violation of any provision of the Nebraska Rules of
the Road or of any law, ordinance, order, rule, or regulation regulating
traffic which is not otherwise declared to be a misdemeanor or a felony or, in
this title, an offense.
(Neb. RS 60-672)
   VEHICLE. Every device in, upon, or by which any person or property is or may
be transported or drawn upon a highway except devices moved solely by human
power or used exclusively upon stationary rails or tracks.
(Neb. RS 60-676)
§ 70.02 TRAFFIC REGULATIONS; GENERAL AUTHORITY.
   (A)   The Board of Trustees may, in its jurisdiction, enact regulations
permitting, prohibiting, and controlling the use of motor vehicles, minibikes,
motorcycles, off-road recreation vehicles of any and all types, electric
bicycles, electric bicycles, other powered vehicles, electric personal
assistive mobility devices, and vehicles which are not self-propelled. Any
person who operates any of such vehicles without the permission of the Board or
its designated representative or in a place, time, or manner which has been
prohibited by the Board shall be guilty of an offense.
   (B)   The Board may further authorize the supervising official of any area
under its ownership or control to permit, control, or prohibit operation of any
motor vehicle, minibike, motorcycle, off-road recreational vehicle of any or
all types, electric bicycles, other powered vehicle, electric personal
assistive mobility device, or vehicle which is not self-propelled on all or any
portion of any area under its ownership or control at any time by posting or,
in case of an emergency, by personal notice. Any person operating any such
vehicle where prohibited, where not permitted, or in a manner so as to endanger
the peace and safety of the public or as to harm or destroy the natural
features or manmade features of any such area shall be guilty of an offense.
(Neb. RS 60-678) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.03 REGULATION OF HIGHWAYS; POLICE POWERS.
   (A)   The Board of Trustees with respect to highways under its jurisdiction
and within the reasonable exercise of the police power may:
      (1)   Regulate or prohibit stopping, standing, or parking;
      (2)   Regulate traffic by means of peace officers or traffic control
devices;
      (3)   Regulate or prohibit processions or assemblages on the highways;
      (4)   Designate highways or roadways for use by traffic moving in one
direction;
      (5)   Establish speed limits for vehicles in public parks;
      (6)   Designate any highway as a through highway or designate any
intersection as a stop or yield intersection;
      (7)   Restrict the use of highways as authorized in §
70.04;
      (8)   Regulate operation of bicycles and require registration and
inspection of such, including requirement of a registration fee;
      (9)   Regulate operation of electric personal assistive mobility devices;
      (10)   Regulate or prohibit the turning of vehicles or specified types of
vehicles;
      (11)   Alter or establish speed limits authorized in the Nebraska Rules
of the Road;
      (12)   Designate no-passing zones;
      (13)   Prohibit or regulate use of controlled-access highways by any
class or kind of traffic except those highways which are a part of the state
highway system;
      (14)   Prohibit or regulate use of heavily traveled highways by any class
or kind of traffic it finds to be incompatible with the normal and safe
movement of traffic, except that such regulations shall not be effective on any
highway which is part of the state highway system unless authorized by the
Department of Transportation;
      (15)   Establish minimum speed limits as authorized in the Rules;
      (16)   Designate hazardous railroad grade crossings as authorized in the
Rules;
      (17)   Designate and regulate traffic on play streets;
      (18)   Prohibit pedestrians from crossing a roadway in a business
district or any designated highway except in a crosswalk as authorized in the
Rules;
      (19)   Restrict pedestrian crossings at unmarked crosswalks as authorized
in the Rules;
      (20)   Regulate persons propelling push carts;
      (21)   Regulate persons upon skates, coasters, sleds, and other toy
vehicles;
      (22)   (a)   Notwithstanding any other provision of law, adopt and
enforce an ordinance or resolution prohibiting the use of engine brakes on the
National System of Interstate and Defense Highways that has a grade of less
than five degrees within its jurisdiction.
            (b)   For the purpose of this division, the following definition
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
            ENGINE BRAKE. A device that converts a power producing engine into
a power-absorbing air compressor, resulting in a net energy loss;
      (23)   Adopt and enforce such temporary or experimental regulations as
may be necessary to cover emergencies or special conditions; and
      (24)   Adopt other traffic regulations except as prohibited by state law
or contrary to state law.
   (B)   The Board of Trustees shall not erect or maintain any traffic control
device at any location so as to require the traffic on any state highway or
state-maintained freeway to stop before entering or crossing any intersecting
highway unless approval in writing has first been obtained from the Department
of Transportation.
   (C)   No ordinance or regulation enacted under divisions (A)(4), (A)(5), (A)
(6), (A)(7), (A)(10), (A)(11), (A)(12), (A)(13), (A)(14), (A)(16), (A)(17), or
(A)(19) above shall be effective until traffic control devices giving notice of
such local traffic regulations are erected upon or at the entrances to such
affected highway or part thereof affected as may be most appropriate.
(Neb. RS 60-680)
§ 70.04 PROHIBITIONS ON OPERATION OF VEHICLES.
   (A)   The Board of Trustees may by ordinance or resolution prohibit the
operation of vehicles upon any highway or impose restrictions as to the weight
of vehicles, for a total period not to exceed 180 days in any one calendar
year, when operated upon any highway under the jurisdiction of and for the
maintenance of which the Board is responsible whenever any such highway by
reason of deterioration, rain, snow, or other climatic condition will be
seriously damaged or destroyed unless the use of vehicles thereon is prohibited
or the permissible weight thereof reduced. The Board shall erect or cause to be
erected and maintained signs designating the provisions of the ordinance or
resolution at each end of that portion of any highway affected thereby, and the
ordinance or resolution shall not be effective until such signs are erected and
maintained.
   (B)   The Board may also, by ordinance or resolution, prohibit the operation
of trucks or other commercial vehicles or impose limitations as to the weight
thereof on designated highways, which prohibitions and limitations shall be
designated by appropriate signs placed on such highways.
(Neb. RS 60-681)
§ 70.05 ORDINANCES CONTRARY TO STATE LAW PROHIBITED.
   The Board of Trustees shall not enact or enforce any ordinance directly
contrary to the Nebraska Rules of the Road unless expressly authorized by the
Legislature.
(Neb. RS 60-6,108)
§ 70.06 PLACEMENT AND MAINTENANCE OF TRAFFIC CONTROL DEVICES.
   The Board of Trustees shall place and maintain such traffic control devices
upon highways under its jurisdiction as it deems necessary to indicate and to
carry out the provisions of this title or to regulate, warn, or guide traffic.
All such traffic control devices erected pursuant to this title shall conform
with the Manual.
(Neb. RS 60-6,121)
§ 70.07 ENFORCEMENT OF RULES AND LAWS.
   (A)   All peace officers are hereby specifically directed and authorized and
it shall be deemed and considered a part of the official duties of each of such
officers to enforce the provisions of Nebraska Rules of the Road and this
title, including the specific enforcement of maximum speed limits, and any
other state or village law regulating the operation of vehicles or the use of
the highways.
   (B)   To perform the official duties imposed by this section, peace officers
shall have the power:
      (1)   To make arrests upon view and without warrant for any violation
committed in their presence of any of the provisions of the Motor Vehicle
Operator’s License Act or this title or of any other law regulating the
operation of vehicles or the use of the highways, if and when designated or
called upon to do so as provided by law;
      (2)   To make arrests upon view and without warrant for any violation
committed in their presence of any provision of the laws of this state relating
to misdemeanors or felonies or of similar village ordinances if and when
designated or called upon to do so as provided by law;
      (3)   At all times to direct all traffic in conformity with law or, in
the event of a fire or other emergency or in order to expedite traffic or
insure safety, to direct traffic as conditions may require;
      (4)   When in uniform, to require the driver of a vehicle to stop and
exhibit his or her operator’s license and registration certificate issued for
the vehicle and submit to an inspection of such vehicle and the license plates
and registration certificate for the vehicle and to require the driver of a
motor vehicle to present the vehicle within five days for correction of any
defects revealed by such motor vehicle inspection as may lead the inspecting
officer to reasonably believe that such motor vehicle is being operated in
violation of the statutes of Nebraska, the rules and regulations of the
Director of Motor Vehicles, or any village ordinance or regulation;
      (5)   To inspect any vehicle of a type required to be registered
according to law in any public garage or repair shop or in any place where such
a vehicle is held for sale or wrecking;
      (6)   To serve warrants relating to the enforcement of the laws
regulating the operation of vehicles or the use of the highways; and
      (7)   To investigate traffic accidents for the purpose of carrying on a
study of traffic accidents and enforcing motor vehicle and highway safety laws.
(Neb. RS 60-683)
Statutory reference:
   Motor Vehicle Operator's License Act, see Neb. RS 60-462
§ 70.08 FAILURE OR REFUSAL TO OBEY ORDER.
   (A)   Any person who knowingly fails or refuses to obey any lawful order of
any peace officer who is controlling or directing traffic shall be guilty of a
traffic infraction.
   (B)   Any person who knowingly fails to obey any lawful order of a peace
officer shall be guilty of an offense whenever such order is given in
furtherance of the apprehension of a person who has violated the Nebraska Rules
of the Road or this title or of a person whom such officer reasonably believes
has violated the Rules or this title.
(Neb. RS 60-6,110) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.09 OBEDIENCE TO TRAFFIC CONTROL DEVICES; EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   The driver of any vehicle shall obey the instructions of any traffic
control device applicable thereto placed in accordance with the Nebraska Rules
of the Road or this title, unless otherwise directed by a peace officer,
subject to the exceptions granted the driver of an authorized emergency vehicle
in the Rules and this title.
   (B)   No provision of the Rules or this title for which traffic control
devices are required shall be enforced against an alleged violator if at the
time and place of the alleged violation an official device is not in proper
position and sufficiently legible to be seen by a reasonably observant person.
Whenever any provision of the Rules or this title does not state that traffic
control devices are required, such provision shall be effective even though no
devices are erected or in place.
   (C)   Whenever traffic control devices are placed in position approximately
conforming to the requirements of the Rules or this title, such devices shall
be presumed to have been so placed by the official act or direction of lawful
authority unless the contrary is established by competent evidence.
   (D)   Any traffic control device placed pursuant to the Rules or this title
and purporting to conform with the lawful requirements pertaining to such
devices shall be presumed to comply with the requirements of the Rules or this
title unless the contrary is established by competent evidence.
(Neb. RS 60-6,119) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.10 AUTHORIZED EMERGENCY VEHICLES; PRIVILEGES.
   (A)   Subject to the conditions stated in the Nebraska Rules of the Road and
this title, the driver of an authorized emergency vehicle, when responding to
an emergency call, when pursuing an actual or suspected violator of the law, or
when responding to but not when returning from a fire alarm, may:
      (1)   Stop, park, or stand, irrespective of the provisions of the Rules
and this title, and disregard regulations governing direction of movement or
turning in specified directions; and
      (2)   Except for wreckers towing disabled vehicles and highway
maintenance vehicles and equipment:
         (a)   Proceed past a steady red indication, a flashing red indication,
or a stop sign but only after slowing down as may be necessary for safe
operation; and
         (b)   Exceed the maximum speed limits so long as he or she does not
endanger life, limb, or property.
   (B)   Except when operated as a police vehicle, the exemptions granted in
division (A) above shall apply only when the driver of such vehicle, while in
motion, sounds an audible signal by bell, siren, or exhaust whistle as may be
reasonably necessary and when such vehicle is equipped with at least one
lighted light displaying a red light visible under normal atmospheric
conditions from a distance of 500 feet to the front of such vehicle.
   (C)   The exemptions granted in division (A) above shall not relieve the
driver from the duty to drive with due regard for the safety of all persons,
nor shall such provisions protect such driver from the consequences of his or
her reckless disregard for the safety of others.
   (D)   Authorized emergency vehicles operated by police and fire departments
shall not be subject to the size and weight limitations of Neb. RS 60-6,288 to
60-6,290 and 60-6,294.
(Neb. RS 60-6,114)
§ 70.11 TRAFFIC OFFICERS.
   The Board of Trustees or the village police may at any time detail officers,
to be known as “traffic officers,” at street intersections. All traffic
officers shall be vested with the authority to regulate and control traffic at
the intersections to which they are assigned. It shall be their duty to direct
the movement of traffic and prevent congestion and accidents. It shall be
unlawful for any person to violate any order or signal of any such traffic
officer notwithstanding the directive of a stop sign or signal device that may
have been placed at any such intersection.
Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.99 TRAFFIC INFRACTIONS; PENALTY.
   (A)   Unless otherwise declared in this title with respect to particular
offenses, a violation of any provision of this title shall constitute a traffic
infraction.
(Neb. RS 60-682)
   (B)   Any person who is found guilty of a traffic infraction in violation of
this title for which a penalty has not been specifically provided shall be
fined:
      (1)   Not more than $100 for the first offense;
      (2)   Not more than $200 for a second offense within a one-year period;
and
      (3)   Not more than $300 for a third and subsequent offense within a one-
year period.
(Neb. RS 60-689)
Statutory reference:
   Other provisions on traffic infractions, see Neb. RS 60-684 through 60-
694.01
CHAPTER 71: TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
71.01   Restrictions on direction of travel
   
71.02   Right-of-way; stop and yield signs
   
71.03   Interference with traffic control devices or railroad signs or signals
   
71.04   Signs, markers, devices, or notices; prohibited acts
   
71.05   Tire requirements and prohibitions; permissive uses
Speed Limits
   
71.20   Basic rule
   
71.21   Maximum limits
   
71.22   Bridges and other elevated structures
   
71.23   Alternative maximum limits
   
71.24   Near schools
 
   
71.99   Violations; fines
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 71.01 RESTRICTIONS ON DIRECTION OF TRAVEL.
   (A)   The Board of Trustees with respect to highways under its jurisdiction
may designate any highway, roadway, part of a roadway, or specific lanes upon
which vehicular traffic shall proceed in one direction at all times or at such
times as shall be indicated by traffic control devices.
   (B)   Except for emergency vehicles, no vehicle shall be operated, backed,
pushed, or otherwise caused to move in a direction which is opposite to the
direction designated by competent authority on any deceleration lane,
acceleration lane, access ramp, shoulder, or roadway.
   (C)   A vehicle which passes around a roundabout shall be driven only to the
right of the central island while on the circulatory roadway in such
roundabout.
(Neb. RS 60-6,138)
§ 71.02 RIGHT-OF-WAY; STOP AND YIELD SIGNS.
   (A)   The Board of Trustees may provide for preferential right-of-way at an
intersection and indicate such by stop signs or yield signs erected by such
authorities.
   (B)   Except when directed to proceed by a peace officer or traffic control
signal, every driver of a vehicle approaching an intersection where a stop is
indicated by a stop sign shall stop at a clearly marked stop line or shall
stop, if there is no such line, before entering the crosswalk on the near side
of the intersection or, if no crosswalk is indicated, at the point nearest the
intersecting roadway where the driver has a view of approaching traffic on the
intersecting roadway before entering the intersection. After having stopped,
such driver shall yield the right-of-way to any vehicle which has entered the
intersection from another highway or which is approaching so closely on such
highway as to constitute an immediate hazard if such driver moved across or
into such intersection.
   (C)   The driver of a vehicle approaching a yield sign shall slow to a speed
reasonable under the existing conditions and, if required for safety to stop,
shall stop at a clearly marked stop line or shall stop, if there is no such
line, before entering the crosswalk on the near side of the intersection or, if
no crosswalk is indicated, at the point nearest the intersecting roadway where
the driver has a view of approaching traffic on the intersecting roadway. After
slowing or stopping, such driver shall yield the right-of-way to any vehicle in
the intersection or approaching on another highway so closely as to constitute
an immediate hazard if such driver moved across or into such intersection.
(Neb. RS 60-6,148) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.03 INTERFERENCE WITH TRAFFIC CONTROL DEVICES OR RAILROAD SIGNS OR SIGNALS.
   No person shall, without lawful authority, attempt to or in fact alter,
deface, injure, knock down, or remove any traffic control device, any railroad
sign or signal, or any part of such a device, sign, or signal.
(Neb. RS 60-6,129) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.04 SIGNS, MARKERS, DEVICES, OR NOTICES; PROHIBITED ACTS.
   (A)   Any person who willfully or maliciously shoots upon the public highway
and injures, defaces, damages, or destroys any signs, monuments, road markers,
traffic control devices, traffic surveillance devices, or other public notices
lawfully placed upon such highways shall be guilty of an offense.
   (B)   No person shall willfully or maliciously injure, deface, alter, or
knock down any sign, traffic control device, or traffic surveillance device.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person, other than a duly authorized
representative of the Department of Transportation, the county, or the village,
to remove any sign, traffic control device, or traffic surveillance device
placed along a highway for traffic control, warning, or informational purposes
by official action of the department, county, or village. It shall be unlawful
for any person to possess a sign or device which has been removed in violation
of this division (C).
   (D)   Any person violating divisions (B) or (C) above shall be guilty of an
offense and shall be assessed liquidated damages in the amount of the value of
the sign, traffic control device, or traffic surveillance device and the cost
of replacing it.
(Neb. RS 60-6,130) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.05 TIRE REQUIREMENTS AND PROHIBITIONS; PERMISSIVE USES.
   (A)   Every solid rubber tire on a vehicle moved on any highway shall have
rubber on its entire traction surface at least one-inch thick above the edge of
the flange of the entire periphery.
   (B)   No tire on a vehicle moved on a highway shall have on its periphery
any clock, stud, flange, cleat, or spike or any other protuberance of any
material other than rubber which projects beyond the tread of the traction
surface of the tire, except that:
      (1)   This prohibition shall not apply to pneumatic tires with metal or
metal-type studs not exceeding 5/16 of an inch in diameter inclusive of the
stud-casing with an average protrusion beyond the tread surface of not more
than 7/64 of an inch between November 1 and April 1, except that school buses,
mail carrier vehicles, and emergency vehicles shall be permitted to use metal
or metal-type studs at any time during the year;
      (2)   It shall be permissible to use farm machinery with tires having
protuberances which will not injure the highway; and
      (3)   It shall be permissible to use tire chains of reasonable
proportions upon any vehicle when required for safety because of snow, ice, or
other condition tending to cause a vehicle to slide or skid.
   (C)   (1)   No person shall operate or move on any highway any motor
vehicle, trailer, or semitrailer:
         (a)   Having any metal tire in contact with the roadway; or
         (b)   Equipped with solid rubber tires.
      (2)   Division (C)(1) above shall not apply to farm vehicles having a
gross weight of 10,000 pounds or less or to implements of husbandry.
   (D)   The village may, in its discretion, issue special permits authorizing
the operation upon a highway of traction engines or tractors having movable
tracks with transverse corrugations upon the periphery of such movable tracks
or farm tractors or other farm machinery.
(Neb. RS 60-6,250)
Statutory reference:
   Rubber tired cranes, see Neb. RS 60-6,288
SPEED LIMITS
§ 71.20 BASIC RULE.
   No person shall drive a vehicle on a highway at a speed greater than is
reasonable and prudent under the conditions and having regard to the actual and
potential hazards then existing. A person shall drive at a safe and appropriate
speed when approaching and crossing an intersection or railroad grade crossing,
when approaching and going around a curve, when approaching a hillcrest, when
traveling upon any narrow or winding roadway, and when special hazards exist
with respect to pedestrians or other traffic or by reason of weather or highway
conditions.
(Neb. RS 60-6,185) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.21 MAXIMUM LIMITS.
   (A)   Except when a special hazard exists that requires lower speed for
compliance with §
71.20, the limits set forth in this section and Neb. RS 60-6,187, 60-6,188, 60-
6,305, and 60-6,313 shall be the maximum lawful speeds unless reduced pursuant
to division (B) below, and no person shall drive a vehicle on a highway at a
speed in excess of such maximum limits:
      (1)   Twenty-five miles per hour in any residential district;
      (2)   Twenty miles per hour in any business district;
      (3)   Fifty miles per hour upon any highway that is gravel or not
dustless surfaced;
      (4)   Fifty-five miles per hour upon any dustless-surfaced highway not a
part of the state highway system;
      (5)   Sixty-five miles per hour upon any four-lane divided highway not a
part of the state highway system; and
      (6)   Sixty-five miles per hour upon any part of the state highway system
other than an expressway, a super-two highway, or a freeway.
   (B)   The maximum speed limits established in division (A) above may be
reduced by the Department of Transportation or the Board of Trustees pursuant
to §
71.23 or Neb. RS 60-6,188.
   (C)   The Board may erect and maintain suitable signs along highways under
its jurisdiction in such number and at such locations as it deems necessary to
give adequate notice of the speed limits established pursuant to divisions (A)
or (B) above upon such highways.
(Neb. RS 60-6,186) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.22 BRIDGES AND OTHER ELEVATED STRUCTURES.
   (A)   No person shall drive a vehicle over any public bridge, causeway,
viaduct, or other elevated structure at a speed which is greater than the
maximum speed which can be maintained with safety thereon when such structure
is posted with signs as provided in division (B) below.
   (B)   The Department of Transportation or the Board of Trustees may conduct
an investigation of any bridge or other elevated structure constituting a part
of a highway under its jurisdiction, and if it finds that the structure cannot
safely withstand vehicles traveling at the speed otherwise permissible, the
Department or the Board shall determine and declare the maximum speed of
vehicles which the structure can safely withstand and shall cause suitable
signs stating the maximum speed to be erected and maintained before each end of
the structure.
   (C)   Upon the trial of any person charged with a violation of division (A)
above, proof of the determination of the maximum speed by the Department or the
Board and the existence of such signs shall constitute conclusive evidence of
the maximum speed which can be maintained with safety on the bridge or
structure.
(Neb. RS 60-6,189) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.23 ALTERNATIVE MAXIMUM LIMITS.
   (A)   Whenever the Department of Transportation determines, upon the basis
of an engineering and traffic investigation, that any maximum speed limit is
greater or less than is reasonable or safe under the conditions found to exist
at any intersection, place, or part of the state highway system outside of the
corporate limits of cities and villages as well as inside the corporate limits
of cities and villages on freeways which are part of the state highway system,
it may determine and set a reasonable and safe maximum speed limit for such
intersection, place, or part of such highway which shall be the lawful speed
limit when appropriate signs giving notice thereof are erected at such
intersection, place, or part of the highway, except that the maximum rural and
freeway limits shall not be exceeded. Such a maximum speed limit may be set to
be effective at all times or at such times as are indicated upon such signs.
   (B)   On all highways within its corporate limits, except on state-
maintained freeways which are part of the state highway system, the Board of
Trustees shall have the same power and duty to alter the maximum speed limits
as the Department if the change is based on engineering and traffic
investigation, except that no imposition of speed limits on highways which are
part of the state highway system in the village shall be effective without the
approval of the Department.
   (C)   Not more than six such speed limits shall be set per mile along a
highway, except in the case of reduced limits at intersections, and the
difference between adjacent limits shall not be more than 20 miles per hour,
and there shall be no limit on the difference between adjacent speed limits for
increasing speed limits along a highway.
   (D)   When the Department or the Board determines by an investigation that
certain vehicles in addition to those specified in Neb. RS 60-6,187, 60-6,305,
and 60-6,313 cannot with safety travel at the speeds provided in §§
71.21 and
71.22 and Neb. RS 60-6,187, 60-6,305, and 60-6,313 or set pursuant to this
section, §
71.22, or Neb. RS 60-6,188, the Department or the Board may restrict the speed
limit for such vehicles on highways under its respective jurisdiction and post
proper and adequate signs.
(Neb. RS 60-6,190)
§ 71.24 NEAR SCHOOLS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the driver of any vehicle, when passing
premises on which school buildings are located and which are used for school
purposes, during school recess or while children are going to or leaving school
during the opening or closing hours, to drive the vehicle at a rate of speed in
excess of 15 miles per hour past the premises.
Penalty, see §
71.99
   (B)   The driver shall stop at all stop signs located at or near such school
premises, and it shall be unlawful for the driver to make a U-turn at any
intersection where such stop signs are located at or near such school premises.
Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.99 VIOLATIONS; FINES.
   (A)   Any person who operates a vehicle in violation of any maximum speed
limit established for any highway or freeway is guilty of a traffic infraction
and upon conviction shall be fined:
      (1)   $10 for traveling one to five miles per hour over the authorized
speed limit;
      (2)   $25 for traveling over five miles per hour but not over ten miles
per hour over the authorized speed limit;
      (3)   $75 for traveling over ten miles per hour but not over 15 miles per
hour over the authorized speed limit;
      (4)   $125 for traveling over 15 miles per hour but not over 20 miles per
hour over the authorized speed limit;
      (5)   $200 for traveling over 20 miles per hour but not over 35 miles per
hour over the authorized speed limit; and
      (6)   $300 for traveling over 35 miles per hour over the authorized speed
limit.
   (B)   (1)   The fines prescribed in division (A) above shall be doubled if
the violation occurs within a maintenance, repair, or construction zone
established pursuant to Neb. RS 60-6,188.
      (2)   For the purpose of this division (B), the following definition
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
         MAINTENANCE, REPAIR, OR CONSTRUCTION ZONE.
         (a)   1.   The portion of a highway identified by posted or moving
signs as being under maintenance, repair, or construction; or
            2.   The portion of a highway identified by maintenance, repair, or
construction zone speed limit signs displayed pursuant to Neb. RS 60-6,188; and
            3.   Within such portion of a highway where road construction
workers are present.
         (b)   The maintenance, repair, or construction zone starts at the
location of the first sign identifying the maintenance, repair, or construction
zone and continues until a posted or moving sign indicates that the
maintenance, repair, or construction zone has ended.
   (C)   The fines prescribed in division (A) above shall be doubled if the
violation occurs within a school crossing zone.
(Neb. RS 60-682.01)
CHAPTER 72: PARKING REGULATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
72.01   Regulation or prohibition authorized
   
72.02   Roadway outside business or residential district
   
72.03   General prohibitions; exceptions
   
72.04   Obstructing street, intersection, or entrance
   
72.05   Intersections
   
72.06   Alleys
   
72.07   Truck parking, loading, and unloading
   
72.08   Display or repair of vehicle
   
72.09   Current registration
   
72.10   Time limits
   
72.11   Snow; weather emergencies; highway maintenance
   
72.12   Parallel, angle, and center parking
   
72.13   Backing freight vehicle to curb
   
72.14   Unattended motor vehicle
   
72.15   Painting of curbs
Administration and Enforcement
   
72.50   Tickets
   
72.51   Removal of illegally stopped vehicles; liability for costs
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 72.01 REGULATION OR PROHIBITION AUTHORIZED.
   (A)   The Board of Trustees with respect to highways under its jurisdiction
and within the reasonable exercise of the police power may regulate or prohibit
stopping, standing, or parking.
(Neb. RS 60-680)
   (B)   If the Board regulates or prohibits stopping, standing, or parking all
vehicles or a particular kind or class of vehicles on a highway or a portion of
a highway, no person shall stop, stand, or park a vehicle subject to such
regulation or prohibition on the highway or portion thereof longer than a
period of time necessary to load and unload freight or passengers.
Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 72.02 ROADWAY OUTSIDE BUSINESS OR RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT.
   (A)   No person shall stop, park, or leave standing any vehicle, whether
attended or unattended, upon a roadway outside of a business or residential
district when it is practicable to stop, park, or leave such vehicle off such
part of a highway, but in any event an unobstructed width of the roadway
opposite a standing vehicle shall be left for the free passage of other
vehicles and a clear view of such stopped vehicle shall be available from a
distance of 200 feet in each direction upon such highway. Such parking,
stopping, or standing shall in no event exceed 24 hours.
   (B)   No person shall stop, park, or leave standing any vehicle on a freeway
except in areas designated or unless so directed by a peace officer, except
that when a vehicle is disabled or inoperable or the driver of the vehicle is
ill or incapacitated, such vehicle shall be permitted to park, stop, or stand
on the shoulder facing in the direction of travel with all wheels and
projecting parts of such vehicle completely clear of the traveled lanes, but in
no event shall such parking, standing, or stopping upon the shoulder of a
freeway exceed 12 hours.
   (C)   No person, except law enforcement, fire department, emergency
management, public or private ambulance, or authorized Department of
Transportation or local authority personnel, shall loiter or stand or park any
vehicle upon any bridge, highway, or structure which is located above or below
or crosses over or under the roadway of any highway or approach or exit road
thereto.
   (D)   Whenever a vehicle is disabled or inoperable in a roadway or for any
reason obstructs the regular flow of traffic for reasons other than an
accident, the driver shall move or cause the vehicle to be moved as soon as
practical so as to not obstruct the regular flow of traffic.
   (E)   This section does not apply to the driver of any vehicle which is
disabled while on the roadway in such manner and to such extent that it is
impossible to avoid stopping and temporarily leaving such disabled vehicle in
such position until such time as it can be removed pursuant to division (D)
above.
(Neb. RS 60-6,164) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 72.03 GENERAL PROHIBITIONS; EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   Except when necessary to avoid conflict with other traffic or when in
compliance with law or the directions of a peace officer or traffic control
device, no person shall:
      (1)   Stop, stand, or park any vehicle:
         (a)   On the roadway side of any vehicle stopped or parked at the edge
or curb of a street;
         (b)   On a sidewalk;
         (c)   Within an intersection;
         (d)   On a crosswalk;
         (e)   Between a safety zone and the adjacent curb or within 30 feet of
points on the curb immediately opposite the ends of a safety zone unless the
Board of Trustees indicates a different length by signs or markings;
         (f)   Alongside or opposite any street excavation or obstruction when
stopping, standing, or parking would obstruct traffic;
         (g)   Upon any bridge or other elevated structure over a highway or
within a highway tunnel;
         (h)   On any railroad track; or
         (i)   At any place where official signs prohibit stopping.
      (2)   Stand or park a vehicle, whether occupied or not, except
momentarily to pick up or discharge a passenger or passengers:
         (a)   In front of a public or private driveway;
         (b)   Within 15 feet of a fire hydrant;
         (c)   Within 20 feet of a crosswalk at an intersection;
         (d)   Within 30 feet of any flashing signal, stop sign, yield sign, or
other traffic control device located at the side of a roadway;
         (e)   Within 20 feet of the driveway entrance to any fire station and
on the side of a street opposite the entrance to any fire station within 75
feet of such entrance when properly signposted; or
         (f)   At any place where official signs prohibit standing.
      (3)   Park a vehicle, whether occupied or not, except temporarily for the
purpose of and while actually engaged in loading or unloading merchandise or
passengers:
         (a)   Within 50 feet of the nearest rail of a railroad crossing; or
         (b)   At any place where official signs prohibit parking.
   (B)   No person shall move a vehicle not lawfully under his or her control
into any such prohibited area or away from a curb such a distance as shall be
unlawful.
(Neb. RS 60-6,166) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 72.04 OBSTRUCTING STREET, INTERSECTION, OR ENTRANCE.
   No person shall, except in case of an accident or emergency, stop any
vehicle in any location where stopping will obstruct any street, intersection,
or entrance to an alley or public or private drive.
Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 72.05 INTERSECTIONS.
   Except when necessary to avoid conflict with other traffic or when in
compliance with law or the directions of a peace officer or traffic control
device, no person shall park a vehicle or leave a vehicle standing for any
purpose, except momentarily to load or discharge passengers, within 25 feet of
the intersection of curb lines, or if none, then within 15 feet of the
intersection of property lines, or where the curb lines are painted red or
another color specified by the Board of Trustees to indicate such prohibition.
Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 72.06 ALLEYS.
   (A)   No person shall park a vehicle with any portion thereof projecting
into any alley entrance.
   (B)   No person shall park a vehicle in any alley, except for the purpose of
loading or unloading during the time necessary to load or unload, which shall
not exceed the maximum limit of one-half hour. Every vehicle while loading or
unloading in an alley shall be parked in such manner as will cause the least
obstruction possible to traffic in the alley.
Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 72.07 TRUCK PARKING, LOADING, AND UNLOADING.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the operator of any truck with an overall
length of more than 20 feet to park or stop such vehicle on a street within the
business district except to load or unload when loading or unloading in an
alley is impossible and then only for the period of time reasonably necessary
to load or unload.
   (B)   If the Board of Trustees provides truck parking areas adjoining or
adjacent to the business district, all truck operators shall use such parking
areas for all parking purposes.
   (C)   Except in an area provided for by the Board by resolution, it shall be
unlawful for the operator of any truck, including an oil tanker, to park or
stop for any period of time within the limits of any street outside the
business district except for the purpose of loading or unloading the cargo
thereof in the ordinary course of business.
Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 72.08 DISPLAY OR REPAIR OF VEHICLE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to park upon any highway or public place
within the village any vehicle displayed for sale. Except when necessary due to
a breakdown or other emergency, no person shall adjust or repair, or race the
motor of, any motor vehicle or motorcycle while standing on the highways of the
village. No person or employee connected with a garage or repair shop shall use
sidewalks or highways in the vicinity of the garage or shop for the purpose of
working on vehicles of any description.
Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 72.09 CURRENT REGISTRATION.
   It shall be unlawful to park or place on the highways or other public
property any vehicle required to be registered by the Motor Vehicle
Registration Act that is not registered in accordance with the Act.
Penalty, see §
70.99
Statutory reference:
   Motor Vehicle Registration Act, see Neb. RS 60-301
§ 72.10 TIME LIMITS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to park a vehicle on a public street for over 24
consecutive hours except where a different maximum time limit is posted.
   (B)   If the Board of Trustees adopts a resolution entirely prohibiting, or
fixing a time limit for, the parking and stopping of vehicles on any highway,
it is unlawful to park or stop any vehicle in such highway for a period of time
longer than fixed in the resolution.
Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 72.11 SNOW; WEATHER EMERGENCIES; HIGHWAY MAINTENANCE.
   (A)   Unless the Board of Trustees provides otherwise, it is unlawful to
park or stand any vehicle on any highway in the village at any time within 12
hours after a snowfall of three inches or more has occurred within a 24 hour
period if the snow has not been removed within that time.
   (B)   The Chairperson of the Board of Trustees, the village police, or any
other designated person may order any highway or portion thereof vacated for
weather emergencies or highway maintenance. Notice shall be given by personally
notifying the owner or operator of a vehicle parked on such highway or by
posting appropriate signs along the highway not less than four hours prior to
the time that the vacation order is to be effective. It is unlawful to park a
vehicle on a highway or portion thereof vacated in accordance with this
division (B).
   (C)   A vehicle parked in violation of this section may be removed and
parked, under the supervision of the village police, to a suitable nearby
location without further notice to the owner or operator of such vehicle.
Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 72.12 PARALLEL, ANGLE, AND CENTER PARKING.
   (A)   Except as otherwise provided in this section, any vehicle stopped or
parked upon a two-way roadway where parking is permitted shall be so stopped or
parked with the right-hand wheels parallel to and within 12 inches of the
right-hand curb or edge of such roadway. No vehicle shall be parked upon a
roadway when there is a shoulder adjacent to the roadway which is available for
parking.
   (B)   Except when otherwise provided by the Board of Trustees, every vehicle
stopped or parked upon a one-way roadway shall be so stopped or parked parallel
to the curb or edge of such roadway, in the direction of authorized traffic
movement, with its right-hand wheels within 12 inches of the right-hand curb or
edge of the roadway or its left-hand wheels within 12 inches of the left-hand
curb or edge of such roadway.
   (C)   The Board of Trustees may permit angle or center parking on any
roadway, except that angle or center parking shall not be permitted on any
federal-aid highway or on any part of the state highway system unless the
Director-State Engineer has determined that such roadway is of sufficient width
to permit angle or center parking without interfering with the free movement of
traffic.
   (D)   The Board of Trustees may prohibit or restrict stopping, standing, or
parking on highways under its jurisdiction and erect and maintain proper and
adequate signs thereon. No person shall stop, stand, or park any vehicle in
violation of the restrictions stated on such signs.
(Neb. RS 60-6,167)
   (E)   Where stalls are designated either on the curb or pavement, vehicles
shall be parked within those stalls.
   (F)   Vehicles must not be parked at any curb in such a position as to
prevent another vehicle already parked at the curb from moving away.
Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 72.13 BACKING FREIGHT VEHICLE TO CURB.
   The operator of a vehicle of an over-all length of less than 20 feet,
including load, while loading or unloading freight may back the vehicle to the
curb but shall occupy as little of the street as possible.
Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 72.14 UNATTENDED MOTOR VEHICLE.
   No person having control or charge of a motor vehicle shall allow such
vehicle to stand unattended on a highway without first stopping the motor of
such vehicle, locking the ignition, removing the key from the ignition, and
effectively setting the brakes thereon and, when standing upon any roadway,
turning the front wheels of such vehicle to the curb or side of such roadway.
(Neb. RS 60-6,168) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 72.15 PAINTING OF CURBS.
   (A)   The curb space within 15 feet in either direction of a fire hydrant
shall be painted red, or another color specified by the Board of Trustees, to
indicate that parking is prohibited in such area.
   (B)   If the Board adopts a resolution regulating or prohibiting the parking
or stopping of vehicles at the curb on highways in front of certain facilities
or at certain locations, the curbs adjacent to any such facility or location
shall be painted in such manner as directed by the Board to indicate such
regulation or prohibition.
   (C)   It shall be the duty of the Board or its agent to cause the curb space
to be painted and to keep the same painted as provided in this chapter or as
specified by the Board. The marking or designating of portions of highways
where the parking of vehicles is prohibited or limited shall be done only by
the village through its proper officers, at the direction of the Board. No
person shall paint the curb of any highway or in any manner set aside, or
attempt to prevent the parking of vehicles in, any highway or part thereof,
except at such places where the parking of vehicles is prohibited by the
provisions of this chapter or by a resolution adopted by the Board.
Penalty, see §
70.99
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
§ 72.50 TICKETS.
   All tickets issued for violations of nonmoving traffic regulations contained
in this chapter shall, in addition to information normally stated on such
tickets, carry the following information:
   (A)   The amount of the fine if paid within 30 days;
   (B)   The amount of the fine if not paid within 30 days;
   (C)   The location where payment may be made; and
   (D)   The fact that a complaint will be filed after 30 days if the fine is
not paid in that time.
§ 72.51 REMOVAL OF ILLEGALLY STOPPED VEHICLES; LIABILITY FOR COSTS.
   (A)   Whenever any peace officer, or any authorized employee of a law
enforcement agency who is employed by the village and specifically empowered by
ordinance to act, finds a vehicle standing upon a highway in violation of any
of the provisions of this chapter, the individual may remove the vehicle, have
such vehicle removed, or require the driver or other person in charge of the
vehicle to move such vehicle to a position off the roadway of the highway or
from the highway.
   (B)   The owner or other person lawfully entitled to the possession of any
vehicle towed or stored shall be charged with the reasonable cost of towing and
storage fees. Any towing or storage fee shall be a lien upon the vehicle prior
to all other claims. Any person towing or storing a vehicle shall be entitled
to retain possession of the vehicle until the charges are paid. The lien
provided for in this section shall not apply to the contents of any vehicle.
(Neb. RS 60-6,165)
CHAPTER 73: RECREATIONAL VEHICLES
Section
General Provisions
   
73.01   Minibikes
   
73.02   Snowmobiles
   
73.03   Bicycles
   
73.04   Mopeds
   
73.05   Motorcycles
All-Terrain/Utility-Type Vehicles
   
73.20   Definitions
   
73.21   Operation within city limits; condition
   
73.22   Headlights
   
73.23   Equipment; requirement
   
73.24   Prohibitions
   
73.25   Competition
   
73.26   Accident report
   
73.27   Enforcement
 
   
73.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 73.01 MINIBIKES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate a minibike upon any street or
highway within the corporate limits of the village. For purposes of this
section, MINIBIKE shall mean a two-wheel motor vehicle which has a total wheel
and tire diameter of less than 14 inches or an engine rated capacity of less
than 45 cubic centimeters displacement or any other two-wheel motor vehicle
primarily designed by the manufacturer for off-road use only.
(Prior Code, § 5-301) (Ord. 347, passed 1-4-1983) Penalty, see §
73.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 60-6,347 and 60-6,352
§ 73.02 SNOWMOBILES.
   (A)   Unlawful acts. It shall be deemed a misdemeanor for any person to
allow a snowmobile, either owned or operated by him, her, or them to be
operated:
      (1)   Within the village unless weather conditions are such that it
provides the only practicable method of safe vehicular travel, or said
snowmobile is engaged in responding to an emergency;
      (2)   At a rate of speed greater than reasonable or proper under the
surrounding circumstances;
      (3)   In a careless, reckless, or negligent manner so as to endanger
person or property;
      (4)   Without a lighted headlight and taillight when such would be
required by conditions;
      (5)   In any tree nursery or planting in a manner which damages or
destroys growing stock; and
      (6)   Upon any private lands without first having obtained permission of
the owner, lessee or operator of such lands.
(Prior Code, § 5-302)
   (B)   Public lands. Snowmobiles shall be prohibited from operation on the
public lands owned by the village, except when said snowmobile is responding to
an emergency, or in areas where said operation is permitted by resolution of
the Board of Trustees.
(Prior Code, § 5-303)
Penalty, see §
73.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 60-6,335, 60-6,337, and 60-6,338
§ 73.03 BICYCLES.
   (A)   No person shall operate a bicycle on a street or highway within the
village with another person on the handlebars or in any position in front of
the operator.
   (B)   No bicycle shall be operated faster than is reasonable and proper, but
every bicycle shall be operated with reasonable regard to the safety of the
operator and any other persons upon the streets and highways.
   (C)   Persons operating bicycles shall observe all traffic signs and stop at
all stop signs.
   (D)   No bicycle shall be operated on any street or highway from sunset to
sunrise without a headlight visible from the front thereof for not less than
500 feet on a clear night and a red reflector on the rear of a type which shall
be visible on a clear night from all distances between 100 feet and 600 feet to
the rear when directly in front of lawful lower beauts of headlights on a motor
vehicle. A red light visible front a distance of 500 feet to the rear may be
used in addition to such red reflector.
   (E)   Any person who operates a bicycle upon a street or highway shall not
ride more than single file except on parts of streets or highways set aside for
the exclusive use of bicycles.
   (F)   Any person who operates a bicycle upon a roadway at less than the
normal speed of traffic at the time and place and under conditions then
existing shall ride as near to the right-hand curb or right-hand edge of the
roadway as practicable except when:
      (1)   Overtaking and passing another bicycle or vehicle proceeding in the
same direction;
      (2)   Preparing for a left turn onto a private road or driveway or at an
intersection;
      (3)   Reasonably necessary to avoid conditions that make it unsafe to
continue along the right-hand curb or right-hand edge of the roadway, including
fixed or moving objects, stopped or moving vehicles, bicycles, pedestrians,
animals, or surface hazards;
      (4)   Riding upon a lane of substandard width which is too narrow for a
bicycle and a vehicle to travel safely side by side within the lane; or
      (5)   Lawfully operating a bicycle on the paved shoulders of a highway
included in the state highway system as provided in Neb. RS 60-6,142.
   (G)   Any person who operates a bicycle upon a roadway with a posted speed
limit of 35 mph or less on which traffic is restricted to one direction of
movement and which has two or more marked traffic lanes may ride as near to the
left-hand curb or left-hand edge of the roadway as practicable. Whenever a
person operating a bicycle leaves the roadway to ride on the paved shoulder or
leaves the paved shoulder to enter the roadway, the person shall clearly signal
his, her, or their intention and yield the right-of-way to all other vehicles.
   (H)   No person shall park a bicycle on any sidewalk unless a bicycle stand
is located on said sidewalk.
   (I)   No person shall operate a bicycle on the sidewalks within the business
district.
(Prior Code, § 5-304) (Ord. 436, passed 9-7-1994) Penalty, see §
73.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 60-6,315, 60-6,317, and 60-6,318
§ 73.04 MOPEDS.
   (A)   Operator’s license required. No person shall operate a moped upon the
streets, alleys, or highways within the village unless such person has:
      (1)   A valid Class O operator’s license; or
      (2)   A valid school or learner’s permit.
(Prior Code, § 5-305)
   (B)   Traffic regulations applicable.
      (1)   (a)   Any person who rides a moped upon a roadway shall have all
the rights and shall be subject to all of the duties applicable to the driver
of a motor vehicle under the State Rules of the Road except for special moped
regulations in the rules and except for those provisions of the rules which by
their nature can have no application.
         (b)   Such regulations applicable to mopeds shall apply whenever a
moped is operated upon any street, alley, or highway within the village or upon
any path set aside by the Department of Roads or the village for the use of
mopeds.
      (2)   Notwithstanding any established maximum speed limits in excess of
25 mph, no person shall operate any moped at a speed in excess of 30 mph.
(Prior Code, § 5-306)
   (C)   Operation.
      (1)   Any person who operates a moped shall ride only upon a permanent
and regular seat attached to the moped. A person operating a moped shall not
carry any other person nor shall any other person ride on a moped unless such
moped is designed by the manufacturer to carry more than one person.
      (2)   A person shall ride upon a moped only while sitting astride the
seat, facing forward.
      (3)   No person shall operate a moped while carrying any package, bundle,
or other article which prevents him, her, or them from keeping both hands on
the handlebars.
      (4)   No operator shall carry any person, nor shall any person ride, in a
position that interferes with the operation or control of the moped or the view
of the operator.
      (5)   Any moped which carries a passenger shall be equipped with
footrests for such passenger.
(Prior Code, § 5-307)
   (D)   Use of traffic lanes.
      (1)   A moped shall be entitled to full use of a traffic lane or any of
any highway with an authorized speed limit of 45 mph or less and no vehicle
shall be operated in such a manner as to deprive any moped of the full use of
such lane, except that mopeds and motorcycles may be operated two abreast in a
single lane.
      (2)   No person shall operate a moped between lanes of traffic or between
adjacent lines or rows of vehicles.
      (3)   Mopeds shall not be operated more than two abreast in a single
lane.
      (4)   Any person who operates a moped on a roadway with an authorized
speed limit of more than 45 mph shall ride as near to the right side of the
roadway as practicable and shall not ride more than single file.
      (5)   No person who rides upon a moped shall attach himself, herself,
themself or the moped to any other vehicle on a roadway.
      (6)   Mopeds shall not be operated on the sidewalks.
(Prior Code, § 5-308)
(Ord. 439, passed 9-7-1994; Ord. 440, passed 9-7-1994; Ord. 441, passed 9-7-
1994; Ord. 442, passed 9-7-1994) Penalty, see §
73.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 60-6,310, 60-6,311, 60-6,313
§ 73.05 MOTORCYCLES.
   (A)   Helmet required.
      (1)   A person shall not operate or be a passenger on a motorcycle or
moped on any highway unless such person is wearing a protective helmet of the
type and design manufactured for use by operators of such vehicles and unless
such helmet is secured properly on his, her, or their head with a chin strap
while the vehicle is in motion.
      (2)   All such protective helmets shall be designed to reduce injuries to
the user resulting from head impacts and shall be designed to protect the user
by remaining on the user’s head, deflecting blows, resisting penetration, and
spreading the force of impact.
      (3)   Each such helmet shall consist of lining, padding, and chin strap
and shall meet or exceed the standards established in the United States
Department of Transportation’s Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standard No. 218,
49 C.F.R. § 571.218, for motorcycle helmets.
(Prior Code, § 5-211)
   (B)   Lights. 
      (1)   No person shall operate a motorcycle upon the streets, alleys, or
highways within the village from sunset to sunrise unless the same is equipped
with at least one and not more than two headlights and a taillight exhibiting a
red light visible from a distance of at least 500 feet to the rear of such
motorcycle.
      (2)   The headlights shall comply with the requirements and limitations
set forth in the Nebraska Rules of the Road, being Neb. RS 60-601 et seq.
(Prior Code, § 5-211.01)
(Ord. 391, passed 11-1-1988; Ord. 437, passed 9-7-1994; Ord. 438, passed 9-7-
1994) Penalty, see §
73.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 60-6,219, 60-6,278 through 60-6,282
ALL-TERRAIN/UTILITY-TYPE VEHICLES
§ 73.20 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ALL-TERRAIN VEHICLE (ATV). Any motorized off-highway vehicle which:
      (1)   Is 50 inches or less in width;
      (2)   Has a dry weight of 900 pounds or less;
      (3)   Travels on three or more low pressure tires;
      (4)   Is designed for operator use only with no passengers or is
specifically designed by the original manufacturer for the operator and one
passenger;
      (5)   Has a seat or saddle designed to be straddled by the operator; and
      (6)   Has handlebars or any other steering assembly for steering control.
   UTILITY-TYPE VEHICLE (UTV). 
      (1)   Any motorized off-highway vehicle which:
         (a)   Is not less than 48 inches nor more than 74 inches in width;
         (b)   Is not more than 135 inches, including the bumper, in length;
         (c)   Has a dry weight of not less than 900 pounds nor more than 2,000
pounds;
         (d)   Travels on four or more low-pressure tires; and
         (e)   Is equipped with a steering wheel and bench or bucket-type
seating designed for at least two people to sit side-by-side.
      (2)   UTILITY-TYPE VEHICLE does not include golf carts or low-speed
vehicles.
(Prior Code, § 5-501) (Ord. 384, passed 11-3-1987; Ord. 718, passed 6-8-2011)
§ 73.21 OPERATION WITHIN CITY LIMITS; CONDITION.
   (A)   (1)   An ATV/UTV may be operated on any street, road, or alley, within
the village, except for a controlled-access highway, when such operation occurs
only between one-half hour after sunrise and one-half hour before sunset.
      (2)   Any person operating an ATV/UTV shall have a valid Class O
operator’s license or a farm permit as provided in Neb. RS 60-4,126, shall have
liability insurance coverage for the all-terrain vehicle while operating the
all terrain vehicle on a highway, street, road, or alley, and shall not operate
such vehicle at a speed in excess of the posted speed limit. The person
operating the ATV/UTV shall provide proof of such insurance coverage to any
peace officer requesting such proof within five days of such a request.
      (3)   When operating an ATV/UTV, the headlight and taillight of the
vehicle shall be on and the vehicle shall be equipped with a bicycle safety
flag which extends not less than five feet above the ground attached to the
rear of such vehicle.
      (4)   The bicycle safety flag shall be triangular in shape with an area
of not less than 30 square inches and shall be dayglow in color.
   (B)   ATV/UTV may be operated without complying with division (A) above in
parades which have been authorized by the state or any department, board,
commission, or political subdivision of the state.
   (C)   Subject to division (A) above, the crossing of a controlled-access
highway shall be permitted by an ATV/UTV only if:
      (1)   The crossing is made at an angle of approximately 90 degrees to the
direction of the highway and at a place where no obstruction prevents a quick
and safe crossing;
      (2)   The vehicle is brought to a complete stop before crossing the
shoulder or roadway of the highway; and
      (3)   The operator yields the right-of-way to all oncoming traffic that
constitutes an immediate potential hazard.
(Prior Code, § 5-502) (Ord. 384, passed 11-3-1987; Ord. 443, passed 9-7-1994;
Ord. 711, passed 8-8-2007; Ord. 718, passed 6-8-2011) Penalty, see §
73.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 60-6,356
§ 73.22 HEADLIGHTS.
   Every ATV/UTV shall display a lighted headlight and taillight during the
period of time from one-half hour after sunset to one-half hour before sunrise
and at any time when visibility is reduced due to insufficient light or
unfavorable atmospheric conditions.
(Prior Code, § 5-503) (Ord. 384, passed 11-3-1987; Ord. 718, passed 6-8-2011)
Penalty, see §
73.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 60-6,357
§ 73.23 EQUIPMENT; REQUIREMENT.
   Every ATV/UTV shall be equipped with a brake system maintained in good
operating condition, an adequate muffler system in good working condition, and
a United States Forest Service qualified spark arrester.
(Prior Code, § 5-504) (Ord. 384, passed 11-3-1987; Ord. 718, passed 6-8-2011)
Penalty, see §
73.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 60-6,358
§ 73.24 PROHIBITIONS.
   No person shall:
   (A)   Equip the exhaust system of an ATV/UTV with a cutout, bypass, or
similar device;
   (B)   Operate an ATV/UTV with an exhaust system so modified; or
   (C)   Operate an ATV/UTV with the spark arrester removed or modified except
for use in closed course competition events.
(Prior Code, § 5-505) (Ord. 384, passed 11-3-1987; Ord. 718, passed 6-8-2011)
Penalty, see §
73.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 60-6,359
§ 73.25 COMPETITION.
   ATV/UTV participating in competitive events may be exempted from §§
73.22 through
73.24 at the discretion of the Director of Motor Vehicles.
(Prior Code, § 5-506) (Ord. 384, passed 11-3-1987; Ord. 718, passed 6-8-2011)
Penalty, see §
73.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 60-6,360
§ 73.26 ACCIDENT REPORT.
   If an accident results in the death of any person or in the injury of any
person which requires the treatment of the person by a physician, the operator
of each ATV/UTV involved in the accident shall give notice of the accident in
the same manner as provided in Neb. RS 60-699.
(Prior Code, § 5-507) (Ord. 384, passed 11-3-1987; Ord. 718, passed 6-8-2011)
Penalty, see §
73.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 60-6,361
§ 73.27 ENFORCEMENT.
   Any peace officer of the state or of any political subdivision, including
conservation officers of the Game and Parks Commission shall be charged with
the enforcement of the provisions of §§
73.21 through
73.26.
(Prior Code, § 5-509) (Ord. 384, passed 11-3-1987; Ord. 718, passed 6-8-2011)
§ 73.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any violation of §§
73.21 through
73.26 which is also a violation under Neb. RS Ch. 39 or Ch. 60 may be punished
under the penalty provisions of such chapter.
(Prior Code, § 5-508) (Ord. 384, passed 11-3-1987; Ord. 718, passed 6-8-2011)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 60-6,362
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
90.   ANIMALS
      
91.   HEALTH AND SANITATION; NUISANCES
      
92.   SIDEWALKS AND STREETS
      
93.   FIRE REGULATIONS
      
94.   RECREATION AND LEISURE
      
95.   VILLAGE CEMETERY
CHAPTER 90: ANIMALS
Section
Definitions
   
90.01   Definitions
Animal Control Officers
   
90.02   Appointment
   
90.03   Duties
   
90.04   Authority restricted
Enforcement
   
90.05   Enforcement by animal control officers
   
90.06   Animal shelter
   
90.07   Obstructing enforcement
   
90.08   Citation for violation
Impoundment
   
90.09   Authority of animal control officers
   
90.10   Notice of impoundment
   
90.11   Impoundment by persons other than the animal control village
authorized; notification of animal control village
   
90.12   Same; information required
   
90.13   Cruelty to animals; right of entry of village officials; costs;
dispositions of animal
   
90.14   Impoundment and disposal of abandoned, neglected, cruelly treated
animals
   
90.15   Animals impounded for reasons beyond the control of the owner
   
90.16   Impoundment and disposal of stray cats
   
90.17   Reclaiming an animal
   
90.18   Unclaimed animals become the property of the village
   
90.19   Fees
   
90.20   Return of licensed and vaccinated dog or cat to owner
   
90.21   Return of unlicensed and unvaccinated dog or cat to owner
General
   
90.22   Running at large
   
90.23   Female animals in season
   
90.24   Cruelty to animals
   
90.25   Killing and injuring
   
90.26   Reporting required
   
90.27   Public nuisances
   
90.28   Custody and disposal of dead animals
   
90.29   Interference with another person’s animal
   
90.30   Unlawful release of animal
   
90.31   Trapping
   
90.32   Poisonous bait
   
90.33   Reckless owner
License
   
90.34   Required; generally
   
90.35   Date for obtaining license
   
90.36   Fees; generally
   
90.37   Late charge and penalty
   
90.38   Issuance; tag
   
90.39   Separate license required for each dog and cat
   
90.40   Identification required
   
90.41   Records
   
90.42   Expiration
   
90.43   Misuse of tag
   
90.44   Removal of tag
   
90.45   Duplicate tags
Dogs/Cats
   
90.46   Unlawful use of a dog or cat
   
90.47   Restraint; dog
   
90.48   Dogs or cats damaging property of others
   
90.49   Dangerous and potentially dangerous animals; generally
   
90.50   Judicially excluded animals
   
90.51   Impoundment of certain animals during enforcement proceedings
   
90.52   Dangerous or potentially dangerous animals; spaying or neutering,
microchip identification and license required
   
90.53   Same; classes required
   
90.54   Same; warning signs required
   
90.55   Confinement of dangerous animals
   
90.56   Dangerous or potentially dangerous animals; leash and harness required
Animals
   
90.57   Dangerous and potentially dangerous animals; impoundment
   
90.58   Destruction of dangerous animals at large
   
90.59   Registry of dangerous animal
   
90.60   Determination of potentially dangerous animal
Backyard Fowl
   
90.61   Keeping of fowl
   
90.62   License
   
90.63   Requirements
 
   
90.99   Penalty
DEFINITIONS
§ 90.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purposes of this chapter, the following words and phrases shall have
the meanings respectively ascribed to them:
   ADEQUATE DRAINAGE. That the living area for each animal being kept confined
or restrained shall have adequate drainage such that the animal shall be free
to walk or lie down without coming in contact with standing water or other
liquid.
   ANIMAL CARE PROFESSIONAL. Veterinarian, veterinary technician, veterinarian
staff assistant, kennel operator/staff, groomer, shelter operator/staff,
breeder.
   ANIMAL CONTROL OFFICER. The person employed by the village for the
enforcement of the provisions of this chapter.
   AT LARGE. An animal shall be deemed to be AT LARGE, RUNNING AT LARGE or
PERMITTED TO RUN AT LARGE when off or away from the premises of the owner,
possessor or keeper thereof or not under the control of such owner, possessor
or keeper, or other responsible person, either in a receptacle, in an enclosed
automobile or on a leash, cord or chain, except in a dog park recognized by the
village.
   CAT. A Felis catus.
   COLLAR. A device worn around the neck or the body made of durable material
strong enough to adequately and humanely restrain the dog it is intended for
and carry identification and vaccination tags. The device must be properly
fitted so that the dog cannot slip out of the collar. COLLARS may not be
equipped with any type of sharp prongs on the inside of the collar or weighted
devices that may cause injury or discomfort to the animal's neck. Blunt pronged
training collars are permitted if properly fitted and unaltered from the
manufactured design.
   DOG. A Canis lupus familiaris.
   HARNESS. A close fitting device with straps that encircle the dog's body
across the chest over the shoulders and under the belly behind the front legs
which is constructed of materials appropriate for the size and strength of the
dog to which a leash or tether can be attached.
   KENNEL. A person who a) is engaged in the commercial business of buying,
selling, breeding, care or boarding of dogs, or keeps four or more dogs over
four months of age; and b) does not possess a valid pet avocation permit nor a
valid pet shop permit.
   LEASH. A strap, rope or other device of sufficient strength and weight to
securely restrain the dog for which it was intended.
   OWNER. Any person owning, keeping, possessing, harboring or knowingly
permitting an animal to remain on or about any premises occupied by that
person. In the event that the OWNER or keeper of any animal is a minor, the
parent or guardian of such minor shall be responsible to ensure that all
provisions of these ordinances are complied with.
   PET ANIMAL. Any domestic dogs, domestic cats, mini-pigs, domestic rabbits,
domestic ferrets, domestic rodents, sugar gliders, hedge hogs, birds except
those defined as agricultural animals and specifically including any birds
possessed under a license issued by the State of Nebraska and/or the United
States Fish and Wildlife Service, non-lethal aquarium fish, non-lethal
invertebrates, amphibians, turtles, non-venomous lizards that will not grow to
more than five feet in length at maturity, non-venomous snakes that will not
grow to more than eight feet in length at maturity, or such other animals as
may be specified; provided, however, that any animal forbidden to be sold,
owned, or possessed by federal or state law is not a PET ANIMAL.
   RECKLESS OWNER. An owner who has been convicted of one or more violations of
this chapter on three separate occasions in a 24-month period or who has not
complied with the requirements for ownership of a dangerous or potentially
dangerous animal.
   SECURELY FENCED YARD. A yard completely enclosed by proper fence materials,
with secured gates, and of sufficient height and condition to restrain any dog
contained within. A yard with an electronic fence is not a SECURELY FENCED
YARD. An authorized off-leash dog area is not a SECURELY FENCED YARD.
   STRAY. Any pet animal that a reasonable person believes is unclaimed by its
owner or keeper; and for purposes of this definition the term “reasonable
person” forms an objective standard.
   TEMPORARY/TEMPORARILY. Any continuous period not to exceed 30 days.
   TETHER. Restrain a dog by tying the dog to any object or structure,
including, but not limited to, a house, tree, fence, post, garage, or shed by
any means, including, but not limited to, a chain, rope, cord, leash, trolley
system, or running line. This shall not include a leash when used while walking
an animal.
   VILLAGE. The area within the corporate limits of the Village of Clarks,
Nebraska.
(Ord. 751, passed 3-13-2024)
ANIMAL CONTROL OFFICERS
§ 90.02 APPOINTMENT.
   The Chairperson of the Village Board of Trustees is hereby authorized to
appoint and designate animal control officers.
(Ord. 751, passed 3-13-2024)
§ 90.03 DUTIES.
   Each animal control officer is hereby authorized to issue written notices,
impound animals, investigate violations, issue citations, to obtain search
warrants and orders of impoundment and seize and control evidence as provided
in this chapter whenever any person is found in violation of any of the
provisions therein enumerated.
(Ord. 751, passed 3-13-2024)
§ 90.04 AUTHORITY RESTRICTED.
   The provisions of this subchapter shall not be construed as granting or
establishing in animal control officers the powers or authority of a peace
officer, and such animal control officers shall be strictly limited to the
authority provided for in this chapter when acting in the capacity of animal
control officers.
(Ord. 751, passed 3-13-2024)
ENFORCEMENT
§ 90.05 ENFORCEMENT BY ANIMAL CONTROL OFFICERS.
   It shall be the duty of the animal control officers and such other health
and law enforcement authorities designated under this chapter to enforce this
chapter in the village.
(Ord. 751, passed 3-13-2024)
§ 90.06 ANIMAL SHELTER.
   The village shall contract for an animal shelter. The shelter shall be
maintained in some convenient location, and shall be sanitary, heated,
ventilated and lighted. The kennels shall be kept open during such hours as
shall be provided by the contract. The hours of the shelter and the kennels
shall be open and shall be posted on the main entrance. The village may utilize
alternative facilities for the care of animals in the event that the village is
unable to provide necessary care at the shelter.
(Ord. 751, passed 3-13-2024)
§ 90.07 OBSTRUCTING ENFORCEMENT.
   No person shall hinder, delay, interfere with or obstruct the village or any
of its animal control officers while engaged in capturing, securing or taking
to the shelter any animal to be impounded, or shall break open or in any manner
directly or indirectly aid, counsel or advise the breaking open of any shelter
ambulance, wagon, or other vehicle used for the collecting or conveying of
animals to the shelter, or shall remove or cause to be removed any animal from
the shelter, ambulance or any vehicle used for collecting or conveying animals
to the shelter without permission of the village, or shall in any way interfere
with, hinder or obstruct the village or any of its animal control officers in
the performance of their duties as required by law.
(Ord. 751, passed 3-13-2024)
§ 90.08 CITATION FOR VIOLATION.
   (A)   Whenever any person is alleged to have violated any of the provisions
of this chapter, he or she may, under such conditions as may be prescribed by
the court, execute a waiver of appearance and plea of guilty by signing,
completing and complying with the cited item or items on a waiver form provided
by the county court. At the time of such waiver and plea of guilty, he or she
must pay the penalties and costs fixed by the court for the violation or
violations charged, in order to avail himself or herself of the benefits herein
provided.
   (B)   At the time of the commission of the alleged violation, the accused
shall be served with a printed notice requiring him or her to make such
appearance on or before the date specified thereon, provided he or she chooses
not to execute a waiver of appearance and plea of guilty, and it shall apprise
him or her that, upon neglect, refusal or failure to do so, a warrant shall be
issued for his or her arrest; that he or she must appear at said court during
the hours fixed by the judges of the county court as shown on said notice; of
the violation or violations charged against him or her; and of the schedule of
penalties for the violations committed.
   (C)   Whenever any person refuses, neglects, or fails to comply with any of
the requirements of this section as herein provided, a warrant shall be issued
for his or her arrest, and he or she shall be denied the benefits of any of the
provision thereof, and shall be held for trial in the county court for the
offense or offenses charged, in all respects the same as if this section were
not in existence.
(Ord. 751, passed 3-13-2024)
IMPOUNDMENT
§ 90.09 AUTHORITY OF ANIMAL CONTROL OFFICERS.
   (A)   The animal control officers may seize and impound, subject to the
provisions of this chapter, any animals found in violation of the provisions of
this chapter within this village, whether such animal shall be in the immediate
presence of its owner or custodian or otherwise.
   (B)   Any animals seized or impounded, subject to the provisions of this
chapter, may, at the discretion of the animal control officers be examined and/
or treated by a licensed veterinarian. If it is determined by a veterinarian
acting for the village that such animal is diseased or disabled beyond any
useful purpose, the animal shall immediately become the property of the village
to be humanely disposed of as the village deems appropriate. Costs of
examination, treatment, euthanasia, and/or other care shall be the
responsibility of the owner.
   (C)   If the animal control officers reasonably believe that a violation of
this chapter has occurred, the animal control officers are hereby authorized
and empowered to seek a search warrant from the appropriate court to enable the
animal control officers to enter private property in order to inspect, care
for, or impound animals found to be in violation of this chapter.
(Ord. 751, passed 3-13-2024)
§ 90.10 NOTICE OF IMPOUNDMENT.
   The animal control officers, within 24 hours of taking custody of an animal
under this chapter, shall take reasonable steps to provide written notice of
the impoundment to the owner of the animal by either posting a notice of the
impoundment at the location where the animal was seized or by delivering a copy
of such notice to a person of suitable age on the owner's property. If the
owner's identity is not known, then the animal control officers are not
required to take any other steps except post notice in the location of the
impoundment.
(Ord. 751, passed 3-13-2024)
§ 90.11 IMPOUNDMENT BY PERSONS OTHER THAN THE ANIMAL CONTROL VILLAGE
AUTHORIZED; NOTIFICATION OF ANIMAL CONTROL VILLAGE.
   It shall be lawful for any person to take up any animal found in violation
of the provisions of this chapter; provided that said person shall immediately
notify the village of the same and, further provided that no other local or
state law or ordinance is violated in taking such action.
(Ord. 751, passed 3-13-2024)
§ 90.12 SAME; INFORMATION REQUIRED.
   The village may not receive any animal into the animal shelter from any
person unless such person shall leave his or her full name and place of
residence, which shall be registered and kept by the village. It shall be
unlawful for any person to give any false information or statement concerning
the owner, keeper, or harborer of any animal, or concerning any animal brought
into such shelter or impounded therein.
(Ord. 751, passed 3-13-2024)
§ 90.13 CRUELTY TO ANIMALS; RIGHT OF ENTRY OF VILLAGE OFFICIALS; COSTS;
DISPOSITION OF ANIMAL.
   (A)   Any duly authorized public health official, law enforcement official,
or animal control officer may seek a warrant from the appropriate court to
enable him or her to enter private property in order to inspect, care for or
impound animals which show signs of animal neglect or animal abuse. All
requests for such warrants shall be accompanied by an affidavit stating the
probable cause to believe a violation of this chapter has occurred. Each
affidavit shall be accompanied by a sworn statement from any person filing a
complaint of improper care with the appropriate agency. All animals impounded
pursuant to such warrant or any other order of the court shall be:
      (1)   Placed in the care or custody of a veterinarian, or the village; or
      (2)   If it is determined by a veterinarian acting for the village that
such animal is diseased or disabled beyond any useful purpose, the animal shall
immediately become the property of the village to be humanely disposed of as
the village deems appropriate.
   (B)   The owner or custodian of an animal impounded pursuant to this section
shall be liable for the reasonable cost of the care and maintenance of the
animal during the period of impoundment. Such costs shall be a lien upon the
animal; and the village may refuse to release such animal at the end of the
legal proceedings until such costs have been paid.
   (C)   If a person is adjudicated guilty of the crime of animal neglect,
animal abuse or animal fighting and the court having jurisdiction is satisfied
that an animal owned or controlled by such person would in the future be
subject to such neglect or abuse, its disposition shall be determined by the
court.
(Ord. 751, passed 3-13-2024)
§ 90.14 IMPOUNDMENT AND DISPOSAL OF ABANDONED, NEGLECTED, CRUELLY TREATED
ANIMALS.
   (A)   Any animal found abandoned, neglected, cruelly treated or in such a
condition as to constitute a direct and immediate threat to its life, safety or
health may be impounded immediately by the village for a period of 72 hours. If
it is determined by a veterinarian acting for the village that such animal is
diseased or disabled beyond any useful purpose, the animal shall immediately
become the property of the village to be humanely disposed of as the village
deems appropriate. The court may order the impoundment of such animal beyond
such 72-hour period if the animal is in such a condition as to constitute a
direct and immediate threat to its life, safety or health or as the court
otherwise deems appropriate for the health and safety of the public. Any person
who owns, keeps, harbors, maintains, or controls any animal involved in such
impoundment shall pay all expenses, including shelter, food, veterinary
expenses, boarding, or other expenses, necessitated by the impoundment of the
animal for the protection of the public and other expenses as may be required.
The village may require such person to pay, prior to the expiration of ten days
after the date of impoundment, an amount sufficient to pay all reasonable
expenses incurred in caring and providing for the animal, including estimated
medical care, for 30 days, inclusive of the date on which the animal was
impounded. If such payment is not made prior to expiration of this ten-day
period, the animal shall become the property of the village to be disposed of
as the village deems appropriate. Such payment will be required for each
succeeding 30-day period. If any such payment is not made prior to the end of
each succeeding 30-day period, the animal shall become the property of the
village to be disposed of as the village deems appropriate. The amount of the
payment shall be determined by the village based on the current rate for board
at the animal shelter and the condition of the animal after examination of the
animal by a veterinarian acting for the village. Any such payment received by
the village in excess of the amount determined by the village to be due for the
board and care of the animal shall be refunded by the village upon expiration
of the order of impoundment. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if the owner or
custodian is found not guilty of animal neglect or cruelty, the owner or
custodian shall only be required to pay the veterinary expenses and one-half of
the board and care fees determined by the village to be due.
   (B)   Notwithstanding the foregoing, if it is determined by a veterinarian
acting for the village that such animal is diseased or disabled beyond any
useful purpose, the animal shall immediately become the property of the village
to be humanely disposed of as the village deems appropriate.
(Ord. 751, passed 3-13-2024)
§ 90.15 ANIMALS IMPOUNDED FOR REASONS BEYOND THE CONTROL OF THE OWNER.
   Animals impounded for reasons beyond the control of the owner, including,
but not limited to, house fire, death of the owner, arrest of the owner, or
victim of crime, will be held for 72 hours during which time the village shall
make reasonable efforts to contact the owner and/or his or her representative.
After 72 hours of impoundment, the animals will become the property of the
village.
(Ord. 751, passed 3-13-2024)
§ 90.16 IMPOUNDMENT AND DISPOSAL OF STRAY CATS.
   Any stray cats captured or otherwise taken into custody may be humanely
euthanized as soon as they are captured.
(Ord. 751, passed 3-13-2024)
§ 90.17 RECLAIMING AN ANIMAL.
   A person may reclaim an animal in the custody of the village upon providing
the following:
   (A)   Proof of ownership; and
   (B)   Payment of impoundment and board fees and any other service/medical
fees, as approved by the village.
(Ord. 751, passed 3-13-2024)
§ 90.18 UNCLAIMED ANIMALS BECOME THE PROPERTY OF THE VILLAGE.
   The village shall hold any at large animal for 72 hours from time of
impoundment. If such animal remains unclaimed at the end of the 72-hour period
then the animal becomes the property of the village.
(Ord. 751, passed 3-13-2024)
§ 90.19 FEES.
   The Village Board has the power and authority to fix the fees to be charged
for the impoundment of any animal under the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 751, passed 3-13-2024)
§ 90.20 RETURN OF LICENSED AND VACCINATED DOG OR CAT TO OWNER.
   The village may return any currently licensed dog or cat to the owner
thereof if the owner may be immediately ascertained and found and if it is the
first offense during the current licensing year; provided that owner shall sign
a receipt for said animal and that such animal is currently vaccinated against
rabies, or otherwise properly vaccinated as required by this chapter.
(Ord. 751, passed 3-13-2024)
§ 90.21 RETURN OF UNLICENSED AND UNVACCINATED DOG OR CAT TO OWNER.
   Any unvaccinated dog or cat may be reclaimed by its owner during the period
of impoundment by payment of prescribed shelter fees and by complying with the
licensing and rabies vaccination requirement or other vaccination requirement
of this chapter within 72 hours of release.
(Ord. 751, passed 3-13-2024)
GENERAL
§ 90.22 RUNNING AT LARGE.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to allow any animal to run at
large at any time on any of the public ways and property or the property of
another in the village.
   (B)   The owner of a cat may permit the cat to run at large within the
corporate limits subject to any restrictions or prohibitions imposed by the
Board of Trustees.
(Ord. 751, passed 3-13-2024)
§ 90.23 FEMALE ANIMALS IN SEASON.
   No person owning, keeping or harboring a female animal in season shall house
such animal in a way which results in attracting other animals to linger about
the premises and cause a nuisance.
(Ord. 751, passed 3-13-2024)
§ 90.24 CRUELTY TO ANIMALS.
   (A)   Physical abuse. It shall be unlawful for any person to willfully or
maliciously kill, maim, disfigure, torture, beat with a stick, chain, club, or
other object; mutilate, burn, or scald with any substance, or otherwise cruelly
set upon any animal, except that reasonable force may be employed to drive off
vicious or trespassing animals.
   (B)   Physical mistreatment. It shall be unlawful for any person to
knowingly, intentionally, or negligently cause or allow any animal to endure
unreasonable or unjustifiable pain, suffering, or injury. Physical mistreatment
shall include the intentional tripping or causing to fall by its legs, or
lassoing or roping the legs of, any equine by any means for the purpose of
entertainment, sport, practice, or contest and the intentional tripping of any
bovine by its tail, causing any bovine to fall by its tail, or dragging any
bovine by its tail for the purpose of entertainment, sport, practice, or
contest.
   (C)   Care and maintenance. It shall be unlawful for any person keeping or
harboring any animal to fail, refuse, or neglect to provide such animal with
proper food, drink, shade, shelter, physical maintenance and veterinary care.
Proper food, drink, shade, shelter, physical maintenance and veterinary care
shall require:
      (1)   That each animal shall at suitable intervals and at least once
every 24 hours, receive a quantity of wholesome foodstuff suitable for the
species' physical condition and age, sufficient to maintain an adequate level
of nutrition for the animal;
      (2)   That each animal shall have available at all times an adequate
supply of clean, fresh, potable water. If water pans or dishes are used, such
pans or dishes shall have weighted bottoms or be mounted or secured in a manner
that prevents tipping;
      (3)   That each animal shall have convenient access to shelter throughout
the year. Any shelter shall be structurally sound and maintained in good repair
to protect the animal from injury and from the elements, and shall be of
sufficient size to permit the animal to enter, stand, turn around, and lie down
in a natural manner. Any shelter which does not protect the animal from
temperature extremes or precipitation, excessive ammonia levels, or which does
not provide adequate ventilation or drainage, shall not comply with this
section. The shelter and any space accessible to the animal and all bedding for
the animal shall be maintained in a manner which keeps the animal reasonably
clean, dry, comfortable, and at an appropriate temperature and minimizes the
risk of the animal contracting disease, being injured or becoming infested with
parasites;
      (4)   That each animal shall receive care and medical treatment for
debilitating injuries, parasites, and disease, sufficient to maintain the
animal in good health and to minimize suffering;
      (5)   That no animals shall be hitched, tied or fastened by any rope,
chain or cord that is directly attached to the animal's neck. Animals that must
be tied, hitched or fastened to restrain them must wear a properly fitted
collar or harness, not of the choker type, provided that the proper use of
choker collars in the training of animals shall not be prohibited; and
      (6)   That any enclosure in which an animal is kept shall be constructed
of material, and in a manner, to minimize the risk of injury to the animal, and
shall encompass sufficient usable space to keep the animal in good condition.
   (D)   Leaving animals in unattended vehicle. It shall be unlawful for any
person to place or confine or allow such animal to be confined in such a manner
that it must remain in a motor vehicle or trailer under such conditions or for
such periods of time as may endanger the health or well-being of the animal due
to heat, lack of food or water, or any circumstances which may cause suffering,
disability, or death.
   (E)   Abandonment of animals. It shall be unlawful for any person to abandon
any animal within the village. Abandonment shall mean leaving an animal for a
period in excess of 24 hours without appropriate provisions having been made
for the feeding, watering, and care of such animal. If an animal is restrained
or confined out of doors without food, water, or proper care, the animal
control village may enter upon any such property where the animal is restrained
or confined and supply it with the necessary food, water and care so long as it
remains there.
   (F)   Owner’s cost. Any person or persons violating this section shall bear
full cost and expenses incurred by the village in the care, medical treatment,
impoundment cost, and disposal of said animals.
   (G)   In addition to the sanctions which may be imposed by law, any person
who is found in violation of this section shall pay a penalty in the sum of
$200 which shall be paid to the village and shall be used solely for
enforcement activities.
(Ord. 751, passed 3-13-2024)
§ 90.25 KILLING AND INJURING.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to kill or in any manner injure, maim,
or destroy or attempt to injure, maim, or destroy any animal or to place any
poison or poisoned food where it is accessible to an animal, except that:
   (A)   This section shall not apply to any law enforcement officer or animal
control officer acting within his or her power and duty;
   (B)   This section shall not apply if the animal is vicious, dangerous, or
showing characteristics of rabies and cannot be captured without danger to the
persons attempting to effect a capture of the animal; and
   (C)   Any owner of a dog that he or she wishes to be destroyed may place the
dog in an animal shelter or with a licensed veterinarian to be destroyed and
disposed of according to the provisions of this chapter or other provisions of
law.
(Ord. 751, passed 3-13-2024)
§ 90.26 REPORTING REQUIRED.
   Any animal care professional is required to report any suspected animal
abuse/neglect to the village. Any such person making a report under this
section is immune from liability except for false statements of fact made with
malicious intent.
(Ord. 751, passed 3-13-2024)
§ 90.27 PUBLIC NUISANCES.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person owning, keeping or harboring an
animal or allowing such animal to be under his or her charge or control to do
any of the following:
      (1)   Permit an animal to defecate on any privately owned or occupied
property other than that of the owner or the person having control of the
animal without immediately cleaning or removing the excrement;
      (2)   Permit an animal to defecate on public property, including
designated off-leash dog parks, without immediately cleaning or removing the
excrement;
      (3)   Permit an animal to unreasonably obstruct the use and enjoyment of
property held by others in the community by allowing such animal to habitually
bark, howl, yelp, bay or make other noise which by loudness or frequency causes
a breach of the peace; provided, however, this section shall not apply to the
animal shelter, veterinarians, and medical laboratories;
      (4)   Permit unsanitary conditions to exist on any premises where an
animal is kept which would cause foul or obnoxious odors, attract flies or
vermin or otherwise threaten the public health and safety; or
      (5)   Permit an animal to engage in menacing behavior including but not
limited to the chasing of vehicles or the molesting, or frightening of
passersby or neighbors.
   (B)   An animal control officer may abate any of the above nuisances, either
through issuance of a citation or impounding the animal, if no owner or agent
can be found at the time of the nuisance.
(Ord. 751, passed 3-13-2024)
§ 90.28 CUSTODY AND DISPOSAL OF DEAD ANIMALS.
   It shall be unlawful for a person to allow the body, or parts thereof, of
any dead animal to be kept, held, or disposed of in violation of this section.
   (A)   No person who operates a slaughterhouse, butcher shop or other such
place in the village shall permit any parts of offal of dead animals that are
not fit and intended for use as food to accumulate or be kept on such premises
for over 24 hours after being received, or after the death of such animal.
   (B)   No person shall slaughter an animal unless the person is regularly
engaged in the commercial business of killing and disposing of such animals,
for use as food or otherwise.
   (C)   No person shall keep, skin, dismember, dissect, cut up, or dispose of
anywhere in the village, a dead animal or parts thereof, in any manner that
creates offensive odors or sights and constitutes a public nuisance which
affects health and comfort in any respect.
(Ord. 751, passed 3-13-2024)
§ 90.29 INTERFERENCE WITH ANOTHER PERSON’S ANIMAL.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to, in any manner, tease, disturb, or
molest an animal that is confined. Confined shall mean restrained, tethered,
housed or secured by any barrier.
(Ord. 751, passed 3-13-2024)
§ 90.30 UNLAWFUL RELEASE OF ANIMAL.
   Any person who shall take or drive any animal from any enclosure, lot or
tract of ground or from any stable or building, without the permission of the
owner of said animal, or with the intent of depriving the owner of said animal
of ownership of the animals, shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor.
(Ord. 751, passed 3-13-2024)
§ 90.31 TRAPPING.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to use, place, set or cause to be
set within the village or upon lands owned by the village any traps except
cage-type live traps and used for the control of nuisance animals. This
prohibition shall not apply to any trap specifically designed to kill rats,
mice, gophers or moles so long as the owner of the property is aware of the
location where the trap(s) are set and monitors said trap(s) at least once
every 24 hours.
   (B)   Traps discovered by the village to have been unlawfully set in the
village may be seized and used as prima facie evidence that a violation has
been committed. Upon conviction, said trap(s) shall be forfeited to and
disposed of by the village.
(Ord. 751, passed 3-13-2024)
§ 90.32 POISONOUS BAIT.
   No person shall set any type of poisonous substance or bait within the
village limits that is deemed harmful to any pet animal or livestock animal;
where such animal may access the poisonous substance.
(Ord. 751, passed 3-13-2024)
§ 90.33 RECKLESS OWNER.
   (A)   Upon any owner or co-owner from the same household having been
convicted of one or more violations of this chapter on three separate occasions
within a 24-month period, or whose animal has been determined to be dangerous
or potentially dangerous and who has not complied with the subsequent
requirements of this chapter, the village shall initiate administrative
proceedings to declare the owner a reckless owner upon which all pet licenses
in the household shall be revoked. Such proceedings shall be instituted by the
mailing or personal service of a written notice, to the owner's last known
address. The notice shall contain:
      (1)   The name and address of the owner who is subject to such
declaration and revocation;
      (2)   The names, descriptions and license numbers of any pet animals
licensed to the owner;
      (3)   A description of the violations or requirements which form the
basis of such declaration and revocation, including the case numbers, if any;
      (4)   A summary of the effects of such declaration, including revocation
of all pet licenses and surrender of all pet animals;
      (5)   The date of proposed entry of the declaration and revocation order
which shall be not less than ten days after the date of mailing or personal
service of the notice; and
      (6)   Notification of the availability of an appeal, if the owner objects
to such declaration and revocation, within ten days of the date of mailing or
personal service of the notice.
   (B)   Upon entry of such declaration and revocation order, unless an appeal
of such order is filed with the village in accordance with this section, such
reckless owner shall be required to surrender all pet animals to the village
within 24 hours. Failure to surrender such pet animals is a criminal violation
of this chapter that shall result in prosecution as well as immediate
impoundment by the village. Such surrendered or impounded pet animals shall
immediately become the property of the village and be disposed of as deemed
appropriate.
   (C)   An appeal of such declaration and revocation order shall be heard by a
hearing officer designated by the village and shall provide an opportunity for
the owner to appear and offer evidence to dispute the declaration and
revocation order within ten business days. The filing fee for each appeal shall
be $100. A determination to affirm or reverse such order shall be entered by
the hearing officer within ten days of the date of the hearing.
   (D)   It shall be unlawful for a reckless owner to fail to surrender all pet
animals within 24 hours or to subsequently own, possess, or have control over
any animal for a period of 48 months from the date of entry of the declaration
and revocation order.
(Ord. 751, passed 3-13-2024)
LICENSE
§ 90.34 REQUIRED; GENERALLY.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to own, keep or harbor any dog or cat
within the village unless such dog or cat has been licensed by the village as
required by the provisions of this subchapter; provided, however, that this
section shall not apply to any dog or cat which has not reached the age of 16
weeks.
(Ord. 751, passed 3-13-2024)
§ 90.35 DATE FOR OBTAINING LICENSE.
   Licenses required by the provisions of this subchapter shall be procured on
or before January 1 of each year.
   (A)   If a dog or cat is acquired by an owner, such license shall be
acquired within 30 days after date of acquisition of such animal.
   (B)   If the owner becomes a resident of the village after January 1, he or
she shall acquire such license within 30 days after he or she establishes
residency in the village.
   (C)   If a dog is determined to be a dangerous or potentially dangerous
animal, the owner shall acquire a dangerous or potentially dangerous animal
license for such animal within 30 days of such determination.
(Ord. 751, passed 3-13-2024)
§ 90.36 FEES; GENERALLY.
   (A)   The Village Board has the power and authority to fix the fees to be
charged for the licensing of dogs and cats under the provisions of this
chapter.
   (B)   Provided, however, that such fees shall not apply to a blind owner,
keeper or harborer of any dog or to the hearing-impaired owner, keeper or
harborer of a hearing-aid dog or other service dog.
   (C)   Proof of sterilization and current rabies vaccination must accompany
all license applications.
(Ord. 751, passed 3-13-2024)
§ 90.37 LATE CHARGE AND PENALTY.
   If payment for a license is made by mail, it must be postmarked on or before
January 1. In the event an owner fails to voluntarily acquire a license by
January 1, the fee for the license, until January 31, shall be twice the
license fee. In the event an owner fails to voluntarily acquire a license by
January 31, he or she shall pay a charge of $50 per animal in addition to the
fees required by this subchapter. The total late fees shall be capped at $100
per household. The village may, in its discretion, declare an amnesty period
for such late charges.
(Ord. 751, passed 3-13-2024)
§ 90.38 ISSUANCE; TAG.
   (A)   Upon payment of the fees required, the village shall issue a numbered
receipt as necessary to the owner for the dog or cat licensed.
   (B)   Additionally, the village shall issue a numbered tag to the owner for
each dog licensed.
   (C)   Such license receipt shall contain the owner’s name and address and
such description of the dog or cat as may be required for purposes of
identification, and the number of the tag issued for each dog.
   (D)   Such tag shall be in such form and description as the village shall
determine from time to time.
(Ord. 751, passed 3-13-2024)
§ 90.39 SEPARATE LICENSE REQUIRED FOR EACH DOG AND CAT.
   A separate license is required under the provisions of this chapter for each
dog or cat owned, kept or harbored by any person.
(Ord. 751, passed 3-13-2024)
§ 90.40 IDENTIFICATION REQUIRED.
   Upon receiving a tag under the provisions of this subchapter, it shall be
the duty of the owner or other person keeping a dog to ensure that the dog
bears such tag attached to a durable collar or harness worn at all times.
Alternatively, and in lieu of the above, the owner or other person keeping a
dog may have the dog implanted with a microchip identification at his or her
expense, provided, that the owner or person keeping an animal determined to be
dangerous or potentially dangerous which has been microchipped shall ensure
that the animal bears such tag at all times. Any person implanting a microchip
identification shall timely provide the microchip identification number to the
village.
(Ord. 751, passed 3-13-2024)
§ 90.41 RECORDS.
   The village shall keep a record of the name and address of each owner
obtaining a license under the provisions of this subchapter and the number of
the license and tag issued.
(Ord. 751, passed 3-13-2024)
§ 90.42 EXPIRATION.
   Licenses issued under the provisions of this subchapter shall be valid until
December 31 of the following year.
(Ord. 751, passed 3-13-2024)
§ 90.43 MISUSE OF TAG.
   No owner shall permit or allow his or her dog to wear tag or microchip as
provided herein other than the one issued for such dog and for the period of
the license year.
(Ord. 751, passed 3-13-2024)
§ 90.44 REMOVAL OF TAG.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to remove or cause to be removed the
collar, tag or microchip identification from any licensed dog without the
consent of the owner, keeper, or harborer thereof.
(Ord. 751, passed 3-13-2024)
§ 90.45 DUPLICATE TAGS.
   In the event that a license tag issued under the provisions of this
subchapter shall be lost, the owner may obtain a duplicate tag upon proof of
issuance and payment of $10.
(Ord. 751, passed 3-13-2024)
DOGS/CATS
§ 90.46 UNLAWFUL USE OF A DOG OR CAT.
   It shall be unlawful for a person to make use of a dog or cat in the
commission or furtherance of any criminal act in the village.
(Ord. 751, passed 3-13-2024)
§ 90.47 RESTRAINT; DOG.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the owner of any dog within the village to
fail to keep his dog securely restrained or otherwise confined in or upon his
or her premises in an enclosure sufficient to contain the dog.
   (B)   Each animal shall be separately tethered. That no animal shall be
tethered outdoors in excess of 15 minutes at any one time unless an owner,
custodian or person responsible for the animal, 19 years of age or older, is
present in the same yard in which the animal is tethered. The tether shall be
at least five times the length of the animal's body as measured from the tip of
the nose to the base of the tail, terminates at each end with a swivel, weighs
no more than one-eighth of the animal's weight, is free of tangles, prevents
strangulation or injury and prevents the animal from being within 15 feet from
the edge of any public street or sidewalk. Provided, that if the tethering
method is a trolley system, at least 15 feet in length and less than seven feet
above ground, and meets the foregoing tether requirements, the animal may be
tethered outdoors for up to one hour with an owner, custodian or person
responsible for the animal, 19 years of age or older, is in the same yard in
which the animal is tethered.
   (C)   In addition to the sanctions which may be imposed by law, any person
who fails to keep his dog securely restrained or otherwise confined as required
by this section shall pay the following penalties:
      (1)   For the first violation, a penalty in the sum of $100.
      (2)   For the second violation within 24 months of the first violation, a
penalty in the sum of $250.
      (3)   For the third violation within 24 months of the first violation,
and each subsequent violation thereafter, a penalty in the sum of $500.
   (D)   Such penalties shall be paid to the village and shall be used solely
for enforcement activities.
(Ord. 751, passed 3-13-2024)
§ 90.48 DOGS OR CATS DAMAGING PROPERTY OF OTHERS.
   It shall be unlawful for the owner of a dog or cat to allow or permit his or
her dog or cat to damage the property of others or to cause bodily injury. If
the owner is adjudged guilty of a violation of this section, the court may, in
addition to the penalty provided for the violation of this code, order such
disposition or destruction of the offending dog/cat as may seem reasonable and
proper.
(Ord. 751, passed 3-13-2024)
§ 90.49 DANGEROUS AND POTENTIALLY DANGEROUS ANIMALS; GENERALLY.
   (A)   (1)   No person shall own, keep or harbor, or allow to be in or upon
any premises occupied by him or her, or under his or her charge or control, any
dangerous animal or potentially dangerous animal without complying with the
requirements of this chapter regarding dangerous or potentially dangerous
animals.
      (2)   A dangerous animal is defined as one who meets one or more of the
following conditions:
         (a)   Any animal which attacks, snaps at, bites or has a history of
attacking a human being or other domestic animal one or more times, without
provocation;
         (b)   Any animal engaging in or found to have been trained to engage
in exhibitions of fighting; and/or
         (c)   Any animal previously declared a potentially dangerous animal
that bites a human being without provocation.
      (3)   A potentially dangerous animal is defined as one who meets one or
more of the following conditions:
         (a)   Any animal that when unprovoked:
            1.   Inflicts an injury on a human being;
            2.   Injures a domestic animal; or
            3.   Chases or approaches a person, either on public or private
property, in a menacing fashion or apparent attitude of attack.
         (b)   Any specific animal with a known propensity, tendency, or
disposition to attack when unprovoked, to cause injury, or to threaten the
safety of humans or domestic animals.
      (4)   No animal may be declared dangerous or potentially dangerous that
inflicts injury or damage on a person committing a willful trespass or other
tort upon premises occupied by the owner or lessee of the animal, or committing
or attempting to commit a crime. No animal may be declared dangerous or
potentially dangerous for taking any action to defend or protect a human being
within the immediate vicinity of the animal from an unjustified attack or
assault. No animal used in connection with lawful activities of law enforcement
officials shall be declared a dangerous or potentially dangerous animal.
   (B)   The court may, in addition to any other fine or judgment, order the
village to forthwith put the animal to death by removing the same to the animal
shelter for such purpose. Any person found guilty of violating this section
shall pay all expenses, including shelter, food, veterinary expenses for
identification or certification of the animal, boarding and veterinary expenses
necessitated by the seizure of any animal for the protection of the public and
such other expenses as may be required for the destruction of any such animal.
(Ord. 751, passed 3-13-2024)
§ 90.50 JUDICIALLY EXCLUDED ANIMALS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to bring any animal into the village,
which has, in another jurisdiction been judicially or administratively
determined to be dangerous, potentially dangerous, vicious, a nuisance, or a
threat to the health or safety of human beings.
(Ord. 751, passed 3-13-2024)
§ 90.51 IMPOUNDMENT OF CERTAIN ANIMALS DURING ENFORCEMENT PROCEEDINGS.
   (A)   If there is reasonable cause shown that the offending animal may
constitute a hazard to the safety of the public at large during the pendency of
any action commenced thereunder, the court may order such animal or animals
impounded pending the outcome of such proceedings. Any person who owns, keeps,
harbors, maintains, or controls any animal involved in such impoundment shall
pay all expenses, including shelter, food, veterinary expenses, boarding, or
other expenses, necessitated by the impoundment of the animal for the
protection of the public and other expenses as may be required. The village may
require such person to pay, prior to expiration of ten days after the date of
impoundment, an amount sufficient to pay all reasonable expenses incurred in
caring and providing for the animal, including estimated medical care, for 30
days, inclusive of the date on which the animal was impounded. If such payment
is not made prior to expiration of this ten-day period, the animal shall become
the property of the village to be disposed of as the village deems appropriate.
Such payment shall be required for each succeeding 30-day period. If any such
payment is not made prior to the end of each succeeding 30-day period, the
animal shall become the property of the village to be disposed of as the
village deems appropriate. The amount of the payment shall be determined by the
village based on the current rate for board at the animal shelter and the
condition of the animal after examination of the animal by a veterinarian
acting for the village. Any such payment received by the village in excess of
the amount determined by the village to be due for the board and care of the
animal shall be refunded by the village upon expiration of the order of
impoundment. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if the owner or custodian is found
not guilty of animal neglect or cruelty, the owner or custodian shall only be
required to pay the veterinary expenses and one-half of the board and care fees
determined by the village to be due.
   (B)   Notwithstanding the foregoing, if it is determined by a veterinarian
acting for the village that such animal is diseased or disabled beyond any
useful purpose, the animal shall immediately become the property of the village
to be humanely disposed of as the village deems appropriate.
(Ord. 751, passed 3-13-2024)
§ 90.52 DANGEROUS OR POTENTIALLY DANGEROUS ANIMALS; SPAYING OR NEUTERING,
MICROCHIP IDENTIFICATION AND LICENSE REQUIRED.
   Any animal judicially determined to be dangerous or administratively
determined to be potentially dangerous shall be spayed or neutered and
implanted with microchip identification by a licensed veterinarian at the
owner's expense no less than 30 days after such determination is entered with
written proof of spaying or neutering and the microchip identification number
being provided to the village within 72 hours of the procedure being completed.
In addition, such dangerous or potentially dangerous animal shall be required
to be licensed as a dangerous or potentially dangerous dog within 30 days of
the determination.
(Ord. 751, passed 3-13-2024)
§ 90.53 SAME; CLASSES REQUIRED.
   The owner of any animal judicially determined to be dangerous or
administratively determined to be potentially dangerous shall be required to
attend, at the owner's expense, within 90 days after such determination is
entered, a responsible pet ownership class and, at the discretion and direction
of the village, a dog behavior class provided or approved by the village.
(Ord. 751, passed 3-13-2024)
§ 90.54 SAME; WARNING SIGNS REQUIRED.
   (A)   Any property wherein a dangerous animal is kept, harbored or confined
shall be posted with warning signs visible from all areas of public access.
   (B)   The warning signs must:
      (1)   Be no less than ten inches by 12 inches in size;
      (2)   Contain the words “Warning; Dangerous Animal” in high contrast
lettering on a black background in English; and
      (3)   Lettering must be no less than three inches high.
(Ord. 751, passed 3-13-2024)
§ 90.55 CONFINEMENT OF DANGEROUS ANIMALS.
   (A)   No person owning, harboring or having the care of a dangerous animal
shall permit such animal to go unconfined on the premises of such person. A
dangerous animal is unconfined as the term is used in this section if such
animal is not:
      (1)   Confined indoors; or
      (2)   Confined outdoors in an enclosed and locked pen or structure upon
the premises of the person described above; provided the existence of such a
pen or structure is permitted by zoning regulations. Maintenance of a dangerous
animal is not permitted in areas where such structures or pens are not
authorized by zoning regulations.
   (B)   The pen must be constructed with chain link fencing for all four sides
and the top. If the pen or structure has no bottom secured to the sides, the
sides must be imbedded in the ground no less than one foot, or have a concrete
pad for the bottom. The pen or structure shall be set back at least ten feet
from the nearest property line.
(Ord. 751, passed 3-13-2024)
§ 90.56 DANGEROUS OR POTENTIALLY DANGEROUS ANIMALS; LEASH AND HARNESS REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person owning, harboring or having the care of
a dangerous or potentially dangerous animal to permit such animal to go beyond
the property of such person unless the animal is under the control of a person
19 years of age or older and restrained securely by a harness and leash no
longer than six feet to reasonably prevent the animal from biting.
(Ord. 751, passed 3-13-2024)
§ 90.57 DANGEROUS AND POTENTIALLY DANGEROUS ANIMALS; IMPOUNDMENT.
   Any animal that has been determined to be a dangerous animal or a
potentially dangerous animal that, without provocation, bites a human being,
may be immediately impounded by an animal control officer, if in violation of
this chapter. The owner shall be responsible for the reasonable costs incurred
for the care of such impounded dangerous animal.
(Ord. 751, passed 3-13-2024)
§ 90.58 DESTRUCTION OF DANGEROUS ANIMALS AT LARGE.
   In the event that an animal that has been determined to be dangerous as
defined herein is found at large and unattended upon public property, park
property, or a public right-of-way, or upon the property of someone other than
its owner, thereby creating a hazard to person or property, such animal may, in
the discretion of the Chief of Police or authorized designee, be destroyed if
it cannot be confined or captured. The village shall be under no duty to
attempt the confinement or capture of a dangerous animal found at large, nor
shall it have a duty to notify the owner of such animal prior to its
destruction.
(Ord. 751, passed 3-13-2024)
§ 90.59 REGISTRY OF DANGEROUS ANIMAL.
   (A)   The owner of any animal that has been determined to be dangerous, or
previously determined to be dangerous under this chapter shall register such
animal with the village within 30 days of such determination or within 30 days
of enactment of this section if previously determined to be dangerous. Such
registration shall include the following information:
      (1)   The name of the current owner of the animal;
      (2)   The address where the animal is harbored;
      (3)   A description of the animal, including name, breed, sex, and
coloring;
      (4)   The current license number for the animal; and
      (5)   Microchip manufacturer and microchip identification number.
   (B)   At least once per calendar year, the village shall publish in the
local newspaper a list of animals on the above registry, providing the name of
the owner, the address where the animal is harbored, and a description of the
animal including name and breed.
   (C)   Any person who has registered an animal pursuant to this section shall
have a continuing obligation to provide updated registration information to the
village and shall, within 30 days of the sale or transfer of such animal,
provide to the village the date of such sale or transfer, the name of the new
owner, and the address where the animal will be harbored.
(Ord. 751, passed 3-13-2024)
§ 90.60 DETERMINATION OF POTENTIALLY DANGEROUS ANIMAL.
   (A)   The village shall initiate administrative proceedings to determine an
animal to be a potentially dangerous animal if it meets the definition of
potentially dangerous animal, by service of a notice, in writing, upon such
animal's owner either by certified and regular mail to the owner's last-known
address or personally. The notice shall contain:
      (1)   The name and address of the owner whose animal is subject to such
determination;
      (2)   The name, description and license number of the animal who is
subject to such determination;
      (3)   A description of the facts which form the basis of such
determination;
      (4)   A summary of the effects of such determination, and state that
noncompliance will result in an owner being declared a reckless owner by the
animal control village;
      (5)   The date of proposed entry of the determination which shall be not
less than ten days after the date of mailing or personal service of the notice;
and
      (6)   Notification of the availability of an appeal if the owner objects
to such determination, within ten days of the date of mailing or personal
service of the notice.
   (B)   An appeal of such determination order shall be heard by a hearing
officer designated by the village within ten days of the date of the filing of
the notice of appeal, and shall provide an opportunity for the owner to appear
and offer evidence to dispute the determination order. The filing fee for each
notice of appeal shall be $100. A decision to affirm or reverse such order
shall be entered by the hearing officer within ten days of the date of the
hearing.
   (C)   The village will notify the owner of any potentially dangerous animal
that has been involved in no incidents of the type specified herein during the
two years following the date of the determination order, that their dog is no
longer declared a potentially dangerous animal.
(Ord. 751, passed 3-13-2024)
BACKYARD FOWL
§ 90.61 KEEPING OF FOWL.
   Except as permitted herein, it shall be unlawful for any person,
corporation, firm, or other entity, in the capacity of owner, occupant, lessee,
mortgagee, or agent thereof to keep or maintain, within the municipal limits of
the Village of Clarks, Nebraska, any chickens, ducks, geese, turkeys,
pheasants, quail, pigeon, ostriches, or any other similar fowl.
(Ord. 751, passed 3-13-2024)
§ 90.62 LICENSE.
   (A)   Any person who keeps such fowl in the Village of Clarks shall obtain a
license from the village prior to acquiring any fowl. Application shall be made
to Village Hall, and the fee for the license shall be set by resolution.
   (B)   Licenses are valid for the calendar year and shall expire and become
invalid on December 31 at the end of the calendar year after the date of
issuance; prorating the fee is not allowed. A person who wishes to continue
keeping fowl shall have obtained a new license on or before January 1.
Application for a new license shall be pursuant to the administrative
procedures and requirements that are applicable at the time the person applies
for a new license.
(Ord. 751, passed 3-13-2024)
§ 90.63 REQUIREMENTS.
   A person who keeps or houses fowl on his or her property shall comply with
all village requirements.
(Ord. 751, passed 3-13-2024)
§ 90.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person who shall violate or refuses to comply with the enforcement
of any of the provisions of this chapter, set forth at full length herein or
incorporated by reference shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and upon
conviction thereof, shall be fined not more than $500 for each offense. A new
violation shall be deemed to have been committed every 24 hours of such failure
to comply.
(Ord. 751, passed 3-13-2024)
CHAPTER 91: HEALTH AND SANITATION; NUISANCES
Section
General Provisions
   
91.01   Regulation
   
91.02   Enforcement official
   
91.03   County Health Board
Garbage and Refuse Collection
   
91.15   Authority
   
91.16   Notice; removal
   
91.17   Nuisance
   
91.18   Lien
   
91.19   Hazardous items and items requiring special handling or disposal
   
91.20   Liability for charges; proof of proper disposal
Nuisances
   
91.35   Purpose
   
91.36   Definition
   
91.37   Enforcement
   
91.38   Expenses
   
91.39   Abatement services and notice procedure
 
   
91.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Abatement of nuisances, see §
130.58
   Board of Health, see §
32.01
   Code Enforcement Officer, see §
31.14
   Unsafe buildings, see §§
150.15 through
150.21
   Weeds, litter, and stagnant water, see §
130.48
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 91.01 REGULATION.
   For the purpose of promoting the health and safety of the residents of the
village, the Board of Health shall, from time to time, adopt rules and
regulations relative thereto, and shall make such inspections, prescribe such
penalties, and make such reports as may be necessary toward that purpose.
(Prior Code, § 4-101)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-208
§ 91.02 ENFORCEMENT OFFICIAL.
   The Village Marshal, as the Quarantine Officer, shall be the chief health
officer of the village. It shall be his, her, or their duty to notify the
governing body and the Board of Health of health nuisances within the village
and its zoning jurisdiction.
(Prior Code, § 4-102)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-208
§ 91.03 COUNTY HEALTH BOARD.
   It shall be the duty of the Board of Health to work closely with the County
Health Board in protecting the health and welfare of the residents of the
village.
(Prior Code, § 4-103)
GARBAGE AND REFUSE COLLECTION
§ 91.15 AUTHORITY.
   The governing body for the village may provide for the collection and
removal of garbage or refuse found upon any lot or land within its corporate
roads, or alleys abutting such lot or land which constitutes a public nuisance.
The village may require the owner, duly authorized agent, or tenant of such lot
or land to remove the garbage or refuse from such lot or land and streets,
roads, or alleys.
(Prior Code, § 4-301)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 18-1752
§ 91.16 NOTICE; REMOVAL.
   Notice that removal of garbage or refuse is necessary shall be given to each
owner or owner’s duly authorized agent and to the tenant, if any. Such notice
shall be provided by personal service or by certified mail. After providing
such notice, the village through its proper offices shall, in addition to other
proper remedies, remove the garbage or refuse, or cause it to be removed, from
such lot or land and streets, roads, or alleys.
(Prior Code, § 4-302) (Ord. 13-725, passed 5-8-2013)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 18-1752
§ 91.17 NUISANCE.
   If the Chairperson declares that the accumulation of such garbage or refuse
upon any lot or land constitutes an immediate nuisance and hazard to public
health and safety, the village shall remove the garbage or refuse, or cause it
to be removed, from such lot or land within 48 hours after notice by personal
service or following receipt of a certified letter in accordance with §
91.16 if such garbage or refuse has not been removed.
(Prior Code, § 4-303)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 18-1752
§ 91.18 LIEN.
   Whenever a village removes any garbage or refuse, or causes it to be
removed, from any lot or land pursuant to this subchapter, it shall, after a
hearing conducted by the governing board, assess the cost of the removal
against such lot or land.
(Prior Code, § 4-304)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 18-1752
§ 91.19 HAZARDOUS ITEMS AND ITEMS REQUIRING SPECIAL HANDLING OR DISPOSAL.
   (A)   No person shall put out any of the items specified below to be
collected by the municipal solid waste collector for land disposal:
      (1)   Yard waste from April 1 through November 30 of each year unless
such yard waste has been separated from its source and is put out for separate
collection and delivery to the landfill for the purpose of soil conditioning or
composting under the conditions otherwise specified;
      (2)   Lead-acid batteries;
      (3)   Waste oil;
      (4)   Waste tires in any form except tires that are non-recyclable. Tires
are not considered disposed if they meet the requirements of Neb. RS 13-2039;
      (5)   Discarded household appliances; or
      (6)   Unregulated hazardous wastes, except household hazardous wastes,
which are exempt from the regulations under the Environmental Protection Act,
being Neb. RS 81-1532 et seq.
   (B)   Any such items shall be disposed of only as permitted under the State
Integrated Solid Waste Management Act, being Neb. RS 13-2001 et seq. or any
amendments thereof.
   (C)   For purposes of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      LAND DISPOSAL. Includes, but is not limited to, incineration at a
landfill.
      NON-RECYCLABLE TIRE. A press-on solid tire, a solid pneumatic shaped
tire, or a foam pneumatic tire.
      WASTE TIRE. A tire that is no longer suitable for its original intended
purpose because of wear, damage, or defect.
      YARD WASTE. Grass and leaves.
(Prior Code, § 4-305) (Ord. 466, passed 6-7-1995; Ord. 678, passed 3-10-2004)
Penalty, see §
91.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 13-2013.02, 13-2016.01, and 13-2039
§ 91.20 LIABILITY FOR CHARGES; PROOF OF PROPER DISPOSAL.
   (A)   The governing body has separately established charges to be paid to it
by each person whose premises are served by the municipal solid waste
collection system. For purposes of such charges, a person’s premises are deemed
to be served by the municipal solid waste collection system and the owner and
occupant of the premises shall be deemed served and therefore liable for the
charges unless the owner or occupant proves to the governing body that:
      (1)   The premises are unoccupied; or
      (2)   The solid waste generated at the premises during the applicable
billing period was lawfully collected and hauled to a permitted facility or was
otherwise disposed of in conformance with all applicable laws, regulations, and
ordinances.
   (B)   Proof of proper disposal during the applicable billing period may be
provided by means of any of the following:
      (1)   A billing receipt or other statement from a duly permitted solid
waste hauling service for collection of solid waste at the premises during the
applicable billing period;
      (2)   A billing receipt or register tab from a duly permitted transfer
station or disposal facility or landfill for solid waste received during the
applicable billing period; or
      (3)   Such other documentation of proper disposal as may be acceptable to
the governing body.
(Prior Code, § 4-306) (Ord. 579, passed 7-14-1999)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 13-2020
NUISANCES
§ 91.35 PURPOSE.
   The village, by this subchapter, defines its authority to define, regulate,
suppress, and prevent nuisances, and to declare what shall be a nuisance for
its jurisdiction and to provide services to abate same for the health and
sanitation of the village.
(Ord. 731, passed 4-13-2016)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 18-1720
§ 91.36 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   NUISANCE.
      (1)   A NUISANCE consists in doing any unlawful act, or omitting to
perform a duty, or suffering or permitting any condition or thing to be or
exist, which act, omission, condition, or thing:
         (a)   Injures or endangers the comfort, repose, health, or safety of
others;
         (b)   Offends decency;
         (c)   Is offensive to the senses;
         (d)   Unlawfully interferes with, obstructs, tends to obstruct, or
renders dangerous for passage any stream, public park, parkway, square, street,
or highway in the village;
         (e)   In any way renders other persons insecure in life or the use of
property;
         (f)   Essentially interferes with the comfortable enjoyment of life
and property; or
         (g)   Tends to depreciate the value of the property of others.
      (2)   NUISANCE includes, but is not limited to, the maintaining, using,
placing, depositing, leaving, or permitting of any of the following specific
acts, omissions, places, conditions, and things of:
         (a)   Any odorous, putrid, unsound, or unwholesome grain, meat, hides,
skins, feathers, vegetable matter, or the whole or any part of any dead animal,
fish, or fowl;
         (b)   The emission of smoke, dust, fumes, gases, mists, odors, or
polluted air from any source that is injurious or dangerous to human health and
safety;
         (c)   Privies, vaults, cesspools, dumps, pits, or like places which
are not securely protected from flies or rats or other insects and rodents, or
which are foul or malodorous;
         (d)   Filthy, littered, or trash-covered cellars, house yards,
barnyards, stable-yards, factory yards, mill yards, vacant areas in the rear of
stores, granaries, vacant lots, houses, buildings, or premises;
         (e)   Dead animals or dead animals buried within the corporate limits;
         (f)   Animal manure in any quantity which is not securely protected
from flies and the elements, or which is kept or handled in violation of any
ordinance of the village;
         (g)   Hauling any garbage, waste, or refuse matter through the
streets, alleys, and public ways except when the same is loaded and conveyed in
such a way when none of the contents shall be spilled;
         (h)   Liquid household waste, human excreta, garbage, butcher’s
trimmings and offal, parts of fish, or any waste vegetable or animal matter in
any quantity. Nothing herein contained shall prevent the temporary retention of
waste in receptacles nor the dumping of non-putrefying waste in a place and
manner approved by the approved by the municipality;
         (i)   Tin cans, bottles, glass, cans, ashes, small pieces of scrap
iron, wire metal articles, bric-a-brac, broken stone or cement, broken
crockery, broken glass, broken plaster, and all trash or abandoned material,
unless the same be kept in covered bins or galvanized iron receptacles;
         (j)   Trash, litter, rags, accumulations of barrels, boxes, crates,
packing crates, mattresses, bedding, excelsior, packing hay, straw or other
packing material, lumber not neatly piled, scrap iron, tin or other metal not
neatly piled, old automobiles or parts thereof, or any other waste materials
when any of the articles or materials create a condition in which flies or rats
or other insects or rodents may breed or multiply, or which may be a fire
danger, or which are so unsightly as to depreciate property values in the
vicinity;
         (k)   Any unsafe building, unsightly building, billboard, or other
structure, or any old, abandoned or partially destroyed building or structure
or any building or structure commenced and left unfinished, which buildings,
billboards, or other structures are a fire hazard, or a menace to the public
health or safety, or are so unsightly as to depreciate the value of property in
the vicinity;
         (l)   All places used or maintained as junk yards, or dumping grounds,
or for the wrecking and dissembling of automobiles, trucks, tractors, or
machinery of any kind, or for the storing or leaving of worn-out, wrecked, or
abandoned automobiles, trucks, tractors, or machinery of any kind, or of any of
the parts thereof, or for the storing or leaving of any machinery or equipment
used by contractors or builders or by other persons, which places are kept or
maintained so as to essentially interfere with the comfortable enjoyment of
life or property by others, or which are so unsightly as to tend to depreciate
property values in the vicinity thereof;
         (m)   Stockyards, granaries, mills, pig pens, cattle pens, chicken
pens, or any other place, building, or enclosure, in which animals or fowls of
any kind are confined or on which are stored tankage or any other animal or
vegetable matter, or on which any animal or vegetable matter including grain is
being processed, when the places in which the animals are confined, or the
premises on which the vegetable or animal matter is located, are maintained and
kept in such a manner that foul and noxious odors are permitted to emanate
therefrom to the annoyance of inhabitants of the village, or are maintained and
kept in such a manner as to be injurious to the public health;
         (n)   Dead or diseased trees within the right-of-way of streets within
the corporate limits of the village, or on private property within the one-mile
zoning jurisdiction beyond the corporate limits (Neb. RS 17-555);
         (o)   Undrained lots which hold or may hold stagnant water or any
other nuisance;
         (p)   Any condition which allows the perpetuating of insects and
rodents;
         (q)   Storage, accumulation, keeping, placing, or allowing to remain
trash, garbage, scrap and wrecked, worn-out, broken or inoperative, or
partially destroyed or disassembled personal or real property of any kind,
including any junk or abandoned motor vehicles, tractors, trailers, machinery,
and equipment;
         (r)   Any vehicle which is not properly registered, or is inoperable,
wrecked, junked, or partially dismantled and remaining longer than 30 days on
private property. This does not apply to a vehicle in an enclosed building, a
vehicle on the premises of a business enterprise operated in a lawful place and
manner, when necessary to the lawful operation of such business enterprise
(such as a licensed salvage dealer, motor vehicle dealer, or farm implement
dealer), or a vehicle in an appropriate storage place or depository maintained
in a lawful place and manner, and so long as the premises which said vehicle is
located is not a nuisance and is maintained in a healthful and safe condition.
VEHICLE means the same as defined by Neb. RS 60-136: a motor vehicle, all-
terrain vehicle, minibike, trailer, or semitrailer. PROPERLY REGISTERED means
as required by state statutes;
         (s)   Lots, pieces of ground, and the adjoining streets and alleys
with growth of weeds or noxious growth; and
         (t)   All other things specifically designated as nuisances elsewhere
in this code of ordinances.
(Ord. 731, passed 4-13-2016) Penalty, see §
91.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 18-1720
§ 91.37 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   The nuisance, health, and/or sanitation violation is brought to the
governing body by the Village Nuisance Officer, or the Board of Health or upon
the governing body’s own action. The governing body then may declare by
resolution a nuisance, health, and/or sanitation violation. The nuisance,
health, and/or sanitation ordinances may be enforced by:
      (1)   Village administrative procedures;
      (2)   Penal prosecutions through the courts; and/or
      (3)   By civil procedures in the courts.
   (B)   Any of the following procedures, or any combination of these
procedures, may be used to enforce the nuisance, health and/or sanitation
ordinances of the village.
      (1)   Administrative procedure. The village may proceed with abatement of
the nuisance, sanitation, and/or health violation with or without court
involvement after the following procedure is followed.
         (a)   After a nuisance is declared, the Village Clerk notifies the
Nuisance Officer to serve notice upon the violator(s).
         (b)   The Nuisance Officer shall prepare and serve notice which shall
describe the found nuisance and state the required date of abatement and
removal of the nuisance shall be accomplished. The notice shall also provide
information as to how the interested parties may request a hearing before the
governing body described in division (B)(1)(d) below.
         (c)   The notice shall be given to each owner or owner’s duly
authorized agent and to the occupant, if any, by personal service or certified
mail. If notice by personal service or certified mail is unsuccessful, said
notice shall be given by a single publication in a newspaper of general
circulation in the village or county of the village, and by conspicuously
posting the notice on the lot or ground upon which the nuisance is to be abated
and removed. The date of service is determined by the later of certified mail
receipt, personal service, or publication date.
         (d)   The accused violator (the owner, agent, or occupant) may request
in writing a hearing before the governing body of the village within five days
after notice of violation is served or published. For tree nuisance violations,
the period for requesting a hearing is extended to 30 days after service.
         (e)   If no request for a hearing is received in the required time
period, the governing body may cause a hearing to be held. This option is at
the sole discretion of the governing body to be used in exceptional cases.
         (f)   If a hearing is requested, the Village Clerk shall fix a date of
said hearing to be no later than 15 days from receipt of the request for the
hearing. Notice of said hearing and with the date and time shall be served upon
the agent, owner, and occupant of the nuisance property by certified and
regular mail.
         (g)   The hearing shall be a “show cause” hearing in which the agent,
owner, occupant of the nuisance property (objecting property) shall provide
evidence why the alleged condition should not be found to be a public nuisance
and remedied. This hearing shall be heard before a quorum of the governing
body. The presiding official of the governing body may conduct the hearing, or
said presiding official may appoint another person as the hearing officer to
conduct the hearing (said hearing officer may be the Village Attorney or the
enforcement officer). At the hearing, the hearing officer shall mark and
receive evidence which was presented when the finding of a nuisance was made,
relevant evidence of the nuisance since that time, and evidence that the
notices were properly given. The objecting party shall then provide its
evidence. The rules of evidence are not required at said hearing, but all
evidence must be relevant to the particular nuisance being heard. Testimony
shall be under oath as administered by the hearing officer, or any person so
designated by the hearing officer, and the person providing the testimony is
subject to the laws of perjury. Evidence may be submitted in writing by
affidavit.
         (h)   No later than 14 days after the hearing and consideration of the
evidence, the governing board may by majority vote rescind the resolution of
violation. If the resolution of violation is not rescinded, it shall stand.
Furthermore, if the objector or its designated agent fails to appear at the
hearing or does not provide evidence, the nuisance shall stand. If the
resolution is not rescinded, the governing board may, by resolution, extend the
date that owner, occupant, lessee, or mortgagee shall abate and remedy the said
public nuisance, but in no case shall this time exceed 60 days. The findings of
the governing board shall be made no later than 14 days after the hearing and
notice of its finding shall be served upon the objecting party by regular
United States mail within five days of the finding. The finding of this hearing
is final, provided that an interested party or parties may appeal such decision
to the appropriate court for adjudication.
         (i)   If the Nuisance Officer determines the nuisance is not remedied
and abated within the time period designated, the village shall cause the
abatement of the nuisance.
         (j)   If an interested party properly appeals to an appropriate court
the findings and orders of the village, the village actions shall be stayed
during until such time that the legal proceedings are completed or dismissed.
In cases of appeal from an action of the village condemning real property as a
nuisance or as dangerous under the police powers of the village, the owners of
the adjoining property may intervene in the action at any time before trial.
      (2)   Penal court enforcement procedure. If the declared nuisance,
health, and/or sanitation violations are not abated within 15 days that the
notice is served upon the owner and/or occupant, and the Village Clerk has not
received a request for hearing, the Nuisance Officer may cause issue of a
citation for the code violation.
         (a)   The citation shall be prosecuted to the appropriate court by the
Village Attorney or other designated prosecutor for the village.
         (b)   A person or persons found guilty of these violations shall be
guilty of a misdemeanor and fined up to $500 per each offense.
         (c)   Each day that the nuisance as identified in the nuisance
resolution and notice, is not abated shall be a separate offense and subject to
a separate fine.
      (2)   Civil court procedure. The governing board may instruct by
resolution the Village Attorney to file a civil action for the abatement of a
nuisance. Said civil suit may commence after 15 days’ notice has been served as
stated in §
91.39, and may be filed and prosecuted at the same time any other enforcement
procedure has commenced, terminated, or in progress.
(Ord. 731, passed 4-13-2016) Penalty, see §
91.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 19-710
§ 91.38 EXPENSES.
   (A)   When the village has effected the abatement of the nuisance, health
and/or sanitation violation through either village employees or through
contract with a third party and has incurred expenses and costs thereof, the
actual cost thereof shall be charged to the owner, agent, occupant or person in
possession, charge or control of such property. The billing shall be calculated
at the actual cost of abating the nuisance plus a $25 administrative fee.
   (B)   This billing shall be submitted to the last known address of the owner
of the nuisance property as found in the County Treasurer’s office, by regular
United States Mail.
   (C)   If said costs are not paid within two months after the work is done
and one month after the expenses and costs are submitted to the owner and/or
occupant, the village may levy and assess the expenses and costs upon the real
estate benefitted by the actions in the same manner as other special
assessments are levied and assessed, and the village may collect said
assessments in the same procedure as other special assessments are collected.
The village may also recover said expenses and costs of abating the nuisance,
health, and/or sanitation violation(s) in a civil action in the courts of the
appropriate county in the state.
(Ord. 731, passed 4-13-2016) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.39 ABATEMENT SERVICES AND NOTICE PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Nuisance officer. The village shall appoint an individual or
organization to identify and enforce abatement of nuisances within the village.
Said individual or organization shall be identified as the “Nuisance Officer”
and said appointment shall be identified by resolution of the village.
   (B)   Identifying nuisances.
      (1)   The village may identify suspected nuisances, in which case the
Village Clerk shall, upon direction of the Village Council, notify Nuisance
Officer of the suspected location, person or persons in violation of any
provision of this chapter, and provide the address of such alleged nuisance.
      (2)   The village may request that the Nuisance Officer audit the village
for nuisances in the village as defined by the Village Code. The Nuisance
Officer shall then view the property or area for any violations of the
nuisances of the village. Nuisance Officer shall not go upon private property
for said audit unless granted permission by the resident/owner of suspected
property.
   (C)   Confirming, documenting, and presenting nuisances. The Nuisance
Officer shall identify and confirm that, in his, her, or their opinion, a
nuisance exists as defined by federal, state, or village law.
      (1)   Upon confirming that a nuisance appears to exist, the Nuisance
Officer shall document said nuisance with photographs and other evidence
pertinent to the situation. The Nuisance Officer will also obtain the legal
description of the property and identify the current owners and, if possible,
the occupants of the property upon which the nuisance exists.
      (2)   The Nuisance Officer shall then present this information to the
village’s governing board at a regular or special meeting for its confirmation
that a nuisance exists as stated in §
91.37.
(Ord. 731, passed 4-13-2016)
§ 91.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   (1)   Any person who shall violate or refuse to comply with the
enforcement of any of the provisions of this chapter, set forth at full length
herein, or incorporated by reference shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor
and upon conviction thereof, shall be fined not more than $500 for each
offense. A new violation shall be deemed to have been committed every 24 hours
of such failure to comply. Whenever a nuisance exists as defined in this
chapter, the village may proceed by a suit in equity to enjoin and abate the
same, in the manner provided by law.
      (2)   Whenever, in any action, it is established that a nuisance exists,
the court may together with the fine or penalty imposed, enter an order of
abatement as part of the judgment in the case.
(Prior Code, § 4-401)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 18-1720 and 18-1722
CHAPTER 92: SIDEWALKS AND STREETS
Section
Sidewalks
   
92.01   Overhanging branches
   
92.02   Kept clean
   
92.03   Beneath
   
92.04   Repair
   
92.05   Construction by owner
   
92.06   Municipal construction
   
92.07   Construction bids
Streets
   
92.20   Names and numbers
   
92.21   Crossings
   
92.22   Opening, widening, improving, or vacating streets and alleys
   
92.23   Excavation
   
92.24   Driving stakes
   
92.25   Mixing concrete
   
92.26   Harmful liquids
   
92.27   Eave and gutter spouts
   
92.28   Heavy equipment
   
92.29   Pipe lines and wires
   
92.30   Construction assessment
   
92.31   Improvement of streets on corporate limits
   
92.32   Driveway approaches
   
92.33   Vacating public ways
   
92.34   Deferral from special assessments
   
92.35   Curb and gutter
 
   
92.99   Penalty
SIDEWALKS
§ 92.01 OVERHANGING BRANCHES.
   The owner or occupant of any lot, piece, or parcel of ground abutting or
adjacent to any sidewalk over which there extends the branches of trees shall
at all times keep the branches or limbs thereof trimmed to the height of at
least eight feet above the surface of said walk. Whenever the limbs or branches
of any tree or trees extend over sidewalks contrary to the provisions herein so
as to interfere with the lighting of the street from street lights, or with the
convenience of the public using said sidewalk, the governing body at any
regular or special meeting may pass a resolution ordering the owner or occupant
to cut or remove said obstructions within five days after having received a
copy thereof from the Street Superintendent stating that the village will
remove said branches and charge the costs thereof to the owner or occupant as a
special assessment for improvements as herein provided, if said resolution is
not complied with. In the event the property owner is a non-resident of the
county in which the property lies, the village shall, before levying any
special assessment against that property, send a copy of any notice required by
law to be published by means of certified mail, return receipt requested to the
last known address of the non-resident property owner. The last known address
shall be that address listed on the current tax rolls at the time such required
notice was first published.
(Prior Code, § 8-201) Penalty, see §
92.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-557.01
§ 92.02 KEPT CLEAN.
   It shall be unlawful for the occupant of any lot or lots or the owner of any
vacant lot or lots within the corporate limits to allow snow, sleet, mud, ice
or other substance to accumulate on the sidewalks or to permit any snow, sleet,
ice, mud or other substance to remain upon said sidewalk. All sidewalks within
the business district shall be cleaned within five hours after the cessation of
a storm, unless the storm or fall of snow shall have taken place during the
night, in which case the sidewalk shall be cleaned before 9:00 a.m. the
following day; provided, sidewalks within the residential areas of the village
shall be cleaned within 24 hours after the cessation of the storm.
(Prior Code, § 8-202) Penalty, see §
92.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-557
§ 92.03 BENEATH.
   (A)   No person shall be allowed to keep or use the space beneath the
sidewalk lying between lot line and curb line unless a permit therefor shall
have been obtained from the governing body. Before any permit shall be granted,
the applicant for said permit shall submit plans and specifications of any
present or proposed construction to the Street Superintendent. Should such
plans or specifications be disapproved by him, her, or them, no permit shall be
granted therefor.
   (B)   All permits hereafter granted shall continue only upon the condition
that the party receiving the same shall build, maintain, and keep in repair a
sidewalk over such space used or constructed to be used and pay all damages
that may be sustained by any person by reason of such use or by reason of said
sidewalk being defective or in a dangerous condition.
   (C)   As a condition precedent to the issuance of continuance of any permit
for the use of any space underneath the municipal sidewalks as herein
contemplated, the governing body may require applicant to furnish a bond to the
village as obligee for the benefit of any person or person who may suffer any
damage or damages by reason of such use. The bond shall be in such sum as the
governing body, in its discretion, may designate.
(Prior Code, § 8-203) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.04 REPAIR.
   (A)   The governing body may, by resolution, order the repair of a sidewalk
on any lot or piece of ground within the village and may assess the expense
thereof on the property in front of which such repairs are made, after having
given notice of its intention to do so:
      (1)   By publication in one issue of a legal newspaper of general
circulation in the village; and
      (2)   By either causing a written notice to be served upon the occupant
in possession of the property involved or to be posted upon such premises ten
days prior to the commencement of such repair.
   (B)   The notice shall:
      (1)   State that the governing body has ordered repair of the sidewalk;
      (2)   Contain the village’s estimate of the cost of the repair;
      (3)   Notify the property owner that he, she, or they may, within ten
days after the date of publication of the notice, notify the village that he,
she, or they will repair the sidewalk within 30 days after such date of
publication; and
      (4)   Notify the property owner that if he, she, or they fails to so
notify the village within the ten days or, having so notified the village,
fails to repair the sidewalk within the 30 days, the village will cause the
sidewalk to be repaired and the expense thereof to be assessed against the
property.
   (C)   (1)   Before the village imposes any special assessments for sidewalk
repair, a copy of the notice that is required to be published shall be mailed
to the last-known address of all non-resident property owners as shown on the
current tax rolls at the time such notice is first published.
      (2)   The Village Clerk shall mail the notice by certified mail with
return receipt requested.
      (3)   For purposes of this division, non-resident property owner means
any person or corporation whose residence and mailing address as shown on the
current tax rolls is outside the boundaries of the county in which the property
subject to assessment is located and who is a record owner of the property.
   (D)   All sidewalks shall be repaired in conformity with such plans and
specifications as may be approved by the governing body.
   (E)   Assessments made under this section shall be made and assessed in the
manner provided in Neb. RS 17-524.
(Prior Code, § 8-205) (Ord. 692, passed 3-9-2005) Penalty, see §
92.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 13-310, 13-312, 13-314, 17-522, and 17-524
§ 92.05 CONSTRUCTION BY OWNER.
   (A)   Any person desiring to construct, or cause to be constructed, any
sidewalk shall do so only as herein provided. It shall be unlawful for any
person to construct any sidewalk without first having obtained a permit.
   (B)   Said owner shall make application in writing for a permit and file
such application in the office of the Village Clerk. The permit shall give a
description of the lot, or piece of land along which the sidewalk is to be
constructed. The official in charge of sidewalks shall issue the desired permit
unless good cause shall appear why said permit should be denies; provided, if
it is desired to construct the sidewalk at any other than the regularly
prescribed location, grade, or elevation, the municipal official in charge of
sidewalks shall submit the application to the governing body, who shall
determine whether the permit should be granted or denied, It shall be unlawful
for any person to construct, or cause to be constructed, said sidewalk at any
other location, grade or elevation than so designated by the village. All
sidewalks shall be built and constructed on the established grade or elevation,
and if there is no established grade, then on the grade or elevation indicated
by the municipal official in charge of sidewalks.
(Prior Code, § 8-206) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.06 MUNICIPAL CONSTRUCTION.
   (A)   The governing body may, by resolution, order the construction of a
sidewalk on any lot or piece of ground within the village. Notice of the
governing body’s intention to construct said sidewalk shall be given by the
Village Clerk by publication of notice one time in a legal newspaper of general
circulation in the village. A copy of said notice shall be personally served
upon the occupant in possession of such property, or, when personal service is
not possible, said notice shall be posted upon such premises ten days prior to
the commencement of construction. The notice required in this section shall be
prepared by the Village Attorney in accordance with the provisions of this
section. Such service shall include a form of return evidencing personal
service or posting as herein required.
   (B)   Said notice shall notify the owner of the premises of the passage of
the resolution ordering him, her, or them to construct or case to be
constructed a sidewalk within 30 days after the date of publication and further
that if he, she, or they fails to construct the sidewalk or cause the same to
be done within the time allowed, the village will cause the sidewalk to be
constructed and the cost thereof shall be levied and assessed as a special tax
against the premises; provided, the notice shall contain the official estimate
of the cost of said construction and no special assessment in excess of this
estimate shall be assessed against the property. In the event the property
owner is a non-resident of the county in which the property lies, the village
shall, before levying any special assessment against that property, send a copy
of any notice required by law to be published by means of certified mail,
return receipt requested to the last known address of the non-resident property
owner. The last known address shall be that address listed on the current tax
rolls at the time such required notice was first published.
(Prior Code, § 8-207) Penalty, see §
92.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-522 and 17-523
§ 92.07 CONSTRUCTION BIDS.
   (A)   Whenever the village shall construct, widen, replace, or reconstruct
any sidewalk, notice prepared by the Village Attorney, specifying the work to
be done and calling for bids for doing such work and supplying the necessary
materials and labor shall be published in at least one issue of a legal
newspaper of general circulation in the village; provided, bids so invited
shall be filed in the office of the Village Clerk within ten days after the
date of publication.
   (B)   Bids shall be opened at the next regular or special meeting of the
governing body, and the governing body shall then award the work to the lowest
responsible bidder.
   (C)   Upon approval of the work, the governing body may require the
contractor to accept payment in certificates issued to him, her, or them by the
Village Clerk entitling him, her, or them to all assessments or special taxes
against such real estate, whenever such assessments or special taxes shall be
collected together with the interest or penalty collected thereon.
   (D)   Each certificate shall give the legal description of the lot, lots, or
parcel of ground against which the assessments or special taxes are assessed.
   (E)   Such certificate or certificates may be assigned and transferred,
entitling the holder to the same rights as if held by the original contractor.
   (F)   The County Treasurer shall pay over to such contractor or other holder
of the certificate or certificates all assessments or special taxes against
such real estate, together with the interest and penalty thereon, at any time
upon presentation of such certificate or certificates after said assessments or
special taxes against such real estate together with interest or penalty
thereon shall have been collected.
(Prior Code, § 8-208)
STREETS
§ 92.20 NAMES AND NUMBERS.
   The governing body may at any time, by ordinance, rename any street or
provide a name for any new street. Buildings used for residence or business
purposes and located along such streets shall retain such numbers as the
governing body may require. It shall be the duty of the municipal official in
charge of streets, upon the erection of any new building or buildings to assign
the property numbers to said building or buildings and give notice to the owner
or owners and occupant or occupants of the same.
(Prior Code, § 8-301)
§ 92.21 CROSSINGS.
   The governing body may order and cause to be constructed, under the
supervision of the municipal official in charge of streets, such street,
avenue, and alley crossings as the governing body shall deem necessary. When a
petition for the construction of any such crossings is filed by an interested
resident in the office of the Village Clerk, said Village Clerk shall refer
such application to the Street Superintendent who shall investigate and make
his, her, or their recommendation to the governing body. Action by the
governing body on such application, whether the application is approved or
rejected, shall be considered final.
(Prior Code, § 8-302)
§ 92.22 OPENING, WIDENING, IMPROVING, OR VACATING STREETS AND ALLEYS.
   (A)   The village shall have power to open, widen, or otherwise improve or
vacate any street, avenue, alley, or lane within the limits of the village and
also to create, open, and improve any new street, avenue, alley, or lane. All
damages sustained by the citizens of the village, or by the owners of the
property therein, shall be ascertained in such manner as shall be provided by
ordinance. Whenever any street or alley is vacated, the same shall revert to
the owners of the abutting real estate, one-half on each side thereof and
become a part of such property. When a portion of a street, avenue, alley, or
lane is vacated only on one side of the center thereof, the title to such land
shall vest in the owner of the abutting property and become a part of such
property. When the village vacates all or any portion of a street, avenue,
alley, or lane, the village shall, within 30 days after the effective date of
the vacation, file a certified copy of the vacating ordinance with the Register
of Deeds for the county in which the vacated property is located to be indexed
against all affected lots.
   (B)   The village shall have power to create, open, widen, or extend any
street, avenue, alley, off-street parking area, or other public way, or annul,
vacate, or discontinue the same.
(Prior Code, § 8-303) (Ord. 632, passed 6-12-2002)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-558 and 17-559
§ 92.23 EXCAVATION.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to make an excavation in any street or
streets for any purpose whatsoever unless a written permit is issued by the
Street Superintendent authorizing such excavations.
(Prior Code, § 8-304) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.24 DRIVING STAKES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to drive any peg or stake of any kind
into the pavement in any street or alley without first procuring the written
consent of the Street Superintendent.
(Prior Code, § 8-305) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.25 MIXING CONCRETE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to mix any concrete or plastering
material directly on the street pavement for any reason whatsoever.
(Prior Code, § 8-306) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.26 HARMFUL LIQUIDS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to place or permit to leak in the gutter
of any street, waste gasoline, kerosene, or high lubricating oils, which damage
or act as a solvent upon said streets.
(Prior Code, § 8-307) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.27 EAVE AND GUTTER SPOUTS.
   It is hereby declared unlawful for any person to erect or maintain any
dwelling house or business building within the limits of the village where the
said dwelling or building abuts on any sidewalk or street without providing
proper guttering and eave spouts to receive the waste waters that collect on
the said sidewalks and streets. All eave spouts erected on any dwelling house
or business building shall be constructed to drain into the alleys, or shall be
buried beneath the sidewalks and drain into the streets where it is found to be
impossible to drain said eave spouts into the alley.
(Prior Code, § 8-308) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.28 HEAVY EQUIPMENT.
   It shall hereafter be unlawful for any person or persons to move or operate
heavy equipment across any curb, gutter, bridge, culvert, sidewalk, crosswalk,
or crossing on any unpaved street without first having protected such curb,
gutter, bridge, culvert, sidewalk, crosswalk, or crossing with heavy plank
sufficient in strength to warrant against the breaking or damaging of such
curb, gutter, bridge, culvert, sidewalk, crosswalk, or crossing. Hereafter, it
shall be unlawful to run, drive, move, operate, or convey over or across any
paved street a vehicle, machine, or implement with sharp discs or sharp wheels
that bear upon said pavements; with wheels having cutting edges; with wheels
having lugs, any protruding parts or bolts thereon that extend beyond a plain
tire so as to cut, mark, mar, or otherwise injure or damage any pavement,
gutter, or curb; provided, where heavy vehicles, structures, and machines move
along paved or unpaved streets, the Street Superintendent is hereby authorized
and empowered to choose the route over which the moving of such vehicles,
structures, or machines will be permitted and allowed. Nothing in this section
shall be construed to apply to pneumatic tires with metal or metal-type studs
not exceeding five-sixteenths of an inch in diameter inclusive of the stud-
casting with an average protrusion beyond the tread surface of not more than
seven-sixty-fourths of an inch between October 1 and April 15; provided, that
school buses and emergency vehicles shall be permitted to use metal or metal-
type suds all year; it shall be permissible to use farm machinery with tires
having protuberances which will no injure the streets; and it shall be
permissible to use tire chains of reasonable proportions upon any vehicle when
required for safety because of snow, ice, or other condition tending to cause a
vehicle to slide.
(Prior Code, § 8-309) Penalty, see §
92.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 60-6,250
§ 92.29 PIPE LINES AND WIRES.
   (A)   Poles, wires, gas mains, pipe lines, and other appurtenances of public
service companies shall be located, or erected over, upon, or under the
streets, alleys, and common grounds of the village. Application for location of
the above shall be made to the governing body in writing. Approval by that body
shall be issued in writing.
   (B)   Any public service company granted a right-of-way for the erection and
maintenance of poles, conduits, gas mains, pipe lines, and wires shall at all
times erect and locate their poles, wires, gas mains, pipe lines, and other
appurtenances at such places and in such manner as shall be designated by the
governing body. Such poles, wires, gas mains, pipe lines, and other
appurtenances, shall be removed or relocated by said companies at their own
expense when requested to do so by the governing body. Any such relocation
shall be ordered by resolution of the governing body and the Village Clerk
shall notify any and all companies affected. Said companies shall, within 24
hours after receiving notice, at their own expense, cause the poles, wires, gas
mains, pipe lines, or other appurtenances to be removed. The governing body
shall designate another location as closely as possible where said poles,
wires, gas mains, pipe lines, or other appurtenances, may be reset or placed.
   (C)   All poles, wires, gas mains, pipe lines, or other appurtenances, shall
be reset, placed, or erected in such a manner that they will not interfere with
the water system; sewerage system; poles, wires, and mains of any public
utility; adjacent buildings; or with travel on the public ways and property.
Whenever possible, all pole lines, wires, gas mains, pipe lines, or
appurtenances shall be confined to the alleys of the village.
(Prior Code, § 8-310) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.30 CONSTRUCTION ASSESSMENT.
   (A)   To defray the costs and expenses of street improvements, as may be
authorized by law, the governing body shall have power and authority to levy
and collect special taxes and assessments upon the lots and pieces of ground
adjacent to, abutting upon, or especially benefiting from, the street, avenue,
alley, or sidewalk in whole or in part opened, widened, curbed, curbed and
guttered, graded, paved, repaired, graveled, macadamized, parked, extended,
constructed, or otherwise improved or repaired.
   (B)   The governing body sitting as the Board of Equalization shall review
all such improvements in accordance with the procedure provided by law. All
special assessments shall be made by the governing body at a regular or special
meeting by resolution, taking into account the benefits derived or injuries
sustained in consequence of such improvements and the amount charged against
same. The vote shall be recorded in the minutes. Notice of the time of holding
such meeting and the purpose for which it is to be held shall be published in
some legal newspaper published, or of general circulation, in the village at
least four weeks before the same shall be held. In lieu of such aforementioned
notice, personal service may be had upon the persons owning or occupying the
property to be assessed. Such assessments shall be known as “special
assessments for improvements,” and with the cost of notice shall be levied and
collected as a special tax in addition to the taxes for general revenue
purposes, subject to the same penalties and collected in like manner as other
municipal taxes and shall be certified to the County Clerk by the Village Clerk
forthwith after the date of levy, for collection by the Treasurer of said
county unless otherwise specified. After it shall become delinquent, said
assessment shall draw interest at the legal interest rate per annum.
   (C)   In the event the property owner is a non-resident of the county in
which the property lies, the village shall, before levying any special
assessment against that property, send a copy of any notice required by law to
be published by means of certified mail, return receipt requested to the last
known address of the non-resident property owner. The last known address shall
be that address listed on the current tax rolls at the time such required
notice was first published.
(Prior Code, § 8-311)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-511 and 17-524
§ 92.31 IMPROVEMENT OF STREETS ON CORPORATE LIMITS.
   The Chairperson and Board of Trustees shall have the power to improve any
street or part thereof which divides the municipal corporate area and the area
adjoining the village. When creating an improvement district including land
adjacent to the village, the Board of Trustees shall have power to assess, to
the extent of special benefits, the costs of such improvements upon the
properties found especially benefited thereby.
(Prior Code, § 8-312) (Ord. 347, passed 1-4-1983)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-509
§ 92.32 DRIVEWAY APPROACHES.
   (A)   The Street Superintendent may require the owner of property served by
a driveway approach constructed or maintained upon the street right-of-way to
repair or replace any such driveway approach which is cracked, broken, or
otherwise deteriorated to the extent that it is causing or is likely to cause
damage to or interfere with any street structure including pavement or
sidewalks.
   (B)   The Village Clerk shall give the property owner notice by registered
letter or certified mail, directed to the last-known address of such owner or
the agent of such owner, directing the repair or replacement of such driveway
approach. If within 30 days of mailing such notice the property owner fails or
neglects to cause such repairs or replacements to be made, the Street
Superintendent may cause such work to be done and assess the cost upon the
property served by such approach.
(Prior Code, § 8-313) (Ord. 363, passed 12-4-1984)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 18-1748
§ 92.33 VACATING PUBLIC WAYS.
   Whenever the governing body decides that it would be in the best interests
of the village to vacate a street, avenue, alley, lane, or similar public way,
the governing body shall comply with the following procedure.
   (A)   Notice. Notice shall be given to all abutting property owners either
by first-class mail to their last known address, or if there is no known
address then by publishing the notice in a newspaper that is of general
circulation in the village. The content of the notice will advise the abutting
property owners that the governing body will consider vacating such street,
avenue, alley, lane, or similar public way at their next regular meeting or if
a special meeting is scheduled for such discussion, then the date, time, and
place of such meeting.
   (B)   Consent/waiver. The governing body may have all the abutting property
owners sign a form stating that they consent to the action being taken by the
governing body and waive their right of access. The signing of such form has no
effect on claims for special damages, as defined in Neb. RS 8-314 by the
abutting property owners, but does create the presumption that the governing
body’s action was proper. However, if all the abutting property owners do not
sign the consent/waiver form, the governing body may still proceed with
vacating such street, avenue, alley, lane, or similar public way under the
authority granted them by Neb. RS 17-558 and 17-559.
   (C)   Ordinance. The governing body shall pass an ordinance that shall state
essentially the following:
      (1)   A declaration that the action is expedient for the public good or
in the best interests of the village;
      (2)   A statement that the village shall have an easement for maintaining
all utilities; and
      (3)   A method or procedure for ascertaining special damages to abutting
property owners.
   (D)   Filing. The Clerk shall file a copy of the ordinance with the County
Register of Deeds to ensure that abutting property owners can gain title to
their share of the vacated street, avenue, alley, lane, or similar public way
and so that such land will be drawn to the attention of the County Assessor.
(Prior Code, § 8-315) (Ord. 377, passed 2-3-1987; Ord. 378, passed 2-3-1987;
Ord. 633, passed 6-12-2002) Penalty, see §
92.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-558 and 17-559
§ 92.34 DEFERRAL FROM SPECIAL ASSESSMENTS.
   (A)   Whenever the governing body of a municipality creates an improvement
district, which includes land adjacent to the municipality which is within an
agricultural use zone and is used exclusively for agricultural use, the owners
of record title of such adjacent land may apply for a deferral from special
assessments. For purposes of this section, the terms AGRICULTURAL USE and
AGRICULTURAL USE ZONE shall have the meaning specified in Neb. RS 77-1343.
   (B)   (1)   Any owner of record title eligible for the deferral granted by
this section shall, to secure such assessment, make application to the
governing body of the village within 90 days after creation of an improvement
district as specified in Neb. RS 8-106. Any owner of record title who makes
application for the deferral provided by this section shall notify the County
Register of Deeds of such application in writing prior to approval by the
governing body. The governing body shall approve the application of any owner
of record title upon determination that the property is within an agricultural
use zone and is used exclusively for agricultural use, and the owner has met
the requirements of this section.
      (2)   The deferral provided for in this section shall be terminated upon
any of the following events:
         (a)   Notification by the owner of record title to the governing body
to remove such deferral;
         (b)   Sale or transfer to a new owner who does not make a new
application within 60 days of the sale or transfer, except as provided in this
section;
         (c)   Transfer by reason of death of a former owner to a new owner who
does not make application within 125 days of the transfer;
         (d)   The land is no longer being used as agricultural land; or
         (e)   Change of zoning to other than an agricultural zone.
      (3)   Whenever property which has received a deferral pursuant to this
section becomes disqualified for such deferral, the owner of record title of
such property shall pay to the village an amount equal to:
         (a)   The total amount of special assessments which would have been
assessed against such property, to the extent of special benefits, had such
deferral not been granted; and
         (b)   Interest upon the special assessments not paid each year at the
rate of 6% from the dates at which such assessments would have been payable if
no deferral had been granted.
      (4)   In cases where the deferral provided by Neb. RS 19-2428 to 19-2431
is terminated as a result of a sale or transfer described in this section, the
lien for assessments and interest shall attach as of the day preceding such
sale or transfer.
(Prior Code, § 8-316) (Ord. 387, passed 11-3-1987) Penalty, see §
92.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 19-2428 to 19-2431
§ 92.35 CURB AND GUTTER.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to cut into any paving, curb, or
sidewalk for the purpose of constructing a driveway or any other purpose
whatsoever without first having obtained a written permit from the Street
Superintendent therefor. Before any person shall obtain a permit, he, she, or
they shall inform the Village Clerk of the place where such cutting is to be
done, and it shall be the Street Superintendent’s duty to inspect the place of
entry into the paving, sidewalk, or curb, before the same is cut. When cutting
into any paving, it shall be the duty of the party to cut the paving under such
rules and regulations as may be prescribed by the governing body or the Street
Superintendent. When the applicant is ready to close the opening made, he, she,
or they shall inform the Street Superintendent, who shall supervise and inspect
the materials used and the work done in closing the opening.
(Prior Code, § 8-401) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.99 PENALTY.
   Any person who shall violate or refuse to comply with the enforcement of any
of the provisions of this chapter, set forth at full length herein or
incorporated by reference shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and upon
conviction thereof, shall be fined not more than $500 for each offense. A new
violation shall be deemed to have been committed every 24 hours of such failure
to comply.
(Prior Code, § 8-501) (Ord. 669, passed 5-14-2003)
CHAPTER 93: FIRE REGULATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
93.01   Preservation of property
   
93.02   Disorderly spectator
   
93.03   Equipment
   
93.04   Interference
   
93.05   Obstruction
   
93.06   Assistance
   
93.07   Driving over hose
   
93.08   False alarm
Fire Prevention
   
93.20   Fire limits
   
93.21   Permitted repairs
   
93.22   Ironclads prohibited
   
93.23   Fire prohibited
   
93.24   Fires regulated
   
93.25   Open burning ban; waiver
Poisonous and Flammable Gases and Explosives
   
93.40   Poisonous and flammable gases
   
93.41   Explosives; requirements
   
93.42   Blasting permits
   
93.43   Storage registration
   
93.44   Fireworks
 
   
93.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 93.01 PRESERVATION OF PROPERTY.
   The Fire Chief, or any officer in charge of the Fire Department, shall have
the authority and power to cause the removal of property whenever it shall
become necessary for the preservation of more valuable property, the protection
of human life, or to prevent the spreading of fire to adjoining property. The
Fire Chief may direct the village firefighters to remove any building,
structure, or fence for the purpose of checking the progress of any fire. The
Fire Chief shall have the authority to blow up, or cause to be blown up, with
explosives any building or structure during the progress of a fire for the
purpose of checking the progress of the same.
(Prior Code, § 7-101)
§ 93.02 DISORDERLY SPECTATOR.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, during the time of a fire and for a
period of 36 hours after its extinguishment, to hinder, resist, or refuse to
obey the Village Fire Chief, or to act in a noisy or disorderly manner. The
Fire Chief and Assistant Fire Chief shall have the power and authority during
such time to arrest or command any such person to assist them in the
performance of their official duties.
(Prior Code, § 7-102) Penalty, see §
93.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 28-908
§ 93.03 EQUIPMENT.
   It shall be unlawful for any person except the Fire Chief and the members of
the Village Fire Department to molest, destroy, handle or in any other way to
interfere with the use and storage of any of the fire trucks and other
apparatus belonging to the village.
(Prior Code, § 7-103) Penalty, see §
93.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 28-519
§ 93.04 INTERFERENCE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person or persons to hinder or obstruct the
Village Fire Chief or the members of the Fire Department in the performance of
their duty.
(Prior Code, § 7-104) Penalty, see §
93.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 28-908
§ 93.05 OBSTRUCTION.
   (A)   Except when necessary to avoid conflict with other traffic or when in
compliance with law or the directions of a peace officer or traffic control
device, no person shall:
      (1)   Stop, stand, or park any vehicle:
         (a)   On the roadway side of any vehicle stopped or parked at the edge
or curb of a street;
         (b)   On a sidewalk;
         (c)   Within an intersection;
         (d)   On a crosswalk;
         (e)   Between a safety zone and the adjacent curb or within 30 feet of
points on the curb immediately opposite the ends of a safety zone unless the
Board of Trustees indicates a different length by signs or markings;
         (f)   Alongside or opposite any street excavation or obstruction when
stopping, standing, or parking would obstruct traffic;
         (g)   Upon any bridge or other elevated structure over a highway or
within a highway tunnel;
         (h)   On any railroad track; or
         (i)   At any place where official signs prohibit stopping.
      (2)   Stand or park a vehicle, whether occupied or not, except
momentarily to pick up or discharge a passenger or passengers:
         (a)   In front of a public or private driveway;
         (b)   Within 15 feet of a fire hydrant;
         (c)   Within 20 feet of a crosswalk at an intersection;
         (d)   Within 30 feet of any flashing signal, stop sign, yield sign, or
other traffic control device located at the side of a roadway;
         (e)   Within 20 feet of the driveway entrance to any fire station and
on the side of a street opposite the entrance to any fire station within 75
feet of such entrance when properly signposted;
         (f)   At any place where official signs prohibit standing; or
      (3)   Park a vehicle, whether occupied or not, except temporarily for the
purpose of and while actually engaged in loading or unloading merchandise or
passengers:
         (a)   Within 50 feet of the nearest rail of a railroad crossing; or
         (b)   At any place where official signs prohibit parking.
   (B)   No person shall move a vehicle not lawfully under his or her control
into any such prohibited area or away from a curb such a distance as shall be
unlawful.
(Neb. RS 60-6,166) Penalty, see §
93.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 60-6,166
§ 93.06 ASSISTANCE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to refuse, after the command of the Fire
Chief or Assistant Fire Chief, to aid in extinguishing a fire or to assist in
the removal and protection of property.
(Prior Code, § 7-106) Penalty, see §
93.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 28-908
§ 93.07 DRIVING OVER HOSE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, without the consent of the Fire Chief
or Assistant Fire Chief, to drive any vehicle over an unprotected hose of the
Fire Department.
(Prior Code, § 7-107) Penalty, see §
93.99
Cross-reference:
   Traffic rules, generally, see
Chapter 70
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 60-6,184
§ 93.08 FALSE ALARM.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to intentionally and without good and
reasonable cause raise any false alarm of fire.
(Prior Code, § 7-108) Penalty, see §
93.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 28-907 and 35-520
FIRE PREVENTION
§ 93.20 FIRE LIMITS.
   (A)   Fire limits defined. The following described territory in the village
shall be and constitute the fire limits: All of Blocks 19, 20, and 30, and the
north one-half of Blocks 27, 28, 29, all in the village.
(Prior Code, § 7-201)
   (B)   Building permit. Prior to the moving or construction of any building
in the fire limits, application must be made to the governing body.
Construction shall include the enlarging or alteration of any building in the
fire limits. Such application shall be furnished by the Village Clerk and shall
require such information as the governing body deems necessary to determine
whether or not to grant a building permit.
(Prior Code, § 7-202)
   (C)   Materials. Within the aforesaid fire limits, no structure shall be
built, altered, moved, or enlarged unless such structure will be enclosed with
walls constructed wholly of stone, well-burned brick, terra cotta, concrete, or
other such noncombustible materials as will satisfy the governing body that the
said structure will be reasonably fireproof.
(Prior Code, § 7-203)
Penalty, see §
93.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-550
§ 93.21 PERMITTED REPAIRS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to repair, alter, or add to any
building in the fire limits where the repair is less than 50% of the building
unless the said person shall first submit an application to make such repairs,
alterations, or to add to any building and shall state on the application that
the material used will be non-combustible and approved by the governing body.
   (B)   Repairs in the form of patching and other minor repairs shall not
require a permit.
   (C)   In the event that the repairs, alteration, or addition is to cost or
involve more than 50% of the building, the owner shall be required to apply for
a new building permit which shall state that the building, when completed,
shall be fireproof and made of non-combustible materials.
(Prior Code, § 7-204) Penalty, see §
93.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-550
§ 93.22 IRONCLADS PROHIBITED.
   (A)   All buildings, sheds, and structures known as ironclads, which are
constructed of wood and covered with sheet iron or tin attached to the frame,
shall be considered and deemed to be constructed of combustible materials.
   (B)   Any future construction of an ironclad building shall hereafter be
prohibited.
(Prior Code, § 7-205) Penalty, see §
93.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-550
§ 93.23 FIRE PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to set out a fire on the pavement, or
near any curb, now built or hereafter to be built, within the village.
(Prior Code, § 7-206) Penalty, see §
93.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-556
§ 93.24 FIRES REGULATED.
   (A)   It shall be lawful to build or set out certain fires; provided, that
the person building such fires shall have the substance to be burned in a
fireproof trash burner or incinerator with a metal fireproof screen of not more
than one-inch mesh, and located at least 20 feet from any building.
   (B)   The incinerator shall be built in such a way as to not permit the
escape of burning paper or other substance. If any person shall require a fire
in the course of his, her, or their trade as a blacksmith or mechanic, such
fire shall be built and maintained in the manner prescribed by the Fire Chief.
All fires shall be built after 7:00 a.m. and completely extinguished by 8:00
p.m., except the aforesaid fires used in the course of a trade which shall be
allowed during such hours as the Fire Chief shall prescribe.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person to set fire to, burn, or cause to
be burned any garbage, animal matter, or vegetable matter. The burning of
straw, hay, leaves, or brush in the open air is hereby permitted and allowed;
provided, that the person setting out the same request permission and receive
an open burning permit in writing, signed by the local Fire Chief, on a form
provided by the State Fire Marshal; and provided further, that any such burning
shall be done while the said fire is attended by the person setting out the
same at all times, and further provided that the said fire shall be located at
least 20 feet from any building.
(Prior Code, § 7-207) (Ord. 347, passed 1-4-1983) Penalty, see §
93.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-549, 17-556, and 81-520.01
§ 93.25 OPEN BURNING BAN; WAIVER.
   (A)   There shall be a statewide open burning ban on all bonfires, outdoor
rubbish fires, and fires for the purpose of clearing land.
   (B)   The Fire Chief of the Village Fire Department may waive an open
burning ban under division (A) above for an area under the local fire
department’s jurisdiction by issuing an open burning permit to a person
requesting permission to conduct open burning. The permit issued by the Fire
Chief to a person desiring to conduct open burning shall be in writing, signed
by the Fire Chief and on a form provided by the State Fire Marshal.
   (C)   The Village Fire Chief may waive the open burning ban in the local
fire department’s jurisdiction when conditions are acceptable to the Chief.
Anyone intending to burn in such jurisdiction when the open burning ban has
been waived shall notify the Fire Chief of his, her, or their intention to burn
prior to starting the burn.
   (D)   The Village Fire Chief may adopt standards listing the conditions
acceptable for issuing a permit to conduct open burning under division (B)
above.
   (E)   The Village Fire Department may charge a fee, not to exceed $10, for
each such permit issued. This fee shall be remitted to the governing body for
inclusion in the general funds allocated to the Fire Department. Such funds
shall not reduce the tax requirements for the Fire Department. No such fee
shall be collected from any state or political subdivision to which such a
permit is issued to conduct open burning under division (B) above in the course
of such state’s or political subdivision’s official duties.
(Prior Code, § 7-208) (Ord. 347, passed 1-4-1983; Ord. 468, passed 6-7-1995)
Penalty, see §
93.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 81-520.01
POISONOUS AND FLAMMABLE GASES AND EXPLOSIVES
§ 93.40 POISONOUS AND FLAMMABLE GASES.
   (A)   Any person, firm, or corporation desiring to store or keep in the
village for any period of time any form of poisonous or flammable gas or
liquefied petroleum gas or add to, enlarge, or replace any facility used for
the storage of such gases, must first get permission from the governing body.
   (B)   The governing body shall require the name of the gas, the place of
storage, and the amount of gas stored. If permission is granted, the governing
body shall prescribe such rules, regulations, and precautionary actions as they
may deem necessary.
   (C)   Permit requirements for the initial construction or location of
storage facilities shall not apply to those facilities in existence on the
effective date of this subchapter; provided, any such present use that is
discontinued for a period of 60 days shall not be revived without a permit.
(Prior Code, § 7-301) Penalty, see §
93.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-549
§ 93.41 EXPLOSIVES; REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   In addition to notifying the Village Fire Department pursuant to
section Neb. RS 28-1233(3), any person desiring to store or keep for any period
of time explosive materials as defined in section Neb. RS 28-1213, shall
register such information with the Village Clerk 24 hours prior to such
storage. The transfer of explosive materials to another person within the
village shall require the person receiving the explosive materials to register
the transfer and the new location of the explosive materials with the Village
Clerk. The transfer of explosive materials to a new location by the owner shall
require registration of the new location with the Village Clerk.
   (B)   All explosive materials shall be stored in a proper receptacle made of
cement, metal, or stone and be closed at all times, except when in actual use.
Such receptacles shall not be located in any room where there are flames or
flammable materials. The area surrounding storage facilities shall be kept
clear of rubbish, brush, dry grass, or trees not less than 25 feet in all
directions. Any other combustible materials shall be kept a distance of not
less than 50 feet from outdoor storage facilities.
(Prior Code, § 7-302) (Ord. 454, passed 9-7-1994) Penalty, see §
93.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-549, 17-556, 28-1229, and 28-1233
§ 93.42 BLASTING PERMITS.
   In addition to notifying the Village Fire Department pursuant to section
Neb. RS 28-1233(3), any person desiring to discharge explosive materials, as
defined in section Neb. RS 28-1213, within the village, shall apply for and
secure a permit from the governing body 24 hours prior to such discharge, and
shall discharge such explosive materials in conformance with the conditions
specified in the permit. In no case shall any person perform blasting
operations unless operating under the direct supervision of a person in
possession of a valid user’s permit issued by the State Patrol.
(Prior Code, § 7-303) (Ord. 455, passed 9-7-1994) Penalty, see §
93.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-549, 17-556, 28-1229, and 28-1233
§ 93.43 STORAGE REGISTRATION.
   (A)   In addition to notifying the Village Fire Department pursuant to
section Neb. RS 28-1233(3), any person desiring to store or keep for any period
of time explosive materials as defined in section Neb. RS 28-1213, or any form
of poisonous or flammable gases or liquefied petroleum gases within the village
shall register such information with the Village Clerk 24 hours prior to such
storage.
   (B)   The transfer of such explosives or gases to another person within the
village shall require the person receiving such explosives or gases to register
the transfer and the new location of the explosives and gases with the Village
Clerk. The transfer of explosive materials and gases to a new location by the
owner shall require registration of the new location with the Village Clerk.
This section shall not apply to the storage of five gallons or less of
gasoline.
(Prior Code, § 7-304) (Ord. 456, passed 9-7-1994) Penalty, see §
93.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-549, 17-556, 28-1229, and 28-1233
§ 93.44 FIREWORKS.
   (A)   Fireworks; defined. FIREWORKS shall mean any composition or device
designed for the purpose of producing a visible or audible effect by
combustion, deflagration, or detonation and which meets the definition of
common or special fireworks set forth by the United States Department of
Transportation in Title 49, Code of Federal Regulations.
(Prior Code, § 7-401)
   (B)   Permitted fireworks.
      (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person to ignite or cause to be
exploded fireworks or firecrackers of any description whatsoever, except
sparklers, vesuvious fountains, spray fountains, torches, color fire cones,
star and comet type color aerial shells without explosive charges for the
purpose of making a noise, color wheels, lady fingers, not exceeding seven-
eighths inch in length or one-eighth inch in diameter, and which do not contain
more than 50 milligrams each in weight of explosive material.
      (2)   The provisions of this section shall not apply to any fireworks to
be used for purpose of public exhibitions or display under authorization of the
governing body or to fireworks furnished for agricultural purposes pursuant to
written authorization from the State Fire Marshal.
(Prior Code, § 7-402)
(Ord. 392, passed 11-1-1988; Ord. 395, passed 11-1-1988) Penalty, see §
93.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-556, 28-1241, 28-1244, and 28-1245
§ 93.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person who shall violate or refuse to comply with the enforcement
of any of the provisions of this chapter, set forth at full length herein or
incorporated by reference shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and upon
conviction thereof, shall be fined not more than $500 for each offense. A new
violation shall be deemed to have been committed every 24 hours of such failure
to comply.
(Prior Code, § 7-501) (Ord. 669, passed 5-14-2003)
CHAPTER 94: RECREATION AND LEISURE
Section
Parks and Recreation
   
94.01   Operation and funding
   
94.02   Injury to property
Library
   
94.15   Ownership
   
94.16   Books
   
94.17   Rules and regulations
   
94.18   Books issued
   
94.19   Damaged and lost books
   
94.20   Book labeling
   
94.21   Book removal
   
94.22   Cost of use
   
94.23   Money collected
   
94.24   Library Board; annual report
PARKS AND RECREATION
§ 94.01 OPERATION AND FUNDING.
   The village owns and operates the village parks and other recreational areas
through the Board of Trustees and Park Superintendent. The governing body, for
the purpose of defraying the cost of the care, management, and maintenance of
the village park, may, each year, levy a tax not exceeding the maximum limit
prescribed by state law, on the actual valuation of all real estate and
personal property within the corporate limits that is subject to taxation. The
revenue from the said tax shall be known as the Park Fund and shall remain in
the custody of the Village Treasurer. The Board shall have the authority to
adopt rules and regulations for the efficient management of the village parks
and other recreational areas of the village.
(Prior Code, § 3-501)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-948 through 17-952
§ 94.02 INJURY TO PROPERTY.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to maliciously or willfully cut down,
injure, or destroy any tree, plant, or shrub. It shall be unlawful for any
person to injure or destroy any sodded or planted area, or injure or destroy
any building, structure, equipment, fence, bench, table, or any other property
of the village parks and recreational areas. No person shall commit any waste
on or litter the village parks or other public grounds.
(Prior Code, § 3-502) Penalty, see §
10.99
LIBRARY
§ 94.15 OWNERSHIP.
   The village owns and manages the village library through the Library Board.
The governing body, for the purpose of defraying the cost of the management,
purchases, improvements, and maintenance of the library, may each year levy a
tax not exceeding the maximum limit prescribed by state law, on the actual
valuation of all real estate and personal property within the village that is
subject to taxation. The revenue from the said tax shall be known as the
Library Fund and shall include all gifts, grants, deeds of conveyance,
bequests, or other valuable income-producing personal property and real estate
from any source for the purpose of endowing the village library. The Library
Fund shall at all times be in the custody of the Village Treasurer. The Library
Board shall have the power and authority to appoint the librarian and to hire
such other employees as they may deem necessary and may pass such other rules
and regulations for the operation of the library as may be proper for its
efficient operation. All action by the Library Board shall be under the
supervision and control of the governing body.
(Prior Code, § 3-801)
§ 94.16 BOOKS.
   The Library Board may authorize the sale, exchange, or disposal of any
surplus, damaged, defective, obsolete, or duplicate materials in the library.
Records shall be kept of any such surplus, damaged, defective, obsolete, or
duplicate materials so disposed of.
(Prior Code, § 3-802)
§ 94.17 RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   (A)   The Library Board shall establish rules and regulation for the
governing of the village library for the preservation and efficient management
thereof. They shall fix and impose by general rules, penalties, and forfeitures
for all injury to the library grounds, rooms, books, or other property, or for
failure to return a book or any other materials checked out to patrons.
   (B)   All fees, penalties, and forfeitures may be collected in a civil
action in the even of failure, neglect, or refusal to pay the said penalties.
(Prior Code, § 3-803)
§ 94.18 BOOKS ISSUED.
   The librarian shall keep, or cause to be kept, a register of all items
issued and returned at the time they shall be issued and returned. No item
shall be detained more than 14 days without being renewed. No item may be
renewed more than two consecutive times by an person without the special
permission of the librarian or an authorized employee of the village library.
(Prior Code, § 3-804)
§ 94.19 DAMAGED AND LOST BOOKS.
   Any person who injures or fails to return any item taken from the library
shall forfeit and pay to the library not less than the value of the item in
addition to any replacement costs and penalty which the Library Board may
assess.
(Prior Code, § 3-805)
§ 94.20 BOOK LABELING.
   It shall be the duty of the librarian to label, or cause to be labeled, with
a printed or stamped label, proof of village ownership on each book or other
item available to be checked out to patrons.
(Prior Code, § 3-806)
§ 94.21 BOOK REMOVAL.
   It shall be unlawful for any person not authorized by the regulations made
by the Library Board to take a book or other item from the library, without the
consent of the librarian, or an authorized employee of the library. Any person
removing any item from the library without properly checking it out shall be
deemed to be guilty of a misdemeanor.
(Prior Code, § 3-807) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 94.22 COST OF USE.
   The village library shall be free for the use of the inhabitants of the
village and Clarksville Township. The librarian may exclude from the use of the
library and reading rooms any person who shall willfully violate or refuse to
comply with the rules and regulation established for the government thereof.
(Prior Code, § 3-808)
§ 94.23 MONEY COLLECTED.
   Any money collected by the library shall be turned over monthly by the
librarian to the Village Treasurer along with a report of the sources of the
revenue.
(Prior Code, § 3-809)
§ 94.24 LIBRARY BOARD; ANNUAL REPORT.
   The Library Board shall, on or before the second Monday in February in each
year, make a report to the Village Board of the condition of its trust on the
last day of the prior fiscal year. The report shall show all money received and
credited or expended; the number of materials held, including books, video and
audio materials, software programs, and materials in other formats; the number
of periodical subscriptions on record, including newspapers; the number of
materials added and the number withdrawn from the collection during the year;
the number of materials circulated during the year; and other statistics,
information, and suggestions as the Library Board may deem of general interest
or as the Village Board may require. The report shall be verified by affidavit
of the President and Secretary of the Library Board.
(Prior Code, § 3-810) (Ord. 690, passed 3-9-2005)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 51-213
CHAPTER 95: VILLAGE CEMETERY
Section
   
95.01   Operation and funding
   
95.02   Sexton
   
95.03   Conveyance of lots
   
95.04   Forfeiture of lots
   
95.05   Lot transfers
   
95.06   Burial permit
   
95.07   Burial of indigents
   
95.08   Lot curbing
   
95.09   Shrubs and trees
   
95.10   Monuments
   
95.11   Grave depth
   
95.12   Destruction of property
§ 95.01 OPERATION AND FUNDING.
   The village owns and manages the village cemetery through the Cemetery
Board. The governing body, for the purpose of defraying the cost of the care,
management, maintenance, and beautification of the cemetery, may, each year,
levy a tax not exceeding the maximum limit prescribed by state law, on the
actual valuation of all real estate and personal property within the village
that is subject to taxation. The revenue from the said tax shall be known as
the Cemetery Fund and shall include all gifts, grants, deeds of conveyance,
bequests, money, stocks, bonds, or other valuable income-producing personal
property and real estate from any source for the purpose of endowing the
cemetery. The Cemetery Fund shall at all times be in the custody of the Village
Treasurer. The Board shall have the power and authority to hire and supervise
such employees as they may deem necessary and to pass such rules and
regulations for the operation of the cemetery as may be proper for its
efficient operation. All actions by the Board shall be under the supervision
and control of the governing body.
(Prior Code, § 3-601)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 12-301 through 12-403
§ 95.02 SEXTON.
   The Cemetery Board, subject to the approval of the governing body, shall
have the authority to appoint a sexton who shall perform such duties and make
such reports as the Cemetery Board shall direct. It shall be the duty of the
sexton, upon receiving a burial permit to locate and direct the party named in
the permit to the lot mentioned therein and to dig and excavate, or cause the
same to be dug or excavated, in compliance with the rules and regulations of
the Cemetery Board.
(Prior Code, § 3-602)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 12-403
§ 95.03 CONVEYANCE OF LOTS.
   The governing body may convey cemetery lots by certificate signed by the
Chairperson, and countersigned by the Village Clerk under the Village Seal
specifying that the person to whom the same is issued is the owner of the lot
described therein by number for the purpose of interment. The said certificate
shall give a right in fee simple to the proprietor, his, her, or their heirs,
and assigns. The certificate shall then be recorded in the office of the County
Clerk.
(Prior Code, § 3-603)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-941
§ 95.04 FORFEITURE OF LOTS.
   If, for three consecutive years, all charges and liens are not paid by the
holders of the lot certificates, the said certificates shall be declared
forfeited and subject to resale. All certificates sold shall contain a
forfeiture clause to the effect that if no interment is made on the said lot
and all liens paid, the certificate and the rights under the same may, at the
option of the Cemetery Board, with the sanction of the governing body, be
declared null and void and the lot shall be subject to resale.
(Prior Code, § 3-604)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-938
§ 95.05 LOT TRANSFERS.
   Any person who wishes to transfer a certificate may do so by surrendering
the original certificate to the Village Clerk, who shall issue a new
certificate upon the receipt of the recording fee set by resolution of the
governing body.
(Prior Code, § 3-605)
§ 95.06 BURIAL PERMIT.
   All persons desiring to bury a deceased person shall first be required to
file a completed death certificate with the registrar of the county before any
body may be buried in the village cemetery. If it is impossible to complete the
certificate of death within the legal period of time prescribed by state law,
the funeral director shall notify the registrar and obtain his, her, or their
written approval before the deceased person may be buried in the village
cemetery. The burial permit so issued by the registrar shall then be filed with
the Village Clerk. It shall be unlawful for the sexton, or other person, to
allow the interment of a body without first receiving such permit. The burial
permit shall then be countersigned and dated by the sexton. The interment of
any body shall be performed under the direct supervision of a licensed funeral
director. The applicant shall also file with the burial permit an application
containing the name, age, sex, race, and cause of death of the deceased person
for the records of the Cemetery Board. Upon completion of the requirements
herein, the Village Clerk shall then issue a village burial permit which shall
entitle the applicant to bury a deceased person in the village cemetery. In the
event that the removal of the body of any deceased person is requested, the
Village Clerk shall issue no permit until the applicant shall have first
complied with the laws of the state with respect to such disinterment.
(Prior Code, § 3-606)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 71-605
§ 95.07 BURIAL OF INDIGENTS.
   Within the village cemetery there shall be included a plot of ground which
shall be available for the free burial of indigents and unknown travelers who
may die while they are within the village.
(Prior Code, § 3-607)
§ 95.08 LOT CURBING.
   It shall be hereafter unlawful for the owner of any lot to construct,
maintain, or suffer to remain any curbing around any lot or burial space
therein of a height greater than one inch.
(Prior Code, § 3-608) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 95.09 SHRUBS AND TREES.
   It shall be unlawful, without the written permission of the Cemetery Board,
to plant, maintain, or suffer to remain on any cemetery lot a shrub or tree
attaining a height of more than four feet.
(Prior Code, § 3-609) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 95.10 MONUMENTS.
   Persons desiring to erect monuments, tombstones, or other structures shall
first procure a permit from the Village Clerk. The Cemetery Board shall review
all such applications and shall give written approval for any permit prior to
the issuance by the Village Clerk of the said permit.
(Prior Code, § 3-610)
§ 95.11 GRAVE DEPTH.
   Graves shall not be less than six feet deep; provided, nothing herein shall
be construed to prohibit the use of mausoleums or other recognized methods of
interring deceased persons if such a burial procedure is approved by the
Cemetery Board.
(Prior Code, § 3-611)
§ 95.12 DESTRUCTION OF PROPERTY.
   Any person who shall willfully destroy, mutilate, deface, injure, or remove
any tomb, monument, or gravestone placed in the cemetery, or any fence,
railing, or other work for the protection or ornamentation of the cemetery, or
who shall willfully destroy, cut, break, or injure any tree, shrub, or plant
shall be deemed to be guilty of a misdemeanor.
(Prior Code, § 3-612) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 28-512
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
110.   GENERAL BUSINESS REGULATIONS
      
111.   BUSINESS TAXES
      
112.   ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
CHAPTER 110: GENERAL BUSINESS REGULATIONS
Section
Peddlers and Solicitors
   
110.01   Definitions
   
110.02   License required
   
110.03   Application procedure
   
110.04   Standards for issuance
   
110.05   Revocation procedure
   
110.06   Standards for revocation
   
110.07   Appeal procedure
   
110.08   Exhibition of identification
   
110.09   Policy on soliciting
   
110.10   Notice regulating soliciting
   
110.11   Posted notice; solicitors to comply
   
110.12   Prohibited solicitation
Tobacco
   
110.25   License for sale; application; contents; fee
 
   
110.99   Penalty
PEDDLERS AND SOLICITORS
§ 110.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BUSINESS. The business carried on by any person who is an itinerant
merchant, peddler, or solicitor as defined in this section.
   GOODS. Merchandise of any description whatsoever, and includes, but is not
restricted to, wares and foodstuffs.
   ITINERANT MERCHANT. Any person, whether as owner, agent, or consignee, who
engages in a temporary business of selling goods within the village and who, in
the furtherance of such business, uses any building, structure, vehicle, or any
place within the village.
   PEDDLER. Any person, not an itinerant merchant, who:
      (1)   Travels from place to place by any means carrying goods for sale,
or making sales, or making deliveries; or
      (2)   Without traveling from place to place, sells or offers goods for
sale from any public place within the village.
   SOLICITOR. Any person who travels by any means from place to place, taking
or attempting to take orders for sale of goods to be delivered in the future or
for services to be performed in the future. A person who is a SOLICITOR is not
a peddler.
§ 110.02 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   (A)   Any person who is an itinerant merchant, peddler, or solicitor shall
obtain a license before engaging in such activity within the village.
   (B)   The fee for the license required by this chapter shall be as set from
time to time by the village.
   (C)   No license issued under this chapter shall be transferable.
   (D)   All licenses issued under this chapter shall expire 90 days after the
date of issuance thereof.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 110.03 APPLICATION PROCEDURE.
   (A)   All applicants for licenses required by this chapter shall file an
application with the Village Clerk. This application shall be signed by the
applicant if an individual, or by all partners if a partnership, or by the
president if a corporation. The applicant may be requested to provide
information concerning the following items:
      (1)   The name and address of the applicant;
      (2)   (a)   The name of the individual having management authority or
supervision of the applicant's business during the time that it is proposed to
be carried on in the village;
         (b)   The local address of such individual;
         (c)   The permanent address of such individual;
         (d)   The capacity in which such individual will act;
      (3)   The name and address of the person, if any, for whose purpose the
business will be carried on, and, if a corporation, the state of incorporation;
      (4)   The time period or periods during which it is proposed to carry on
applicant’s business;
      (5)   (a)   The nature, character, and quality of the goods or services
to be offered for sale or delivered;
         (b)   If goods, their invoice value and whether they are to be sold by
sample as well as from stock;
         (c)   If goods, where and by whom such goods are manufactured or
grown, and where such goods are at the time of application;
      (6)   The nature of the advertising proposed to be done for the business;
      (7)   Whether or not the applicant, or the individual identified in
division (A)(2)(a) above, or the person identified in division (A)(3) above has
been convicted of any crime or misdemeanor and, if so, the nature of each
offense and the penalty assessed for each offense.
   (B)   Applicants for peddler or solicitor licenses may be required to
provide further information concerning the following items, in addition to that
requested under division (A) above:
      (1)   A description of the applicant; and
      (2)   A description of any vehicle proposed to be used in the business,
including its registration number, if any.
   (C)   All applicants for licenses required by this chapter shall attach to
their application, if required by the village, credentials from the person, if
any, for which the applicant proposes to do business, authorizing the applicant
to act as such representative.
   (D)   Applicants who propose to handle foodstuffs shall also attach to their
application, in addition to any attachments required under division (C) above,
a statement from a licensed physician, dated not more than ten days prior to
the date of application, certifying the applicant to be free of contagious or
communicable disease.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 110.04 STANDARDS FOR ISSUANCE.
   (A)   Upon receipt of an application, an investigation of the applicant’s
business reputation and moral character shall be made.
   (B)   The application shall be approved unless such investigation discloses
tangible evidence that the conduct of the applicant’s business would pose a
substantial threat to the public health, safety, morals, or general welfare. In
particular, tangible evidence that the applicant:
      (1)   Has been convicted of a crime of moral turpitude;
      (2)   Has made willful misstatements in the application;
      (3)   Has committed prior violations of ordinances pertaining to
itinerant merchants, peddlers, solicitors, and the like;
      (4)   Has committed prior fraudulent acts; or
      (5)   Has a record of continual breaches of solicited contracts;
will constitute valid reasons for disapproval of an application.
§ 110.05 REVOCATION PROCEDURE.
   Any license or permit granted under this chapter may be revoked by the
Village Clerk after notice and hearing, pursuant to the standards in §
110.06. Notice of hearing for revocation shall be given in writing, setting
forth specifically the grounds of the complaint and the time and place of the
hearing. Such notice shall be mailed to the licensee at his last known address,
at least ten days prior to the date set for the hearing.
§ 110.06 STANDARDS FOR REVOCATION.
   A license granted under this chapter may be revoked for any of the following
reasons:
   (A)   Any fraud or misrepresentation contained in the license application;
   (B)   Any fraud, misrepresentation, or false statement made in connection
with the business being conducted under the license;
   (C)   Any violation of this chapter;
   (D)   Conviction of the licensee of any felony, or conviction of the
licensee of any misdemeanor involving moral turpitude; or
   (E)   Conducting the business licensed in an unlawful manner or in such a
way as to constitute a menace to the health, safety, morals, or general welfare
of the public.
§ 110.07 APPEAL PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Any person aggrieved by a decision under §§
110.04 or
110.06 shall have the right to appeal to the Board of Trustees. The appeal
shall be taken by filing with the Board of Trustees, within 14 days after
notice of the decision has been mailed to such person's last known address, a
written statement setting forth the grounds for appeal. The Board of Trustees
shall set the time and place for a hearing, and notice for such hearing shall
be given to such person in the same manner as provided in §
110.05.
   (B)   The order of the Board of Trustees after the hearing shall be final.
§ 110.08 EXHIBITION OF IDENTIFICATION.
   (A)   Any license issued to an itinerant merchant under this chapter shall
be posted conspicuously in or at the place named therein. In the event more
than one place within the village shall be used to conduct the business
licensed, separate licenses shall be issued for each place.
   (B)   The Village Clerk shall issue a license to each peddler or solicitor
licensed under this chapter. The license shall contain the words “Licensed
Peddler” or “Licensed Solicitor,” the expiration date of the license, and the
number of the license. The license shall be kept with the licensee during such
time as he is engaged in the business licensed.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 110.09 POLICY ON SOLICITING.
   It is hereby declared to be the policy of the village that the occupants of
the residences in the village shall make the determination of whether
solicitors shall be, or shall not be, invited to their respective residences.
§ 110.10 NOTICE REGULATING SOLICITING.
   (A)   Notice of the refusal of invitation to solicitors, to any residence,
shall be given on a weatherproof card, approximately three inches by four
inches in size, exhibited upon or near the main entrance door to the residence,
indicating the determination by the occupant, containing the applicable words,
as follows:
   “NO SOLICITORS INVITED”
   (B)   The letters shall be at least one-third inch in height.
   (C)   The card so exhibited shall constitute sufficient notice to any
solicitor of the determination by the occupant of the residence of the
information contained thereon.
§ 110.11 POSTED NOTICE; SOLICITORS TO COMPLY.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of every solicitor upon going onto any premises
in the village upon which a residence is located to first examine the notice
provided for in §
110.10 if any is attached, and be governed by the statement contained on the
notice. If the notice states “NO SOLICITORS INVITED,” then the solicitor,
whether registered or not, shall immediately and peacefully depart from the
premises.
   (B)   Any solicitor who has gained entrance to any residence, whether
invited or not, shall immediately and peacefully depart from the premises when
requested to do so by the occupant.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 110.12 PROHIBITED SOLICITATION.
   It is hereby declared to be unlawful and shall constitute a nuisance for any
person to go upon any premises and ring the doorbell upon or near any door, or
create any sound in any manner calculated to attract the attention of the
occupant of such residence, for the purpose of securing an audience with the
occupant thereof and engage in soliciting in defiance of the notice exhibited
at the residence in accordance with the provisions of §
110.10 above.
Penalty, see §
10.99
TOBACCO
§ 110.25 LICENSE FOR SALE; APPLICATION; CONTENTS; FEE.
   Every person, partnership, limited liability company, or corporation
desiring a license to sell tobacco at retail shall file with the Village Clerk
a written application on forms provided by the village, stating the name of the
person, partnership, limited liability company, or corporation for whom the
license is desired and the exact location of the place of business and shall
deposit with the application a license fee in the amount of $10, If the
applicant is an individual, the application shall include the applicant’s
Social Security number.
(Prior Code, § 10-501) (Ord. 564, passed 8-12-1998) Penalty, see §
110.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 28-1422 and 28-1423
§ 110.99 PENALTY.
   Any person who shall violate or refuse to comply with the enforcement of any
of the provisions of this chapter, set forth at full length herein or
incorporated by reference shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and upon
conviction thereof, shall be fined not more than $500 for each offense. A new
violation shall be deemed to have been committed every 24 hours of such failure
to comply.
(Prior Code, § 10-601) (Ord. 669, passed 5-15-2003)
CHAPTER 111: BUSINESS TAXES
Section
Occupation Tax
   
111.01   Amounts
   
111.02   Fire insurance companies
   
111.03   Collection date
   
111.04   Certificates
   
111.05   Failure to pay
Sales and Use Tax
   
111.20   One-half percent imposed
   
111.21   Administration to be as provided by state law
   
111.22   Use of proceeds
   
111.23   Certification
   
111.24   Term of tax
OCCUPATION TAX
§ 111.01 AMOUNTS.
   For the purpose of raising revenue, an occupation tax is hereby levied on
the following businesses:
 
Business Type                           Tax Amount
Fire insurance companies                $5 per year
Peddlers and hawkers                    $3 per day
                                        $10 per year
Retailers of alcoholic beverages, for   2 times the license fee paid to the
on-sale and off-sale (Sales in original state per year
packages only)
 
(Prior Code, § 10-401) (Ord. 713, passed 12-12-2007)
§ 111.02 FIRE INSURANCE COMPANIES.
   For the use, support, and maintenance of the Village Fire Department all
revenue realized from the occupation tax on fire insurance companies shall be
appropriated to the Fire Department Fund.
(Prior Code, § 10-402)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 35-106
§ 111.03 COLLECTION DATE.
   (A)   All occupation taxes shall be due, and payable on November 1 of each
year, except in the event that the said tax is levied daily, and upon the
payment thereof by any person or persons to the Village Clerk, the said Clerk
shall give a receipt, properly dated, and specifying the person paying the said
tax, and the amount paid.
   (B)   The revenue collected shall then be immediately deposited into the
General Fund by the Village Treasurer.
   (C)   The Village Treasurer shall keep an accurate account of all revenue
turned over to him, her, or them.
   (D)   All forms and receipts herein mentioned shall be issued in duplicate.
   (E)   One copy shall then be kept by each party in the transaction.
(Prior Code, § 10-403)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-525
§ 111.04 CERTIFICATES.
   (A)   The receipt issued after the payment of any occupation tax shall be
the occupation tax certificate.
   (B)   The said certificate shall specify the amount of the tax and the name
of the person and business that paid the said tax.
   (C)   The occupation tax certificate shall then be displayed in a prominent
place, or carried in such a way as to be easily accessible, while business is
being conducted.
(Prior Code, § 10-404)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-525
§ 111.05 FAILURE TO PAY.
   (A)   If any person, company, or corporation fails or neglects to pay the
occupation taxes as provided herein on the day it becomes due and payable, the
village shall then proceed by civil suit to collect the amount due.
   (B)   All delinquent taxes shall bear interest at the rate of 1% per month
until paid.
(Prior Code, § 10-405)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-525
SALES AND USE TAX
§ 111.20 ONE-HALF PERCENT IMPOSED.
   Effective April 1, 2020, the village does impose a sales and use tax of 1.5%
upon the same transactions on which the state is authorized to impose a tax
pursuant to the Nebraska Revenue Act of 1967, being Neb. RS 77-2701 et seq., as
amended from time to time, by virtue of the approval of the electors of the
village at a special election held on November 12, 2019 authorizing an increase
in the existing rate from 1% to 1.5%. The current sales and use tax rate of 1%
will remain in effect from the passage of this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 12-101) (Ord. 738, passed 11-21-2019)
§ 111.21 ADMINISTRATION TO BE AS PROVIDED BY STATE LAW.
   The administration of the sales and use tax imposed by this subchapter,
including the ascertainment, assessment, collection, distribution and making of
returns for said tax, shall be by the State Tax Commissioner pursuant to Neb.
RS 77-17,143, 1943.
(Prior Code, § 12-102)
§ 111.22 USE OF PROCEEDS.
   The proceeds of the sales and use taxes imposed by §
111.20 shall be used for any lawful purpose which may include but not be
limited to, the financing of capital improvements or acquisition projects, and
which shall include the payment of interest and principal on any bonds and the
principal and interest of any loan funds used to finance capital improvements.
(Prior Code, § 12-103) (Ord. 707, passed 12-13-2006)
§ 111.23 CERTIFICATION.
   A certified copy of the election results showing approval and a certified
map of the village clearly showing the boundaries of said village, incorporated
by reference herein, was filed with the Tax Commissioner on or before December
2, 2006.
(Prior Code, § 12-104)
§ 111.24 TERM OF TAX.
   The sales and use tax imposed by §
111.20 shall continue in perpetuity unless repealed by the Mayor and Council or
by the voters of the village.
(Prior Code, § 12-105) (Ord. 707, passed 12-13-2006)
CHAPTER 112: ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
Section
General Provisions
   
112.01   Definitions
   
112.02   Sale or gift to minor or mentally incompetent person prohibited
   
112.03   Consumption in public places or places open to the public;
restrictions
   
112.04   Removal of intoxicated persons from public or quasi-public property
Licenses Required
   
112.20   Manufacture, sale, delivery, and possession; general prohibitions;
exceptions
   
112.21   Acquisition and possession; restrictions
   
112.22   Licensee requirements
   
112.23   Licenses; village powers and duties
   
112.24   Licensed premises; inspections
   
112.25   License renewal; village powers and duties
   
112.26   Catering licenses
   
112.27   Display of license
   
112.28   Owner of premises or agent; liability
   
112.29   Licensee; liability for acts of officer, agent, or employee
   
112.30   Citizen complaints
Retail Establishments
   
112.45   Location
   
112.46   Access to dwellings
   
112.47   Sanitary conditions
   
112.48   Hours of sale
   
112.49   Credit sales prohibited
   
112.50   Original package required
   
112.51   Minor’s presence restricted
   
112.52   Keg sales; requirements; prohibited acts
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 112.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For purposes of this chapter, the definitions found in Neb. RS 53-103.01
through 53-103.51 shall be used.
§ 112.02 SALE OR GIFT TO MINOR OR MENTALLY INCOMPETENT PERSON PROHIBITED.
   No person shall sell, furnish, give away, dispose of, exchange, or deliver,
or permit the sale, gift, or procuring of any alcoholic liquors, to or for any
minor or to any person who is mentally incompetent.
(Neb. RS 53-180) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 112.03 CONSUMPTION IN PUBLIC PLACES OR PLACES OPEN TO THE PUBLIC;
RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   Except when the Nebraska Liquor Control Commission has issued a
license as provided in Neb. RS 53-186(2) or as provided in Neb. RS 60-6,211.08,
it is unlawful for any person to consume alcoholic liquor upon property owned
or controlled by the state or any governmental subdivision thereof unless
authorized by the governing bodies having jurisdiction over such property.
(Neb. RS 53-186)
   (B)   It is unlawful for any person owning, operating, managing, or
conducting any bottle club, dance hall, restaurant, café, or club or any place
open to the general public to permit or allow any person to consume alcoholic
liquor upon the premises except as permitted by a license issued for such
premises pursuant to the Nebraska Liquor Control Act. It is unlawful for any
person to consume alcoholic liquor in any bottle club, dance hall, restaurant,
café, or club or any place open to the general public except as permitted by a
license issued for such premises pursuant to the Act. This division does not
apply to a retail licensee while lawfully engaged in the catering of alcoholic
beverages or to limousines or buses operated under Neb. RS 60-6,211.08.
(Neb. RS 53-186.01)
§ 112.04 REMOVAL OF INTOXICATED PERSONS FROM PUBLIC OR QUASI-PUBLIC PROPERTY.
   (A)   Any law enforcement officer with the power to arrest for traffic
violations may take a person who is intoxicated and in the judgment of the
officer dangerous to himself, herself, or others, or who is otherwise
incapacitated, from any public or quasi-public property. An officer removing an
intoxicated person from public or quasi-public property shall make a reasonable
effort to take the intoxicated person to his or her home or to place the person
in any hospital, clinic, or mental health substance use treatment center, or
with a medical doctor as may be necessary to preserve life or to prevent
injury. The effort at placement shall be deemed reasonable if the officer
contacts such facilities or doctor which have previously represented a
willingness to accept and treat such individuals and which regularly do accept
such individuals. If these efforts are unsuccessful or are not feasible, the
officer may then place the intoxicated person in civil protective custody,
except that civil protective custody shall be used only as long as is necessary
to preserve life or to prevent injury, and under no circumstances longer than
24 hours.
   (B)   The placement of the person in civil protective custody shall be
recorded at the facility or jail at which he or she is delivered and
communicated to his or her family or next of kin, if they can be located, or to
the person designated by the person taken into civil protective custody.
   (C)   The law enforcement officer who acts in compliance with this section
shall be deemed to be acting in the course of his or her official duty and
shall not be criminally or civilly liable for these actions.
   (D)   The taking of an individual into civil protective custody under this
section shall not be considered an arrest. No entry or other record shall be
made to indicate that the person has been arrested or charged with a crime.
   (E)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      MENTAL HEALTH SUBSTANCE USE TREATMENT. Has the same meaning as in Neb. RS
71-423.
      PUBLIC PROPERTY. Any public right-of-way, street, highway, alley, park,
or other state, county, or village-owned property.
      QUASI-PUBLIC PROPERTY. Private or publicly owned property utilized for
proprietary or business uses which invites patronage by the public or which
invites public ingress and egress.
(Neb. RS 53-1,121) Penalty, see §
10.99
LICENSES REQUIRED
§ 112.20 MANUFACTURE, SALE, DELIVERY, AND POSSESSION; GENERAL PROHIBITIONS;
EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   No person shall manufacture, bottle, blend, sell, barter, transport,
deliver, furnish, or possess any alcoholic liquor for beverage purposes except
as specifically provided in this chapter and the Nebraska Liquor Control Act.
   (B)   Nothing in this chapter shall prevent:
      (1)   The possession of alcoholic liquor legally obtained as provided in
this chapter or the Act for the personal use of the possessor and his or her
family or guests;
      (2)   The making, transport, and delivery of wine, cider, beer, mead,
perry, or other alcoholic liquor by a person from fruits, vegetables, honey or
grains, or the product thereof, by simple fermentation and without
distillation,
         (a)    If made solely for the use of the maker and his or her family
and guests if such alcoholic liquor is not sold or offered for sale; or
         (b)   If made without a permit for an exhibition, festival, or tasting
competition, including exhibitions, festivals, or tasting competitions that are
for nonprofit organizations such as fundraising events, legally conducted under
the act, if such alcoholic liquor is not sold or offered for sale. Alcoholic
liquor served pursuant to this division (B)(2)(b) shall clearly be identified
as alcoholic liquor that was manufactured under an exception to the rules and
regulations of the commission by signage, and the location of the manufacturer
shall be available upon request. Free or reduced admission to the exhibition,
festival, or tasting competition shall not be considered a sale of the
alcoholic liquor;
      (3)   Any duly licensed practicing physician or dentist from possessing
or using alcoholic liquor in the strict practice of his or her profession, any
hospital or other institution caring for the sick and diseased persons from
possessing and using alcoholic liquor for the treatment of bona fide patients
of that hospital or other institution, or any drug store employing a licensed
pharmacist from possessing or using alcoholic liquor in the compounding of
prescriptions of licensed physicians;
      (4)   The possession and dispensation of alcoholic liquor by an
authorized representative of any religion on the premises of a place of
worship, for the purpose of conducting any bona fide religious rite, ritual, or
ceremony;
      (5)   Persons who are 16 years old or older from carrying alcoholic
liquor from licensed establishments when they are accompanied by a person not a
minor;
      (6)   Persons who are 16 years old or older from handling alcoholic
liquor containers and alcoholic liquor in the course of their employment;
      (7)   Persons who are 16 years old or older from removing and disposing
of alcoholic liquor containers for the convenience of the employer and
customers in the course of their employment;
      (8)   Persons who are 16 years old or older from completing a transaction
for the sale of alcoholic liquor in the course of their employment if they are
not handling or serving alcoholic liquor; or
      (9)   Persons who are 19 years old or older from serving or selling
alcoholic liquor in the course of their employment.
(Neb. RS 53-168.06) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 112.21 ACQUISITION AND POSSESSION; RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to purchase, receive, acquire,
accept, or possess any alcoholic liquor acquired from any other person other
than one duly licensed to handle alcoholic liquor under this chapter and the
Nebraska Liquor Control Act unless within specific exemptions or exceptions
provided in this chapter or the Act.
(Neb. RS 53-175)
   (B)   (1)   Except as otherwise provided in this section, it shall be
unlawful for any person to transport, import, bring, ship, or cause to be
transported, imported, brought, or shipped into this state for the personal use
of the possessor, his or her family, or guests a quantity of alcoholic liquor
in excess of nine liters in any one calendar month.
      (2)   Division (B)(1) above does not apply to a person importing
alcoholic liquor from a holder of a retail direct sales shipping license or its
equivalent, which alcoholic liquor is for personal use or for use by such
person’s family or guests, if the total amount imported by such person in any
one calendar year does not exceed 108 liters.
(Neb. RS 53-194.03)
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 112.22 LICENSEE REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   No license shall be issued to:
      (1)   A person who is not a resident of this state, except in case of
railroad, airline, boat, or special party bus licenses;
      (2)   A person who is not of good character and reputation in the
community in which he or she resides;
      (3)   A person who is not a resident of this state and legally able to
work in this state;
      (4)   A person who has been convicted of or has pleaded guilty to a
felony under the laws of this state, any other state, or the United States;
      (5)   A person who has been convicted of or has pleaded guilty to any
Class I misdemeanor pursuant Neb. RS Chapter 28, art. 3, 4, 7, 8, 10, 11, or
12, or any similar offense under a prior criminal statute or in another state,
except that any additional requirements imposed by this division on May 18,
1983, shall not prevent any person holding a license on that date from
retaining or renewing that license if the conviction or plea occurred prior to
May 18, 1983;
      (6)   A person whose license issued under the Nebraska Liquor Control Act
has been revoked for cause;
      (7)   A person who at the time of application for renewal of any license
issued under the Act would not be eligible for that license upon initial
application;
      (8)   A partnership, unless one of the partners is a resident of this
state and unless all the members of that partnership are otherwise qualified to
obtain a license;
      (9)   A limited liability company, unless one of the members is a
resident of this state and unless all the members of that company are otherwise
qualified to obtain a license;
      (10)   A corporation, if any officer or director of the corporation or
any stockholder owning in the aggregate more than 25% of the stock of that
corporation would be ineligible to receive a license under this section for any
reason other than the reasons stated in divisions (A)(1) and (A)(3) above, or
if a manager of a corporate licensee would be ineligible to receive a license
under this section for any reason. This division shall not apply to railroad
licenses;
      (11)   A person whose place of business is conducted by a manager or
agent, unless that manager or agent possesses the same qualifications required
of the licensee;
      (12)   A person who does not own the premises for which a license is
sought or does not have a lease or combination of leases on the premises for
the full period for which the license is to be issued;
      (13)   Except as provided in this division, an applicant whose spouse is
ineligible under this section to receive and hold a liquor license. Such an
applicant shall become eligible for a liquor license only if the Nebraska
Liquor Control Commission finds from the evidence that the public interest will
not be infringed upon if the license is granted. It shall be prima facie
evidence that when a spouse is ineligible to receive a liquor license, the
applicant is also ineligible to receive a liquor license. This prima facie
evidence shall be overcome if it is shown to the satisfaction of the
Commission:
            (a)   The licensed business will be the sole property of the
applicant; and
            (b)   The licensed premises will be properly operated.
      (14)   A person seeking a license for premises which do not meet
standards for fire safety as established by the State Fire Marshal;
      (15)   A law enforcement officer, except that this division shall not
prohibit a law enforcement officer from holding membership in any nonprofit
organization holding a liquor license or from participating in any manner in
the management or administration of a nonprofit organization; or
      (16)   A person less than 21 years of age.
   (B)   When a trustee is the licensee, the beneficiary or beneficiaries of
the trust shall comply with the requirements of this section, but nothing in
this section shall prohibit any such beneficiary from being a minor or person
who is mentally incompetent.
(Neb. RS 53-125)
§ 112.23 LICENSES; VILLAGE POWERS AND DUTIES.
   (A)   The Board of Trustees is authorized to regulate by ordinance, not
inconsistent with the Nebraska Liquor Control Act, the business of all retail,
bottle club, craft brewery, and microdistillery licensees carried on within the
corporate limits of the village.
(Neb. RS 53-134.03)
   (B)   During the period of 45 days after the date of receipt by mail or
electronic delivery from the Nebraska Liquor Control Commission notice and a
copy of an application for a new license to sell alcoholic liquor at retail, a
craft brewery license, or a microdistillery license, the Board of Trustees may
make and submit to the Commission recommendations relative to the granting or
refusal to grant the license to the applicant.
(Neb. RS 53-131)
   (C)   The Board of Trustees, with respect to licenses within the corporate
limits of the village, has the following powers, functions, and duties with
respect to retail, bottle club, craft brewery, and microdistillery licenses:
      (1)   To cancel or revoke for cause retail, craft brewery, or
microdistillery licenses to sell or dispense alcoholic liquor or bottle club
licenses issued to persons for premises within its jurisdiction, subject to the
right of appeal to the Nebraska Liquor Control Commission;
      (2)   To enter or to authorize any law enforcement officer to enter at
any time upon any premises licensed under the Nebraska Liquor Control Act to
determine whether any provision of the Act, any rule or regulation adopted and
promulgated pursuant to the Act, or any ordinance, resolution, rule, or
regulation adopted by the Board of Trustees has been or is being violated, and
at that time examine the premises of the licensee in connection with such
determination. Any law enforcement officer who determines that any provision of
the Act, any rule or regulation adopted and promulgated pursuant to the Act, or
any ordinance, resolution, rule, or regulation adopted by the local governing
body has been or is being violated shall report such violation in writing to
the Executive Director of the Commission:
         (a)   Within 30 days after determining that such violation has
occurred;
         (b)   Within 30 days after the conclusion of an ongoing police
investigation; or
         (c)   Within 30 days after the verdict in a prosecution related to
such an ongoing police investigation if the prosecuting attorney determines
that reporting such violation prior to the verdict would jeopardize such
prosecution, whichever is later;
      (3)   To receive a signed complaint from any citizen within its
jurisdiction that any provision of the Act, any rule or regulation adopted and
promulgated pursuant to the Act, or any ordinance, resolution, rule, or
regulation relating to alcoholic liquor has been or is being violated and to
act upon these complaints in the manner provided in the Act;
      (4)   To receive retail, bottle club, craft brewery, and microdistillery
license fees as provided in Neb. RS 53-124 and 53-124.01 and pay the same,
after the license has been delivered to the applicant, to the Village
Treasurer;
      (5)   To examine or cause to be examined any applicant or any retail,
bottle club, craft brewery, or microdistillery licensee upon whom notice of
cancellation or revocation has been served as provided in the Act, to examine
or cause to be examined the books and records of any applicant or licensee,
except as otherwise provided for bottle club licensees under state law, and to
hear testimony and to take proof for its information in the performance of its
duties. For purposes of obtaining any of the information desired, the Board of
Trustees may authorize its agent or attorney to act on its behalf;
      (6)   To cancel or revoke on its own motion any license if, upon the same
notice and hearing as provided in §
112.30, it determines that the licensee has violated any of the provisions of
the Nebraska Liquor Control Act or any valid and subsisting ordinance,
resolution, rule, or regulation duly enacted, adopted, and promulgated relating
to alcoholic liquor. The order of cancellation or revocation may be appealed to
the Commission within 30 days after the date of the order by filing a notice of
appeal with the Commission. The Commission shall handle the appeal in the
manner provided for hearing on an application in Neb. RS 53-133;
      (7)   Upon receipt from the Commission of the notice and copy of
application as provided in Neb. RS 53-131, to fix a time and place for a
hearing at which the Board of Trustees shall receive evidence, either orally or
by affidavit from the applicant and any other person, bearing upon the
propriety of the issuance of a license. Notice of the time and place of the
hearing shall be published in a legal newspaper in or of general circulation in
the village, one time not less than seven and not more than 14 days before the
time of the hearing. The notice shall include, but not be limited to, a
statement that all persons desiring to give evidence before the Board of
Trustees in support of or in protest against the issuance of the license may do
so at the time of the hearing. The hearing shall be held not more than 45 days
after the date of receipt of the notice from the Commission, and after the
hearing the Board of Trustees shall cause to be recorded in the minute record
of its proceedings a resolution recommending either issuance or refusal of the
license. The Village Clerk shall mail to the Commission by first class mail,
postage prepaid, a copy of the resolution which shall state the cost of the
published notice, except that failure to comply with this provision shall not
void any license issued by the Commission. If the Commission refuses to issue
such a license, the cost of publication of notice shall be paid by the
Commission from the security for costs; and
      (8)   To review and authorize an application by a retail, bottle club,
craft brewery, farm winery, or microdistillery licensee for a temporary
expansion of its licensed premises within the jurisdiction of the local
governing body to an immediately adjacent area owned or leased by the licensee
or to an immediately adjacent street, parking lot, or alley, not to exceed 50
days for calendar year 2020 and, for each calendar year thereafter, not to
exceed 15 days per calendar year, as provided in Neb. RS 53-123.12 and Neb. RS
53-129; and
      (9)   To review and authorize an application by a craft brewery, farm
winery, or microdistillery licensee that holds a promotional farmers market
special designated license for a permit to use such promotional farmers market
special designated license to sell or dispense alcoholic liquor, which the
holder is licensed to produce, at a farmers market within the jurisdiction of
the local governing body as provided in Neb. RS 53-124.17. The local governing
body shall electronically notify the commission within five days after
authorization of any permit pursuant to this subdivision.
(Neb. RS 53-134)
   (D)   (1)   When the Nebraska Liquor Control Commission mails or delivers to
the Village Clerk a retail, craft brewery, or microdistillery license issued or
renewed by the Commission, the Clerk shall deliver the license to the licensee
upon receipt from the licensee of proof of payment of:
         (a)   The license fee if by the terms of Neb. RS 53-124 the fee is
payable to the Village Treasurer;
         (b)   Any fee for publication of notice of hearing before the Board of
Trustees upon the application for the license;
         (c)   The fee for publication of notice of renewal, if applicable, as
provided in Neb. RS 53-135.01; and
         (d)   Occupation taxes, if any, imposed by the village, except that
Class J retail licensees shall not be subject to occupation taxes.
      (2)   Notwithstanding any ordinance or charter power to the contrary, the
village shall not impose an occupation tax on the business of any person, firm,
or corporation licensed under the Nebraska Liquor Control Act and doing
business within the corporate limits of the village in any sum which exceeds
two times the amount of the license fee required to be paid under the Act to
obtain that license.
(Neb. RS 53-132)
§ 112.24 LICENSED PREMISES; INSPECTIONS.
   (A)   The Board of Trustees shall cause frequent inspection to be made on
the premises of all retail licensees and bottle club licensees. If it is found
that any such licensee is violating any provision of this chapter, the Nebraska
Liquor Control Act, or the rules and regulations of the Nebraska Liquor Control
Commission, or is failing to observe in good faith the purposes of this chapter
or the Act, the license may be suspended, canceled, or revoked after the
licensee is given an opportunity to be heard in his or her defense.
   (B)   The Board of Trustees may inspect a charter bus providing service
under a certificate of public convenience and necessity granted by the Public
Service Commission when the owner or operator of the charter allows the
consumption of alcoholic liquor in the charter bus by an individual who is 21
years of age or older so long as the inspection is performed when the bus has
stopped for the purpose of allowing passengers to embark or disembark.
(Neb. RS 53-116.01)
§ 112.25 LICENSE RENEWAL; VILLAGE POWERS AND DUTIES.
   (A)   A retail or bottle club license issued by the Nebraska Liquor Control
Commission and outstanding may be automatically renewed by the Commission in
the absence of a written request by the Board of Trustees to require the
licensee to submit an application for renewal. Any licensed retail premises
located in an area which is annexed to the village shall file a formal
application for a license, and while the application is pending, the licensee
may continue all license privileges until the original license expires or is
canceled or revoked. If that license expires within 60 days following the
annexation date of the area, the license may be renewed by order of the
Commission for not more than one year.
(Neb. RS 53-135)
   (B)   The Village Clerk shall cause to be published in a legal newspaper in
or of general circulation in the village, one time between January 10 and
January 30 of each year, individual notice in the form prescribed by law of the
right of automatic renewal of each retail liquor and beer license and each
bottle club license within the village, except that notice of the right of
automatic renewal of Class C licenses shall be published between the dates of
July 10 and July 30 of each year. If written protests to the issuance of
automatic renewal of a license are filed in the office of the Village Clerk by
three or more residents of the village on or before February 10, or August 10
for Class C licenses, the Board of Trustees shall hold a hearing to determine
whether continuation of the license should be allowed. Upon the conclusion of
any hearing required by this section, the Board of Trustees may request a
licensee to submit an application as provided in Neb. RS 53-135.
(Neb. RS 53-135.01)
§ 112.26 CATERING LICENSES.
   (A)   The holder of a license to sell alcoholic liquor at retail issued
under Neb. RS 53-124, a craft brewery license, a microdistillery license, or a
farm winery license may obtain an annual catering license by filing an
application and license fee with the Nebraska Liquor Control Commission.
   (B)   Upon receipt from the Commission of the notice and a copy of the
application as provided in Neb. RS 53-124.12, the Board of Trustees shall
process the application in the same manner as provided in §
112.23.
   (C)   The Board of Trustees, with respect to catering licensees within its
corporate limits, may cancel a catering license for cause for the remainder of
the period for which that catering license is issued. Any person whose catering
license is canceled may appeal to the District Court.
   (D)   The Board of Trustees may impose an occupation tax on the business of
a catering licensee doing business within the liquor license jurisdiction of
the Board of Trustees. The tax may not exceed double the license fee for a
catering license.
(Neb. RS 53-124.12)
§ 112.27 DISPLAY OF LICENSE.
   Every licensee under the Nebraska Liquor Control Act shall cause his or her
license to be framed and hung in plain view in a conspicuous place on the
licensed premises.
(Neb. RS 53-148) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 112.28 OWNER OF PREMISES OR AGENT; LIABILITY.
   If the owner of the licensed premises or any person from whom the licensee
derives the right to possession of the premises, or the agent of that owner or
person, knowingly permits the licensee to use the licensed premises in
violation of the terms of the Nebraska Liquor Control Act or any village
ordinance, that owner, agent, or other person shall be deemed guilty of a
violation of the Act or ordinance to the same extent as the licensee and be
subject to the same punishment.
(Neb. RS 53-1,101) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 112.29 LICENSEE; LIABILITY FOR ACTS OF OFFICER, AGENT, OR EMPLOYEE.
   Every act or omission of whatsoever nature constituting a violation of any
of the provisions of the Nebraska Liquor Control Act or any village ordinance
by any officer, director, manager, or other agent or employee of any licensee,
if the act is committed or omission is made with the authorization, knowledge,
or approval of the licensee, shall be deemed and held to be the act of the
employer or licensee, and the employer or licensee shall be punishable in the
same manner as if the act or omission had been done or omitted by the licensee
personally.
(Neb. RS 53-1,102) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 112.30 CITIZEN COMPLAINTS.
   Any five residents of the village shall have the right to file a complaint
with the Board of Trustees stating that any retail licensee or bottle club
licensee subject to the jurisdiction of the Board of Trustees has been or is
violating any provision of the Nebraska Liquor Control Act or the rules or
regulations issued pursuant to the Act. The complaint shall be in writing in
the form prescribed by the Board of Trustees and shall be signed and sworn to
by the parties complaining. The complaint shall state the particular provision,
rule, or regulation believed to have been violated and the facts in detail upon
which belief is based. If the Board of Trustees is satisfied that the complaint
substantially charges a violation and that from the facts alleged there is
reasonable cause for that belief, it shall set the matter for hearing within
ten days from the date of the filing of the complaint and shall serve notice
upon the licensee of the time and place of the hearing and of the particular
charge in the complaint. The complaint shall in all cases be disposed of by the
Board of Trustees within 30 days from the date the complaint was filed by
resolution thereof, which resolution shall be deemed the final order for
purposes of appeal to the Nebraska Liquor Control Commission as provided in
Neb. RS 53-1,115.
(Neb. RS 53-134.04)
RETAIL ESTABLISHMENTS
§ 112.45 LOCATION.
   (A)   Except as otherwise provided in division (B) below, no license shall
be issued for the sale at retail of any alcoholic liquor or for a bottle club
within 150 feet of any church, school, hospital, or home for indigent persons
or for veterans and their wives or children. This prohibition does not apply to
any location within such distance of 150 feet:
      (1)   For which a license to sell alcoholic liquor at retail or for a
bottle club has been granted by the Nebraska Liquor Control Commission for two
years continuously prior to making of application for license;
      (2)   To hotels offering restaurant service, to regularly organized
clubs, or to restaurants, food shops, or other places where sale of alcoholic
liquor is not the principal business carried on, if such place of business so
exempted was established for such purposes prior to May 24, 1935; or
      (3)   To a college or university in the state which is subject to Neb. RS
53-177.01.
   (B)   If a proposed location for the sale at retail of any alcoholic liquor
or for a bottle club is within 150 feet of any church, a license may be issued
if the commission gives notice to the affected church and holds a hearing as
prescribed in Neb. RS 53-133 if the affected church submits a written request
for a hearing.
(Neb. RS 53-177)
   (C)   No alcoholic liquor shall be sold for consumption on the premises
within 300 feet from the campus of any college or university in the state,
except that this section:
      (1)   Does not prohibit a nonpublic college or university from
contracting with an individual or corporation holding a license to sell
alcoholic liquor at retail for the purpose of selling alcoholic liquor at
retail on the campus of such college or university at events sanctioned by such
college or university but does prohibit the sale of alcoholic liquor at retail
by such licensee on the campus of such nonpublic college or university at
student activities or events; and
      (2)   Does not prohibit sales of alcoholic liquor by a community college
culinary education program pursuant to Neb. RS 53-124.15.
   (D)   Except as otherwise provided in division (F) below, the commission may
waive the 300-foot restriction in division (C) below taking into consideration
one or more of the following:
      (1)   The impact of retail sales of alcoholic liquor for consumption on
the premises on the academic mission of the college or university;
      (2)   The impact on students and prospective students if such sales were
permitted on or near campus;
      (3)   The impact on economic development opportunities located within or
in proximity to the campus; and
      (4)   The waiver would likely reduce the number of applications for
special designated licenses requested by the college or university or its
designee.
   (E)   To apply for a waiver under this section, the applicant shall submit a
written application to the commission. The commission shall notify the
governing body of the affected college or university when the commission
receives an application for a waiver. The application shall include:
      (1)   The address of the location for which the waiver is requested;
      (2)   The name and type of business for which the waiver is requested;
and
      (3)   A description of the justification for the waiver explaining how
the proposed location complies with the findings prescribed in division (E)(2)
above.
   (F)   The commission shall not waive the 300-foot restriction in division
(C) above without written approval from the governing body of the college or
university or its designee if the physical location of the property which is
the subject of the requested waiver is (a) surrounded by property owned by the
college or university including any public or private easement, street, or
right-of-way adjacent to the property owned by the college or university or (b)
adjacent to property on two or more sides owned by the college or university
including any public or private easement, street, or right-of-way adjacent to
the property owned by the college or university.
   (G)   No bottle club shall be operated within 300 feet from the campus of
any college or university in the state.
(Neb. RS 53-177.01) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   State commission may waive 300-feet requirement, see Neb. RS 53-177.01
§ 112.46 ACCESS TO DWELLINGS.
   Except in the case of hotels and clubs, no alcoholic liquor shall be
manufactured or sold at retail or wholesale upon any premises which have any
access which leads from the premises to any other portion of the same building
or structure used for dwelling or lodging purposes and permitted to be used or
kept accessible for use by the public. This section does not prevent any
connection between the premises and such other portion of the building or
structure which is used only by the licensee, his or her family, or personal
guests.
(Neb. RS 53-178) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 112.47 SANITARY CONDITIONS.
   It shall be unlawful to open for public use any retail liquor establishment
that is not in a clean and sanitary condition. Toilet facilities shall be
adequate and convenient for customers and patrons. The licensed premises shall
be subject to any health inspections the Board of Trustees or the village
police may make or cause to be made. All applications for liquor licenses shall
be viewed in part from the standpoint of the sanitary conditions, and a report
concerning the sanitary conditions shall be made at all hearings concerning the
application for or renewal of a liquor license.
Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Authority to regulate licensed premises, see Neb. RS 53-134.03
   State sanitary rules and regulations authorized, see Neb. RS 53-118
§ 112.48 HOURS OF SALE.
   (A)   No alcoholic liquor, including beer, shall be sold at retail or
dispensed on any day between the hours of 1:00 a.m. and 6:00 a.m. except that
the Board of Trustees with respect to area inside the corporate limits of the
city may by ordinance or resolution:
      (1)   Require closing prior to 1:00 a.m. on any day;
      (2)   If adopted by a vote of at least two-thirds of the members of the
Board of Trustees, permit retail sale or dispensing of alcoholic liquor for
consumption on the premises, excluding sales for consumption off the premises,
later than 1:00 a.m. and prior to 2:00 a.m. on any day;
      (3)   If adopted by a vote of at least two-thirds of the members of Board
of Trustees, permit retail sale of alcoholic liquor for consumption off the
premises later than 1 a.m. and prior to 2 a.m. on any day; or
      (4)   If adopted by a vote of at least two-thirds of the members of Board
of Trustees, permit retail sale or dispensing of alcoholic liquor for
consumption on the premises, excluding sales for consumption off the premises,
and permit retail sale of alcoholic liquor for consumption off the premises
later than 1:00 a.m. and prior to 2:00 a.m. on any day.
   (B)   Except as provided for and allowed by ordinance of the Board of
Trustees, no alcoholic liquor, including beer, shall be sold at retail or
dispensed inside the corporate limits of the village between the hours of 6:00
a.m. Sunday and 1:00 a.m. Monday. This division (B) shall not apply after 12
noon on Sunday to a licensee which is a nonprofit corporation and the holder of
a Class C license or a Class I license.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful on property licensed to sell alcoholic liquor at
retail to allow alcoholic liquor in open containers to remain or be in
possession or control of any person for purposes of consumption between the
hours of 15 minutes after the closing hour applicable to the licensed premises
and 6:00 a.m. on any day.
   (D)   Nothing in this section shall prohibit licensed premises from being
open for other business on days and hours during which the sale or dispensing
of alcoholic liquor is prohibited by this section.
(Neb. RS 53-179)
§ 112.49 CREDIT SALES PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No person shall sell or furnish alcoholic liquor at retail to any
person on credit, on a passbook, on an order on a store, in exchange for any
goods, wares, or merchandise, or in payment for any services rendered, and if
any person extends credit for any such purpose, the debt thereby attempted to
be created shall not be recoverable at law.
   (B)   Nothing in this section shall prevent the following:
      (1)   Any club holding a Class C license from permitting checks or
statements for alcoholic liquor to be signed by members or bona fide guests of
members and charged to the account of such members or guests in accordance with
the bylaws of such club;
      (2)   Any hotel or restaurant holding a retail license from permitting
checks or statements for liquor to be signed by regular guests residing at such
hotel or eating at such restaurant and charged to the accounts of such guests;
or
      (3)   Any licensed retailer engaged in the sale of wine or distilled
spirits from issuing tasting cards to customers.
(Neb. RS 53-183) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 112.50 ORIGINAL PACKAGE REQUIRED.
   No person, except a manufacturer or wholesaler, shall fill or refill, in
whole or in part, any original package of alcoholic liquor with the same or any
other kind or quality of alcoholic liquor. It shall be unlawful for any person
to have in his or her possession for sale at retail any bottles, casks, or
other containers containing alcoholic liquor except in original packages.
Nothing in this section shall prohibit the refilling of original packages of
alcoholic liquor for strictly private use and not for resale.
(Neb. RS 53-184) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 112.51 MINOR’S PRESENCE RESTRICTED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person who owns, manages, or leases an
establishment selling alcoholic beverages at retail to allow any minor under
the age of 18 years of age to frequent or otherwise remain in the establishment
unless the minor is accompanied by his or her parent or legal guardian, and
unless the minor remains seated with and under the immediate control of the
parent or legal guardian.
Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Authority to regulate, see Neb. RS 53-134.03
§ 112.52 KEG SALES; REQUIREMENTS; PROHIBITED ACTS.
   (A)   When any person licensed to sell alcoholic liquor at retail sells
alcohol for consumption off the premises in a container with a liquid capacity
of five or more gallons or 18.92 or more liters, the seller shall record the
date of the sale, the keg identification number, the purchaser’s name and
address, and the number of the purchaser’s motor vehicle operator’s license,
state identification card, or military identification, if the military
identification contains a picture of the purchaser, together with the
purchaser’s signature. This record shall be on a form prescribed by the
Nebraska Liquor Control Commission and shall be kept by the licensee at the
retail establishment where the purchase was made for not less than six months.
The records kept pursuant to this section shall be available for inspection by
any law enforcement officer during normal business hours or at any other
reasonable time. Any person violating this section shall be guilty of an
offense.
(Neb. RS 53-167.02)
   (B)   Any person who unlawfully tampers with, alters, or removes the keg
identification number from a container described in division (A) above or is in
possession of a container described in division (A) above with an altered or
removed keg identification number after the container has been taken from the
licensed premises pursuant to a retail sale and before its return to the
licensed premises or other place where returned kegs are accepted shall be
guilty of an offense.
(Neb. RS 53-167.03) Penalty, see §
10.99
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
   Chapter
      
130.   GENERAL OFFENSES
CHAPTER 130: GENERAL OFFENSES
Section
Offenses Against Administration and Authority
   
130.01   Resisting officer
   
130.02   Abusing officer
   
130.03   False reporting
Offenses Against Persons and Property
   
130.15   Larceny
   
130.16   Injury to trees
   
130.17   Window peeping
   
130.18   Theft
   
130.19   Forgery in the second degree
   
130.20   Criminal possession of a forged instrument
   
130.21   Violence on a service dog; interference with a service dog
Offenses Against Peace, Safety, and Public Morals
   
130.40   Trash
   
130.41   Drinking in public
   
130.42   Discharge of firearms
   
130.43   Slingshots, air guns, BB guns
   
130.44   Disturbing the peace
   
130.45   Appliances in yard
   
130.46   Obstruction of public ways
   
130.47   Obstructing water flow
   
130.48   Weeds, litter, stagnant water
   
130.49   Abandoned automobiles
   
130.50   Unlicensed or inoperable vehicles
   
130.51   Curfew
   
130.52   Loitering prohibited
   
130.53   Littering
   
130.54   Under the influence of a controlled substance
   
130.55   Criminal mischief
   
130.56   Sexual predators
   
130.57   Public nudity and lewd or lascivious behavior
   
130.58   Abatement of nuisance
 
   
130.99   Penalty
OFFENSES AGAINST ADMINISTRATION AND AUTHORITY
§ 130.01 RESISTING OFFICER.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to resist any village police officer
when such officer is in the lawful performance of his, her, or their duties.
(Prior Code, § 6-301) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.02 ABUSING OFFICER.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to abuse a police officer or municipal
official in the execution of his, her, or their office.
(Prior Code, § 6-302) Penalty, see §
130.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 28-929
§ 130.03 FALSE REPORTING.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to:
      (1)   Furnish material information he, she, or they knows to be false to
any peace officer or other official with the intent to instigate an
investigation of an alleged criminal matter or impede the investigation of an
actual criminal matter;
      (2)   Furnish information he, she, or they knows to be false alleging the
existence of the need for the assistance of an emergency medical service or
out-of-hospital emergency care provider or an emergency in which human life or
property are in jeopardy to any hospital, emergency medical service, or other
person or governmental agency;
      (3)   Furnish any information, or cause such information to be furnished
or conveyed by electric, electronic, telephonic, or mechanical means, knowing
the same to be false concerning the need for assistance of a fire department or
any personnel or equipment of such department;
      (4)   Furnish any information he, she, or they knows to be false
concerning the location of any explosive in any building or other property to
any person; and/or
      (5)   Furnish material information he, she, or they knows to be false to
any governmental department or agency with the intent to instigate an
investigation or to impede an ongoing investigation and which actually results
in causing or impeding such investigation.
   (B)   A person who violates this section commits the offense of false
reporting.
(Prior Code, § 6-328) (Ord. 571, passed 8-12-1998) Penalty, see §
130.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 28-907
OFFENSES AGAINST PERSONS AND PROPERTY
§ 130.15 LARCENY.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person within the corporate limits to
steal any money, goods, or chattels of any kind whatsoever.
   (B)   Any person who shall steal property of any kind, whether the same be
entirely in money or entirely property of the value of less than $300 shall be
deemed to be guilty of a misdemeanor.
(Prior Code, § 6-305) Penalty, see §
130.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 28-512 and 28-514
§ 130.16 INJURY TO TREES.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to purposely or carelessly, and
without lawful authority, cut down, carry away, injure, break down, or destroy
any fruit, ornamental, shade, or other tree or trees standing or growing on any
land belonging to another person or persons or on any public land in the
corporate limits.
   (B)   Any public service company desiring to trim or cut down any tree,
except on property owned and controlled by them, shall make an application to
the Board of Trustees to do so, and the written permit of the Board of Trustees
in accordance with their decision to allow such an action shall constitute the
only lawful authority on the part of the company to do so.
(Prior Code, § 6-306) (Ord. 324, passed 2-1-1977) Penalty, see §
130.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 28-519
§ 130.17 WINDOW PEEPING.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to go upon the private premises of
another to look or peep into any window, door, or other opening in a building
occupied by any other person.
(Prior Code, § 6-312) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.18 THEFT.
   (A)   For purposes of this section:
      (1)   The definitions found in Neb. RS 28-509 shall apply; and
      (2)   The offenses described in divisions (B) through (G) below shall
exist when the value of the thing involved is under $500.
   (B)   (1)   A person commits theft if he, she, or they takes, or exercises
control over, movable property of another with the intent to deprive him, her,
or them thereof.
      (2)   A person commits theft if he, she, or they transfers immovable
property of another or any interest therein with the intent to benefit himself,
herself, or themself or another not entitled thereto.
      (3)   Except as provided for rental or lease of a motor vehicle in Neb.
RS 28-511(4), it shall be presumed that a lessee’s failure to return leased or
rented movable property to the lessor after the expiration of a written lease
or written rental agreement is done with intent to deprive if such lessee has
been mailed notice by certified mail that such lease or rental agreement has
expired and he, she, or they has failed within ten days after such notice to
return such property.
   (C)   A person commits theft if he, she, or they obtains property of another
by deception as defined in Neb. RS 28-512.
   (D)   (1)   A person commits theft if he, she, or they obtains property of
another by threatening to:
         (a)   Inflict bodily injury on anyone or commit any other criminal
offense;
         (b)   Accuse anyone of a criminal offense;
         (c)   Expose any secret tending to subject any person to hatred,
contempt, or ridicule, or to impair his, her, or their credit or business
repute;
         (d)   Take or withhold action as an official, or cause an official to
take or withhold action;
         (e)   Bring about or continue a strike, boycott, or other collective
unofficial action, if the property is not demanded or received for the benefit
of the group in whose interest the actor purports to act; or
         (f)   Testify or provide information or withhold testimony or
information with respect to another’s legal claim or defense.
      (2)   It is an affirmative defense to prosecution based on divisions (D
(1)(b), (D)(1)(c), or (D)(1)(d) above that the property obtained by threat of
accusation, exposure, lawsuit, or other invocation of official action was
honestly claimed as restitution or indemnification for harm done in the
circumstances to which such accusation, exposure, lawsuit, or other official
action relates, or as compensation for property or lawful services.
   (E)   A person who comes into control of property of another that he, she,
or they knows to have been lost, mislaid, or delivered under a mistake as to
the nature or amount of the property or the identity of the recipient commits
theft if, with intent to deprive the owner thereof, he, she, or they fails to
take reasonable measures to restore the property to a person entitled to have
it.
   (F)   (1)   (a)   A person commits theft if he, she, or they obtains
services, which he, she, or they knows are available only for compensation, by
deception or threat or by false token or other means to avoid payment for the
service.
         (b)   Services include labor, professional service, telephone service,
electric service, cable television service, or other public service,
accommodation in hotels, restaurants, or elsewhere, admission to exhibitions,
and use of vehicles or other movable property.
         (c)   When compensation for service is ordinarily paid immediately
upon the rendering of such service, as in the case of hotels and restaurants,
refusal to pay or absconding without payment or offer to pay gives rise to a
presumption that the service was obtained by deception as to intention to pay.
      (2)   A person commits theft if, having control over the disposition of
services of others to which he, she, or they is not entitled, he, she, or they
diverts such services to his, her, or their own benefit or to the benefit of
another not entitled thereto.
   (G)   A person commits theft if he, she, or they receives, retains, or
disposes of stolen movable property of another knowing that it has been stolen,
or believing that it has been stolen, unless the property is received,
retained, or disposed with intention to restore it to the owner.
(Prior Code, § 6-331) (Ord. 666, passed 4-9-2003) Penalty, see §
130.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 28-511 through 28-517
§ 130.19 FORGERY IN THE SECOND DEGREE.
   A person commits the offense of forgery in the second degree if he, she, or
they, with intent to deceive or harm, falsely makes, completes, endorses,
alters, or utters any written instrument which is or purports to be, or which
is calculated to become or to represent if completed, a written instrument
which does or may evidence, create, transfer, terminate, or otherwise affect a
legal right, interest, obligation, or status when the face value, or purported
face value, or the amount of any proceeds wrongfully procured or intended to be
procured by the use of such instrument is $300 or less.
(Prior Code, § 6-333) (Ord. 680, passed 3-10-2004) Penalty, see §
130.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 28-603
§ 130.20 CRIMINAL POSSESSION OF A FORGED INSTRUMENT.
   A person commits the offense of criminal possession of a forged instrument
if he, she, or they, with knowledge that it is forged and with intent to
deceive or harm, possesses any forged instrument covered by §
130.19, the amount or value of which is less than $1,000.
(Prior Code, § 6-334) (Ord. 682, passed 3-10-2004) Penalty, see §
130.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 28-604
§ 130.21 VIOLENCE ON A SERVICE DOG; INTERFERENCE WITH A SERVICE DOG.
   (A)   A person commits the offense of violence on a service dog when he,
she, or they
      (1)   Intentionally injures, harasses, or threatens to injure or harass;
or
      (2)   Attempts to intentionally injure, harass, or threaten a dog that
he, she, or they knows or has reason to believe is a dog guide for a blind or
visually impaired person, a hearing aid dog for a deaf or hearing-impaired
person, or a service dog for a physically limited person.
   (B)   A person commits the offense of interference with a service dog when
he, she, or they:
      (1)   Intentionally impedes, interferes, or threatens to impede or
interfere; or
      (2)   Attempts to intentionally impede, interfere, or threaten to impede
or interfere with a dog that he, she, or they knows or has reason to believe is
a dog guide for a blind or visually impaired person, a hearing aid dog for a
deaf or hearing-impaired person, or a service dog for a physically limited
person.
   (C)   Evidence that the defendant initiated or continued conduct toward a
dog as described in division (A) or (B) above after being requested to avoid or
discontinue such conduct by the blind, visually impaired, deaf, hearing-
impaired, or physically limited person being served or assisted by the dog
shall create a rebuttable presumption that the conduct of the defendant was
initiated or continued intentionally.
   (D)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      BLIND PERSON. A person with totally impaired vision or with vision, with
or without correction, which is so severely impaired that the primary means of
receiving information is through other sensory input, including but not limited
to Braille, mechanical reproduction, synthesized speech, or readers.
      DEAF PERSON. A person with totally impaired hearing or with hearing, with
or without amplification, which is so severely impaired that the primary means
of receiving spoken language is through other sensory input, including but not
limited to lip reading, sign language, finger spelling, or reading.
      HEARING-IMPAIRED PERSON. A person who is unable to hear air conduction
thresholds at an average of 40 decibels or greater in the person’s better ear.
      PHYSICALLY LIMITED PERSON. A person having limited ambulatory abilities,
including but not limited to having a permanent impairment or condition that
requires the person to use a wheelchair or to walk with difficulty or
insecurity to the extent that the person is insecure or exposed to danger.
      VISUALLY IMPAIRED PERSON. A person having a visual acuity of 20/200 or
less in the person’s better eye with correction or having a limitation to the
person’s field of vision so that the widest diameter of the visual field
subtends an angular distance not greater than 20 degrees.
(Prior Code, § 6-327) (Ord. 570, passed 8-12-1998) Penalty, see §
130.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 28-1009.01
OFFENSES AGAINST PEACE, SAFETY, AND PUBLIC MORALS
§ 130.40 TRASH.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to willfully, maliciously, or
negligently place or throw upon the premises of another any filth, garbage,
leaves, papers, or other matter to the annoyance of the owner or occupant
thereon.
(Prior Code, § 6-307) Penalty, see §
130.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 28-523
§ 130.41 DRINKING IN PUBLIC.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to consume alcoholic beverages in the
public streets, alleys, roads, highways, or upon any property owned by the
village or other governmental subdivision thereof, or inside vehicles while
upon the public streets, alleys, roads, or highways, in theaters, dance halls,
or any other place open to the public; provided, the provisions of this section
shall not apply to liquor establishments licensed by the state.
(Prior Code, § 6-308) (Ord. 314, passed 3-2-1976) Penalty, see §
130.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 53-186
§ 130.42 DISCHARGE OF FIREARMS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, except an officer of the law in the
discharge of his, her, or their official duty, to fire or discharge any gun,
pistol, or other fowling piece within the village; provided, nothing herein
shall be construed to apply to officially sanctioned public celebrations if the
persons so discharging firearms have written permission from the Board of
Trustees, or to persons using firearms in a lawful trade or business.
(Prior Code, § 6-309) Penalty, see §
130.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-556
§ 130.43 SLINGSHOTS, AIR GUNS, BB GUNS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to discharge a slingshot, air gun, BB
gun, or the like loaded with rock or other dangerous missiles at any time or
under any circumstances within the village.
(Prior Code, § 6-310) Penalty, see §
130.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-207
§ 130.44 DISTURBING THE PEACE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person or persons to assemble or gather within
the village with the intent to do an unlawful or disorderly act or acts, by
force or violence against the village, or residents therein, or who shall
disturb the public peace, quiet, security, repose, or sense of morality. Any
person or persons so assembled or gathered shall be deemed to be guilty of a
misdemeanor.
(Prior Code, § 6-311) Penalty, see §
130.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 28-1322
§ 130.45 APPLIANCES IN YARD.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to permit a refrigerator, icebox,
freezer, or any other dangerous appliance to be in the open and accessible to
children whether on private or public property unless he, she, or they shall
first remove all doors and make the same reasonably safe.
(Prior Code, § 6-313) Penalty, see §
130.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 18-1720
§ 130.46 OBSTRUCTION OF PUBLIC WAYS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to erect, maintain, or suffer to remain
on any street or public sidewalk a stand, wagon, display, or other obstruction
inconvenient to, or inconsistent with, the public use of the same.
(Prior Code, § 6-314) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.47 OBSTRUCTING WATER FLOW.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to stop or obstruct the passage of water
in a street gutter, culvert, water pipe, or hydrant.
(Prior Code, § 6-315) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.48 WEEDS, LITTER, STAGNANT WATER.
   (A)   Lots or pieces of ground within the village shall be drained or filled
so as to prevent stagnant water or any other nuisance accumulating thereon.
   (B)   The owner or occupant of any lot or piece of ground within the village
shall keep the lot or piece of ground and the adjoining streets and alleys free
of any growth of 12 inches or more in height of weeds, grasses, or worthless
vegetation.
   (C)   The throwing, depositing, or accumulation of litter on any lot or
piece of ground within the village is prohibited, except that grass, leaves,
and worthless vegetation may be used as a ground mulch or in a compost pile.
   (D)   It is hereby declared to be a nuisance to permit or maintain any
growth of 12 inches or more in height of weeds, grasses, or worthless
vegetation or to litter or cause litter to be deposited or remain thereon
except in proper receptacles.
   (E)   Any owner or occupant of a lot or piece of ground shall, upon
conviction of violating this section, be guilty of an offense.
   (F)   (1)   Notice to abate and remove such nuisance shall be given to each
owner or owner’s duly authorized agent and to the occupant, if any, by personal
service or certified mail. If notice by personal service or certified mail is
unsuccessful, notice shall be given by publication in a newspaper of general
circulation in the village or by conspicuously posting the notice on the lot or
ground upon which the nuisance is to be abated and removed. Within five days
after receipt of such notice or publication or posting, whichever is
applicable, if the owner or occupant of the lot or piece of ground does not
request a hearing with the village or fails to comply with the order to abate
and remove the nuisance, the village may have such work done. The costs and
expenses of any such work shall be paid by the owner.
      (2)   If unpaid for two months after such work is done, the village may
either:
         (a)   Levy and assess the costs and expenses of the work upon the lot
or piece of ground so benefited in the same manner as other special taxes for
improvements are levied and assessed; or
         (b)   Recover in a civil action the costs and expenses of the work
upon the lot or piece of ground and the adjoining streets and alleys.
   (G)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      (1)   LITTER Includes, but is not limited to:
         (a)   Trash, rubbish, refuse, garbage, paper, rags, and ashes;
         (b)   Wood, plaster, cement, brick, or stone building rubble;
         (c)   Grass, leaves, and worthless vegetation;
         (d)   Offal and dead animals; and
         (e)   Any machine or machines, vehicle or vehicles, or parts of a
machine or vehicle which have lost their identity, character, utility, or
serviceability as such through deterioration, dismantling, or the ravages of
time, are inoperative or unable to perform their intended functions, or are
cast off, discarded, or thrown away or left as waste, wreckage, or junk.
      (2)   WEEDS. Includes, but is not limited to, bindweed (Convolvulus
arvensis), puncture vine (Tribulus terrestris), leafy spurge (Euphorbia esula),
Canada thistle (Cirsium arvense), perennial peppergrass (Lepidium draba),
Russian knapweed (Centaurea picris), Johnson grass (Sorghum halepense), nodding
or musk thistle, quack grass (Agropyron repcns), perennial sow thistle (Sonchus
arvensis), horse nettle (Solatium carolinense), bull thistle (Cirsium
lanceolatum), buckthorn (Rhamnus sp.) (tourn), hemp plant (Cannabis sativa),
and ragweed (Ambrosiaceae).
(Prior Code, § 6-316) (Ord. passed 9-4-1991; Ord. 699, passed 3-9-2005)
Penalty, see §
130.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-563
§ 130.49 ABANDONED AUTOMOBILES.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      ABANDONED VEHICLE.
         (a)   A motor vehicle is an ABANDONED VEHICLE:
            1.   If left unattended, with no license plates or valid in transit
stickers issued pursuant to the Motor Vehicle Registration Act affixed thereto,
for more than six hours on any public property;
            2.   If left unattended for more than 24 hours on any public
property, except a portion thereof on which parking is legally permitted;
            3.   If left unattended for more than 48 hours, after the parking
of such vehicle has become illegal, if left on a portion of any public property
on which parking is legally permitted;
            4.   If left unattended for more than seven days on private
property if left initially without permission of the owner, or after permission
of the owner is terminated;
            5.   If left for more than 30 days in the custody of a village law
enforcement agency after the agency has sent a letter to the last-registered
owner and lienholder under division (D) below; or
            6.   If removed from private property by the village pursuant to a
village ordinance or this code.
         (b)   An all-terrain vehicle or minibike is an ABANDONED VEHICLE:
            1.   If left unattended for more than 24 hours on any public
property, except a portion thereof on which parking is legally permitted;
            2.   If left unattended for more than 48 hours, after the parking
of such vehicle has become illegal, if left on a portion of any public property
on which parking is legally permitted;
            3.   If left unattended for more than seven days on private
property if left initially without permission of the owner, or after permission
of the owner is terminated;
            4.   If left for more than 30 days in the custody of a village law
enforcement agency after the agency has sent a letter to the last-registered
owner and lienholder under division (D) of this section; or
            5.   If removed from private property by the village pursuant to a
village ordinance or this code.
         (c)   A MOBILE HOME is an ABANDONED VEHICLE if left in place on
private property for more than 30 days after a local governmental unit,
pursuant to an ordinance or resolution, has sent a certified letter to each of
the last-registered owners and posted a notice on the mobile home, stating that
the mobile home is subject to sale or auction or vesting of title as set forth
in Neb. RS 60-1903.
         (d)   No motor vehicle subject to forfeiture under Neb. RS 28-431
shall be an ABANDONED VEHICLE under this division (A).
      MOBILE HOME. A movable or portable dwelling constructed to be towed on
its own chassis, connected to utilities, and designed with or without a
permanent foundation for year-round living. It may consist of one or more units
that can be telescoped when towed and expanded later for additional capacity,
or of two or more units, separately towable but designed to be joined into one
integral unit, and shall include a manufactured home as defined in Neb. RS 71-
4603. MOBILE HOME does not include a mobile home or manufactured home for which
an affidavit of affixture has been recorded pursuant to Neb. RS 60-169.
      PRIVATE PROPERTY. Any privately owned property which is not included
within the definition of public property.
      PUBLIC PROPERTY. Any public right-of-way, street, highway, alley, or park
or other state, county, or village-owned property.
(Neb. RS 60-1901)
   (B)   If an abandoned vehicle, at the time of abandonment, has no license
plates of the current year or valid In Transit stickers issued pursuant to Neb.
RS 60-376 affixed and is of a wholesale value, taking into consideration the
condition of the vehicle, of $500 or less, title shall immediately vest in the
village. Any certificate of title issued under this division to the village
shall be issued at no cost to the village.
(Neb. RS 60-1902)
   (C)   (1)   Except for vehicles governed by division (B) above, the village
shall make an inquiry concerning the last-registered owner of such vehicle as
follows:
         (a)   Abandoned vehicle with license plates affixed, to the
jurisdiction which issued such license plates; or
         (b)   Abandoned vehicle with no license plates affixed, to the
Department of Motor Vehicles.
      (2)   The village shall notify the last-registered owner, if any, and any
lienholder, if any, within 15 business days that the vehicle in question has
been determined to be an abandoned vehicle and that, if unclaimed, either:
         (a)   It will be sold or will be offered at public auction after five
days from the date such notice was mailed; or
         (b)   Title will vest in the village 30 days after the date such
notice was mailed.
      (3)   If the agency described in division (C)(1)(a) or (C)(1)(b) above
also notifies the village that a lien or mortgage exists, such notice shall
also be sent to the lienholder or mortgagee. Any person claiming such vehicle
shall be required to pay the cost of removal and storage of such vehicle.
      (4)   Title to an abandoned vehicle, if unclaimed, shall vest in the
village:
         (a)   Five days after the date the notice is mailed if the vehicle
will be sold or offered at public auction under division (C)(2)(a) above;
         (b)   Thirty days after the date the notice is mailed if the village
will retain the vehicle; or
         (c)   If the last-registered owner cannot be ascertained, when notice
of such fact is received.
      (5)   After title to the abandoned vehicle vests pursuant to division (C)
(4) above, the village may retain for use, sell, or auction the abandoned
vehicle. If the village has determined that the vehicle should be retained for
use, the village shall, at the same time that the notice, if any, is mailed,
publish in a newspaper of general circulation in the jurisdiction an
announcement that the village intends to retain the abandoned vehicle for its
use and that title will vest in the village 30 days after the publication.
(Neb. RS 60-1903)
   (D)   (1)   If a village law enforcement agency has custody of a motor
vehicle for investigatory purposes and has no further need to keep it in
custody, it shall send a certified letter to each of the last-registered
owners, if any, and lienholders, if any, within 15 calendar days stating that
the vehicle is in the custody of the law enforcement agency, that the vehicle
is no longer needed for law enforcement purposes, and that after 30 days the
agency will dispose of the vehicle.
      (2)   This division (D) shall not apply to motor vehicles subject to
forfeiture under Neb. RS 28-431.
      (3)   No storage fees shall be assessed against the registered owner of a
motor vehicle held in custody for investigatory purposes under this division
(D) unless the registered owner or the person in possession of the vehicle when
it is taken into custody is charged with a felony or misdemeanor related to the
offense for which the law enforcement agency took the vehicle into custody. If
a registered owner or the person in possession of the vehicle when it is taken
into custody is charged with a felony or misdemeanor but is not convicted, the
registered owner shall be entitled to a refund of the storage fees.
(Neb. RS 60-1903.01)
   (E)   (1)   A law enforcement agency is authorized to remove an abandoned or
trespassing vehicle from private property upon the request of the private
property owner on whose property the vehicle is located and upon information
indicating that the vehicle is an abandoned or trespassing vehicle. After
removal, the law enforcement agency with custody of the vehicle shall follow
the procedures in Neb. RS 60-1902 and 60-1903.
      (2)   A law enforcement agency is authorized to contact a private towing
service in order to remove an abandoned or trespassing vehicle from private
property upon the request of the private property owner on whose property the
vehicle is located and upon information indicating that the vehicle is an
abandoned or trespassing vehicle. A vehicle towed away under this subsection is
subject to Neb. RS 52-601.01 to 52-605 and 60-2410 by the private towing
service which towed the vehicle.
      (3)   A private property owner is authorized to remove or cause the
removal of an abandoned or trespassing vehicle from such property and may
contact a private towing service for such removal. A private towing service
that tows the vehicle shall notify, within 24 hours, the designated law
enforcement agency in the jurisdiction from which the vehicle is removed and
provide the registration plate number, the vehicle identification number, if
available, the make, model, and color of the vehicle, and the name of the
private towing service and the location, if applicable, where the private
towing service is storing the vehicle. A vehicle towed away under this
subsection is subject to Neb. RS 52-601.01 to 52-605 and 60-2410 by the private
towing service that towed the vehicle.
      (4)   For purposes of this section, a trespassing vehicle is a vehicle
that is parked without permission on private property that is not typically
made available for public parking.
(Neb. RS 60-1903.02)
   (F)   If a state agency caused an abandoned vehicle described in division
(A) above to be removed from public property in this village, the state agency
shall be entitled to custody of the vehicle. If a state agency caused an
abandoned vehicle described in division (A) above to be removed from public
property in this village, the state agency shall deliver the vehicle to the
village which shall have custody.
(Neb. RS 60-1904)
   (G)   Any proceeds from the sale of an abandoned vehicle in the village’s
custody less any expenses incurred by the village shall be held by the village
without interest, for the benefit of the owner or lienholders of such vehicle
for a period of two years. If not claimed within such two-year period, the
proceeds shall be paid into the general fund of the village.
(Neb. RS 60-1905)
   (H)   Neither the owner, owner’s agent, owner’s employee, lessee, nor
occupant of the premises from which any abandoned vehicle is removed, nor the
village, shall be liable for any loss or damage to such vehicle which occurs
during its removal or while in the possession of the village or its contractual
agent, while in the possession of a private towing service, or as a result of
any subsequent disposition.
(Neb. RS 60-1906)
   (I)   No person shall cause any vehicle to be an abandoned vehicle as
described in division (A) above.
(Neb. RS 60-1907)
   (J)   No person other than one authorized by the village or appropriate
state agency shall destroy, deface, or remove any part of a vehicle which is
left unattended on a highway or other public place without license plates
affixed or which is abandoned. Anyone violating this division shall be guilty
of an offense.
(Neb. RS 60-1908)
   (K)   The last-registered owner of an abandoned vehicle shall be liable to
the village for the costs of removal and storage of such vehicle.
(Neb. RS 60-1909)
   (L)   Any person violating the provisions of this section shall be guilty of
an offense.
Penalty, see §
130.99
Statutory reference:
   Motor Vehicle Registration Act, see Neb. RS 60-301
§ 130.50 UNLICENSED OR INOPERABLE VEHICLES.
   No person in charge or control of any property within the village, other
than municipal property, whether as owner, tenant, occupant, lessee, or
otherwise, shall allow any partially dismantled, inoperable, wrecked, junked,
or discarded vehicle to remain on such property longer than 30 days. No
unlicensed vehicle shall be permitted to remain on any private or public
property for any length of time; provided, this section shall not apply to a
vehicle in an enclosed building; to a vehicle on the premises of a business
enterprise, operated in a lawful place and manner, when such vehicle is
necessary to the lawful operation of the business; or to a vehicle in an
appropriate storage place or depository maintained in a lawful place and manner
by the village. Any vehicle allowed to remain on property in violation of this
section shall constitute a nuisance and shall be abated, and any person
violating this section shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.
(Prior Code, § 6-319) (Ord. 319, passed 2-1-1977) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.51 CURFEW.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any minor under the age of 18 years to ride
in or operate any vehicle in or upon any street, alley, or other public place,
or to loiter, wander, stroll, loaf, or play in or upon any of the streets,
alleys, or public places between the hours of 11:00 p.m. of any day and 6:00
a.m. on the following day unless accompanied by a parent, guardian, or other
adult person having the care, custody or control of said minor, or the minor is
engaged in lawful employment or is on an emergency errand; provided, when an
activity of the kind normally attended by minors under 18 years terminates
after, or less than one-half hour prior to 11:00 p.m., the curfew shall
commence one-half hour after the termination of such activity.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any minor under the age of 13 years to ride
in or operate any vehicle in or upon any street, alley, or other public place,
or to loiter, wander, stroll, loaf, or play in or upon any of the streets,
alleys, or public places between the hours of 10:00 p.m. of any day and 6:00
a.m. on the following day unless accompanied by a parent, guardian, or other
adult person having the care, custody, or control of said minor, or the minor
is engaged in lawful employment or is on an emergency errand; provided, when an
activity of the kind normally attended by minors under 13 years terminates
after, or less than one-half hour prior to 10:00 p.m., the curfew shall
commence one-half hour after the termination of such activity.
   (C)   It is an exemption to a violation under this section that the person
engaged in the prohibited conduct while:
      (1)   Accompanied by the minor’s parent or guardian;
      (2)   On an errand at the direction of the minor’s parent or guardian,
without any detour or stop;
      (3)   In a motor vehicle involved in interstate travel;
      (4)   Engaged in an employment activity, or going to or returning home
from an employment activity, without any detour or stop;
      (5)   Involved in an emergency;
      (6)   On the sidewalk abutting the minor’s residence or abutting the
residence of a next-door neighbor if the neighbor did not complain to the
Police Department about the minor's presence;
      (7)   Attending an official school, religious, or other recreational
activity supervised by adults and sponsored by the city, a civic organization,
or another similar entity that takes responsibility for the minor, or going to
or returning home from, without any detour or stop, an official school,
religious, or other recreational activity supervised by adults and sponsored by
the city, a civic organization, or another similar entity that takes
responsibility for the minor;
      (8)   Exercising First Amendment rights protected by the United States
Constitution, such as the free exercise of religion, freedom of speech, and the
right of assembly; or
      (9)   Married or had been married or had disabilities of minority removed
in accordance with state law.
(Prior Code, § 6-320) (Ord. 645, passed 8-14-2002) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.52 LOITERING PROHIBITED.
   (A)   A person commits a violation if he or she loiters or prowls in a
place, at a time, or in a manner not usual for law-abiding individuals under
circumstances that warrant alarm for the safety of persons or property in the
vicinity. Among the circumstances which may be considered in determining
whether alarm is warranted is the fact that the person takes flight upon
appearance of a police officer, refuses to identify himself or herself, or
manifestly endeavors to conceal himself or herself or any object. Unless flight
by the person or other circumstances makes it impractical, a police officer
shall, prior to any arrest for an offense under this section, afford the person
an opportunity to dispel any alarm which would otherwise be warranted, by
requesting the person to identify himself or herself and to explain his or her
presence or conduct. No person shall be convicted of an offense under this
section if the police officer did not comply with the preceding sentence, or if
it appears at trial that the explanation given by the person was true and, if
it had been believed by the police officer at the time, would have dispelled
the alarm. Any police officer may arrest any person suspected of being a
loiterer or prowler without a warrant if it reasonably appears that the delay
in arresting the suspect caused by obtaining a warrant would result in the
suspect’s escape.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person, after first being warned by a
police officer, or where a “no loitering” sign or signs have been posted, to
loiter, stand, sit, or lie in or upon any public or quasi-public sidewalk,
street, curb, cross-walk, walkway area, mall or that portion of private
property utilized for public use, so as to hinder or obstruct unreasonably the
free passage of pedestrians or vehicles thereon. It shall be unlawful for any
person to block, obstruct, or prevent free access to the entrance to any
building open to the public.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person to loiter in or near any
thoroughfare or place open to the public for the purpose of inducing, enticing,
soliciting, or procuring another to commit an act of prostitution. Among the
circumstances which may be considered in determining whether such action is
consistent with the intent to induce, entice, solicit, or procure another to
commit an act of prostitution are that the person is a known prostitute or
panderer and repeatedly beckons, in the attempt to stop or engage male or
female passersby in conversation, or repeatedly stops or attempts to stop motor
vehicles by engaging their operators by hailing, waving of arms, or other
bodily gestures. The violator’s conduct must be such as to demonstrate a
specific intent to induce, entice, solicit, or procure another to commit an act
of prostitution. No arrest shall be made for a violation of this division (C)
unless the arresting officer first affords the person an opportunity to explain
his or her conduct, and no one shall be convicted of violating this division
(C) if it appears at trial that the explanation given was true and disclosed a
lawful purpose.
   (D)   For the purpose of this section, PUBLIC PLACE has the following
definition unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning: an area generally visible to public view, including streets,
sidewalks, bridges, alleys, plazas, parks, driveways, parking lots, automobiles
(whether moving or not), and buildings open to the general public, including
those which serve food or drink or provide entertainment, and the doorways and
entrances to buildings or dwellings and the grounds enclosing them.
(Prior Code, § 6-322) Penalty, see §
130.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-556
§ 130.53 LITTERING.
   (A)   Any person who deposits, throws, discards, or otherwise disposes of
any litter on any public or private property or in any waters commits the
offense of littering unless:
      (1)   Such property is an area designated by law for the disposal of such
material and such person is authorized by the proper public authority to so use
such property; or
      (2)   The litter is placed in a receptacle or container installed on such
property for such purpose.
   (B)   (1)   The word LITTER as used in this section shall mean all waste
material susceptible of being dropped, deposited, discarded or otherwise
disposed of by any person upon any property in the state but does not include
wastes of primary processes of farming or manufacturing.
      (2)   WASTE MATERIAL as used in this section shall mean any material
appearing in a place or in a context not associated with that material’s
function or origin.
   (C)   Whenever litter is thrown, deposited, dropped, or dumped from any
motor vehicle or watercraft in violation of this section, the operator of such
motor vehicle or watercraft commits the offense of littering.
(Prior Code, § 6-326) (Ord. 469, passed 6-7-1995) Penalty, see §
130.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 28-523
§ 130.54 UNDER THE INFLUENCE OF A CONTROLLED SUBSTANCE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to be under the influence of any
controlled substance for a purpose other than the treatment of a sickness or
injury as prescribed or administered by a practitioner as defined in Neb. RS
28-401.
(Prior Code, § 6-329) (Ord. 639, passed 6-12-2002) Penalty, see §
130.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 28-417
§ 130.55 CRIMINAL MISCHIEF.
   (A)   A person commits criminal mischief if he, she, or they:
      (1)   Damages property of another intentionally or recklessly;
      (2)   Intentionally tampers with property of another so as to endanger
person or property; or
      (3)   Intentionally or maliciously causes another to suffer pecuniary
loss by deception or threat.
   (B)   Criminal mischief is an offense:
      (1)   If the actor intentionally or maliciously causes pecuniary loss of
$200 or more but less than $1,500; or
      (2)   If the actor intentionally, maliciously or recklessly causes
pecuniary loss in an amount of less than $200 or if his, her, or their action
results in no pecuniary loss.
(Prior Code, § 6-330) (Ord. 665, passed 4-9-2003) Penalty, see §
130.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 28-519
§ 130.56 SEXUAL PREDATORS.
   (A)   Findings and intent.
      (1)   The State Legislature has found that certain sex offenders present
a high risk to commit repeat offenses and has enabled municipalities to
restrict such persons’ place of residency as provided in the Sexual Predator
Residency Restriction Act, being Neb. RS 29-4015 et seq.
      (2)   Sex offenders who prey on children and who are high risks to repeat
such acts present an extreme threat to public safety. The cost of sex offender
victimization to these children and to society at large, while incalculable, is
exorbitant.
      (3)   It is the intent of this section to serve the village’s compelling
interest to promote, protect, and improve the health, safety, and welfare of
the citizens of the village by creating certain areas around locations where
children regularly congregate in concentrated numbers where certain sexual
predators cannot reside.
(Prior Code, § 6-335-01)
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      CHILD CARE FACILITY. A facility licensed pursuant to the Child Care
Licensing Act, being Neb. RS 71-1908 et seq.
      RESIDE. To sleep, live, or dwell at a place, which may include more than
one location, and may be mobile or transitory.
      RESIDENCE. A place where an individual sleeps, lives, or dwells, which
may include more than one location, and may be mobile or transitory.
      SCHOOL. A public, private, denominational, or parochial school which
meets the requirements for state accreditation or approval.
      SEX OFFENDER. An individual who has been convicted of a crime listed in
Neb. RS 29-4003 and who is required to register as a sex offender pursuant to
the Sex Offender Registration Act, being Neb. RS 29-4001 et seq.
      SEXUAL PREDATOR. An individual who is required to register under the Sex
Offender Registration Act, who has been classified as Level 3 because of a high
risk of recidivism as determined by the State Patrol under Neb. RS 29-4013, and
who has victimized a person 18 years of age or younger.
(Prior Code, § 6-335.02)
   (C)   Residency restrictions; exceptions.
      (1)   Prohibited location of residence. It is unlawful for any sexual
predator to reside within 500 feet from a school or child care facility.
      (2)   Measure of distance. For purposes of determining the minimum
distance separation, the distance shall be measured by following a straight
line from the outer property line of the residence to the nearest outer
boundary line of the school or child care facility.
      (3)   Exceptions. This section shall not apply to a sexual predator who:
         (a)   Resides within a prison or correctional or treatment facility
operated by the state or a political subdivision;
         (b)   Established a residence before July 1, 2006, and has not moved
from that residence; or
         (c)   Established a residence after July 1, 2006, and the school or
child care facility triggering the restriction was established after the
initial date of the sexual predator’s residence at that location.
   (D)   Violations. A person who violates this section shall be punished as
provided generally in the code.
(Prior Code, 6-335.03)
(Ord. 702, passed 6-14-2006) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.57 PUBLIC NUDITY AND LEWD OR LASCIVIOUS BEHAVIOR.
   (A)   Statement of intent. It is the intent of this section to promote the
public health, safety, welfare, peace, and order of the village. It is the
intent of the village to prohibit the exploitation of human nudity for
promoting the economic interests of any type of business enterprise. It is also
the intent of the village to further the government’s interest in avoiding the
harmful secondary effects of public nude conduct such as prostitution, sexual
assaults, and criminal activity. See, e.g., Barnes v. Glen Theatre, Inc., 501
U.S. 560 (1991); City of Erie v. Pap’s A.M., 529 U.S. 277 (2000); Ways v. City
of Lincoln, 331 F.3d 596 (8th Cir. 2003). The legislative record documents and
the Board’s legislative findings concerning negative secondary effects are
incorporated herein by reference. This prohibition on public nude conduct and
lewd or lascivious behavior is not intended to extend to any expression of
opinion or the performance of bona fide play, ballet, or drama which may not be
prohibited under the First Amendment to the Constitution of the United States
or by Article I, § 5 of the Constitution of the state. The provisions of this
section have neither the purpose nor effect of imposing a limitation or
restriction on exercises of free speech that are protected by the First
Amendment.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning. When not inconsistent with the context, words in the present
tense include the future-tense, words used in the plural number include words
in the singular number and words in the singular number include words in the
plural number, The word SHALL is always mandatory, and not merely directory.
      NUDE, NUDITY, or A STATE OF NUDITY. The showing of the human male or
female genitals or pubic area with less than fully opaque covering, the showing
of the female breast with less than a fully opaque covering on any part of the
areola and nipple, or the showing of covered male genitals in a discernibly
turgid state.
      PUBLIC PLACE. All spaces owned by or open to the general public, whether
or not an admission or cover charge is levied for entrance thereto; and public
streets, sidewalks, alleys, or other public thoroughfares, and areas in or such
close proximity thereto, as to be observed by the public traveling on such
street, sidewalk, or other thoroughfare.
   (C)   Nudity prohibited. It shall be unlawful for a person to, knowingly or
intentionally, in a public place or in any place open to the public, appear
nude or in a state of nudity.
   (D)   Sexual contact prohibited.
      (1)   It shall be unlawful for any employee or performer (including
amateur performers) in any business or commercial establishment to have any
sexual contact with any other employee, performer, person, or patron for
gratuity, pay, or other remuneration, direct or indirect, or in conjunction
with or as part of any performance or entertainment in any business or
commercial establishment.
      (2)   It shall be unlawful for any person or patron to have sexual
contact with any employee or performer in any business or commercial
establishment.
      (3)   For the purposes of this section, SEXUAL CONTACT shall mean the
intentional touching between any person, patron, a performer, or employee
involving contact by or with a patron’s, performer’s, or employee’s sexual
organ, buttock(s), or breast(s), whether covered or not, or kissing, when such
contact can reasonably be construed as being for the purpose of sexual arousal
or sexual gratification of either party or any observer.
      (4)   It shall be unlawful for any person purposely or knowingly to
solicit, induce, or attempt to induce another person to engage in an act or
acts prohibited hereunder.
      (5)   It shall be unlawful for the owner, lessee, proprietor, or manager
of any business or commercial establishment to knowingly allow any person on
the premises of such business or commercial establishment to engage in an act
or acts prohibited hereunder.
   (E)   Exceptions.
      (1)   No person shall be in violation of this section for breastfeeding a
child.
      (2)   This section shall not apply to children under the age of 12 years
old.
      (3)   No person shall be in violation of this section for appearing nude
or in a state of nudity in any dressing/changing room, locker room, restroom
facility, or hospital, clinic, or other similar medical facility in which
appearing nude or in a state of nudity is necessary for health-related
purposes.
      (4)   No person shall be in violation of this section for appearing nude
or in a state of nudity in the presence of a licensed physical therapist,
licensed massage therapist, licensed athletic trainer, or licensed
cosmetologist, engaged in performing the functions authorized under the license
held.
      (5)   This section shall not apply to models that are part of a nude
modeling studio that is part of a proprietary school licensed by the state; or
a college or junior college or university supported entirely or in part by
public taxation; or a private college or university which maintains and
operates educational programs in which credits are transferable to a college,
junior college, or university supported entirely or partly by taxation.
      (6)   This section shall also not apply to the exhibition, presentation,
showing, or performance of any play, ballet, drama, tableau, production, or
motion picture in any theater, concert hall, art center, museum, school,
institution of higher learning, or other similar establishment which is
primarily devoted to such exhibitions, presentations, shows, or performances as
a form of expression of opinion, communication, speech, ideas, information,
art, or drama.
(Ord. 733, passed 4-10-2016) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.58 ABATEMENT OF NUISANCE.
   (A)   Whenever a nuisance exists as defined in this chapter, the village may
proceed by a suit in equity to enjoin and abate the same, in the manner
provided by law.
   (B)   Whenever, in any action, it is established that a nuisance exists, the
court may together with the fine or penalty imposed, enter an order of
abatement as a part of the judgment in the case.
(Prior Code, § 6-402)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 18-1720 and 18-1722
§ 130.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who shall violate or refuse to comply with the enforcement
of any of the provisions of this chapter, set forth at full length herein or
incorporated by reference shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor, and upon
conviction thereof, shall be fined not more than $500 for each offense. A new
violation shall be deemed to have been committed every 24 hours of such failure
to comply.
   (B)   Any person found to be in violation of §
130.57 shall be guilty of a crime, punishable by a maximum of a $500 fine.
(Prior Code, § 6-401) (Ord. 669, passed 5-14-2003)
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
   Chapter
      
150.   BUILDING REGULATIONS
      
151.   MINIMUM HOUSING CODE
      
152.   FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT
      
153.   PLANNING, DEVELOPMENT, AND ZONING
CHAPTER 150: BUILDING REGULATIONS
Section
Building Moving
   
150.01   Regulation
   
150.02   Deposit
Unsafe Buildings
   
150.15   Definition
   
150.16   Prohibition
   
150.17   Determination and notice
   
150.18   Hearing and appeal
   
150.19   Emergency
   
150.20   Special assessments
   
150.21   Abatement of nuisance
Building Permits
   
150.35   Application procedure
   
150.36   Duplicate to County Assessor
   
150.37   Limitation
Plumbing Code
   
150.50   Prohibition of lead pipes, solder, and flux
 
   
150.99   Penalty
BUILDING MOVING
§ 150.01 REGULATION.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation to move any
building or structure within the village without a written permit to do so.
Application may be made to the governing body, and shall include the present
and future location of the building to be moved, the proposed route, the
equipment to be used, and such other information as the governing body may
require. The application shall be accompanied by a certificate issued by the
County Treasurer to the effect that all the provisions regulating the moving of
buildings have been complied with on the part of the owner of the real estate
upon which the said building is presently located. The governing body shall
refer the said application to the Committee on Streets and Alleys for approval
of the proposed route over which the said building is to be moved. Upon
approval of the governing body, the governing body shall then issue the said
permit; provided, that a good and sufficient corporate surety bond, check, or
cash in an amount set by motion of the governing body and conditioned upon
moving said building without doing damage to any private or municipal property
is filed with the Village Clerk prior to the granting of any permit. No moving
permit shall be required to move a building that has a total floor area of 50
square feet or less. In the event it will be necessary for any licensed
building mover to interfere with the telephone or telegraph poles and wires, or
a gas line, the company or companies owning, using, or operating the said
poles, wires, or line shall upon proper notice of at least 24 hours, be present
and assist by disconnecting the said poles, wires, or line relative to the
building moving operation. All expense of the said disconnection, removal, or
related work shall be paid in advance by the licensee unless such disconnection
or work is furnished on different terms as provided in the said company’s
franchise. Whenever the moving of any building necessitates interference with a
water main, sewer main, pipes, or wire belonging to the village, notice in
writing of the time and route of the said building moving operation shall be
given to the various municipal officials in charge of the municipal utility
departments who shall proceed in behalf of the village and at the expense of
the mover to make such disconnections and do such work as is necessary.
(Prior Code, § 9-101)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 39-6,177 to 39-6,180, 39-6,184, and 77-1725
§ 150.02 DEPOSIT.
   (A)   At such time as the building moving has been completed, the Village
Marshal shall inspect the premises and report to the Village Clerk as to the
extent of damages, if any, resulting from the said relocation and whether any
municipal laws have been violated during the said operation.
   (B)   Upon a satisfactory report from the Village Marshal, the Village Clerk
shall return the corporate surety bond, cash, or check deposited by the
applicant. In the event the basement, foundation, or portion thereof is not
properly filled, covered, or in a clean and sanitary condition, the governing
body may apply the money deposited for the purpose of defraying the expense of
correcting the said conditions.
   (C)   If the expense of correcting the hazardous condition is greater than
the amount of the deposit set by resolution of the governing body, as required
herein, the governing body may recover such excess expense by civil suit or
otherwise as prescribed by law.
(Prior Code, § 9-102)
UNSAFE BUILDINGS
§ 150.15 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definition shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   UNSAFE BUILDING. 
      (1)   Any building, shed, fence, or other human-made structure:
         (a)   Which is dangerous to the public health because of its
condition, and which may cause or aid in the spread of disease or injury to the
health of the occupants of it or neighboring structures;
         (b)   Which because of faulty construction, age, lack of proper
repair, or any other cause is especially liable to fire and constitutes or
creates a fire hazard;
         (c)   Which by reason of faulty construction or any other cause is
liable to cause injury or damage by the collapse or fall of all or any part of
such structure.
      (2)   Any such UNSAFE BUILDING in the village is hereby declared to be a
nuisance.
(Prior Code, § 9-201)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 18-1720, 18-1722, and 18-1722.01
§ 150.16 PROHIBITION.
   It shall be unlawful to maintain or permit the existence of any unsafe
building in the village and it shall be unlawful for the owner, occupant, or
person in custody of any dangerous building to permit the same to remain in an
unsafe condition or to occupy such building or permit it to be occupied while
it is in an unsafe condition.
(Prior Code, § 9-202) Penalty, see §
150.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 18-1720, 18-1722, and 18-1722.01
§ 150.17 DETERMINATION AND NOTICE.
   (A)   Whenever the governing body shall be of the opinion that any building
or structure in the village is an unsafe building, they shall file a written
statement to this effect with the Village Clerk. The Clerk shall thereupon
cause the property to be posted accordingly, and shall file a copy of such
determination in the office of the County Register of Deeds, and shall serve
written notice upon the owner thereof, and upon the occupant thereof, if any,
by certified mail or by personal service. If notice by personal service or
certified mail is unsuccessful, notice shall be given by publication in a
newspaper of general circulation in the village. Such notice shall state that
the building has been declared to be in an unsafe condition; and that such
dangerous condition must be removed or remedied by repairing or altering the
building or by demolishing it; and that the condition must be remedied within
60 days from the date of receipt. Such notice may be in the following terms:
      “To (owner-occupant of premises) of the premises known and described as
(street address).
      You are hereby notified that (describe building) on the premises above
mentioned has been determined to be an unsafe building and a nuisance after
inspection by (inspector(s) name(s)). The causes for this decision are (here
insert the facts as to the dangerous condition).
      You must remedy this condition or demolish the building within 60 days
from the date of receipt of this notice or the village will proceed to do so.
Appeal of this determination may be made to the governing body, acting as the
Board of Appeals, by filing with the Village Clerk within ten days from the
date of receipt of this notice a request for a hearing.”
   (B)   If the person receiving the notice has not complied therewith or taken
an appeal from the determination of the officer or employee finding that a
dangerous building exists within ten days from the time when this notice is
served upon such person by personal service or certified mail, the Building
Inspector may, upon orders of the governing body, proceed to remedy the
condition or demolish the unsafe building.
(Prior Code, § 9-203) (Ord. 754, passed 12-11-2024)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 18-1720, 18-1722, and 18-1722.01
§ 150.18 HEARING AND APPEAL.
   (A)   Upon receiving the notice to repair or demolish the building, the
owner of the building, within the time stipulated, may, in writing to the
Village Clerk, request a hearing before the governing body, sitting as the
Board of Appeals, to present reasons why the building should not be repaired or
demolished. The governing body shall set the date for such hearing, which date
shall be not later than the next regularly scheduled meeting of the governing
body. A written notice of hearing shall be sent to the owner of the building
via first-class mail to the address on file with the Merrick County Assessor,
unless another address has been provided. A written notice of the governing
body's decision following the hearing shall be sent to the property owner by
certified mail.
   (B)   If the governing body rejects the appeal, the owner shall have five
days from the sending of the decision to begin repair or demolition and
removal. If after the five-day period the owner has not begun work, the
governing body shall proceed to cause such work to be done; provided, the
property owner may appeal such decision to the appropriate court for
adjudication during which proceedings the decision of the governing body shall
be stayed.
   (C)   Where the village has not adopted a building code, the statutes of the
state relating to bonded indebtedness and collection of delinquent taxes shall
apply.
(Prior Code, § 9-204) (Ord. 754, passed 12-11-2024)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 18-1720, 18-1722, and 18-1722.01
§ 150.19 EMERGENCY.
   Where any unsafe building or structure poses an immediate danger to the
health, safety, or general welfare of any person or persons, and the owner
fails to remedy the situation in a reasonable time after notice by the Building
Inspector to do so, the village may summarily repair or demolish and remove
such building or structure.
(Prior Code, § 9-205)
§ 150.20 SPECIAL ASSESSMENTS.
   (A)   (1)   If any owner of any building or structure fails, neglects, or
refuses to comply with notice by or on behalf of the village to repair,
rehabilitate, or demolish and remove a building or structure which is unsafe
and a public nuisance, the village may proceed with the work specified in the
notice to the property owner.
      (2)   A statement of the cost of such work shall be transmitted to the
governing body.
   (B)   The governing body may:
      (1)   Levy the cost as a special assessment against the lot or real
estate upon which the building or structure is located. Such special assessment
shall be a lien on the real estate and shall be collected in the manner
provided for special assessments; or
      (2)   Collect the cost from the owner of the building or structure and
enforce the collection by civil action in any court of competent jurisdiction.
(Prior Code, § 9-206) (Ord. 413, passed 2-5-1991)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 18-1720, 18-1722, and 18-1722.01
§ 150.21 ABATEMENT OF NUISANCE.
   (A)   Whenever a nuisance exists as defined in this chapter, the village may
proceed by a suit in equity to enjoin and abate the same, in the manner
provided by law.
   (B)   Whenever, in any action, it is established that a nuisance exists, the
court may together with the fine or penalty imposed, enter an order of
abatement as a part of the judgment in the case.
(Prior Code, § 9-602) Penalty, see §
150.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 18-1720 and 18-1722
BUILDING PERMITS
§ 150.35 APPLICATION PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Any person desiring to commence or proceed to erect, construct,
repair, enlarge, demolish, or relocate any building or dwelling, or cause the
same to be done, shall file with the Village Clerk an application for a
building permit.
   (B)   The application shall be in writing on a form to be furnished by the
Village Clerk for that purpose.
   (C)   Every such application shall set forth the legal description of the
land upon which the construction or relocation is to take place, the nature of
the use or occupancy, the principal dimensions, the estimated cost, the names
of the owner, architect, and contractor, and such other information as may be
requested thereon.
   (D)   The application, plans, and specifications so filed with the Village
Clerk shall be checked and examined by the Village Planning and Zoning Board
and if they are found to be in conformity with the requirements of this chapter
and all other ordinances applicable thereto, the Village Planning and Zoning
Board shall authorize the Village Clerk to issue the said applicant a permit.
   (E)   This permit must be obtained ten days before any erection,
construction, enlargement, demolishment, or relocation of any building or
dwelling.
(Prior Code, § 9-401) (Ord. 365, passed 10-1-1985)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-550 and 17-1001
§ 150.36 DUPLICATE TO COUNTY ASSESSOR.
   Whenever a building permit is issued for the erection, alteration, or repair
of any building within the village’s jurisdiction and the improvement is $2,500
or more, a duplicate of such permit shall be issued to the County Assessor.
(Prior Code, § 9-401.01) (Ord. 682, passed 3-10-2004)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 18-1743
§ 150.37 LIMITATION.
   (A)   If the work for which a permit has been issued shall not have begun
within one year of the date thereof, or if the construction shall be
discontinued for a period of one year, the permit shall be void.
   (B)   Before work can be resumed, a new permit shall be obtained in the same
manner and form as an original permit.
(Prior Code, § 9-402) (Ord. 365, passed 10-1-1985)
PLUMBING CODE
§ 150.50 PROHIBITION OF LEAD PIPES, SOLDER, AND FLUX.
   (A)   Any pipe, solders, or flux used in the installation or repair of any
residential or non-residential facility which is connected to the public water
supply system shall be lead free.
   (B)   For purposes of this section, LEAD FREE shall mean:
      (1)   Solder and flux: not more than 0.2% lead, and
      (2)   Wetted surfaces of pipes, pipe fittings, plumbing fittings, and
fixtures: not more than 0.25% lead.
(Prior Code, § 9-501) (Ord. 393, passed 11-1-1988)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 71-5301
§ 150.99 PENALTY.
   Any person who shall violate or refuse to comply with the enforcement of any
of the provisions of this chapter, set forth at full length herein or
incorporated by reference shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor, and upon
conviction thereof, shall be fined not more than $500 for each offense. A new
violation shall be deemed to have been committed every 24 hours of such failure
to comply.
(Prior Code, § 9-601) (Ord. 593, passed 6-14-2000; Ord. 612, passed 7-11-2001)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-207, 17-505, 18-1720, and 18-1722
CHAPTER 151: MINIMUM HOUSING CODE
Section
   
151.01   Minimum housing code; adopted by reference
   
151.02   Zoning regulations; manufactured homes; standards
   
151.03   Rental Housing Standards Code
§ 151.01 MINIMUM HOUSING CODE; ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   (A)   To provide certain minimum standards, provisions, and requirements for
safe and stable design, methods of construction, and uses of materials in
houses hereafter erected, constructed, enlarged, altered, repaired, relocated,
and converted, the Minimum Standards Housing Code, 1970 Edition, printed in
pamphlet form by the Division of Community Affairs of the State’s Department of
Economic Development of the state, is hereby incorporated by reference in
addition to all amended editions as though printed in full herein insofar as
said code does not conflict with the statutes of the state.
   (B)   One copy of the Housing Code is on file at the office of the Village
Clerk and is available for public inspection at any reasonable time.
(Prior Code, § 9-301)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-1001, 18-132, 19-901, and 19-922
§ 151.02 ZONING REGULATIONS; MANUFACTURED HOMES; STANDARDS.
   (A)   A manufactured home may be used as a residential structure in any zone
in which residential uses are permitted if such manufactured home bears an
appropriate seal which indicates that it was constructed in accordance with the
standards of the Nebraska Uniform Standard Code for Manufactured Homes and
Recreational Vehicles, being Neb. RS 71-1555 et seq., and the Nebraska Uniform
Standards for Modular Housing Units Act, being Neb. RS 71-1555 et seq., or the
United States Department of Housing and Urban Development.
   (B)   Manufactured homes permitted pursuant to this section shall be located
and installed according to the following standards which are applicable to
site-built, single-family dwellings.
      (1)   The home shall be located and installed on a permanent perimeter
foundation.
      (2)   The home shall be installed with permanent utility connections.
      (3)   The home shall comply with all setback and lot requirements of the
residential zone in which it is located.
      (4)   The home shall comply with the minimum square footage requirements
of the residential zone in which it is located.
   (C)   Manufactured homes shall also meet the following standards.
      (1)   The home shall have no less than 900 square feet of floor area.
      (2)   The home shall have no less than an 18-foot exterior width.
      (3)   The roof shall be pitched with a minimum vertical rise of two and
one-half inches for each 12 inches of horizontal run.
      (4)   The exterior material shall be of a color, material, and scale
comparable with those existing in residential site-built, single-family
construction.
      (5)   The home shall have a nonreflective roof material which is or
simulates asphalt or wood shingles, tile, or rock.
      (6)   The home shall have wheels, axles, transporting lights, and
removable towing apparatus removed.
   (D)   Nothing in this section shall be deemed to supersede any valid
restrictive covenants of record.
   (E)   For purposes of this section, MANUFACTURED HOME shall mean:
      (1)   A factory-built structure which is to be used as a place for human
habitation, which is not constructed or equipped with a permanent hitch or
other device allowing it to be moved other than to a permanent site, which does
not have permanently attached to its body or frame any wheels or axles, and
which bears a label certifying that it was built in compliance with National
Manufactured Home Construction and Safety Standards, 24 C.F.R. parts 3280 et
seq., promulgated by the United States Department of Housing and Urban
Development; or
      (2)   A modular housing unit as defined in Neb. RS 71-1557, bearing a
seal in accordance with the state’s Uniform Standards for Modular Housing Units
Act.
(Prior Code, § 9-302) (Ord. 472, passed 7-5-1995; Ord. 578, passed 7-14-1999)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 19-902
§ 151.03 RENTAL HOUSING STANDARDS CODE.
   (A)   To provide certain minimum standards, provisions, and requirements for
safe and stable design, construction, uses of materials, and maintenance of
rental residential dwellings, the regulations promulgated by the United States
Department of Housing and Urban Development and known as Section 8 Existing
Housing Program, being 42 U.S.C. § 1437f and published by the United States
Department of Housing and Urban Development, and printed in book or pamphlet
form, is hereby incorporated by reference in addition to all amended editions
as though printed in full herein insofar as said regulations do not conflict
with the statutes of the state. The City Council shall have the authority to
establish regulations differing from the Section 8 Existing Housing Program, by
resolution, and any such resolution is hereby incorporated by reference, and,
together with the regulations known as Section 8 Existing Housing Program,
shall constitute the Rental Housing Standards Code for the village. Three
copies of the Rental Housing Standards Code are on file at the office of the
Village Clerk and are available for public inspection at any reasonable time.
The provisions of the Rental Housing Standards Code shall be controlling
throughout the village.
   (B)   To ensure compliance with the Rental Housing Standards Code, every
residential dwelling unit within the village which is not occupied by a person
who is a record title owner of said unit, shall be inspected by the village and
brought into compliance with this Code by the owner or owners of said dwelling
upon receipt by the municipal Building Inspector of a complaint and request for
inspection by one or more of the legal occupants of said unit.
   (C)   An owner of a residential dwelling unit who has failed to allow the
village to inspect any residential dwelling covered by this section; failed to
bring a dwelling into compliance with the code within the time allowed to said
owner by the village; or an owner in violation of any other provision of this
section, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor, and a new violation shall be deemed
to have been committed for each 24 hours of continued non-compliance.
   (D)   The Village Building Inspector shall have the authority to order an
inspection of any residential dwelling covered by this section for the purpose
of determining whether or not said dwelling is in compliance with the Code. If
it is determined, after any such inspection, that a dwelling is not in
compliance, all owners of said dwelling shall be in violation of this section
until said dwelling is brought into compliance with this section, and a new
violation shall be deemed to have been committed for each 24 hours of continued
non-compliance.
(Prior Code, § 9-303) (Ord. 613, passed 1-9-2002)
CHAPTER 152: FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT
Section
   
152.01   Definitions
   
152.02   Statutory authorization, findings of fact, and purposes
   
152.03   Local administrator responsibilities
   
152.04   Designation of current FHBM/FIRM
   
152.05   Permits required
   
152.06   [Missing text]
   
152.07   [Missing text]
   
152.08   Subdivision applications
   
152.09   Water and sewage systems
   
152.10   Storage of material and equipment
   
152.11   Flood-carrying capacity within any watercourse
   
152.12   Variance procedures
   
152.13   Non-conforming use
   
152.14   Abrogation and greater restrictions
   
152.15   Interpretation
   
152.16   Warning and disclaimer of liability
   
152.17   Appeal
   
152.18   Conflicting ordinances/resolutions
 
   
152.99   Penalty
§ 152.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BASE FLOOD. The flood having 1% chance of being equaled or exceeded in any
given year.
   BASEMENT. Any area of the building having its floor subgrade (below ground
level) on all sides.
   DEVELOPMENT. Any human-made change to improved or unimproved real estate,
including but not limited to buildings or other structures, mining, dredging,
filling, grading, paving, excavation, or drilling operations or storage of
equipment or materials.
   EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A manufactured home park or
subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including, at a minimum, the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is complete before the effective date
of the floodplain management regulations adopted by a community.
   EXPANSION OF EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. The preparation
of additional sites by the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including the installation of
utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site grading or the
pouring of concrete pads).
   FLOOD. A general and temporary condition of partial or complete inundation
of normally dry land areas from:
      (1)   The overflow of inland or tidal waters; and/or
      (2)   The unusual and rapid accumulation of runoff of surface waters from
any source.
   FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAP (FIRM). An official map of a community, on which
the Administrator has delineated both the special flood hazard areas and the
risk premium applicable to the community.
   FLOODPLAIN. Any land area susceptible to being inundated by water from any
source (see definition of “flooding”).
   FLOODPROOFING. Any combination of structural and non-structural additions,
changes, or adjustments to structures which reduce or eliminate flood damage to
real estate or improved real property, water and sanitary facilities,
structures and their contents.
   FLOODWAY. The channel of the river or other watercourse and the adjacent
land areas that must be reserved in order to discharge the base flood without
cumulatively increasing the water surface elevation more than a designated
height.
   HISTORIC STRUCTURE. Any structure that is:
      (1)   Listed individually in the National Register of Historic Places (a
listing maintained by the Department of Interior) or preliminarily determined
by the Secretary of the Interior as meeting the requirements for individual
listing on the National Register;
      (2)   Certified or preliminarily determined by the Secretary of the
Interior as contributing to the historical significance of a registered
historic district or a district preliminarily determined by the Secretary to
qualify as a registered historic district;
      (3)   Individually listed on a state inventory of historic places in
states with historic preservation programs which have been approved by the
Secretary of the Interior; or
      (4)   Individually listed on a local inventory of historic places in
communities with historic preservation programs that have been certified
either:
         (a)   By an approved state program as determined by the Secretary of
the Interior; or
         (b)   Directly by the Secretary of the Interior in states without
approved programs.
   LOWEST FLOOR. The lowest floor of the lowest enclosed area (including
basement). An unfinished or flood-resistant enclosure, usable solely for
parking of vehicles, building access or storage, in an area other than a
basement area, is not considered a building’s LOWEST FLOOR, provided that such
enclosure is not built so as to render the structure in violation of the
applicable nonelevation design requirements of this chapter.
   MANUFACTURED HOME. A structure, transportable in one or more sections, which
is built on a permanent chassis and is designed for use with or without a
permanent foundation when attached to the required utilities. The term
MANUFACTURED HOME does not include a recreational vehicle.
   MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A parcel (or contiguous parcels) of
land divided into two or more manufactured home lots for rent or sale.
   NEW CONSTRUCTION. For floodplain management purposes, structures for which
the start of construction commenced on or after the effective date of the
floodplain management regulation adopted by a community and includes any
subsequent improvements to such structures.
   NEW MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A manufactured home park or
subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including at a minimum the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is completed on or after the effective
date of floodplain management regulations adopted by a community.
   ONE-HUNDRED-YEAR FLOOD. The condition of flooding having a 1% chance of
annual occurrence.
   PRINCIPALLY ABOVE GROUND. At least 51% of the actual cash value of the
structure is above ground.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE. A vehicle which is:
      (1)   Built on a single chassis;
      (2)   Four-hundred square feet or less when measured at the largest
horizontal projection;
      (3)   Designed to be self-propelled or permanently towable by a light
duty truck; and
      (4)   Designed primarily not for use as a permanent dwelling but as
temporary living quarters for recreational, camping, travel, or seasonal use.
   REGULATORY FLOOD ELEVATION. The water surface elevation of the 100-year
flood.
   SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREA. The land in the floodplain within a community
subject to 1% or greater chance of flooding in any given year.
   START OF CONSTRUCTION. For other than new construction or substantial
improvements under the Coastal Barrier Resources Act, being 16 U.S.C. §§ 3501
et seq., includes substantial improvement, and means the date the building
permit was issued, provided the actual START OF CONSTRUCTION, repair,
reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition, placement, or other improvement was
within 180 days of the permit date. The actual START means the first placement
of permanent construction of a structure on a site, such as the pouring of slab
or footings, the installation of piles, the construction of columns, or any
work beyond the stage of excavation; or the placement of a manufactured home on
a foundation. Permanent construction does not include land preparation, such as
clearing, grading, and filling; nor does it include the installation of streets
and/or walkways; nor does it include excavation for a basement, footings,
piers, or foundations or the erection of temporary forms; nor does it include
the installation on the property of accessory buildings, such as garages or
sheds not occupied as dwelling units or not part of the main structure. For a
substantial improvement, the actual START OF CONSTRUCTION means the first
alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor, or other structural part of a building,
whether or not the alteration affects the external dimensions of the building.
   STRUCTURE. A walled and roofed building that is principally above ground, as
well as a manufactured home, and a gas or liquid storage tank that is
principally above ground.
   SUBSTANTIAL DAMAGE. Damage of any origin sustained by a structure whereby
the cost of restoring the structure to its before-damaged condition would equal
or exceed 50% of the market value of the structure before the damage occurred.
   SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT. Any reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition, or
other improvement of a structure, the cost of which equals or exceeds 50% of
the market value of the structure before start of construction of the
improvement. This includes structures which have incurred substantial damage,
regardless of the actual repair work performed. The term does not, however,
include either:
      (1)   Any project for improvement of a structure to correct existing
violations of state or local health, sanitary, or safety code specifications
which have been identified by the local code enforcement official and which are
the minimum necessary to assure safe living conditions; or
      (2)   Any alteration of a historic structure; provided that the
alteration will not preclude the structure’s continued designation as a
historic structure.
   VARIANCE. A grant of relief to a person from the terms of a floodplain
management ordinance.
   VIOLATION. The failure of a structure or other development to be fully
compliant with the community’s floodplain management regulations.
(Ord. 715, passed 11-11-2009)
§ 152.02 STATUTORY AUTHORIZATION, FINDINGS OF FACT, AND PURPOSES.
   (A)   Statutory authorization. The Legislature of the state has, in Neb. RS
31-1001 to 31-1002 assigned the responsibility to local governmental units to
adopt floodplain management regulations designed to protect the public health,
safety and general welfare. Therefore, the Board of Trustees of the village
ordains as follows:
   (B)   Findings of fact.
      (1)   Flood losses resulting from periodic inundation. The flood hazard
areas of the village are subject to inundation which results in loss of life
and property, health and safety hazards, disruption of commerce and
governmental services, extraordinary public expenditures for flood protection
and relief, and impairment of the tax base all of which adversely affect the
public health, safety, and general welfare.
      (2)   General causes of the flood losses. These flood losses are caused
by:
         (a)   The cumulative effect of obstructions in floodplains causing
increases in flood heights and velocities; and
         (b)   The occupancy of flood hazard areas by uses vulnerable to floods
or hazardous to others, which are inadequately elevated or otherwise
unprotected from flood damages.
   (C)   Statement of purpose. It is the purpose of this chapter to promote the
public health, safety, and general welfare and to minimize those losses
described in division (B)(1) above by applying the provisions of this chapter
to:
      (1)   Restrict or prohibit uses which are dangerous to health, safety, or
property in times of flooding or cause undue increases in flood heights or
velocities;
      (2)   Require that uses vulnerable to floods, including public facilities
which serve such uses, be provided with flood protection at the time of initial
construction;
      (3)   Protect individuals from buying lands which are unsuited for
intended purposes because of flood hazard; and
      (4)   Assure that eligibility is maintained for property owners in the
community to purchase flood insurance in the National Flood Insurance Program.
(Ord. 715, passed 11-11-2009)
§ 152.03 LOCAL ADMINISTRATOR RESPONSIBILITIES.
   (A)   The Planning Commission Secretary hereby has these added
responsibilities and is authorized and directed to enforce all of the
provisions of this chapter and all other ordinances or resolutions of the
village now in force or hereafter adopted, related to zoning, subdivision, or
building codes.
   (B)   The Planning Commission Secretary shall be appointed to these
additional responsibilities by resolution of the governing body and his, her,
or their appointment shall continue during good behavior and satisfactory
service. During temporary absence or disability of the Planning Commission
Secretary, the governing body of the village shall designate an acting
administrator.
(Ord. 715, passed 11-11-2009)
§ 152.04 DESIGNATION OF CURRENT FHBM/FIRM.
   The governing body of the village hereby designates the current Flood Hazard
Boundary Map/Flood Insurance Rate Map dated August 13, 2009, as the official
map to be used in determining those areas of special flood hazard.
(Ord. 715, passed 11-11-2009)
§ 152.05 PERMITS REQUIRED.
   (A)   No person, firm, or corporation shall initiate any floodplain
development or substantial improvement or cause the same to be done without
first obtaining a separate permit for development as defined in this chapter.
   (B)   Within special flood hazard areas on the official map, separate
floodplain development permits are required for all new construction,
substantial improvements and other developments, including the placement of
manufactured homes.
   (C)   To obtain a floodplain development permit, the applicant shall first
file an application therefore in writing on a form furnished for that purpose.
Every such application shall:
      (1)   Identify and describe the development to be covered by the
floodplain development permit for which application is made; and
      (2)   Describe the land on which the proposed development is to be done
by lot, block, tract, and house and street address, or similar description that
will readily identify and definitely locate the proposed building or
development.
(Ord. 715, passed 11-11-2009) Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.06 [MISSING TEXT].
(Ord. 715, passed 11-11-2009)
§ 152.07 [MISSING TEXT].
[MISSING TEXT]
structural components having the capability of resisting hydrostatic and
hydrodynamic loads and effects of buoyancy. A registered professional engineer
or architect shall certify that the standards of this section are satisfied.
Such certification shall be provided to the local administrator;
      (4)   Require for all new construction and substantial improvements.
Fully enclosed areas below the lowest floor that are usable solely for parking
of vehicles, building access or storage in an area other than a basement and
which are subject to flooding shall be designed to automatically equalize
hydrostatic flood forces on exterior walls by allowing for the entry and exit
of flood waters. Designs for meeting this requirement must either be certified
by a registered professional engineer or architect or meet or exceed the
following minimum criteria: A minimum of two openings having a total net area
of not less than one square inch for every square foot of enclosed area subject
to flooding shall be provided. The bottom of all openings shall be no higher
than one foot above grade. Openings may be equipped with screens, louvers,
valves, or other coverings or devices provided that they permit the automatic
entry and exit of floodwaters;
   (B)   Require the use of construction materials that are resistant to flood
damage;
   (C)   Require the use of construction methods and practices that will
minimize flood damage;
   (D)   Require that new structures be designed (or modified) and adequately
anchored to prevent flotation, collapse, or lateral movement of the structure
resulting from hydrodynamic and hydrostatic loads, including the effects of
buoyancy;
   (E)   New structures be constructed with electrical, heating, ventilation,
plumbing, and air conditioning equipment and other service facilities that are
designed and/or located so as to prevent water from entering or accumulating
within the components during conditions of flooding;
   (F)   Assure that all manufactured homes shall be anchored to resist
flotation, collapse, or lateral movement. Manufactured homes must be anchored
in accordance with state laws, local building codes and FEMA guidelines. In the
event that over-the-top frame ties to ground anchors are used, the following
specific requirements (or their equivalent) shall be met:
      (1)   Over-the-top ties be provided at each of the four corners of the
manufactured home with two additional ties per side at the intermediate
locations and manufactured homes less than 50 feet long requiring one
additional tie per side;
      (2)   Frame ties be provided at each corner of the home with five
additional ties per side at intermediate points and manufactured homes less
than 50 feet long requiring four additional ties per side;
      (3)   All components of the anchoring system be capable of carrying a
force of 4,800 pounds; and
      (4)   Any additions to manufactured homes be similarly anchored.
   (G)   Ensure that all manufactured homes that are placed or substantially
improved within special flood hazard areas on the community’s official map on
sites:
      (1)   Outside of a manufactured home park or subdivision;
      (2)   In a new manufactured home park or subdivision;
      (3)   In an expansion to an existing manufactured home park or
subdivision; or
      (4)   In an existing manufactured home park or subdivision on which a
manufactured home has incurred substantial damage as the result of a flood, be
elevated on a permanent foundation such that the lowest floor of the
manufactured home is elevated at least one foot above the base flood elevation
and be securely anchored to an adequately anchored foundation system in
accordance with the provisions of division (F) above.
   (H)   Ensure that manufactured homes to be placed or substantially improved
on sites in an existing manufactured home park or subdivision within special
flood hazard areas on the community’s official map that are not subject to the
provisions of division (G) above be elevated so that either:
      (1)   The lowest floor of the manufactured home is at least one foot
above the base flood elevation; or
      (2)   The manufactured home chassis is supported by reinforced piers or
other foundation elements of at least equivalent strength that are no less than
36 inches in height above grade and be securely anchored to an adequately
anchored foundation system in accordance with the provisions of division (F)
above.
   (I)   (1)   Require that recreational vehicles placed on sites within the
identified special flood hazard areas on the community’s official map either:
         (a)   Be on the site for fewer than 180 consecutive days;
         (b)   Be fully licensed and ready for highway use; or
         (c)   Meet the permit requirements and the elevation and anchoring
requirements for manufactured homes of this chapter.
      (2)   A recreational vehicle is ready for highway use if it is on its
wheels or jacking system is attached to the site only by quick disconnect type
utilities and security devices, and has no permanently attached additions.
(Ord. 715, passed 11-11-2009) Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.08 SUBDIVISION APPLICATIONS.
   The governing body of the village shall review all subdivision applications
and other proposed new developments (including manufactured home parks or
subdivisions) and shall make findings of fact and ensure that:
   (A)   All such proposed developments are consistent with the need to
minimize flood damage;
   (B)   Subdivision proposals and other proposed new developments (including
proposals for manufactured home parks and subdivisions), greater than five
acres or 50 lots, whichever is lesser, include within such proposals regulatory
flood elevation data in special flood hazard areas;
   (C)   Adequate drainage is provided so as to reduce exposure to flood
hazards; and
   (D)   All public utilities and facilities are located so as to minimize or
eliminate flood damage.
(Ord. 715, passed 11-11-2009)
§ 152.09 WATER AND SEWAGE SYSTEMS.
   New and replacement water and sewage systems shall be constructed to
eliminate or minimize infiltration by, or discharge into floodwaters. Moreover,
on-site waste disposal systems will be designed to avoid impairment or
contamination during flooding.
(Ord. 715, passed 11-11-2009)
§ 152.10 STORAGE OF MATERIAL AND EQUIPMENT.
   The storage or processing of materials that are in time of flooding buoyant,
flammable, explosive, or could be injurious to human, animal, or plant life is
prohibited. Storage of other material or equipment may be allowed if not
subject to major damage by floods and firmly anchored to prevent flotation or
if readily removable from the area within the time available after flood
warning.
(Ord. 715, passed 11-11-2009)
§ 152.11 FLOOD-CARRYING CAPACITY WITHIN ANY WATERCOURSE.
   The governing body of the village will ensure that the flood-carrying
capacity within the altered or relocated portion of any watercourse is
maintained. The village will notify, in riverine situations, adjacent
communities and the state coordinating office (the state’s Department of
Natural Resources) prior to any alteration or relocation of a watercourse, and
submit copies of such notifications to the Federal Emergency Management Agency.
Moreover, the village will work with appropriate state and federal agencies in
every way possible in complying with the National Flood Insurance Program in
accordance with the National Disaster Protection Act of 1973, being 42 U.S.C.
§§ 4001 et seq.
(Ord. 715, passed 11-11-2009)
§ 152.12 VARIANCE PROCEDURES.
   (A)   The Board of Adjustment as established by Board of Trustees shall hear
and decide appeals and requests for variances from the requirements of this
chapter.
   (B)   The Board of Adjustment shall hear and decide appeals when it is
alleged that there is an error in any requirement, decision, or determination
made by the Planning Commission in the enforcement or administration of this
chapter.
   (C)   Any person aggrieved by the decision of the Board of Adjustment or any
taxpayer may appeal such decision to the District Court as provided in Neb. RS
19-912.
   (D)   In passing upon such applications, the Board of Adjustment shall
consider all technical evaluation, all relevant factors, standards specified in
other sections of this chapter, and:
      (1)   The danger that materials may be swept onto other lands to the
injury of others;
      (2)   The danger to life and property due to flooding or erosion damage;
      (3)   The susceptibility of proposed facility and its contents to flood
damage and the effect of such damage on the individual owner;
      (4)   The importance of the services provided by the proposed facility to
the community; the necessity to the facility of a waterfront location, where
applicable;
      (5)   The availability of alternative locations, not subject to flooding
or erosion damage, for the proposed use;
      (6)   The compatibility of the proposed use with existing and anticipated
development;
      (7)   The relationship of the proposed use to the comprehensive plan and
floodplain management program for that area;
      (8)   The safety of access to the property in times of flood for ordinary
and emergency vehicles, the expected heights, velocity, duration, rate of rise
and sediment transport of the flood waters, and the effects of wave action, if
applicable, expected at the site; and
      (9)   The costs of providing governmental services during and after flood
conditions including maintenance and repair of public utilities and facilities
such as sewer, gas, electrical, and water systems, and streets and bridges.
   (E)   (1)   Generally variances may be issued for new construction and
substantial improvements to be erected on a lot of one-half acre or less in
size contiguous to and surrounded by lots with existing structures constructed
below the base flood level; provided divisions (E)(2) through (E)(5) below have
been fully considered. As the lot size increases beyond the one-half acre, the
technical justification required for issuing the variance increases.
      (2)   Variances may be issued for the repair or rehabilitation of
historic structures upon a determination that the proposed repair or
rehabilitation will not preclude the structure’s continued designation as a
historic structure and the variance is the minimum necessary to preserve the
historic character and design of the structure.
      (3)   Variances shall only be issued upon a determination that the
variance is the minimum necessary, considering the flood hazard, to afford
relief.
      (4)   Variances shall only be issued upon:
         (a)   A showing of good and sufficient cause;
         (b)   A determination that failure to grant the variance would result
in exceptional hardship to the applicant; and
         (c)   A determination that the granting of a variance will not result
in increased flood heights, additional threats to public safety, extraordinary
public expense, create nuisances, cause fraud on or victimization of the
public, or conflict with existing local laws, ordinances, or resolutions.
      (5)   (a)   The applicant shall be given a written notice over the
signature of a community official that:
            1.   The issuance of a variance to construct a structure below base
flood level will result in increased premium rates for flood insurance up to
amounts as high as $25 for $100 of insurance coverage; and
            2.   Such construction below the base flood level increases risks
to life and property.
         (b)   Such notification shall be maintained with the record of all
variance actions as required by this chapter.
(Ord. 715, passed 11-11-2009)
§ 152.13 NON-CONFORMING USE.
   (A)   A structure or the use of a structure or premises which was lawful
before the passage or amendment of this chapter, but which is not in conformity
with the provisions of chapter may be continued subject to the following
conditions.
      (1)   If such use is discontinued for six consecutive months, any future
use of the building premises shall conform to this chapter. The Utility
Department shall notify the Planning Commission Secretary in writing of
instances of nonconforming uses where utility services have been discontinued
for a period of two months.
      (2)   Uses or adjuncts thereof which are or become nuisances shall not be
entitled to continue as nonconforming uses.
   (B)   If any nonconforming use or structure is destroyed by any means,
including flood, it shall not be reconstructed if the cost is more than 50% of
the market value of the structure before the damage occurred except that if it
is reconstructed in conformity with the provisions of this chapter. This
limitation does not include the cost of any alteration to comply with existing
state or local health, sanitary, building, or safety codes or regulations or
the cost of any alteration of a structure listed on the National Register of
Historic Places or a State Inventory of Historic Places.
(Ord. 715, passed 11-11-2009)
§ 152.14 ABROGATION AND GREATER RESTRICTIONS.
   It is not intended by this chapter to repeal, abrogate or impair any
existent easements, covenants, or deed restrictions. However, where this
chapter imposes greater restrictions, the provision of this chapter shall
prevail. All other ordinances/resolutions inconsistent with this chapter are
hereby repealed to the extent of the inconsistency only.
(Ord. 715, passed 11-11-2009)
§ 152.15 INTERPRETATION.
   In their interpretation and application, the provisions of this chapter
shall be held to be minimum requirements and shall be liberally construed in
favor of the governing body and shall not be deemed a limitation or repeal, of
any other powers granted by state statutes.
(Ord. 715, passed 11-11-2009)
§ 152.16 WARNING AND DISCLAIMER OF LIABILITY.
   The degree of flood protection required by this chapter is considered
reasonable for regulatory purposes and is based on engineering and scientific
methods of study. Larger floods may occur on rare occasions or the flood height
may be increased by human-made or natural causes, such as ice jams and bridge
openings restricted by debris. This chapter does not imply that areas outside
floodplain district boundaries or land uses permitted within such districts
will be free from flooding or flood damage. This chapter shall not create
liability on the part of the Board of Trustees or any officer or employee
thereof for any flood damages that may result from reliance on this chapter or
any administrative decision lawfully made thereunder.
(Ord. 715, passed 11-11-2009)
§ 152.17 APPEAL.
   Where a request for a permit to develop or a variance is denied by the
Planning Commission Secretary, the applicant may apply for such permit or
variance directly to the Board of Appeals.
(Ord. 715, passed 11-11-2009)
§ 152.18 CONFLICTING ORDINANCES/RESOLUTIONS.
   This chapter shall take precedence over conflicting ordinances or
resolutions or parts of ordinances or resolutions. The governing body of the
village may, from time to time, amend this chapter to reflect any and all
changes in the National Flood Disaster Protection Act of 1973, being 42 U.S.C.
§§ 4001 et seq. The regulations of this chapter are in compliance with the
National Flood Insurance Program Regulations as published in Title 44 of the
Code of Federal Regulations and the 1983 State Floodplain Management Act, being
Neb. RS 31-1001 et seq.
(Ord. 715, passed 11-11-2009)
§ 152.99 PENALTY.
   Violation of the provisions of this chapter or failure to comply with any of
its requirements (including violations of conditions and safeguards established
in connection with grants of variances or special exceptions) shall constitute
a misdemeanor. Any person who violates this chapter or fails to comply with any
of its requirements shall, upon conviction thereof, be fined not more than
$500, and in addition, shall pay all costs and expenses involved in the case.
Each day such violation continues shall be considered a separate offense.
Nothing herein contained shall prevent the Board of Trustees or other
appropriate authority from taking such other lawful action as is necessary to
prevent or remedy any violation.
(Ord. 715, passed 11-11-2009)
CHAPTER 153: PLANNING, DEVELOPMENT, AND ZONING
Section
Municipal Limits
   
153.01   Defined
   
153.02   Survey and plat
   
153.03   Additions; incorporation into village
Planning and Zoning
   
153.20   Comprehensive Plan; adopted
   
153.21   Zoning regulations; adopted
 
   
153.99   Penalty
MUNICIPAL LIMITS
§ 153.01 DEFINED.
   (A)   All additions, lots, lands, subdivisions, and parcels of ground
included within the official municipal map, and plat on file at the office of
the County Register of Deeds, having been by act or ordinance of the governing
body or by law duly annexed to or made a part of the village, or having been by
the act, authority, acquiescence, consent, platting, and dedication of their
respective owners, created either as the original townsite or as additions to
the village are hereby declared to be within the corporate limits of the
village.
   (B)   Lawfully constituted additions or changes in said municipal limits
shall be indicated upon said maps and plat by the Village Engineer after such
addition or change has been completed in accordance with the ordinances of the
village and the laws of the state.
(Prior Code, § 11-101)
§ 153.02 SURVEY AND PLAT.
   (A)   The owner or proprietor of any tract or parcel of land who shall
subdivide the same into two or more parts for the purpose of laying out any
addition to the village or any part thereof, or suburban lots, shall cause a
plat of such subdivision, with references to known or permanent monuments, to
be made, which shall accurately describe all subdivisions of such tract or
parcel of land, numbering the same by progressive numbers, and giving the
dimensions and length and breadth thereof, and the breadth and courses of all
streets and alleys established therein.
   (B)   The map or plat of land within the corporate limits of the village or
of any land within the area designated the village’s extraterritorial
jurisdiction pursuant to Neb. RS 17-1002 shall designate explicitly the land so
laid out and particularly describe the lots, blocks, streets, avenues, alleys,
and other ground belonging to such addition. The lots shall be designated by
numbers, and streets, avenues, and other grounds, by names and numbers. Such
plat shall be acknowledged before some other officer authorized to take the
acknowledgments of deeds, and shall contain a dedication of the streets,
alleys, and public grounds therein to the use and benefit of the public, and
have appended a survey made by some competent surveyor with a certificate
attached, certifying that he, she, or they has accurately surveyed such
addition and that the lots, blocks, streets, avenues, alleys, parks, commons,
and other grounds are well and accurately staked off and marked. When such map
or plat is so made out, acknowledged, and certified, and has been approved by
the Board of Trustees, the same shall be filed and recorded in the office of
the Registrar of Deeds and County Assessor.
(Prior Code, § 11-102.01) (Ord. 642, passed 6-12-2002) Penalty, see §
153.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 18-3304 and 19-916
§ 153.03 ADDITIONS; INCORPORATION INTO VILLAGE.
   All additions to the village laid out and previously located within the
corporate boundaries of the village shall remain a part of the village. All
additions laid out adjoining or contiguous to the corporate limits may be
included within the corporate limits and become a part of the village for all
purposes whatsoever at such time as the addition is approved as provided in
Neb. RS 19-916. If the Board of Trustees includes the addition within the
corporate limits, the inhabitants of such addition shall be entitled to all the
rights and privileges and shall be subject to all the laws, ordinances, rules,
and regulations of the village.
(Prior Code, § 11-102.02) (Ord. 643, passed 6-12-2002)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 19-916
PLANNING AND ZONING
§ 153.20 COMPREHENSIVE PLAN; ADOPTED.
   The Village Board of Trustees adopt this section incorporating the
Comprehensive Development Plan for the village, including the zoning
jurisdiction extending one mile from the corporate limits of the village, as
recommended by the Village Planning Commission after the completion of the
required public hearings.
(Prior Code, § 11-201) (Ord. 739, passed 2-9-2022)
§ 153.21 ZONING AND SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS; ADOPTED.
   That the Village Board of Trustees adopt this section incorporating the
village’s zoning and subdivision regulations, including the zoning jurisdiction
extending one mile from the corporate limits of the village, as recommended by
the Village Planning Commission after the completion of the required public
hearings.
(Prior Code, § 11-202) (Ord. 724, passed 5-8-2013; Ord. 725, passed 5-8-2013;
Ord. 730, passed 1-13-2016; Ord. 740, passed 2-9-2022)
§ 153.99 PENALTY.
   Any person who shall violate or refuse to comply with the enforcement of any
of the provisions of this chapter, set forth at full length herein or
incorporated by reference shall be deemed guilty of an offense and upon
conviction thereof, shall be fined not more than $500 for each offense. A new
violation shall be deemed to have been committed every 24 hours of such failure
to comply.
(Prior Code, § 11-301) (Ord. 669, passed 5-14-2003)
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
   Table
      
I.   FRANCHISES AND AGREEMENTS
      
II.   STREET VACATIONS
TABLE I: FRANCHISES AND AGREEMENTS
 
Ord./Res. No. Date Passed Description
708           2-14-2007   Amending the name of the grantee of the cable
                          television franchise to Clarks Telecom Co.
736-i         9-18-2019   Directing the sale of Lot Three, Block 21 of the
                          village to Michael Weinrich.
                         
 
TABLE II: STREET VACATIONS
 
Ord./Res. No. Date Passed Description
726           5-8-2013    Vacating portions of Morse Street and Turner Street.
732           5-11-2016   Vacating portions of Adams Street, Mills Street, and
                          George Street.
737           11-13-2019  Vacating portions of Iler Street.
                         
 
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to Nebraska Revised Statutes
References to Prior Code
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO NEBRASKA REVISED STATUTES
Neb. R.S. Section Code Section
Neb. R.S. Section           Code Section
8-106                       92.34
8-314                       92.33
10-101 through 10-143       34.12
11-101                      30.03;
                            33.31
11-104                      33.30
11-105                      33.30
11-109                      33.30
11-110                      33.30
11-111                      33.30
11-112                      33.30
11-113                      33.30
11-114                      33.30
11-115                      33.30
11-116                      33.30
11-117                      33.30
11-118                      33.30
12-301 through 12-403       95.01
12-401 through 12-403       32.05
12-403                      95.02
13-310                      92.04
13-312                      92.04
13-314                      92.04
13-503                      34.01
13-504                      34.28
13-505                      34.28
13-506                      34.29
13-507                      34.29
13-508                      34.30;
                            34.51
13-509                      34.30;
                            34.50
13-509.01                   34.27
13-509.02                   34.27
13-510                      34.33
13-511                      34.34
13-518 to 13-522            34.29;
                            34.30
13-518 through 13-522       34.34
13-519                      35.18
13-606                      34.02
13-609                      34.14
13-825 et seq.              32.57
13-903                      34.05
13-1802                     32.57
13-2001 et seq.             91.19
13-2013.02                  91.19
13-2016.01                  91.19
13-2020                     91.20
13-2039                     91.19
16-318(3)                   31.05
16-714 through 16-716       34.10
17-202                      30.01
17-203                      30.01
17-204                      30.03;
                            33.04
17-205                      33.04
                            10.99;
17-207                      30.02;
                            130.43;
                            150.99
                            31.01;
                            32.01;
17-208                      32.58;
                            91.01;
                            91.02
17-209                      33.45
                            30.01;
17-209.02                   31.03;
                            33.45
17-210                      30.03;
                            30.40
                            31.08;
17-213                      31.12;
                            31.13
17-213.01                   31.11
17-214                      31.07
17-502                      11.01
                            10.99;
17-505                      30.35;
                            150.99
17-506                      34.45
17-507                      34.46
17-509                      92.31
17-511                      92.30
17-522                      92.04;
                            92.06
17-523                      92.06
17-524                      92.04;
                            92.30
17-525                      111.03—
                            111.05
17-531                      51.01
17-534                      51.01
17-536                      51.16
                            51.12;
17-537                      51.13;
                            51.17
17-538                      51.11
17-540                      34.11;
                            51.06
17-541                      31.10
                            51.05;
17-542                      51.08;
                            51.09
17-543                      31.10
                            93.24;
17-549                      93.40—
                            93.43
                            93.20—
17-550                      93.22;
                            150.35
17-555                      91.36
                            93.23;
                            93.24;
17-556                      93.41—
                            93.44;
                            130.42;
                            130.52
17-557                      92.02
17-557.01                   92.01
17-558                      92.22;
                            92.33
17-559                      92.22;
                            92.33
17-563                      130.48
17-568                      31.11
17-568.01                   31.11;
                            34.03
17-568.02                   34.03
17-601.01 through 17-603    35.23
17-602                      35.22
                            31.01;
17-604                      33.30;
                            33.45
17-605                      31.03
17-606                      31.05
17-606(2)                   31.05
17-607                      34.09
17-608                      34.11
17-609                      34.11
17-610                      31.06
17-611                      33.45
17-612                      33.45
                            30.38;
17-613                      30.40—
                            30.42;
                            34.03
                            10.15;
17-614                      30.38;
                            30.39;
                            30.43
17-615                      30.41
17-616                      30.39
17-701                      34.25
17-702                      34.08;
                            34.49
17-703                      34.06
17-706                      34.31
17-708                      34.04
17-709                      34.04
17-710                      34.07
17-711                      34.04
17-714                      34.05
17-715                      34.05
17-718                      32.35
17-720                      34.10
17-901                      52.003
17-902                      52.003
17-919                      31.11
17-925.01                   52.001
17-925.02                   52.006
17-938                      95.04
17-941                      95.03
17-948 through 17-952       94.01
17-952                      32.04
17-953 et seq.              32.35
17-1001                     150.35;
                            151.01
17-1002                     153.01
18-131                      30.40
                            10.16;
18-132                      30.35;
                            151.01
18-305 through 18-312       33.45
18-412.01                   34.03
18-503                      52.003
18-1214                     34.52
18-1216                     34.06
18-1701                     31.03
                            10.99;
                            30.02;
                            91.35;
                            91.36;
                            91.99;
18-1720                     130.45;
                            130.58;
                            150.15—
                            150.18;
                            150.20;
                            150.21;
                            150.99
                            10.99;
                            91.99;
                            130.58;
18-1722                     150.15—
                            150.18;
                            150.20;
                            150.21;
                            150.99
                            150.15–
18-1722.01                  150.18;
                            150.20
18-1743                     150.36
18-1748                     52.085;
                            92.32
18-1752                     91.15—
                            91.18
18-1756                     34.03
18-1801 through 18-1805     34.12
18-2101 to 18-2157          32.08
18-2101.01                  32.08
18-2102.01                  32.01
18-2715                     32.01
18-2803                     34.35
18-2804                     34.02;
                            34.35
18-2805                     34.35
18-2806                     34.35
18-2807                     34.35
18-2808                     34.35
18-3301                     31.11
18-3304                     153.01
19-710                      91.37
19-901 et seq.              32.01
19-901                      32.01;
                            151.01
19-901 to 19-905            32.01
19-901 to 19-914            32.01
19-901 to 19-915            32.01
19-902                      151.02
19-903                      32.01
19-903 to 19-904.01         32.01
19-907                      32.01
19-908                      32.01
19-909                      32.01
19-910                      32.01
19-911                      32.01
19-912                      32.01;
                            152.12
19-912.01                   32.01
19-915                      30.43
                            32.01;
19-916                      153.01;
                            153.03
19-922                      30.35;
                            151.01
19-925 through 19-933       32.01
19-926                      32.01
19-927                      32.01
19-928                      32.01
19-929                      32.01
19-929(3)                   32.01
19-930 to 19-933            32.01
19-1101                     31.05
19-1102                     31.03
19-1103                     31.03;
                            31.05
19-1301                     34.08
19-1302                     34.08
19-1303                     34.08
19-1304                     34.08
19-1305                     51.01
19-1309                     34.47
19-1310                     34.47
19-1311                     34.47
19-1312                     34.47
19-2428 to 19-2431          92.34
19-2902                     34.02
19-2903                     34.02
19-2904                     34.02
19-2905                     34.02
19-2906 through 19-2909     34.02
19-3101                     30.07
19-3701                     30.42
23-114.02                   32.01
23-122                      31.03
25-505.01                   35.25
25-1801                     50.04
25-21,275                   50.04
25-21,276 through 25-21,278 50.04
25-2703                     30.35
Chapter 28, Article 3       112.22
Chapter 28, Article 4       112.22
28-401                      130.54
28-417                      130.54
28-431                      130.48
28-509                      130.18
28-511(4)                   130.18
28-511 through 28-517       130.18
                            95.12;
28-512                      130.15;
                            130.18
28-514                      130.15
28-515 through 28-515.02    50.02
                            93.03;
28-519                      130.16;
                            130.55
28-523                      130.40;
                            130.53
28-603                      130.19
28-604                      130.20
Chapter 28, Article 7       112.22
Chapter 28, Article 8       112.22
28-907                      93.08;
                            130.03
                            93.02;
28-908                      93.04;
                            93.06
28-929                      130.02
Chapter 28, Article 10      112.22
28-1009.01                  130.21
Chapter 28, Article 11      112.22
Chapter 28, Article 12      112.22
28-1213                     93.41—
                            93.43
28-1229                     93.41—
                            93.43
28-1233                     93.41—
                            93.43
28-1233(3)                  93.41—
                            93.43
28-1241                     93.44
28-1244                     93.44
28-1245                     93.44
28-1322                     130.44
28-1422                     110.25
28-1423                     110.25
28-1465                     32.57
28-1466                     32.57
28-1472                     32.57
29-215                      32.57
29-4001 et seq.             130.56
29-4003                     130.56
29-4013                     130.56
29-4015 et seq.             130.56
31-1001 et seq.             152.18
31-1001 to 31-1002          152.02
32-101 et seq.              35.15
32-101                      30.01
32-102                      35.22
32-402.01                   35.18
32-404                      35.15;
                            35.16
32-405                      35.18;
                            35.25
32-417                      35.24
32-418                      35.24
32-532                      30.01
32-554                      30.01
32-556                      35.15
32-557                      30.01
32-559                      35.18;
                            35.20
32-560 through 32-572       30.06
32-560                      30.06;
                            30.07
32-561                      30.06
32-562                      35.25
32-567 to 32-570            35.25
32-569                      30.06
32-574                      35.25
32-602                      30.01
32-604                      30.01
32-607                      35.21
32-608                      35.21
32-608(2)                   35.17
32-615                      35.21
32-616                      35.21
32-617                      35.21
32-618                      35.21
32-621                      35.21
32-625(2)                   35.21
32-627                      35.21
32-628 through 32-631       34.48
32-628                      35.21
32-629                      35.21;
                            35.25
32-630                      35.21;
                            35.25
32-710                      35.21
32-802                      34.48
32-952 through 32-959       35.18
32-1221                     35.26
32-1301                     35.25
32-1302                     35.25
32-1303                     35.25
32-1304                     35.25
32-1305                     35.25
32-1306                     35.25
32-1307                     35.25
32-1308                     30.06;
                            35.25
32-1309                     35.25
33-139.01                   32.37
33-141                      31.05
35-102                      32.37
35-103                      32.37
35-106                      111.02
35-108                      32.37
35-520                      93.08
37-1254.01                  32.57
37-1254.02                  32.57
Chapter 39                  73.99
39-6,177 to 39-6,180        150.01
39-6,184                    150.01
39-2512                     31.07
44-4301 et seq.             35.01
44-4301 through 44-4339     35.01
45-623                      34.13
48-115                      32.37
48-1503                     34.03
49-801                      32.57
49-801(16)                  10.05
49-1408                     33.45
49-1425                     33.45
49-1499.03                  33.45
49-1499.04                  33.45
49-14,102                   33.45
49-14,103.01                33.45
49-14,103.02                33.45
49-14,103.03                33.45
49-14,103.04                33.45
49-14,103.05                33.45
49-14,103.06                33.45
51-201                      34.48
51-213                      94.24
51-215                      34.08
51-216                      34.08
51-501                      34.48
52-601.01 to 52-605         130.48
53-103.01 through 53-103.51 112.01
53-116.01                   112.24
53-118                      112.47
53-123.12                   112.23
53-124                      112.23;
                            112.26
53-124.01                   112.23
53-124.12                   112.26
53-124.15                   112.45
53-124.17                   112.23
53-125                      112.22
53-129                      112.23
53-131                      112.23
53-132                      112.23
53-133                      112.23;
                            112.45
53-134                      112.23
                            112.23;
53-134.03                   112.47;
                            112.51
53-134.04                   112.30
53-135                      112.25
53-135.01                   112.23;
                            112.25
53-148                      112.27
53-167.02                   112.52
53-167.03                   112.52
53-168.06                   112.20
53-175                      112.21
53-177                      112.45
53-177.01                   112.45
53-178                      112.46
53-179                      112.48
53-180                      112.02
53-183                      112.49
53-184                      112.50
53-186                      112.03;
                            130.41
53-186(2)                   112.03
53-186.01                   112.03
53-194.03                   112.21
53-1,101                    112.28
53-1,102                    112.29
53-1,115                    112.30
53-1,121                    112.04
55-133                      70.01
Chapter 60                  73.99
60-136                      91.36
60-169                      130.48
                            34.52;
60-301                      72.09;
                            130.48
60-376                      130.48
60-3,104                    34.52
60-462                      70.06
60-4,126                    73.21
60-4,163                    32.57
60-4,164                    32.57
60-601 et seq.              73.05
60-601                      Chapter 70
60-606 through 60-676       70.01
60-607                      70.01
60-610                      70.01
60-613                      70.01
60-624                      70.01
60-631                      70.01
60-638                      70.01
60-646                      70.01
60-654                      70.01
60-656                      70.01
60-658.01                   70.01
60-661                      70.01
60-669                      70.01
60-670                      70.01
60-671                      70.01
60-672                      70.01
60-676                      70.01
60-678                      70.02
60-680                      70.03;
                            72.01
60-681                      70.04
60-682                      70.99
60-682.01                   71.99
60-683                      70.06
60-684 through 60-694.01    70.99
60-689                      70.99
60-699                      73.26
60-6,108                    70.05
60-6,110                    70.06
60-6,114                    70.10
60-6,118                    70.01
60-6,119                    70.09
60-6,121                    70.06
60-6,129                    71.03
60-6,130                    71.04
60-6,138                    71.01
60-6,142                    73.03
60-6,148                    71.01
60-6,164                    72.02
60-6,165                    72.51
60-6,166                    72.03;
                            93.05
60-6,167                    72.12
60-6,168                    72.14
60-6,184                    93.07
60-6,185                    71.20
60-6,186                    71.21
60-6,187                    71.21;
                            71.23
                            71.21;
60-6,188                    71.23;
                            71.99
60-6,189                    71.22
60-6,190                    71.23
60-6,196                    32.57
60-6,197                    32.57
60-6,211.01                 32.57
60-6,211.02                 32.57
60-6,211.08                 112.03
60-6,219                    73.05
60-6,250                    71.05;
                            92.28
60-6,278 through 60-6,282   73.05
60-6,288 to 60-6,290        70.10
60-6,288                    71.05
60-6,294                    70.10
60-6,305                    71.21;
                            71.23
60-6,310                    73.04
60-6,311                    73.04
                            71.21;
60-6,313                    71.23;
                            73.04
60-6,315                    73.03
60-6,317                    73.03
60-6,318                    73.03
60-6,335                    73.02
60-6,337                    73.02
60-6,338                    73.02
60-6,347                    73.01
60-6,352                    73.01
60-6,356                    73.21
60-6,357                    73.22
60-6,358                    73.23
60-6,359                    73.24
60-6,360                    73.25
60-6,361                    73.26
60-6,362                    73.99
60-1901                     130.48
60-1902                     130.48
60-1903                     130.48
60-1903.01                  130.48
60-1903.02                  130.48
60-1904                     130.48
60-1905                     130.48
60-1906                     130.48
60-1907                     130.48
60-1908                     130.48
60-1909                     130.48
60-2410                     130.48
70-624.04                   33.45
70-1601                     50.03
70-1603                     50.01
70-1604                     50.01
70-1605                     51.09
70-1606                     51.09
70-1601 through 70-1615     50.02
70-1601 to 70-1615          50.02
71-423                      112.04
71-605                      95.06
71-1555 et seq.             151.02
71-1557                     151.02
71-1572 et seq.             32.06
71-1576                     32.06
71-1637                     34.48
71-1908 et seq.             130.56
71-4603                     130.48
71-5301                     150.50
73-101 et seq.              34.03
77-1343                     92.34
77-1601                     34.50
77-1606                     34.48;
                            34.50
77-1632                     34.50
77-1633                     34.50;
                            34.51
77-1702                     34.14
77-1725                     150.01
77-17,143                   111.21
77-2201 through 77-2215     31.05
77-2201                     31.05
77-2202                     31.05
77-2209                     31.05
77-2210                     31.05
77-2212                     31.05
77-2341                     34.11
77-2362                     34.09
77-2363                     34.09
77-2364                     34.09
77-2365.01                  34.09;
                            34.10
77-2366                     34.09;
                            34.10
77-2386                     34.09
77-2701 et seq.             111.20
77-3442                     34.48
77-3443                     34.48
77-3444                     34.48;
                            35.18
80-202                      34.48
81-145 through 81-162       34.03
81-501.01 to 81-531         32.41
81-506                      32.44
81-512                      32.41
81-520.01                   93.24;
                            93.25
81-829.51                   34.34
81-829.65                   32.57
81-1401                     32.57
81-1532 et seq.             91.19
84-304                      34.02
84-712 through 84-712.09    31.03;
                            31.05
84-712(2)                   31.03
84-1408                     33.02
84-1409                     33.01;
                            34.51
84-1410                     33.07;
                            33.08
                            33.02;
84-1411                     33.03;
                            33.05;
                            33.06
84-1411(7)                  33.02
84-1412                     33.09
84-1413                     33.11;
                            33.13
                            
 
REFERENCES TO PRIOR CODE
Prior Code Section 2024 Code Section
Prior Code Section 2024 Code Section
1-208              31.12
1-209              31.13
1-701              35.15
1-701.1            35.16
1-702              35.17
1-703              35.18
1-704              35.19
1-705              35.20
1-707              35.22
1-710              35.23
1-711              35.24
1-716              35.26
1-1101             35.01
1-1201             35.99
2-202              32.05
2-205              32.06
2-206              32.07
3-101              51.01
3-102              51.02
3-103              51.03
3-104              51.04
3-105              51.05
3-106              51.06
3-106.01           51.07
3-107              51.08
3-108              51.09
3-109              51.10
3-109.01           51.11
3-110              51.12
3-111              51.13
3-111.01           51.14
3-112              51.15
3-113              51.16
3-114              51.17
3-115              51.18
3-116              51.19
3-117              51.20
3-118              51.21
3-119              51.22
3-120              51.23
3-121              51.24
3-122              51.25
3-123              51.99
3-201              52.001
3-202              52.002
3-203              52.030
3-204              52.031
3-205              52.032
3-206              52.033
3-207              52.045
3-208              52.046
3-209              52.047
3-210              52.048
3-211              52.049
3-212              52.050
3-213              52.003
3-214              52.065
3-215              52.066
3-216              52.067
3-217              52.068
3-218              52.069
3-219              52.004
3-220              52.070
3-221              52.071
3-222              52.085
3-223              52.086
3-224              52.100
3-225              52.101
3-226              52.102
3-227              52.103
3-228              52.104
3-229              52.105
3-230              52.106
3-231              52.120
3-232              52.121
3-233              52.107
3-234              52.005
3-235              52.006
3-236              52.007
3-237              52.008
3-238              52.009
3-239              52.010
3-240              52.011
3-241              52.012
3-242              52.013
3-243              52.014
3-244              52.015;
                   52.999
3-245              52.016
3-401              32.55
3-402              32.56
3-403              32.57
3-404              32.58
3-501              94.01
3-502              94.02
3-601              95.01
3-602              95.02
3-603              95.03
3-604              95.04
3-605              95.05
3-606              95.06
3-607              95.07
3-608              95.08
3-609              95.09
3-610              95.10
3-611              95.11
3-612              95.12
3-701              50.01
3-702              50.02
3-703              50.03
3-704              50.04
3-801              94.15
3-802              94.16
3-803              94.17
3-804              94.18
3-805              94.19
3-806              94.20
3-807              94.21
3-808              94.22
3-809              94.23
3-810              94.24
4-101              91.01
4-102              91.02
4-103              91.03
4-301              91.15
4-302              91.16
4-303              91.17
4-304              91.18
4-305              91.19
4-306              91.20
4-401              91.99
5-211              73.05
5-211.01           73.05
5-301              73.01
5-302              73.02
5-303              73.02
5-304              73.03
5-305              73.04
5-306              73.04
5-307              73.04
5-308              73.04
5-501              73.20
5-502              73.21
5-503              73.22
5-504              73.23
5-505              73.24
5-506              73.25
5-507              73.26
5-508              73.99
5-509              73.27
6-301              130.01
6-302              130.02
6-305              130.15
6-306              130.16
6-307              130.40
6-308              130.41
6-309              130.42
6-310              130.43
6-311              130.44
6-312              130.16
6-313              130.45
6-314              130.46
6-315              130.47
6-316              130.48
6-319              130.50
6-320              130.51
6-322              130.52
6-326              130.53
6-327              130.21
6-328              130.03
6-329              130.54
6-330              130.55
6-331              130.18
6-333              130.19
6-334              130.20
6-335-01           130.56
6-335.02           130.56
6-335.03           130.56
6-401              130.99
6-402              130.58
7-101              93.01
7-102              93.02
7-103              93.03
7-104              93.04
7-106              93.06
7-107              93.07
7-108              93.08
7-201              93.20
7-202              93.20
7-203              93.20
7-204              93.21
7-205              93.22
7-206              93.23
7-207              93.24
7-208              93.25
7-301              93.40
7-302              93.41
7-303              93.42
7-304              93.43
7-401              93.44
7-402              93.44
7-501              93.99
8-201              92.01
8-202              92.02
8-203              92.03
8-205              92.04
8-206              92.05
8-207              92.06
8-208              92.07
8-301              92.20
8-302              92.21
8-303              92.22
8-304              92.23
8-305              92.24
8-306              92.25
8-307              92.26
8-308              92.27
8-309              92.28
8-310              92.29
8-311              92.30
8-312              92.31
8-313              92.32
8-315              92.33
8-316              92.34
8-401              92.35
8-501              92.99
9-101              150.01
9-102              150.02
9-201              150.15
9-202              150.16
9-203              150.17
9-204              150.18
9-205              150.19
9-206              150.20
9-301              151.01
9-302              151.02
9-303              151.03
9-401              150.35
9-401.01           150.36
9-402              150.37
9-501              150.50
9-601              150.99
9-602              150.21
10-401             111.01
10-402             111.02
10-403             111.03
10-404             111.04
10-405             111.05
10-501             110.25
10-601             110.25
11-101             153.01
11-102.01          153.01
11-102.02          153.03
11-201             153.20
11-202             153.21
11-301             153.99
12-101             111.20
12-102             111.21
12-103             111.22
12-104             111.22
12-105             111.24
                   
 
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
305      12-2-1975   51.08
310      3-2-1976    35.18
314      3-2-1976    130.41
318      2-1-1977    35.17
319      2-1-1977    130.50
321      2-1-1977    35.18
324      2-1-1977    130.16
329      10-3-1978   51.08
330      11-6-1978   51.09
338      5-5-1981    51.08
342      11-2-1981   51.11
346      11-3-1982   51.08
                     51.19;
                     73.01;
347      1-4-1983    92.31;
                     93.24;
                     93.25
355      12-4-1984   35.19
360      12-4-1984   50.01
363      12-4-1984   92.32
365      10-1-1985   150.35;
                     150.37
368      11-5-1985   35.26
377      2-3-1987    92.33
378      2-3-1987    92.33
383      11-3-1987   35.01
                     73.20—
384      11-3-1987   73.27;
                     73.99
387      11-3-1987   92.34
                     52.001—
                     52.016;
                     52.030—
                     52.033;
                     52.045—
                     52.050;
                     52.065—
389      10-4-1988   52.071;
                     52.085;
                     52.086;
                     52.100—
                     52.107;
                     52.120;
                     52.121;
                     52.999
391      11-1-1988   73.05
392      11-1-1988   93.44
393      11-1-1988   150.50
395      11-1-1988   93.44
404      3-6-1990    51.08
413      2-5-1991    150.20
–      9-4-1991    130.48
423      5-5-1993    51.20
424      5-5-1993    51.21
436      9-7-1994    73.03
437      9-7-1994    73.05
438      9-7-1994    73.05
439      9-7-1994    73.04
440      9-7-1994    73.04
441      9-7-1994    73.04
442      9-7-1994    73.04
443      9-7-1994    73.21
454      9-7-1994    93.41
455      9-7-1994    93.42
456      9-7-1994    93.43
466      6-7-1995    91.19
468      6-7-1995    93.25
469      6-7-1995    130.53
472      7-5-1995    151.02
475      8-7-1995    32.55—
                     32.58
482      2-7-1996    35.15
500      2-7-1996    32.58
503      2-7-1996    50.02
                     51.22—
506      9-4-1996    51.25;
                     51.99
516      7-9-1997    35.19
522      7-9-1997    50.01
534      7-9-1997    51.09
536      7-9-1997    52.068
540      9-10-1997   51.08
542      11-12-1997  51.09
562      8-12-1998   52.001
564      8-12-1998   110.25
566      8-12-1998   32.57
570      8-12-1998   130.21
571      8-12-1998   130.03
578      7-14-1999   151.02
579      7-14-1999   91.20
580      7-14-1999   50.03
587      6-14-2000   35.15
593      6-14-2000   35.99;
                     150.99
599      6-14-2000   32.06
600      3-14-2001   32.07
612      7-11-2001   150.99
613      1-9-2002    151.03
618      6-12-2002   35.01
632      6-12-2002   92.22
633      6-12-2002   92.33
639      6-12-2002   130.54
642      6-12-2002   153.01
643      6-12-2002   153.03
645      8-14-2002   130.51
660      4-9-2003    50.02
661      4-9-2003    50.04
665      4-9-2003    130.55
666      4-9-2003    130.18
                     92.99;
669      5-14-2003   93.99;
                     130.99;
                     153.99
669      5-15-2003   110.25
670      6-11-2003   51.13
673      3-10-2004   35.19
678      3-10-2004   91.19
680      3-10-2004   130.19
682      3-10-2004   130.20;
                     150.36
685      7-14-2004   51.20
689      3-9-2005    35.15;
                     35.16
690      3-9-2005    94.24
692      3-9-2005    92.04
699      3-9-2005    130.48
701      5-10-2006   51.14
702      6-14-2006   130.56
703      7-12-2006   51.08
707      12-13-2006  111.22;
                     111.24
708      2-14-2007   TSO Table I
709      5-9-2007    51.07
711      8-8-2007    73.21
713      12-12-2007  111.01
                     152.01—
715      11-11-2009  152.18;
                     152.99
                     73.20—
718      6-8-2011    73.27;
                     73.99
13-725   5-8-2013    91.16
724      5-8-2013    153.21
725      5-8-2013    153.21
726      5-8-2013    TSO Table II
730      1-13-2016   153.21
733      4-10-2016   130.57
731      4-13-2016   91.35—
                     91.39
732      5-11-2016   TSO Table II
735      11-8-2017   51.04
736      3-14-2018   31.14
736-i    9-18-2019   TSO Table I
737      11-13-2019  TSO Table II
738      11-21-2019  111.20
739      2-9-2022    153.20
740      2-9-2022    153.21
741      4-13-2022   51.08
743      5-23-2023   51.09;
                     51.10
744      7-26-2023   32.08
750      3-13-2024   Adopting Ordinance
                     90.01—
751      3-13-2024   90.63;
                     90.99
754      12-11-2024  150.17;
                     150.18
755      12-11-2024  Adopting Ordinance
                    
 
