COLUMBUS, NEBRASKA
CODE OF ORDINANCES
2024 S-2 Supplement Contains:
Local legislation current through Ordinance 24-32, passed 11-18-2024
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street, Suite 310
Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
Tel: (800) 445-5588
Internet: http://www.amlegal.com
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
   Chapter
      
10.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
11.   CITY POLICIES
CHAPTER 10: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
10.01   Title of code
   
10.02   Interpretation
   
10.03   Application to future ordinances
   
10.04   Captions
   
10.05   Definitions
   
10.06   Rules of interpretation
   
10.07   Severability
   
10.08   Reference to other sections
   
10.09   Reference to offices
   
10.10   Errors and omissions
   
10.11   Official time
   
10.12   Reasonable time
   
10.13   Ordinances repealed
   
10.14   Ordinances unaffected
   
10.15   Repeal or modification of ordinance
   
10.16   Section histories; statutory references
   
10.17   Local changes to this code of ordinances
 
   
10.99   General penalty
§ 10.01 TITLE OF CODE.
   This codification of ordinances shall be designated as the Columbus Code of
Ordinances and may be so cited.
§ 10.02 INTERPRETATION.
   Unless otherwise provided herein, or by law or implication required, the
same rules of construction, definition and application shall govern the
interpretation of this code as those governing the interpretation of state law.
§ 10.03 APPLICATION TO FUTURE ORDINANCES.
   All provisions of Title I compatible with future legislation shall apply to
ordinances hereafter adopted amending or supplementing this code unless
otherwise specifically provided.
§ 10.04 CAPTIONS.
   Headings and captions used in this code other than the title, chapter and
section numbers are employed for reference purposes only and shall not be
deemed a part of the text of any section.
§ 10.05 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   General rule. Words and phrases shall be taken in their plain, or
ordinary and usual sense. However, technical words and phrases having a
peculiar and appropriate meaning in law shall be understood according to their
technical import.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this code, the following definitions
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      CITY, MUNICIPAL CORPORATION or MUNICIPALITY. The City of Columbus,
Nebraska.
      CITY COUNCIL or GOVERNING BODY. The City of Columbus, Nebraska.
      CODE, THIS CODE or THIS CODE OF ORDINANCES. This city code as modified by
amendment, revision and adoption of new titles, chapters or sections.
      COUNTY. Platte County, Nebraska.
      FEE. A sum of money charged by the city for the carrying on of a
business, profession or occupation.
      KNOWINGLY. Imports a knowledge that the facts exist which brings the act
or omission within the provisions of this code. It does not require any
knowledge of the unlawfulness of such act or omission.
      MAY. The act referred to is permissive.
      MISDEMEANOR. Any offense deemed a violation of the provisions of this
code which is a lesser offense than a felony as defined by state law.
      MONTH. A calendar month.
      NEGLIGENT, NEGLECT or NEGLIGENCE. Imports a want of such attention to the
nature or probable consequences of the act or omission as a prudent person
ordinarily bestows in acting in his or her own concern.
      NUISANCE. The erecting, continuing, using or maintaining of any building,
structure or other place, which, by occasioning noxious exhalations, noisome or
offensive smells becomes injurious and dangerous to the health, comfort or
property of individuals or the public; the obstructing or impeding, without
legal authority of any public right-of-way; and the corrupting or rendering
unwholesome or impure of any watercourse, stream or water.
      OATH. Includes an affirmation in all cases in which, by law, an
affirmation may be substituted for an oath, and in such cases the words SWEAR
and SWORN shall be equivalent to the words AFFIRM and AFFIRMED.
      OFFENSE. Any act forbidden by any provision of this code or the omission
of any act required by the provisions of this code.
      OFFICER, OFFICE, EMPLOYEE, COMMISSION or DEPARTMENT. An officer, office,
employee, commission or department of this city unless the context clearly
requires otherwise.
      OPERATOR. The person who is in charge of any operation, business or
profession.
      OWNER. Any part owner, joint owner, tenant in common, joint tenant or
lessee of the whole or of a part of such building or land.
      PERSON. Includes bodies politic and corporate, societies, communities,
the public generally, individuals, partnerships, limited liability companies,
joint-stock companies and associations.
(Neb. Rev. Stat. § 49-801(16))
      PERSONAL PROPERTY. Every description of money, goods, chattels, effects,
evidence of rights in action and all written instruments by which any pecuniary
obligation, right or title to property is created, acknowledged, transferred,
increased, defeated, discharged or diminished and every right or interest
therein.
      PRECEDING or FOLLOWING. Next before or next after, respectively.
      RETAILER. Understood to relate to the sale of goods, merchandise,
articles or things in small quantities direct to the consumer.
      SHALL. The act referred to is mandatory.
      SIGNATURE or SUBSCRIPTION. Includes a mark when the person cannot write.
      STATE. The State of Nebraska.
      STREET. Includes alleys, lanes, courts, boulevard, public ways, public
square, public places and sidewalks.
      SUBCHAPTER. A division of a chapter, designated in this code by a heading
in the chapter analysis and a capitalized heading in the body of the chapter,
setting apart a group of sections related by the subject matter of the heading.
Not all chapters have SUBCHAPTERS.
      TENANT. Any person who occupies the whole or any part of a building or
land whether alone or with others.
      WHOLESALER or WHOLESALE DEALER. Relates to the sale of goods,
merchandise, articles or things in quantity to persons who purchase for the
purpose of resale.
      WILLFULLY. When applied to the intent with which an act is done or
omitted, implies simply a purpose or willingness to commit the act or make the
omission referred to. It does not require any intent to violate law, or to
injure another, or to acquire an advantage.
      WRITTEN. Any representation of words, letters or figures, whether by
printing or otherwise.
      YEAR. A calendar year, unless otherwise expressed.
(Prior Code, § 10.05)
§ 10.06 RULES OF INTERPRETATION.
   The construction of all ordinances of this city shall be by the following
rules, unless that construction is plainly repugnant to the intent of the Mayor
and City Council or of the context of the same ordinance.
   (A)   AND or OR. Either conjunction shall include the other as if written
“and/or,” if the sense requires it.
   (B)   Acts by assistants. When a statute or ordinance requires an act to be
done which, by law, an agent or deputy as well may do as the principal, the
requisition shall be satisfied by the performance of the act by an authorized
agent or deputy.
   (C)   Gender; singular and plural; tenses. Words denoting the masculine
gender shall be deemed to include the feminine and neuter genders; words in the
singular shall include the plural; and words in the plural shall include the
singular. The use of a verb in the present tense shall include the future, if
applicable.
   (D)   General term. A general term following specific enumeration of terms
is not to be limited to the class enumerated unless expressly so limited.
§ 10.07 SEVERABILITY.
   If any provision of this code as now or later amended or its application to
any person or circumstance is held invalid, the invalidity does not affect
other provisions that can be given effect without the invalid provision or
application.
§ 10.08 REFERENCE TO OTHER SECTIONS.
   Whenever a section refers to another section hereof, that reference shall
extend and apply to the section referred to as subsequently amended, revised,
recodified or renumbered unless the subject matter is materially altered by the
amendment or revision.
§ 10.09 REFERENCE TO OFFICES.
   Reference to a public office or officer shall be deemed to apply to any
office, officer or employee of this city exercising the powers, duties or
functions contemplated in the provision, irrespective of any transfer of
functions or change in the official title of the functionary.
§ 10.10 ERRORS AND OMISSIONS.
   If a manifest error is discovered, consisting of the misspelling of any
words; the omission of any word or words necessary to express the intention of
the provisions affected; the use of a word or words to which no meaning can be
attached; or the use of a word or words when another word or words was clearly
intended to express the intent, the spelling shall be corrected and the word or
words supplied, omitted or substituted as will conform with the manifest
intention, and the provisions shall have the same effect as though the correct
words were contained in the text as originally published. No alteration shall
be made or permitted if any question exists regarding the nature or extent of
the error.
§ 10.11 OFFICIAL TIME.
   The official time, as established by applicable state/federal laws, shall be
the official time within this city for the transaction of all city business.
§ 10.12 REASONABLE TIME.
   (A)   In all cases where an ordinance requires an act to be done in a
reasonable time or requires reasonable notice to be given, REASONABLE TIME OR
NOTICE shall be deemed to mean the time which is necessary for a prompt
performance of the act or the giving of the notice.
   (B)   The time within which an act is to be done, as herein provided, shall
be computed by excluding the first day and including the last. If the last day
is Sunday, it shall be excluded.
§ 10.13 ORDINANCES REPEALED.
   (A)   This code contains all of the provisions of a general nature
pertaining to the subjects enumerated and embraced in this code.
   (B)   All prior ordinances pertaining to the subjects treated by this code
are repealed, except that nothing shall affect any rights acquired under,
actions involving or fines, penalties, forfeitures or liabilities incurred
pursuant to those ordinances prior to repeal.
§ 10.14 ORDINANCES UNAFFECTED.
   All ordinances of a temporary or special nature and all other ordinances
pertaining to subjects not embraced in this code, including ordinances
specified in this section, shall remain in full force and effect unless
repealed expressly or by necessary implication:
   (A)   Vacating or setting the boundaries of streets, alleys or other public
places;
   (B)   Annexing or detaching territory;
   (C)   Granting or accepting easements, plats or dedication of land to public
use;
   (D)   Providing for the acquisition or conveyance of real or personal
property;
   (E)   Authorizing or directing public improvements to be made;
   (F)   Levying taxes or special assessments;
   (G)   Appropriating money;
   (H)   Granting franchises or special licenses; or
   (I)   Providing for the issuance of bonds or other instruments of
indebtedness.
§ 10.15 REPEAL OR MODIFICATION OF ORDINANCE.
   (A)   Whenever any ordinance or part of an ordinance is repealed or modified
by a subsequent ordinance, the ordinance or part of an ordinance thus repealed
or modified shall continue in force until the publication of the ordinance
repealing or modifying it to give effect thereto.
   (B)   No suit, proceedings, right, liability, fine, forfeiture or penalty
instituted, created, given, secured or accrued under any ordinance previous to
its repeal shall in any way be affected, released or discharged, but may be
prosecuted, enjoyed and recovered as fully as if the ordinance had continued in
force, unless it is otherwise expressly provided.
   (C)   When any ordinance repealing a former ordinance, clause or provision
is itself repealed, the repeal shall not be construed to revive the former
ordinance, clause or provision, unless it is expressly provided.
Statutory reference:
   Requirements for amendments and revisions, see Neb. Rev. Stat. § 17-614
§ 10.16 SECTION HISTORIES; STATUTORY REFERENCES.
   (A)   A statutory cite included in the history indicates that the text of
the section reads substantially the same as the statute. Example: (Neb. Rev.
Stat. § 18-132)
   (B)   A statutory cite set forth as a “statutory reference” following the
text of the section indicates that the reader should refer to that statute for
further information. Example:
§ 39.01 PUBLIC RECORDS AVAILABLE.
   This municipality shall make available to any person for inspection or
copying all public records, unless otherwise exempted by state law.
Statutory reference:
   Inspection of public records, see Neb. Rev. Stat. § 84-712 et seq.
§ 10.17 LOCAL CHANGES TO THIS CODE OF ORDINANCES.
   Any provision of this code of ordinances may be repealed, modified or
superseded by an ordinance passed by the City Council.
§ 10.99 GENERAL PENALTY.
   Any person who violates any of the prohibitions or provisions of any chapter
or section of this code shall be deemed guilty of an offense, hereinafter
termed a misdemeanor. Unless otherwise specified in the particular chapter or
section for which the person stands convicted of a violation, the penalty for
such violation shall be in an amount not to exceed $500, in the discretion of
the court.
Statutory reference:
   Authority, see Neb. Rev. Stat. §§ 16-225 and 16-246
   Cemetery ordinances; violation of; penalty limited to $100, see Neb. Rev.
Stat. § 16-245
   Nuisances; penalty and abatement, see Neb. Rev. Stat. §§ 16-240 and 18-1720
CHAPTER 11: CITY POLICIES
Section
   
11.01   Division into wards
   
11.02   Corporate seal
   
11.03   Depository
   
11.04   Official newspaper
   
11.05   Fiscal year
§ 11.01 DIVISION INTO WARDS.
   The city is hereby divided into four wards as hereinafter designated.
   (A)   First Ward. All that part of the City of Columbus lying south and east
of a line described as follows: Commencing at a point where the west right-of-
way line of East 14th Avenue intersects the north corporate limits of the city;
thence southerly on the west right-of-way line of East 14th Avenue to its
intersection with the easterly extension of the north line of Nick Luchsinger
Addition; thence westerly on said north line to the northwest corner said
addition; thence southerly and on the west line said addition to the southwest
corner said addition; thence westerly, and on the easterly extension of the
north line Thiele 4th Subdivision to the northwest corner said Thiele 4th
Subdivision; thence southerly and on the west line Thiele 2nd, 3rd, 4th
Subdivision to its intersection with the centerline 23rd Street; thence
westerly and on the centerline 23rd Street to its intersection with the
southerly extension of the east right-of-way line 10th Avenue; thence northerly
on said east right-of-way line to its intersection with the north corporate
limits line; thence westerly on the north corporate limits line to its
intersection with the west right-of-way line 10th Avenue; thence northwesterly
and westerly on the north corporate limits of the city line North Vishay Dale
Electronics Property to its intersection with Three Eagles Subdivision; thence
southerly on the east line said subdivision to its intersection with the north
right-of-way line 25th Street; thence westerly on the north right-of-way line
25th Street to the southeast corner Sands 2nd Subdivision; thence northerly on
the east line Sands 2nd Subdivision to the northeast corner said subdivision;
thence westerly and on the north line Sands 2nd Subdivision and Industrial Site
Subdivision to the northwest corner Industrial Site Subdivision; thence
southerly and on the west line said subdivision to the southwest corner Lot 7
said subdivision; thence easterly and on the easterly extension of the south
line Lot 7 to its intersection with the east right-of-way line 16th Avenue;
thence southerly and on said east line to the southwest corner Lot 17,
Industrial Site Subdivision; thence easterly and on the easterly extension of
the south line Lot 17 to its intersection with the east right-of-way line 14th
Avenue; thence southerly and on said east line to its intersection with the
centerline 23rd Street; thence westerly and on said centerline to its
intersection with the centerline 18th Avenue; thence southerly and on said
centerline its intersection with the centerline 17th Street; thence Westerly on
said centerline to its intersection with the centerline 21st Avenue; thence
southerly on the extension said centerline to its intersection with the south
corporate limits of the city, shall constitute and be known as the First Ward.
   (B)   Second Ward. All that part of the City of Columbus lying south and
west of a line described as follows: Commencing at a point where the centerline
Howard Boulevard (U.S. Hwy 81) intersects the west corporate limits of the
city; thence southeasterly and on said centerline to its intersection with the
centerline 48th Avenue; thence northerly and on said centerline to its
intersection with the centerline 27th Streets; thence easterly and on said
centerline to its intersection with the centerline 45th Avenue; thence
southerly and on said centerline to its intersection with the centerline 23rd
Street; thence easterly and on said centerline to its intersection with the
centerline 33rd Avenue; thence southerly and on said centerline to its
intersection with the centerline 15th Street; thence easterly and on said
centerline to its intersection with the centerline 21st Avenue; thence
southerly on the extension said centerline to its intersection with the south
corporate limits of the city, shall constitute and be known as the Second Ward.
   (C)   Third Ward. All that part of the City of Columbus lying north and west
of a line described as follows: Commencing at a point where the centerline
Howard Boulevard (U.S. Hwy 81) intersects the west corporate limits of the
city; thence southeasterly and on said centerline to its intersection with the
centerline 48th Avenue; thence northerly and on said centerline to its
intersection with the centerline 27th Street; thence easterly and on said
centerline to its intersection with the centerline 45th Avenue; thence
southerly and on said centerline to its intersection with the centerline 23rd
Street; thence easterly and on said centerline to its intersection with the
southerly extension of the centerline 26th Avenue; thence northerly on said
centerline to its intersection with the north right-of-way line 38th Street;
thence westerly on said right-of-way line to its intersection with the east
line Maple Park 3rd Addition; thence northerly on said east line to its
intersection with the northeasterly line Maple Park 3rd Addition; thence
northwesterly on said northeasterly line to its intersection with the north
line Maple Park 3rd Addition; thence westerly on north line Maple Park 1st, 2nd
and 3rd Additions to a point 310.00 east of its intersection with the east
right-of-way line 33rd Avenue; thence northerly and parallel to the east right-
of-way line 33rd Avenue to its intersection with the south line off Properties
Addition; thence easterly on said south line to the southeast corner off
Properties Addition; thence northerly on the east line said addition to the
northeast corner off Properties Addition; thence westerly on the north line
said Addition to its intersection with the east right-of-way line 33rd Avenue;
thence northerly and on said right-of-way line to its intersection with the
south right-of-way line Lost Creek Parkway; thence easterly and on said south
line to its intersection with the southerly extension of the east line Jim
Hellbusch First Subdivision; thence northerly and on said east line to its
intersection with the north right-of-way line 47th Street; thence westerly and
on the north line said right-of-way to its intersection with the centerline
33rd Avenue; thence northerly on said centerline to its intersection with the
north corporate limits of the city, shall constitute and be known as the Third
Ward.
   (D)   Fourth Ward. All that part of the City of Columbus lying north and
east of a line described as follows: Commencing at a point where the centerline
East 11th Avenue intersects the centerline 23rd Street; thence westerly on the
centerline 23rd Street to its intersection with the southerly extension of the
east right-of-way line 10th Avenue; thence northerly on said right-of-way line
to its intersection with the north line corporate limits; thence westerly on
the north corporate limits line to its intersection with the west right-of-way
line 10th Avenue; thence northwesterly and westerly on the north corporate
limits line of city north line Vishay Dale Electronics property to its
intersection with the east line Three Eagles Subdivision; thence southerly on
the east line said subdivision to its intersection with the north right-of-way
line 25th Street; thence westerly on the north right-of-way line 25th Street to
the southeast corner Sands 2nd Subdivision; thence northerly on the east line
Sands 2nd Subdivision to the northeast corner said subdivision; thence westerly
and on the north line Sands 2nd Subdivision and Industrial Site Subdivision to
the northwest corner Industrial Site Subdivision; thence southerly and on the
west line said subdivision to the southeast corner Lot 7, said Subdivision;
thence easterly and on the easterly extension of the south line Lot 7 to its
intersection with the east right-of-way line 16th Avenue; thence southerly and
on said east line to the southwest corner Lot 17, Industrial Site Subdivision;
thence easterly and on the easterly extension of the south line Lot 17 to its
intersection with the east right-of-way line 14th Avenue; thence southerly and
on said east line to its intersection with the centerline 23rd Street; thence
westerly and on said centerline to its intersection with the centerline 18th
Avenue; thence southerly and on said centerline to its intersection with the
centerline 17th Street; thence westerly and on said centerline to its
intersection with the centerline 21st Avenue; thence southerly and on said
centerline to its intersection with the centerline 15th Street; thence westerly
and on said centerline to its intersection with the centerline 33rd Avenue;
thence northerly and on said centerline to its intersection with the centerline
23rd Street; thence easterly and on said centerline to its intersection with
the southerly extension of the centerline 26th Avenue; thence northerly on said
centerline to its intersection with the westerly extension of the north line
Deerfield Park 1st Addition; thence easterly and on the north line said
addition to the northeast corner Deerfield Park 1st Addition; thence southerly
and on the east line said subdivision to its intersection with the north right-
of-way line 38th Street; thence easterly and on said north right-of-way line to
its intersection with the west right-of-way line Wilderness Drive (18th
Avenue); thence northwesterly and on said right-of-way line to its intersection
with the south line Wilderness Park; thence westerly and on the south line of
said Park to its intersection with the northerly extension centerline 26th
Avenue; thence northerly and on said northerly extension to its intersection
with the centerline 53rd Street, shall constitute and be known as the Fourth
Ward.
(Prior Code, § 11.01) (Ord. 91-52, passed 9-16-1991; Ord. 01-34, passed 6-18-
2001; Ord. 19-05, passed 2-4-2019; Ord. 21-42, passed 12-20-2022)
§ 11.02 CORPORATE SEAL.
   The city shall procure and keep a seal with such emblem and device as it may
think proper. Such seal may be either an engraved or ink stamp seal. It shall
have included thereon the City of Columbus, Nebraska, together with date of
incorporation, which shall be the seal of the city, and no other seal shall be
used by the city. The impression or representation of the seal by stamp shall
be sufficient sealing in all cases where sealing is required.
(Prior Code, § 11.02) (Ord. 98-39, passed 11-2-1998)
Statutory reference:
   Corporate seal, see Neb. Rev. Stat. § 16-115
§ 11.03 DEPOSITORY.
   The official depositories for the various funds of the city shall hereafter
be designated by resolution of the Mayor and City Council who may from time to
time amend the designated depositories.
(Prior Code, § 11.03) (Ord. 97-05, passed 3-3-1997)
§ 11.04 OFFICIAL NEWSPAPER.
   The Columbus Telegram, a newspaper of general circulation published within
the city, is hereby designated as the official newspaper of the city.
(Prior Code, § 11.04) (Ord. 2274, passed 6-21-1972)
§ 11.05 FISCAL YEAR.
   The fiscal year of the city and of any public utility of the city commences
on October 1 and extends through the following September 30, except as provided
in the Municipal Proprietary Function Act, being Neb. Rev. Stat. §§ 18-2801 et
seq.
(Neb. Rev. Stat. § 16-701) (Prior Code, § 11.05)
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
   Chapter
      
30.   FORM OF GOVERNMENT
      
31.   CITY OFFICIALS
      
32.   ORGANIZATIONS
      
33.   FIRE DEPARTMENT
      
34.   POLICE DEPARTMENT
      
35.   PERSONNEL POLICIES
      
36.   ELECTIONS
      
37.   PURCHASING PROCEDURES
CHAPTER 30: FORM OF GOVERNMENT
Section
Mayor
   
30.01   Election; qualifications; term
   
30.02   Powers and duties
   
30.03   Vacancy
City Council
   
30.15   Powers
   
30.16   Committees
   
30.17   Meetings
   
30.18   Organization; qualifications
   
30.19   President; Acting President
   
30.20   City Council rules
   
30.21   Removal; failure to attend meetings
MAYOR
§ 30.01 ELECTION; QUALIFICATIONS; TERM.
   (A)   The Mayor shall be elected as provided in the Election Act, being Neb.
Rev. Stat. §§ 32-101 et seq. The Mayor shall take office on the date of the
first regular meeting of the City Council held in December following the
statewide general election. The Mayor shall be a resident and registered voter
of the city.
(Neb. Rev. Stat. § 17-107)
   (B)   The Mayor shall serve for a term of four years or until his or her
successor is elected and qualified.
(Neb. Rev. Stat. § 32-533)
§ 30.02 POWERS AND DUTIES.
   (A)   The Mayor shall preside at all meetings of the City Council. The Mayor
may vote when his or her vote would provide the additional vote required to
attain the number of votes equal to a majority of the number of members elected
to the City Council on any pending matter, legislation or transaction, and the
Mayor shall, for the purpose of such vote, be deemed to be a member of the
Council. He or she shall have superintendence and control of all the officers
and affairs of the city and shall take care that the ordinances of the city and
all laws governing cities of the second class are complied with.
(Neb. Rev. Stat. § 17-110)
   (B)   The Mayor shall have the power to veto or sign any ordinance passed by
the City Council and to approve or veto any order, bylaw, resolution, award of
or vote to enter into any contract or the allowance of any claim. If the Mayor
approves the ordinance, order, bylaw, resolution, contract or claim, he or she
shall sign it, and it shall become effective. If the Mayor vetoes the
ordinance, order, bylaw, resolution, contract or any item or items of
appropriations or claims, he or she shall return it to the City Council stating
that the measure is vetoed. The Mayor may issue the veto at the meeting at
which the measure passed or within seven calendar days after the meeting. If
the Mayor issues the veto after the meeting, the Mayor shall notify the City
Clerk of the veto in writing. The Clerk shall notify the City Council in
writing of the Mayor’s veto. Any order, bylaw, resolution, award of or vote to
enter into any contract or the allowance of any claim vetoed by the Mayor may
be passed over his or her veto by a vote of two-thirds of the members of the
Council. If the Mayor neglects or refuses to sign any ordinance, order, bylaw,
resolution, award of or vote to enter into any contract or the allowance of any
claim, but fails to veto the measure within the time required by this section,
the measure shall become effective without his or her signature. The Mayor may
veto any item or items of any appropriation bill or any claims bill, and
approve the remainder thereof, and the item or items vetoed may be passed by
the Council over the veto as in other cases.
(Neb. Rev. Stat. § 17-111)
   (C)   The Mayor shall, from time to time, communicate to the City Council
such information and recommend such measures as, in his or her opinion, may
tend to the improvement of the finances, the police, health, security,
ornament, comfort and general prosperity of the city.
(Neb. Rev. Stat. § 17-112)
   (D)   The Mayor shall have the power, when he or she deems it necessary, to
require any officer of the city to exhibit his or her accounts or other papers,
and to make reports to the Council, in writing, touching any subject or matter
pertaining to his or her office.
(Neb. Rev. Stat. § 17-113)
   (E)   The Mayor shall have such jurisdiction as may be vested in him or her
by ordinance, over all places within five miles of the corporate limits of the
city, for the enforcement of any health or quarantine ordinance and regulation
thereof, and shall have jurisdiction in all matters vested in him or her by
ordinance, excepting taxation, within the extra-territorial zoning jurisdiction
of the city.
(Neb. Rev. Stat. § 17-114)
   (F)   The Mayor shall have the power to remit fines and forfeitures and to
grant reprieves and pardons for all offenses arising under the ordinances of
the city.
(Neb. Rev. Stat. § 17-117)
   (G)   The Mayor shall hold no other elective or appointive office or
employment with the city.
   (H)   The Mayor shall sign the City Clerk’s minutes of all meetings of the
City Council, and he or she shall sign all resolutions that have been passed
and warrants for the payment of money when ordered by the Council.
   (I)   The Mayor shall have such other duties as are reposed in the Mayor by
the laws of the state or as the Council may by resolution confer upon the
Mayor.
Statutory reference:
Restrictions on holding other office or employment, see Neb. Rev. Stat. §§ 17-
108.02, 32-109, 32-603 and 32-604
§ 30.03 VACANCY.
   (A)   The office of Mayor shall be vacant upon the happening of any of the
events specified in Neb. Rev. Stat. § 32-560 except as provided in Neb. Rev.
Stat. § 32-561.
   (B)   (1)   In case of any vacancy in the office of Mayor, or in case of his
or her disability or absence, the President of the City Council shall exercise
the office of Mayor for the unexpired term, until such disability is removed,
or in case of temporary absence, until the Mayor returns.
(Neb. Rev. Stat. § 32-568)
      (2)   If the President of the Council assumes the office of Mayor for the
unexpired term, there shall be a vacancy on the Council.
(Neb. Rev. Stat. §§ 17-107, 32-568)
Statutory reference:
   Additional and similar provisions, see Neb. Rev. Stat. §§ 32-560 through 32-
572
   Ineligibility of person subjected to recall, see Neb. Rev. Stat. § 32-1308
CITY COUNCIL
§ 30.15 POWERS.
   All of the governmental powers of the city shall be vested in the City
Council.
(Prior Code, § 30.15)
§ 30.16 COMMITTEES.
   The City Council may, by resolution, divide and distribute its work
precedent to the exercise of legislative power into such number of standing and
special committees as the City Council may from time to time deem necessary or
expedient and may from time to time by resolution name and prescribe the powers
and duties of the committees. Until such further division and distribution of
work, the committees of the City Council and their powers and duties shall be
as already established.
(Prior Code, § 30.16)
§ 30.17 MEETINGS.
   (A)   Regular meetings of the City Council shall be held in the Council
Chambers on the first and third Monday of each month at 6:00 p.m. However, the
regular meetings may be changed from time to time, pursuant to the policy of
the City Council adopted by resolution. The regular meeting shall be changed or
modified by call of the Mayor or at least four members of the City Council.
Special meetings of the City Council shall be held in the Council Chambers upon
call by the Mayor or at least four members of the City Council and the day,
hour and purpose thereof shall be set forth in the call.
   (B)   Notice of every special meeting shall be given to each City Council
member by notifying the City Council member personally, by telephone, or by
leaving a verbal message at the City Council member's usual place of business
or residence.
(Prior Code, § 30.17) (Ord. 96-06, passed 2-19-1996; Ord. 23-07, passed 7-17-
2023)
§ 30.18 ORGANIZATION; QUALIFICATIONS.
   City Council members shall take office and commence their duties on the
first regular meeting in December following their election. The newly elected
City Council members who have qualified as prescribed by law, together with the
members of the City Council holding over, shall assemble in a regular meeting
at the hour and place prescribed in this code and perfect the reorganization of
the City Council as herein provided, and all appointive offices in which the
terms of incumbents are expired shall be filled by appointment. After the
meeting has been called to order, the City Clerk shall report to the City
Council the names of all City Council members-elect who have qualified for
their respective offices, and this report shall be spread upon the minutes of
the meeting preceding the roll call. Each ward of the city shall be represented
by at least two City Council members. No person shall be eligible who is not at
the time of election an actual resident of the ward for which the person is
qualified and a registered voter. If any City Council member moves from the
ward from which the City Council member was elected, that member’s office shall
thereby become vacant.
(Prior Code, § 30.18)
Statutory reference:
   Change from ward to at large, see Neb. Rev. Stat. § 32-554
   Council member qualifications, see Neb. Rev. Stat. § 16-302.01
   Vacancies, see Neb. Rev. Stat. § 32-560
   Wards, term, see Neb. Rev. Stat. § 32-534
§ 30.19 PRESIDENT; ACTING PRESIDENT.
   (A)   The City Council shall elect one of its own body who shall be styled
the President of the Council and who shall preside at all meetings of the
Council in the absence of the Mayor.
   (B)   In the absence of the President, the Council shall elect one of its
own body to occupy his or her place temporarily, who shall be styled Acting
President of the Council.
   (C)   The President, and Acting President, when occupying the place of the
Mayor, shall have the same privileges as other members of the Council; and all
acts of the President or Acting President, while so acting, shall be as binding
upon the Council and upon the city as if done by the Mayor.
(Neb. Rev. Stat. § 17-148)
§ 30.20 CITY COUNCIL RULES.
   (A)   At the first meeting in July of the City Council following any general
and regular city election, the City Council shall, by resolution, pass and
adopt such rules of procedure and order of business as may be deemed necessary
to ensure orderly, efficient and lawful conduct of its affairs, and the rules,
when so adopted, shall constitute the standing rules to govern proceedings at
all regular and special meetings of the City Council, provided that provision
may be made in the rules for amending, temporarily suspending or rescinding any
rule or portion thereof. Additional rules may further be adopted from time to
time at the discretion of the City Council.
   (B)   Except as may otherwise be required by law, all ordinances of a
general or permanent nature shall be fully and distinctly read aloud, by title
only, on three different days unless three-fourths of all members of the City
Council vote to suspend this requirement. In case the requirement shall be
suspended, the ordinance shall be read by title or number and then moved for
final passage.
   (C)   All resolutions shall contain a title which shall briefly describe and
explain the content of the respective resolution and all resolutions shall
contain no subject which shall not be clearly expressed in the title. The
resolution shall be read by title or number and then moved for final passage.
   (D)   Three-fourths of all members of the City Council may require any
ordinance or resolution to be fully and distinctly read aloud in full before
enactment under any of the procedures set out in this section. All ordinances
shall be published in full as provided by law.
(Prior Code, § 30.20) (Ord. 92-03, passed 2-3-1992; Ord. 05-06, passed 3-7-
2005; Ord. 06-19, passed 6-19-2006)
Statutory reference:
   Three readings required for all annexation ordinances, see Neb. Rev. Stat. §
16-404
§ 30.21 REMOVAL; FAILURE TO ATTEND MEETINGS.
   A vacancy on the City Council shall exist if a member is absent for more
than five consecutive regular meetings of the City Council unless the absences
are excused by a majority vote of the remaining members.
(Prior Code, § 30.01) (Ord. 2361, passed 6-19-1974)
CHAPTER 31: CITY OFFICIALS
Section
General Provisions
   
31.001   Appointments
   
31.002   Surrender and assumption of office
   
31.003   Bonds; oaths; approval of bonds
   
31.004   Indemnification of all officers, city employees and members of the
Volunteer Fire Department
   
31.005   Reports to City Council
Attorney
   
31.020   Duties and powers
Finance Director; City Clerk
   
31.035   Duties and powers of Finance Director
   
31.036   Duties and powers of City Clerk
City Engineer
   
31.050   Duties and powers
City Physician
   
31.065   Duties and powers
City Administrator
   
31.080   Office established
   
31.081   Duties, responsibilities and powers
   
31.082   Appointment of Acting City Administrator
   
31.083   Compensation
Removal From Office
   
31.095   Removal from office
   
31.096   Charge for removal of elected officials
   
31.097   Notice
   
31.098   Hearing
   
31.099   Failure to appear
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 31.001 APPOINTMENTS.
   (A)   The Mayor shall appoint, by and with the advice and consent of a
majority of the City Council, at the second regular meeting of the City Council
at which the Mayor shall after the Mayor’s election preside, the following city
officers: Engineer; Attorney; Physician; City; Finance Director; and City
Administrator, each of whom shall hold office for the balance of the term of
the Mayor or until sooner removed.
   (B)   The Mayor shall appoint at such time and in such manner as provided by
the provisions of this code:
      (1)   A Chief of the Fire Department, Assistant Chief of the Fire
Department and safety trainer;
      (2)   Chief of Police; and
      (3)   Such other officers, board members and city employees as may be
provided for by the provisions of this code.
(Prior Code, § 31.001) (Ord. 96-22, passed 6-3-1996; Ord. 02-03, passed 2-4-
2002; Ord. 05-20, passed 3-21-2005)
§ 31.002 SURRENDER AND ASSUMPTION OF OFFICE.
   Each appointive officer shall immediately upon the appointment and
qualification of the officer’s successor surrender the office on demand to that
successor, and it is hereby made the duty of each incoming appointive officer
immediately upon appointment to qualify and assume the office and make a demand
therefor. In no case shall an appointive officer be considered as holding over
the entire term, but the officer shall hold over until the officer’s successor
is appointed and qualifies.
(Prior Code, § 31.002)
§ 31.003 BONDS; OATHS; APPROVAL OF BONDS.
   (A)   Each of the following officers shall give bond in proper form and to
be approved, provided the bonds for the several officers shall be in the penal
sum as follows: City Council member, $1,000; Finance Director, $25,000; City
Clerk, $25,000; or in such amounts as may be amended from time to time by the
City Council.
   (B)   The bonds and oaths of appointive officers shall be filed with the
Clerk immediately upon their appointment and before entering by them upon the
duties of their offices, and the bonds and oaths of elective officers shall be
filed with the Clerk within the time prescribed by statute for their
qualifications. Officers, elective or appointive, who are required to give
bonds shall file their official oath in writing therewith. All such officers as
are not required to give bond shall file their official oath in writing in the
office of the Clerk. No officer shall be deemed to have qualified until the
officer has complied with the terms of this chapter as to bonds and oaths.
(Prior Code, § 31.003) (Ord. 05-54, passed 11-7-2005)
Statutory reference:
   Appointed officers, see Neb. Rev. Stat. §§ 16-308, 16-309 and 16-310
§ 31.004 INDEMNIFICATION OF ALL OFFICERS, CITY EMPLOYEES AND MEMBERS OF THE
VOLUNTEER FIRE DEPARTMENT.
   The city shall indemnify all elected and appointed officers, all city
employees and members of the Volunteer Fire Department of the city with respect
to threatened, pending or completed civil or criminal proceedings to the
fullest extent as permitted by law. The city’s responsibility to indemnify the
elected and appointed officers, city employees and members of the Volunteer
Fire Department shall be subject to the following terms and conditions.
   (A)   (1)   The city shall indemnify any person who was or is a party to
threatened, pending or completed action, suit or proceeding, whether civil,
criminal, administrative or investigative, by reason of the fact that the
person is or was the Mayor, a member of the City Council or an elected or
appointed officer, city employee or member of the Volunteer Fire Department,
other than an action instituted by the city against the person.
      (2)   The city shall indemnify the person against expenses, including
attorney fees, judgments, fines and amounts paid in settlement actually and
reasonably incurred by the person in connection with the action, suit or
proceeding if the person acted in good faith and in a manner not opposed to the
best interest of the city, except that no indemnification shall be made or
required in respect by a court of law to be liable for negligence or misconduct
in the performance of the person’s duty to the city. Provided, however, with
respect to any criminal action or proceeding, the person shall be indemnified
provided that the person had no reasonable cause to believe that such conduct
was unlawful.
      (3)   The termination of any action, suit or proceeding by judgment,
order, settlement or conviction or upon a plea of nolo contendere or its
equivalent shall not of itself create a presumption that the person did not act
in good faith and in a manner serving the best interest of the city, and with
respect to any criminal action or proceeding, had reasonable cause to believe
that the person’s conduct was unlawful.
   (B)   Expenses incurred in defending a civil or criminal action, suit or
proceeding may be paid by the city in advance of the final disposition of the
action, suit or proceeding as authorized above, upon receipt of a statement of
expenses incurred by or on behalf of the person who is or was the Mayor, a
member of the City Council, an elected or appointed officer, city employee or
member of the Volunteer Fire Department of the city to repay the amount unless
it is ultimately determined that the person is not entitled to be indemnified
by the city as authorized in this chapter.
   (C)   The indemnification provided by this chapter shall not be deemed
exclusive of any other rights to which the person indemnified may be entitled
under any agreement as to action in the person’s official capacity and shall
continue as to a person who has ceased to be the Mayor, a member of the City
Council, an elected or appointed officer, city employee or a member of the
Volunteer Fire Department of the city and shall inure to the benefit of the
heirs, executors and administrators of the person.
(Prior Code, § 31.004) (Ord. 96-37, passed 12-16-1996)
§ 31.005 REPORTS TO CITY COUNCIL.
   It shall be the duty of the Finance Director and City Clerk, to make reports
in writing monthly of all matters connected with their respective duties. The
City Council may direct other officers and/or other employees to report as
deemed necessary by the City Council.
(Prior Code, § 31.005)
ATTORNEY
§ 31.020 DUTIES AND POWERS.
   (A)   (1)   The City Attorney shall be the legal advisor of the City
Council. He or she shall commence, prosecute and defend all suits and actions
necessary to be commenced, prosecuted or defended on behalf of the city, or
that may be ordered by the Council. When requested, he or she shall attend
meetings of the Council and give them his or her opinion upon any matters
submitted to him or her, either orally or in writing, as may be required. He or
she shall draft or review for legal correctness ordinances, contracts,
franchises and other instruments as may be required, and he or she shall
perform such other duties as may be imposed upon him or her by general law or
ordinance.
      (2)   The Council shall have the right to pay the City Attorney
compensation for legal services performed by him or her for it on such terms as
the Council and Attorney may agree, and to employ additional legal assistance
and to pay for such legal assistance out of the funds of the city.
(Neb. Rev. Stat. § 17-610)
   (B)   The City Attorney shall also examine, when requested to do so by the
City Council, the ordinance records and advise and assist the City Clerk as
much as may be necessary to the end that each procedural step will be taken in
the passage of each ordinance to ensure that it will be a valid and subsisting
local law in so far as its passage and approval are concerned.
FINANCE DIRECTOR; CITY CLERK
§ 31.035 DUTIES AND POWERS OF FINANCE DIRECTOR.
   The Finance Director shall have the duties and powers as provided by the
laws of the state. This individual shall also carry out other duties assigned
in the city job description for this position.
(Prior Code, § 31.025) (Ord. 92-66, passed 12-21-1992)
Statutory reference:
   Duties of Finance Director-City Treasurer, see Neb. Rev. Stat. § 16-318
§ 31.036 DUTIES AND POWERS OF CITY CLERK.
   (A)   The City Clerk shall have the duties and powers as provided by the
laws of the state. This individual shall also carry out other duties assigned
in the city job description for this position.
   (B)   The Assistant City Clerk shall have all those powers and
responsibilities of the City Clerk as permitted by law. However, the Assistant
City Clerk shall only exercise those powers as designated by the City Clerk in
the City Clerk’s absence. The Assistant City Clerk shall report directly to the
City Clerk.
(Prior Code, § 31.026) (Ord. 92-66, passed 12-21-1992)
Statutory reference:
   Duties of City Clerk-Assistant Finance Director, see Neb. Rev. Stat. § 16-
317
CITY ENGINEER
§ 31.050 DUTIES AND POWERS.
   The City Engineer shall have the duties and powers as provided by the laws
of the state. This individual shall also carry out other duties assigned in the
city job description for this position.
(Prior Code, § 31.040) (Ord. 2976, passed 4-2-1984)
Statutory reference:
   Duties of City Engineer, see Neb. Rev. Stat. § 16-320
CITY PHYSICIAN
§ 31.065 DUTIES AND POWERS.
   The City Physician shall perform such duties as prescribed by state statute,
be a member of the Board of Health and perform the duties devolving upon the
City Physician as the medical advisor of the Board.
(Neb. Rev. Stat. §§ 17-121, 17-208) (Prior Code, § 31.055)
Statutory reference:
   Similar state law, see Neb. Rev. Stat. §§ 16-238, 16-308
CITY ADMINISTRATOR
§ 31.080 OFFICE ESTABLISHED.
   The office of City Administrator is established as provided by law, and that
officer shall be appointed by the Mayor with the approval of a majority of the
City Council.
(Prior Code, § 31.065) (Ord. 2413, passed 8-20-1975)
§ 31.081 DUTIES, RESPONSIBILITIES AND POWERS.
   The duties, responsibilities and powers of the Administrator shall be as
follows:
   (A)   To administer, supervise, be responsible for and coordinate all
departments, divisions and services of the city government which are under the
control and jurisdiction of the Mayor and City Council as provided by law,
specifically including civil service laws. However, the office of City
Physician shall not come under the administration and supervision or be the
responsibility of the Administrator, although the Administrator shall be
available to and shall assist the office in any administrative matter that may
arise, and the office shall be available to and shall assist the Administrator
in the discharge of the duties, responsibilities and powers of the
Administrator as set forth in this subchapter;
   (B)   To keep the Mayor and City Council fully advised as to the financial
condition and needs of the city, to be responsible for and prepare the annual
estimate of expenditures for presentation to the Mayor and City Council prior
to the time for the passage and adoption of the annual appropriation ordinance
and upon the adoption of the ordinance to properly administer and execute the
same;
   (C)   To serve as public relations officer of the city government, to
endeavor to investigate and adjust all complaints made or filed against the
city government or against any department, division, service, officer or
employee thereof and to cooperate with all community organizations whose aim
and purpose is to advance the best interests of the city and its citizens;
   (D)   To analyze the functions, activities, duties and responsibilities of
the various departments, divisions and services of the city government and of
all officers and employees thereof, to make recommendations respecting the same
to the Mayor and City Council and to administer any recommendations made by the
Mayor and City Council respecting such functions, activities, duties and
responsibilities;
   (E)   To recommend to the Mayor and City Council the appointment and
dismissal of all department heads and supervisors over which the Mayor and City
Council exercise such jurisdiction and control as provided by law, to appoint
and dismiss all subordinate employees of the city over which the Mayor and City
Council exercise such jurisdiction and control as provided by law at such
compensation as may be fixed or authorized by the Mayor and City Council and to
provide for and order the transfer of the subordinate employees from one
department, division or service to another, except those employees covered
under the civil service laws of the state;
   (F)   To make recommendations to the Mayor and City Council regarding the
activities and duties of any employee of the city covered under the civil
service laws of the state including the promotion, demotion, suspension or
discharge of the employee;
   (G)   To prepare and recommend to the Mayor and City Council a position
classification and compensation plan respecting city officers and employees and
to prepare and submit to the Mayor and City Council, at the end of each fiscal
year, a complete report respecting the finances and administrative activities
of the city for the preceding fiscal year, which report shall include
recommended short and long range improvements and any necessary facts to
substantiate the recommendations;
   (H)   To attend all regularly scheduled meetings of the City Council and
such other meetings of the City Council and city departments, divisions,
services, boards, commissions, committees and officers as the Administrator’s
duties may require, to report at such meetings any matter concerning city
affairs within the jurisdiction and under the control of the Administrator and
to recommend to the Mayor and City Council for passage and adoption such
measures, resolutions and ordinances which may be deemed necessary or
expedient;
   (I)   To exercise general supervision and control over all real and personal
property and other public property under the control and jurisdiction of the
Mayor and City Council;
   (J)   To properly manage the affairs of the city and any department,
division or service thereof and any contract or obligation running to the city;
and
   (K)   To perform such other duties and exercise such other powers as may be
delegated to the Administrator from time to time by ordinance or resolution and
to delegate any duty, responsibility or power set forth herein upon approval of
the Mayor and City Council by proper ordinance.
(Prior Code, § 31.066) (Ord. 2413, passed 8-20-1975)
§ 31.082 APPOINTMENT OF ACTING CITY ADMINISTRATOR.
   (A)   There is hereby created the position of Acting City Administrator who
shall fill the role of and perform all functions and duties of the City
Administrator as defined within this code and such state statutes as may be
applicable thereto.
   (B)   The City Administrator is hereby allowed to appoint an Acting City
Administrator for up to 30 calendar days. In the event that the City
Administrator is absent for a period of time in excess of 30 calendar days or
in the event of either the incapacity of the City Administrator or a vacancy in
the office, the Mayor shall appoint, with the approval of a majority of the
City Council, the Acting City Administrator.
(Prior Code, § 31.067) (Ord. 93-59, passed 12-20-1993)
§ 31.083 COMPENSATION.
   The compensation shall be determined by the Mayor and City Council, set by
ordinance and adjusted periodically.
(Prior Code, § 31.068) (Ord. 2413, passed 8-20-1975)
REMOVAL FROM OFFICE
§ 31.095 REMOVAL FROM OFFICE.
   (A)   Any city appointive officer may be removed for cause at any time by
the Mayor, with the approval of a majority of the elected City Council.
   (B)   This section is subject to the city personnel manual and individuals
covered by the Civil Service Act, being Neb. Rev. Stat. §§ 19-1825 et seq.
(Prior Code, § 31.080) (Ord. 05-07, passed 3-7-2005)
§ 31.096 CHARGE FOR REMOVAL OF ELECTED OFFICIALS.
   Any person may make such charge in writing and under oath, specifying the
nature of the charge, and file the same with the Clerk. The charge and
specifications shall be read at any regular meeting of the City Council or at
any special meeting of the City Council called for that purpose, and a copy of
the charge, certified by the Clerk, together with a notice to show cause at the
meeting of the City Council why the official should not be removed from office,
shall be served upon the elected official so charged at least five days before
the time fixed to show cause.
(Prior Code, § 31.081) (Ord. 05-07, passed 3-7-2005)
§ 31.097 NOTICE.
   The notice to show cause provided for in §
31.096 of this code may be served by any police officer of the city and the
return of the officer shall be sufficient evidence of the service of the same.
Service and return of every such notice shall be made in the manner provided by
the laws of the state for the service of summons.
(Prior Code, § 31.082)
§ 31.098 HEARING.
   (A)   In case any officer charged shall file with the Clerk a denial of the
charge and specifications in writing, the City Council may forthwith proceed to
hear the officer, and if after the hearing the City Council shall be satisfied
that the officer has been guilty of the offense charged, it shall cause the
finding to be entered upon its minutes and declare the office vacant.
   (B)   The proceedings at the hearing of any person charged under the
provisions of this subchapter shall be as nearly like those in ordinary actions
at law as the nature of the case will admit, and it shall be the duty of the
City Attorney, if so directed by the City Council, to prosecute the case
against any person charged under the provisions of this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 31.083) (Ord. 2362, passed 6-19-1974)
§ 31.099 FAILURE TO APPEAR.
   In case any officer charged shall neglect to appear in person at the time
and place the officer was notified to appear before the City Council, as set
forth in the notice to show cause, and file a denial in writing or render a
satisfactory reason for not doing so, the charge and specifications shall be
taken as true and the City Council shall cause the finding to be entered upon
its minutes and declare the office vacant.
(Prior Code, § 31.084)
CHAPTER 32: ORGANIZATIONS
Section
Civil Service Commission
   
32.001   Creation
   
32.002   Members
   
32.003   Duties
Board of Parks Commissioners
   
32.015   Created
   
32.016   Appointment; term
   
32.017   Duties; powers
   
32.018   Organization
   
32.019   Designation
   
32.020   Rules
Planning Commission
   
32.035   Membership; bond; organization
   
32.036   Term of office; removal
   
32.037   Funds; expenditures
   
32.038   Quorum; meetings
   
32.039   Duties and responsibilities
Library Board
   
32.050   Library; established
   
32.051   Board; created
   
32.052   Bylaws
   
32.053   Powers
   
32.054   Funds; control
   
32.055   Funds; disposition of
   
32.056   Library; use of
Board of Health
   
32.070   Members; compensation
   
32.071   Funds
   
32.072   Quorum; meetings
   
32.073   Duties and powers
Board of Adjustment
   
32.085   Organization
Board of Airport Commissioners
   
32.100   Membership; appointment
   
32.101   Appointment; term
   
32.102   Duties; powers
   
32.103   Organization
   
32.999   Penalty
CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION
§ 32.001 CREATION.
   There is created a Civil Service Commission as required by state law.
(Prior Code, § 32.001) (Ord. 843, passed 5-1-1957)
§ 32.002 MEMBERS.
   There shall be five members of the Civil Service Commission who shall be
appointed by the Mayor and confirmed by the City Council. The term of each
member of the Civil Service Commission shall be for six years.
(Prior Code, § 32.002) (Ord. 89-20, passed 6-19-1989; Ord. 05-09, passed 3-7-
2005)
§ 32.003 DUTIES.
   The duties and powers of the Commission shall be those set forth in the
state’s Civil Service Act. (Neb. Rev. Stat. §§ 19-1825 through 19-1847) (Prior
Code, § 32.003)
Statutory reference:
   Civil Service Commissioners, see Neb. Rev. Stat. §§ 19-1827 through 19-1847
BOARD OF PARKS COMMISSIONERS
§ 32.015 CREATED.
   There is hereby created in and for the city a Board of Parks Commissioners,
consisting of nine residents of the city, to be appointed by the Mayor with the
approval of the City Council.
(Prior Code, § 32.015) (Ord. 02-50, passed 9-16-2002)
§ 32.016 APPOINTMENT; TERM.
   The Mayor shall appoint, subject to the approval of the City Council, nine
residents of the city as members of the Board. The term of each member shall be
three years. The term of such member shall begin on the first meeting in
January of each year in which they are appointed. The individuals currently
appointed and serving as members of the Board of Parks Commissioners shall
continue serving as members of the Board of Parks Commissioners for the
remainder of the terms in which they are currently serving.
(Prior Code, § 32.016) (Ord. 02-50, passed 9-16-2002)
Statutory reference:
Similar provisions, see Neb. Rev. Stat. § 16-696
§ 32.017 DUTIES; POWERS.
   It shall be the duty of the Board of Parks Commissioners to take charge of
all facilities as defined in §
32.019 of this code. The Board has the power to establish rules and fees for
the management, care and use of the facilities. It shall be the duty of the
Board to lay out, beautify and improve all facilities defined in §
32.019 of this code to the extent that funds may be provided for such purposes
by the Mayor and City Council. The Board is not authorized to execute any
contracts or to make any expenditures that have not been budgeted.
(Prior Code, § 32.017) (Ord. 02-50, passed 9-16-2002)
Statutory reference:
Similar provisions, see Neb. Rev. Stat. §§ 16-696, 17-952
§ 32.018 ORGANIZATION.
   (A)   The members of the Board, at its first meeting in each calendar year,
shall elect one of its members as a Chair of the Board. Before entering upon
the member’s duties, each member of the Board shall take an oath to be filed
with the City Clerk that the member shall faithfully perform the duties of the
office and will not in any manner be actuated or influenced therein by personal
or political motives.
   (B)   The Board shall render a report of its acts in writing to the City
Council, covering such subject matter as the City Council may desire to be
informed upon regarding the management, improvement and operation of the city’s
parks system, in a timely manner as requested by the City Council.
(Prior Code, § 32.018) (Ord. 02-50, passed 9-16-2002)
Statutory reference:
Similar provisions, see Neb. Rev. Stat. § 16-696
§ 32.019 DESIGNATION.
   The following tracts of ground are hereby designated as those facilities
subject to the supervision and direction of the Board of Parks Commissioners:
   (A)   In the city:
Grounds Address
Grounds          Address
Airport Park     18th Avenue and Bill Babka Drive
Air Vista Park   27th Street and 7th Avenue
Aquatic Center   1783 10th Avenue
Berne Square     6th Street and 26th Avenue
Bradshaw Park    1577 48th Avenue
Buffalo Square   6th Street and 15th Avenue
Centennial Park  5th Street and 7th Avenue
Fountain Square  13th Street and 39th Avenue
Frankfort Square 13th Street and 27th Avenue
Frontier Park    1818 Armory Drive
Gerrard Park     27th Street and 45th Avenue
Glur Park        28th Street and 26th Avenue
Gruenther Park   21st Street and Gruenther Drive
Hanover Square   14th Street and 15th Avenue
Pawnee Park      6th Street and 33rd Avenue
Sock Pond        1062 48th Avenue
Sunset Park      3974 41st Avenue
Wilderness Park  4200 18th Avenue
 
   (B)   Outside the city:
 
Grounds   Address
Bark Park 6162 18th Avenue
 
(Prior Code, § 32.019) (Ord. 02-50, passed 9-16-2002; Ord. 07-27, passed 12-3-
2007; Ord. 15-11, passed 7-6-2015; Ord. 16-22, passed 9-6-2016)
§ 32.020 RULES.
   The rules and regulations to regulate the use, occupancy and the conduct of
persons in or upon all parks and park properties of the city are set forth in
Ch. 97 of this code.
(Prior Code, § 32.020) (Ord. 02-50, passed 9-16-2002)
PLANNING COMMISSION
§ 32.035 MEMBERSHIP; BOND; ORGANIZATION.
   (A)   The Planning Commission shall consist of nine regular members who
shall represent, insofar as is possible, the different professions or
occupations in the city and shall be appointed by the Mayor, by and with the
approval of a majority vote of the members elected to the City Council. Two of
the regular members may be residents of the area over which the city is
authorized to exercise extra- territorial zoning and subdivision regulations.
When there is a sufficient number of residents in the area over which the city
exercises extra-territorial zoning and subdivision regulation, one regular
member of the Commission shall be a resident from the area. If it is determined
by the City Council that a sufficient number of residents reside in the area
subject to extra-territorial zoning and subdivision regulation, and no such
resident is a regular member of the Commission, the first available vacancy on
the Commission shall be filled by the appointment of such an individual. For
purposes of this section, a sufficient number of residents shall mean 1,000
residents.
   (B)   All regular members of the Commission shall serve without compensation
and shall hold no other city office except when appointed to serve on the Board
of Adjustment as provided in Neb. Rev. Stat. § 19-908. The Commission shall
elect its Chairperson and Vice Chairperson from its members and create and fill
such other of its offices as it may determine. The term of the Chairperson and
the Vice Chairperson shall be one year, and they shall be eligible for
reelection. No member of the Commission shall serve in the capacity of both the
Chairperson and Vice Chairperson of the Commission.
(Prior Code, § 32.035)
Statutory reference:
   Planning Commission, see Neb. Rev. Stat. §§ 19-925 through 19-929
§ 32.036 TERM OF OFFICE; REMOVAL.
   (A)   The term of each regular member shall be three years. All regular
members shall hold office until their successors are appointed. Any member may,
after a public hearing before the City Council, be removed by the Mayor with
the consent of a majority vote of the members elected to the City Council, for
inefficiency, neglect of duty, malfeasance in office or other good and
sufficient cause.
   (B)   Vacancies occurring otherwise than through the expiration of term
shall be filled for the unexpired portion of the term by the Mayor.
(Prior Code, § 32.036)
§ 32.037 FUNDS; EXPENDITURES.
   The Commission shall be funded by the City Council from time to time out of
the General Fund. The expenditures of the Commission, exclusive of gifts, shall
be within the amounts appropriated for that purpose by the City Council, and no
expenditures nor agreements for expenditures shall be valid in excess of such
amounts.
(Prior Code, § 32.037)
§ 32.038 QUORUM; MEETINGS.
   A number of Commissioners equal to a majority of the number of regular
members appointed to the Commission shall constitute a quorum for the
transaction of any business. Regular meetings of the Planning Commission shall
be held in the Council Chambers on the second Monday of each month at 6:00 p.m.
However, the regular meetings may be changed from time to time. Special
meetings may also be held upon the call of the Chairperson, Vice Chairperson,
or any three members of the Commission.
(Prior Code, § 32.038) (Ord. 23-07, passed 7-17-2023)
§ 32.039 DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES.
   (A)   The Commission shall adopt rules and regulations for the transaction
of business and shall keep a record of its transactions, findings and
determinations which shall be a public record.
   (B)   The Commission shall make and adopt plans for the physical development
of the city, including any areas outside its boundaries, which in the
Commission’s judgment bear relation to the planning of the city and shall carry
out the other duties and exercise the powers specified in Neb. Rev. Stat. § 19-
929. All actions by the Commission shall be subject to review by the Mayor and
City Council.
   (C)   The Commission shall be responsible for making such reports and
performing such other duties as the City Council may from time to time
designate.
(Prior Code, § 32.039)
LIBRARY BOARD
§ 32.050 LIBRARY; ESTABLISHED.
   There is hereby established a public library and reading room which shall be
permanently maintained by the city for the use of all inhabitants of the city,
and it shall be known as the Columbus Public Library.
(Prior Code, § 32.065)
§ 32.051 BOARD; CREATED.
   (A)   There is hereby created a Public Library Board to consist of at least
five members who shall be appointed by the Mayor, with the consent of the City
Council, from residents of the city, of which Board neither the Mayor nor any
member of the City Council shall be a member.
   (B)   The Mayor may appoint, with the consent of the City Council, one of
the five members of the Board, a nonresident of the city, residing in the
county, during such term as the city has in place an interlocal agreement for
library services with the county. The members of the Board shall hold their
office for a term of four years.
   (C)   In case of vacancies by resignation, removal or otherwise, the Mayor,
with the consent of the City Council, shall fill such vacancy for the unexpired
term. No member shall receive any pay or compensation for any such services
rendered as a member of such Board.
(Prior Code, § 32.066) (Ord. 89-20, passed 6-19-1989; Ord. 02-38, passed 8-19-
2002; Ord. 12-13, passed 10-1-2012; Ord. 13-04, passed 4-1-2013)
§ 32.052 BYLAWS.
   Provide that the members shall adopt and maintain bylaws which shall govern
the organization and function of the Board.
(Prior Code, § 32.067)
§ 32.053 POWERS.
   The members shall have such powers as are set forth in the statutes of the
state and such as are herein or may hereafter be conferred upon them by the
City Council by ordinance or resolution. The members shall select and appoint
the Library Director to serve at the pleasure of the Board at a salary set by
the city’s pay plan, subject to the applicable ordinances and rules governing
city personnel.
(Prior Code, § 32.068)
§ 32.054 FUNDS; CONTROL.
   The Library Board shall have exclusive control of expenditures of all monies
collected, donated or deposited to the credit of the Library Fund, and the
Board is authorized to draw warrants upon the Fund, and the Finance Director is
hereby authorized and directed to pay all such warrants so drawn, signed by the
President or Secretary of the Board.
(Prior Code, § 32.069)
§ 32.055 FUNDS; DISPOSITION OF.
   Funds collected or donated therefor shall be kept for the use of the
Library, separate and apart from other funds of the city and in the hands of
the City Finance Director-Treasurer, and all monies collected by the Library
Board or any employees thereof in form of fines or fees shall be paid weekly to
the City Clerk’s office and credited to the Public Library Fund.
(Prior Code, § 32.070)
§ 32.056 LIBRARY; USE OF.
   The Library established under the provision of this subchapter shall be
forever free to the use of the inhabitants of the city, subject always to such
reasonable regulations as the Library Board may adopt, and the Board may
exclude from the use of the Library anyone who shall willfully violate or
refuse to comply with the rules and regulations established for the government
thereof. The Library Board shall have the power to fix and impose general
rules, penalties and forfeitures for trespasses upon or injury to the library
grounds, rooms, books or other property, or for failure to return any library
item, or for violation of any bylaw or regulation, and the penalties imposed or
accruing by any bylaw or regulation of the Library Board may be recovered in a
civil action. Such action to be instituted in the name of the Library Board of
the city. Money collected in such actions shall be forthwith placed in the
treasury of the city to the credit of the Public Library Fund.
(Prior Code, § 32.071)
BOARD OF HEALTH
§ 32.070 MEMBERS; COMPENSATION.
   There is hereby created a Board of Health. The Board of Health shall have
five members who shall consist of the following: The Mayor, who shall serve as
Chairperson; the Police Chief, who shall serve as Secretary and quarantine
officer; the City Physician, who shall serve as the medical advisor; the
President of the City Council; and the Fire Chief. Appointments to this Health
Board shall be automatic as follows: When the Mayor takes office; when the
President of the City Council is elected by the City Council; and when the City
Physician, Police Chief and Fire Chief are appointed and approved to their
respective positions as otherwise required by this code. It shall be the duty
of the Secretary to keep the full and correct minutes and records of all
meetings and to file the same with the City Clerk where they shall be available
for public inspection at any reasonable time.
(Prior Code, § 32.085) (Ord. 20-31, passed 12-7-2020)
§ 32.071 FUNDS.
   The Board of Health shall be funded by the Mayor and City Council from time
to time out of the General Fund.
(Neb. Rev. Stat. § 16-238) (Prior Code, § 32.086)
§ 32.072 QUORUM; MEETINGS.
   A majority of the Board shall constitute a quorum for the purpose of doing
business. The Board shall meet at such times as the Mayor and City Council may
designate. Special meetings may be held upon the call of the Chairperson or any
three members of the Board.
(Neb. Rev. Stat. § 16-238) (Prior Code, § 32.087)
§ 32.073 DUTIES AND POWERS.
   It shall be the duty of the Board to enact rules and regulations which shall
have the full force and effect of law to safeguard the health of the residents
of the city. Included in the duties of the Board shall be to enforce the rules
and regulations and to provide fines and punishments for any violations
thereof. It may regulate, suppress and prevent the occurrence of nuisances and
shall actively enforce all laws of the state and ordinances of the city
relating to matters of sanitation which affect the health and safety of the
people. The Board shall regularly inspect the premises and businesses as the
Mayor and City Council may direct. All members of the Board shall be
responsible for making such reports and performing such other duties as the
Mayor and City Council may from time to time designate. No member of the Board
of Health shall hold more than one Board of Health position.
(Neb. Rev. Stat. § 16-238) (Prior Code, § 32.088)
BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT
§ 32.085 ORGANIZATION.
   (A)   The Mayor shall appoint, with the consent of the City Council, a Board
of Adjustment which shall consist of five regular members plus one additional
member designated as an alternate who shall attend and serve only when one of
the regular members is unable to attend for any reason. Each member shall be
appointed for a term of three years and shall be removable for cause by the
Mayor and City Council upon written charges and after public hearings.
Vacancies shall be filled for the unexpired term of any member whose term
becomes vacant. One member only of the Board of Adjustment shall be appointed
from the membership of the Planning Commission, and the loss of membership on
the Planning Commission by such member shall also result in that member’s
immediate loss of membership on the Board of Adjustment and the appointment of
another Planning Commissioner to the Board of Adjustment. If the Board does not
include a member who resides in the extra-territorial zoning jurisdiction of
the city, the first vacancy occurring on the Board of Adjustment after the
effective date of this section shall be filled by the appointment of a person
who resides in the extra-territorial zoning jurisdiction of the city at such
time as more than 200 persons reside within such area. Thereafter, at all
times, at least one member of the Board of Adjustment shall reside outside the
corporate boundaries of the city but within its extra-territorial zoning
jurisdiction. Neither the Mayor nor any member of the City Council shall serve
as a member of the Board of Adjustment.
   (B)   The members of the Board shall serve without compensation. The Board
shall organize annually and elect from its membership a Chairperson and Vice
Chairperson. No member of the Board of Adjustment shall serve in the capacity
of both Chairperson and Vice Chairperson of the Board.
   (C)   The Board shall adopt rules in accordance with state law. Meetings of
the Board shall be held at the call of the Chairperson and at such other times
as the Board may determine. A majority of the Board shall constitute a quorum
for the purpose of doing business. The Chairperson, or in the Chairperson’s
absence the Acting Chairperson, may administer oaths and compel the attendance
of witnesses. All meetings of the Board shall be open to the public. It shall
be the duty of the Secretary to keep complete and accurate minutes of all Board
meetings, showing the vote of each member upon each question, or, if absent or
failing to vote, indicating such fact, and shall keep records of its
examinations and other official actions, all of which shall be immediately
filed in the office of the Board and shall be public record. The Board shall be
responsible for making such reports and performing such other duties as the
Mayor and City Council may designate.
   (D)   (1)   Appeals to the Board may be taken by any person aggrieved or by
any officer, department, board or bureau of the city affected by any decision
of the administrative officer. The appeal shall be taken within a reasonable
time, as provided by the rules of the Board, by filing with the officer from
whom the appeal is taken and with the Board a notice of appeal specifying the
grounds thereof. The officer from whom the appeal is taken shall forthwith
transmit to the Board all the papers constituting the record upon which the
action appealed from was taken.
      (2)   An appeal stays all proceedings in furtherance of the action
appealed from, unless the officer from whom the appeal is taken certifies to
the Board, after the notice of appeal shall have been filed with that officer,
that by reason of facts stated in the certificate a stay would, in the
officer’s opinion, cause imminent peril to life or property. In such case,
proceedings shall not be stayed otherwise than by a restraining order which may
be granted by the Board or by a court of record on application on notice to the
officer from whom the appeal is taken and on due cause shown. The Board shall
fix a reasonable time for the hearing of the appeal, give public notice
thereof, as well as due notice to the parties in interest, and decide the same
within a reasonable time. Upon the hearing, any party may appear in person or
by agent or by attorney.
   (E)   It shall be the duty of the Board to hear and decide appeals pursuant
to division (D) above where it is alleged there is error in any order,
requirement, decision or determination made by a city official based on or made
in the enforcement of any zoning regulation or any regulation relating to the
location or soundness of structures; to hear and decide, in accordance with the
provisions of the zoning regulations, requests for interpretation of any map;
and where by reason of exceptional narrowness, shallowness or shape of a
specific piece of property at the time of the enactment of the zoning
regulations, or by reason of exceptional topographic conditions or other
extraordinary and exceptional situation or condition of such piece of property,
the strict application of any zoning regulation would result in peculiar and
exceptional practical difficulties to or exceptional and undue hardships upon
the owner of such property, to authorize, upon an appeal relating to the
property, a variance from such strict application so as to relieve such
difficulties or hardship, if such relief may be granted without substantial
detriment to the public good and without substantially impairing the intent and
purpose of any ordinance or resolution.
   (F)   (1)   No variance shall be authorized by the Board unless it finds
that:
         (a)   The strict application of the zoning regulation would produce
undue hardship;
         (b)   Such hardship is not shared generally by other properties in the
same zoning district and the same vicinity;
         (c)   The authorization of such variance will not be of substantial
detriment to adjacent property and the character of the district will not be
changed by the granting of the variance; and
         (d)   The granting of such variance is based upon reason of
demonstrable and exceptional hardship as distinguished from variations for
purposes of convenience, profit or caprice.
      (2)   No variance shall be authorized unless the Board finds that the
condition or situation of the property concerned or the intended use of the
property is not of so general or recurring a nature as to make reasonably
practicable the formulation of a general regulation to be adopted as an
amendment to the zoning regulations.
   (G)   (1)   In exercising its powers, the Board may, in conformity with
state law, reverse or affirm, wholly or partly, or may modify the order,
requirement, decision or determination appealed from, and may make such order,
requirement, decision or determination as ought to be made, and to that end
shall have all powers of the officer from whom the appeal is taken.
      (2)   The concurring vote of four members of the Board shall be necessary
to reverse any order, requirement, decision or determination of any such city
official, or to decide in favor of the applicant on any matter upon which it is
required to pass under any such regulation or to effect any variation in such
regulation. Appeals from a decision by the Board may be taken as provided in
Neb. Rev. Stat. § 19-912.
(Prior Code, § 32.115) (Ord. 90-33, passed 7-2-1990)
Statutory reference:
Similar provisions, see Neb. Rev. Stat. §§ 19-908, 19-909, 19-910
BOARD OF AIRPORT COMMISSIONERS
§ 32.100 MEMBERSHIP; APPOINTMENT.
   There is hereby created in and for the city a Board of Airport
Commissioners, consisting of five residents of the city who will be appointed
by the Mayor with the approval of the City Council.
(Prior Code, § 32.120) (Ord. 08-27, passed 11-3-2008)
§ 32.101 APPOINTMENT; TERM.
   The Mayor shall appoint, subject to the approval of the City Council, five
residents of the city to serve as members of the Board of Airport
Commissioners. The initial Board of Airport Commissioners shall have three
members who are appointed for three-year terms and two members who shall be
appointed for two-year terms. The terms shall commence on the first meeting of
the Board of Airport Commissioners and, thereafter, on the date of the first
meeting of each year in which the member’s term expires.
(Prior Code, § 32.121) (Ord. 08-27, passed 11-3-2008)
§ 32.102 DUTIES; POWERS.
   The Board of Airport Commissioners shall be advisory in nature and shall
have the power to recommend to the city the establishment of rules, policies
and procedures and fees for the operation of the airport and it shall be the
duty of the Board to provide recommendations to the city on capital
improvements to be undertaken thereon, bonding proposals to finance the same,
and the operation and maintenance of budget for each respective fiscal year
following the passage of this subchapter. The Board shall be required to
provide recommendations to the city as to the use of the grounds and all
improvements thereon including, but not limited to, the hiring of any personnel
or independent support personnel necessary to operate and maintain said
airport, as well as evaluate potential leasing arrangements for the use of the
airport facilities now in existence or constructed in the future.
(Prior Code, § 32.122) (Ord. 08-27, passed 11-3-2008)
§ 32.103 ORGANIZATION.
   The members of the Board shall elect, at its first meeting in each calendar
year, a Chairperson of the Board. Each member of the Board shall take an oath
to be filed with the City Clerk for the member to faithfully perform the duties
of this office and the Board shall not be actuated or influenced therein by
personal or political motives. The Board shall report to the City Council, in
writing, its acts or recommendations.
(Prior Code, § 32.123) (Ord. 08-27, passed 11-3-2008)
§ 32.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person who shall willfully and maliciously write upon, injure,
deface, tear or destroy any book, newspaper, plate, picture, engraving or any
property or thing of value belonging to the public library or deposited in the
custody of the library shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.
(Prior Code, § 32.072)
CHAPTER 33: FIRE DEPARTMENT
Section
General Provisions
   
33.01   Fire Department created
   
33.02   Duties of Chief; officers
   
33.03   Duties
   
33.04   Reserve firefighters
   
33.05   Employment of firefighters
   
33.06   Fire Chief; duties
   
33.07   Assistant Fire Chief duties
   
33.08   Service for industrial site subdivision
   
33.09   Property taxes; fee
   
33.10   Emergency management; adoption of act
   
33.11   Insurance
Regulations
   
33.25   General rules and regulations
   
33.26   Vehicles have right-of-way
   
33.27   Mandatory assistance
Firefighter Retirement Plan
   
33.40   Firefighter Retirement Plan
 
   
33.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 33.01 FIRE DEPARTMENT CREATED.
   There is hereby created a Fire Department for the city which shall consist
of a Fire Chief and as many officers and firefighters as is deemed appropriate
by the Mayor and City Council, whether they be paid regular employees or
reserves. The Fire Chief shall be appointed by the Mayor, subject to the
approval of the City Council, from a list of suitable persons supplied by the
Civil Service Commission. The Fire Chief shall have such powers and authority
and shall perform such duties as are provided by the provisions of this code,
state law and city ordinances, rules and regulations.
(Prior Code, § 33.01) (Ord. 89-3A, passed 3-6-1989; Ord. 21-04, passed 2-1-
2021; Ord. 22-18, passed 7-18-2022)
§ 33.02 DUTIES OF CHIEF; OFFICERS.
   (A)   The Fire Chief shall have full control and supervision over all paid
and reserve firefighters. Said control and supervision shall be subject to the
authority vested in the City Administrator for oversight as to all departments
of the city and the authority of the Mayor and City Council.
   (B)   The Fire Chief shall be accountable to the City Administrator, Mayor
and City Council for the proper and faithful performance of his or her duties.
In the absence or inability of the Fire Chief, or during such hours of the day
as the Fire Chief may be off duty, the Fire Chief’s powers and duties shall be
exercised by the Assistant Fire Chief or the Fire Chief’s designee.
(Prior Code, § 33.02) (Ord. 21-04, passed 2-1-2021; Ord. 22-18, passed 7-18-
2022)
§ 33.03 DUTIES.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of all fire companies now organized in the city
or which may hereafter be organized to keep their apparatus and hose in a
serviceable and clean condition and to repair with due haste to all fires and
to remain thereat until dismissed by order of the Chief of the Fire Department.
   (B)   It shall also be the duty of the Secretary of each company to report
to the City Council the names of all officers elected to fill active positions
in the companies within a reasonable time after the election thereof and to
file with the Clerk annually a list of all active members in good standing in
order to obtain the exemptions provided by law.
(Prior Code, § 33.03)
Statutory reference:
   Definition of membership in good standing, see Neb. Rev. Stat. § 35-103
   Exemptions from militia/military duty, see Neb. Rev. Stat. §§ 35-101, 55-106
and 55-174
   Membership requirements for workers compensation, see Neb. Rev. Stat. § 48-
115
§ 33.04 RESERVE FIREFIGHTERS.
   (A)   Creation and purpose. The city’s reserve firefighters are hereby
created, with the goal to limit the amount of damage, whether it is to property
or life, by providing an adequate, well-trained response of suppression forces
for major emergencies. The primary objective is to staff the engine and the
truck companies on all first alarm structure assignments within five to ten
minutes of the alarm. The reserves shall provide an immediate manpower pool in
addition to the on-duty forces.
   (B)   Membership; qualifications; appointment; bond.
      (1)   The reserves unit shall consist of such number of members as shall
from time to time be determined by the Mayor and Council.
      (2)   The Mayor and City Council shall prescribe the qualifications and
standards by which applicants for membership in the reserve shall be governed,
and persons possessing said qualifications and conforming to said standards may
be appointed to the reserves by the Fire Chief.
      (3)   (a)   To be eligible for membership in the reserves, each applicant
must indicate his or her willingness to attend regularly scheduled trainings,
on the second or third Monday of each month commencing at 7:00 p.m. and any
additional day and time as needed, and not miss more than two consecutive
meetings or drills unless excused by the Fire Chief.
         (b)   Members shall also attend all quarterly department meetings,
scheduled for the first Monday in January, April, July and October. Excessive
unexcused absences throughout the year shall be cause for possible termination.
      (4)   Application for membership in the reserves shall be submitted in
writing at the office of the Fire Chief. All eligible applicants will be
contacted for an oral review before one paid Captain, President of the
Reserves, Assistant Fire Chief and the Fire Chief, with any three of the four
constituting a quorum. Candidates will be rated on oral, interpersonal and
decision-making skills.
      (5)   Upon acceptance to the reserves, each member of the reserve fire
division shall be bonded by the city before being installed in the Department.
   (C)   Officers.
      (1)   The reserves shall elect a President, Vice-President and a
Secretary-Treasurer. They shall be elected on a rotating basis (President,
Secretary-Treasurer and one member at large elected in even years, Vice
President and one member at large in odd years) during the first regular
meeting held by the reserve company upon its formation and at the regular
meeting in July of each year thereafter, by a majority of the members present,
and shall hold office for one year, or until their successors are elected.
      (2)   It shall be the duty of the President to preside at all meetings.
It shall be the duty of the Vice-President to preside at all meetings, in the
absence of the President. It shall be the duty of the Secretary-Treasurer to
keep a list of all members, to call roll at each meeting and to keep an
accurate record of all minutes and finances of the reserves and to provide said
records to the Fire Chief.
   (D)   Fire calls and response. All fire calls and response criteria shall be
outlined in the most recent copy of the Constitution and bylaws.
   (E)   Control. Members of the reserves shall be subject to the control of
the Fire Chief and his or her designees.
   (F)   Rules and regulations.
      (1)   The Mayor and Council may promulgate such rules and regulations and
provisions, and amendments thereto, as may in their discretion be necessary to
carry out the express intent of this subchapter, to include a table of
organization not in conflict herewith.
      (2)   The reserves unit may adopt its own rules and regulations to govern
its operation in matters not involving fire training and periods of active
duty, subject to approval by the Fire Chief.
(Prior Code, § 33.04) (Ord. 21-04, passed 2-1-2021; Ord. 22-18, passed 7-18-
2022)
§ 33.05 EMPLOYMENT OF FIREFIGHTERS.
   (A)   The Mayor and City Council are hereby authorized to employ paid
firefighters selected from candidates recommended by the Chief of the Fire
Department, the list of which is supplied by the Civil Service Commission. The
paid firefighters to be under control, direction and approval of the Chief of
the Fire Department.
   (B)   Any disciplinary action in regard to a paid firefighter shall be as
provided by the city personnel policy manual, the state’s Civil Service Act and
the collective bargaining agreement.
(Prior Code, § 33.05) (Ord. 21-04, passed 2-1-2021)
Statutory reference:
   Civil service, see Neb. Rev. Stat. §§ 19-1832 and 19-1833
§ 33.06 FIRE CHIEF; DUTIES.
   The Fire Chief shall manage the Fire Department and such other duties as
provided for by the laws of the state.
(Prior Code, § 33.07)
§ 33.07 ASSISTANT FIRE CHIEF DUTIES.
   It shall be the duty of the Assistant Chief of the Fire Department to assist
the Chief in matters pertaining to the Fire Department, and he or she shall
coordinate all fire practice and training activities and shall chair the Fire
Department Safety Committee.
(Prior Code, § 33.08) (Ord. 89-13, passed 5-1-1989; Ord. 21-04, passed 2-1-
2021; Ord. 22-18, passed 7-18-2022)
§ 33.08 SERVICE FOR INDUSTRIAL SITE SUBDIVISION.
   (A)   The city, through its Fire Department, will answer all calls for fire
protection and will provide fire protection to the property included in the
area known as the city’s industrial site subdivision, provided that the owner
of such property has paid the amount due for such fire protection as provided
for in §
33.09 of this code.
   (B)   The fire protection will be provided insofar as possible with the
water and fire prevention facilities now available, or hereafter to be made
available by the owners of the subdivision on their respective premises
therein, and in like manner to that in which calls for fire protection are now
answered, and in which fire protection is now provided and is to be provided to
property situated in the city limits.
(Prior Code, § 33.09) (Ord. 03-23, passed 7-7-2003)
§ 33.09 PROPERTY TAXES; FEE.
   The Finance Director, at a date subsequent to the levy and assessment of
property taxes in each year, and at least one month prior to the date in each
year when the property taxes fall due, shall by examination of the tax list of
the county determine the assessed valuation of the property in the city’s
industrial site subdivision belonging to each owner of property situated
therein, and from the determination and the levy made on property within the
city limits for the purpose of providing fire protection, shall determine the
amount due from each owner of property situated in the city’s industrial site
subdivision as though a similar levy were being made on the property situated
in the subdivision and shall notify each of the owners of the amount due from
that owner in payment for the protection hereby provided. For protection
furnished to any owner for a part of a year only, the Finance Director shall
prorate the fee on the basis of the number of months during which the
protection was actually furnished to the owner.
(Prior Code, § 33.10) (Ord. 666, passed 5-18-1949)
§ 33.10 EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT; ADOPTION OF ACT.
   (A)   The Fire Department shall forthwith move its fire and other emergency
equipment and personnel outside the city limits and place them in immediate
operation whenever ordered to do so by the state’s Emergency Management Agency
and to such place as it shall direct, either in the event of an emergency as
defined by Neb. Rev. Stat. § 81-829.36 or in connection with any program for
practice and training.
   (B)   The Legislative Bill 310 and Neb. Rev. Stat. § 81-829.36, enacted with
the emergency clause by the sixty-eighth session of the legislature and now
duly approved shall insofar as applicable be a part of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 33.11) (Ord. 853, passed 8-21-1957)
§ 33.11 INSURANCE.
   The personnel of the Fire Department shall be considered as fully protected
by the state’s Workers’ Compensation Act (Neb. Rev. Stat. § 48-1,110) and
further subject to state statute.
(Prior Code, § 33.12) (Ord. 853, passed 8-21-1957)
REGULATIONS
§ 33.25 GENERAL RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   (A)   All rules and regulations applying to the Fire Department, when
adopted by the Mayor and City Council, shall have the same force and effect as
ordinances. Any such rules and regulations shall be printed and copies thereof
shall be available at the fire station.
   (B)   Any firefighter not complying with the rules and regulations of the
Department or a directive of any of the officers is subject to appropriate
disciplinary action, including removal.
(Prior Code, § 33.25) (Ord. 89-3A, passed 3-6-1989; Ord. 22-18, passed 7-18-
2022)
§ 33.26 VEHICLES HAVE RIGHT-OF-WAY.
   (A)   The motor vehicles of the Fire Department shall have the right-of-way
on all of the streets, avenues and alleys of the city when responding to a fire
alarm, and upon the approach of any Fire Department vehicle giving audible
signal by bell, siren or exhaust whistle, the driver of every other vehicle
within 500 feet ahead of the Fire Department vehicle shall immediately drive
same to a position as near as possible and parallel to the right-hand edge or
curb of the street or highway upon which that driver is driving, clear of any
intersection of streets or highways and shall stop and remain in such position
unless otherwise directed by police or traffic officers or firefighters until
the Fire Department vehicle shall have passed.
   (B)   No driver of any vehicle other than one on official business in
response to a fire alarm shall follow any fire apparatus traveling in response
to or returning from a fire alarm closer than 500 feet from the rear of the
fire apparatus.
   (C)   No motor vehicle other than those of the Fire Department or called on
official business in response to a fire alarm shall be parked or driven within
300 feet of the outer boundaries of the property upon which the fire is
located, unless the vehicle was so parked prior to the sounding of the fire
alarm.
   (D)   No person shall willfully, intentionally or carelessly hinder or
otherwise interfere with any officer or firefighter in the performance of that
officer or firefighter’s duty at or while going to or from a fire, or other
person or vehicle on official business in connection with a fire alarm, or in
any way interfere with, or intentionally or carelessly injure any fire
apparatus, or drive any vehicle over any fire hose, or to approach within 100
feet of the property wherein a fire is located which firefighters have been
called to extinguish.
(Prior Code, § 33.26) (Ord. 580, passed 12-20-1939) Penalty, see §
33.99
§ 33.27 MANDATORY ASSISTANCE.
   The Fire Chief may command the assistance and services of any person present
at a fire to help in extinguishing the fire or in the removal and protection of
property.
(Prior Code, § 33.27) Penalty, see §
33.99
FIREFIGHTER PENSION PLAN
§ 33.40 FIREFIGHTER RETIREMENT PLAN.
   The city’s Firefighter Retirement Plan has been created as required by state
law. The city will administer this Plan per the requirements of state statutes.
(Prior Code, § 33.40)
Statutory reference:
   Firefighter Pension Plan, see Neb. Rev. Stat. §§ 16-1020 through 16-1038
§ 33.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   In the event that a spectator refuses, neglects or fails to assist the
Fire Department after a lawful order to do so, that person shall be deemed
guilty of a misdemeanor.
(Prior Code, § 33.27)
   (C)   Any person who shall resist an active member of the Fire Department,
during all fires at which the Department or any portion thereof is on duty at
such time, shall be subject to a similar penalty as for resisting the city
police. Any person who shall impersonate an active member of the Fire
Department, including wearing of the uniform, shall be subject to a similar
penalty as for impersonating a police officer.
(Prior Code, § 33.28)
(Ord. 21-04, passed 2-1-2021)
CHAPTER 34: POLICE DEPARTMENT
Section
General Provisions
   
34.01   Organization; appointments
   
34.02   Duties of Chief; officers
   
34.03   Authority and powers
   
34.04   Uniforms
   
34.05   Community service technician
Part-time Police Officer Unit
   
34.20   Creation and composition
   
34.21   Definitions
   
34.22   Qualification and appointment of members; rules and regulations
   
34.23   Oath of members
   
34.24   Powers and duties
   
34.25   Compensation
   
34.26   Uniforms, insignia and equipment to be property of city
   
34.27   Members deemed police officers
   
34.28   Resignation; dismissal
Regulations
   
34.40   Misconduct of officer
   
34.41   Mistreatment of, interference with police dog
   
34.42   Impersonating a member of the part-time police officer unit
Police Retirement Plan
   
34.55   Police Retirement Plan
 
   
34.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 34.01 ORGANIZATION; APPOINTMENTS.
   The police force of the city shall consist of a Chief of Police and as many
regular police officers as the City Council may from time to time determine.
All members of the police force shall be appointed by the Mayor with the advice
and consent of the City Council. The Mayor may in any exigency or emergency of
the Mayor’s own determination appoint, when necessary, such additional police
as in the Mayor’s judgment may be required.
(Prior Code, § 34.01)
§ 34.02 DUTIES OF CHIEF; OFFICERS.
   The Chief of Police shall have full control and supervision over all regular
and temporarily appointed police officers, subject to the authority of the
Mayor and City Council, and the Chief of Police shall be accountable to the
Mayor and City Council for the proper and faithful performance of their duties.
In the absence or inability of the Chief of Police, or during such hours of the
day as the Chief may be off duty, the Chief’s powers and duties shall be
exercised by the Chief’s designee. The Chief of Police shall be custodian of
the Council Chambers, cause the same to be in order for all meetings of the
City Council and attend all meetings of and execute all orders issued to the
Chief by the City Council. In addition to the duties imposed by the laws of the
state, it is hereby made the duty of the police to arrest all offenders against
the laws of the state or of the provisions of this code and keep them in the
city or county jail or other safe and suitable places to prevent their escape
until trial can be had before the proper tribunal.
(Prior Code, § 34.02) (Ord. 2302, passed 1-17-1973)
§ 34.03 AUTHORITY AND POWERS.
   The Chief of Police is hereby directed and empowered to prepare and
promulgate such rules, regulations and provisions, and amendments thereto, as
may in their discretion be necessary to carry out the express intent of this
chapter, which provisions shall include a table of organization not in conflict
herewith.
(Prior Code, § 34.03) (Ord. 2242, passed 12-15-1971; Ord. 23-10, passed 7-17-
2023)
§ 34.04 UNIFORMS.
   Each police officer shall wear such uniforms as the Chief of Police shall
direct and shall be provided with an official badge which the police officer
shall wear upon the officer’s person at all times while on duty.
(Prior Code, § 34.04)
§ 34.05 COMMUNITY SERVICE TECHNICIAN.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of the Community Service Technician to enforce
all the provisions of §§
50.18,
50.19,
50.35 through
50.45,
70.079,
70.099,
71.007, 72.01 through 72.05, 72.20 through 72.25, 72.27 through 72.30, 72.32
through 72.35, 72.37, 72.39, 72.62, 72.86, 72.88, Ch. 75, Schd. I; 90.044,
91.15, 91.17, 91.18, 91.30, 92.01 through 92.12, 92.29, 92.30, 92.46, 94.001,
94.045, 94.065, 94.067, Ch. 96, 97.01, 110.40, 130.18, 133.04, 134.02, 130.04
and 151.01 of this code and any amendments thereto.
   (B)   The Community Service Technician shall have the power to issue
citations to enforce the aforementioned code sections. The Community Service
Technician may be based in the Police Department and/or the Community
Development Department and perform the necessary duties for each department as
it pertains to the aforementioned code sections.
(Prior Code, § 34.05) (Ord. 00-35, passed 11-6-2000; Ord. 18-07, passed 3-5-
2018)
PART-TIME POLICE OFFICER UNIT
§ 34.20 CREATION AND COMPOSITION.
   The part-time police officer unit may be created and if created shall
consist of such number of members as shall from time to time be determined by
the Mayor and City Council, and they shall be under the direction of the Mayor
and the Chief of Police or a person designated by them.
(Prior Code, § 34.15) (Ord. 23-10, passed 7-17-2023)
§ 34.21 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACTIVE SERVICE. When a member of the part-time police officer unit of the
city is detailed to perform regular police duties for which that member is
paid.
   CHIEF. The Chief of Police.
   EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE. The committee with oversight of the part-time officer
unit will include the Police Patrol Captain, a Road Patrol Sergeant (as
assigned), and a Field Training Officer (as assigned) for the purposes of
governing the work activities for the part-time police officer unit.
   MEMBER. Any member of the part-time police officer unit of this city.
   PART-TIME POLICE OFFICER. A member of the part-time police officer unit
established pursuant to this chapter; and a one that is a certified officer in
good standing with the NLETC and can perform all the regular duties of a
regular patrol officer without being within physical or visual contact of the
regular police officer.
   TRAINING SERVICE. When a member of the part-time police officer unit of the
city is attending a training session that is required to maintain certification
or continuing education for which that member is paid.
(Prior Code, § 34.16) (Ord. 23-10, passed 7-17-2023)
§ 34.22 QUALIFICATION AND APPOINTMENT OF MEMBERS; RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   (A)   The Executive Committee, by rule, shall prescribe the qualifications
and standards by which applicants for membership in the part-time police
officer unit shall be governed, and persons possessing such qualifications and
conforming to such standards may be appointed as a part-time police officer by
the Chief of Police upon recommendation by the Executive Committee. The part-
time police officer must adhere to the rules of the Public Safety Advisory
Committee (PSAC) in their training and operational matters; these must be
approved by the Chief of Police and the Mayor before becoming effective and in
force.
   (B)   Neb. Rev. Stat. § 81-1401(8)(a) includes “part-time employee of a
municipal or village police agency” in the definition of a “law enforcement
officer.” Therefore, a part-time police officer of the city is considered a law
enforcement officer of the city and he/she must meet, and continue to meet, all
state statutory and city requirements pertaining to a law enforcement officer,
to include, but not necessarily be limited to, initial certification,
continuing education, and firearms qualification.
(Prior Code, § 34.17) (Ord. 23-10, passed 7-17-2023)
§ 34.23 OATH OF MEMBERS.
   Each member shall, before membership, take an appropriate oath to support
the various existing governments of the city.
(Prior Code, § 34.18)
§ 34.24 POWERS AND DUTIES.
   (A)   The part-time police officer is hereby assigned to the duty of
preparing against any disaster or breach of the peace that may threaten lives
and property, and any duties assigned the members shall be deemed as training
in preparation against such perils.
   (B)   Every duly authorized member of the part-time police officer unit,
while on active service, shall be deemed to have all the powers of a regular
peace officer, subject to state statutes. During such tour of active service,
the members so appointed shall possess all the powers and privileges and shall
perform the duties of the regular members of the police force of the city
assigned to them by the Mayor or the Chief of Police. Part-time police officers
may make arrests, issue citations, take reports, statements, write accident and
incident reports as required. Part-time police officers may be called in for
special assignments, work vacated shifts or other additional duties as
necessary. In order to meet statutory obligations, these part-time police
officers must work a minimum of 100 of duty hours annually.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any part-time police officer to attempt to
carry out any order, rule or regulation promulgated by proper authority when
not wearing a regular uniform as prescribed or while not on active service as
defined by §
34.22. Any violation of this section by any member shall cause the member's
immediate dismissal from the part-time police unit.
   (D)   Members of the part-time police officer unit shall perform such other
public service as may be ordered by the Mayor, Acting Mayor, or the Chief of
Police, or their designate, and it shall be unlawful for any person to
willfully resist, delay, or obstruct any such member in the discharge of the
member’s duty, or in the member’s attempt to discharge any duties of the
office.
(Prior Code, § 34.19) (Ord. 23-10, passed 7-17-2023) Penalty, see §  
34.99
§ 34.25 COMPENSATION.
   (A)   Each member shall be paid the sum to be prescribed by the Mayor and
City Council for each hour of active service. A member shall be an employee of
the city for the time during which the Chief of Police has placed the member on
active service.
   (B)   Members suffering injuries arising out of or in the course of duties
assigned them by the Mayor or Chief of Police are entitled to such medical
care, hospitalization, compensation and other benefits as the city may provide
for other members of the city government.
(Prior Code, § 34.20)
§ 34.26 UNIFORMS, INSIGNIA AND EQUIPMENT TO BE PROPERTY OF CITY.
   Uniforms, badges and other equipment used by the part-time police officer
unit shall be purchased by the city and shall be the property of the city. Upon
termination, resignation, or separation, the part-time police officer shall
return the equipment to the officer of supply or Police Support Captain.
Uniform cleaning will be authorized and regulated by the supply officer or the
Police Support Captain.
(Prior Code, § 34.21) (Ord. 23-10, passed 7-17-2023)
§ 34.27 MEMBERS DEEMED POLICE OFFICERS.
   All members appointed by the Mayor pursuant to the provisions of this
subchapter shall be deemed to be police officers. The part-time police officer
unit shall be deemed to be a part of the police services of the city Police
Department and shall be governed by this section. Should any provisions of any
police ordinance of the city conflict with this chapter, this chapter shall
prevail.
(Prior Code, § 34.22) (Ord. 23-10, passed 7-17-2023)
§ 34.28 RESIGNATION; DISMISSAL.
   Each member shall have the right to resign from the part-time police officer
unit at any time. The Chief of Police may dismiss and/or terminate any member
from the part-time police officer unit at any time.
(Prior Code, § 34.23) (Ord. 23-10, passed 7-17-2023)
REGULATIONS
§ 34.40 MISCONDUCT OF OFFICER.
   The tenure of a police officer shall only be during good behavior. Any
disciplinary action in regard to a police officer shall be as provided by the
city personnel policy manual and/or the state’s Civil Service Act.
(Prior Code, § 34.35)
Statutory reference:
   Civil service, see Neb. Rev. Stat. §§ 19-1832 and 19-1833
§ 34.41 MISTREATMENT OF, INTERFERENCE WITH POLICE DOG.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to willfully or maliciously torture,
torment, beat, kick, strike, mutilate, injure, disable or kill any dog used by
the Police Department of the city in the performance of the functions or duties
of the Department or to interfere with or meddle with any such police dog while
being used by the Department or any officer or member thereof in the
performance of any of the duties or functions of the Department or of the
officer or member.
(Prior Code, § 34.38) (Ord. 1033, passed 12-4-1963) Penalty, see §
34.99
§ 34.42 IMPERSONATING A MEMBER OF THE PART-TIME POLICE OFFICER UNIT.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to falsely impersonate or represent
himself or herself to be a member or to wear, use or possess any of the
uniforms, badges or equipment used by the part-time police officer unit unless
that person is authorized to do so.
(Prior Code, § 34.39) (Ord. 23-10, passed 7-17-2023) Penalty, see §  
34.99
POLICE PENSION PLAN
§ 34.55 POLICE RETIREMENT PLAN.
   The city’s Police Retirement Plan has been created as required by state law.
The city will administer this Plan per the requirements of state statutes.
(Prior Code, § 34.50) (Ord. 1120, passed 11-17-1965)
Statutory reference:
   Police Pension Plan, see Neb. Rev. Stat. §§ 16-1001 through 16-1019
§ 34.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   If any person shall resist or abuse the Mayor or other officer of the
city in the execution of the duties of that officer’s office or shall resist or
abuse any regular or temporary police officer while the police officer is
acting in the discharge of the police officer’s duty, the person so offending
shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor.
(Prior Code, § 34.36)
   (C)   Any person who shall rescue by force, ruse or otherwise any person in
the custody of any officer or police officer of the city shall be deemed guilty
of a misdemeanor.
(Prior Code, § 34.37)
   (D)   Any person violating any provision of §
34.41 of this code shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor.
(Prior Code, § 34.38)
(Ord. 1033, passed 12-4-1963)
Statutory reference:
Related provisions, see Neb. Rev. Stat. §§ 16-225, 16-323
CHAPTER 35: PERSONNEL POLICIES
Section
   
35.01   Personnel policy manual adopted
   
35.02   Salaries of officers and employees; pay plan; monthly salary ranges
§ 35.01 PERSONNEL POLICY MANUAL ADOPTED.
   The comprehensive personnel policy manual is adopted and incorporated as a
part of this code as fully as if set out at length herein. Copies are available
for public inspection at the office of the City Clerk during regular city
business hours.
(Prior Code, § 35.01)
§ 35.02 SALARIES OF OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES; PAY PLAN; MONTHLY SALARY RANGES.
   The salaries, pay plans and other compensation of city officers and
employees shall be as set by ordinance of the Mayor and City Council from time
to time.
(Prior Code, § 35.15) (Ord. 99-46, passed 9-7-1999; Ord. 00-30, passed 9-5-
2000; Ord. 01-45, passed 9-4-2001; Ord. 03-30, passed 9-2-2003; Ord. 04-29,
passed 9-7-2004)
Statutory reference:
   Pay to be set by ordinance, see Neb. Rev. Stat. § 16-310
CHAPTER 36: ELECTIONS
Section
   
36.01   State laws to govern
   
36.02   Qualified to assume office
   
36.03   Surrender of office
   
36.04   Vacancies
   
36.05   Time of election and nonpartisan elections
   
36.06   Ward and districts
§ 36.01 STATE LAWS TO GOVERN.
   All general and regular as well as special elections in the city shall be
governed and conducted and the ballots prepared and the votes cast, counted and
canvassed as provided by the general election laws of the state.
(Prior Code, § 36.01)
§ 36.02 QUALIFIED TO ASSUME OFFICE.
   Each City Council member and each city officer-elect shall make every
reasonable effort to be qualified to assume the office and make demand therefor
at the first City Council meeting in December following the general election.
(Prior Code, § 36.02)
§ 36.03 SURRENDER OF OFFICE.
   Each City Council member and other elected officer of the city shall, upon
the expiration of the term of office for which that officer is elected,
surrender the office upon demand of the officer’s successor, such surrender to
be made on the first City Council meeting in December following the election of
the successor. In case the officer’s successor is not qualified, then the
incumbent shall hold the office until the successor shall have qualified, and
upon failure of the successor to qualify within the statutory time, then the
incumbent shall not be entitled to hold the office, but the office shall
automatically become vacant and an appointment shall be made to fill the
vacancy in the manner provided by the laws of the state.
(Prior Code, § 36.03)
Statutory reference:
Term of office four years or until successors are elected and qualified, see
Neb. Rev. Stat. § 32-534
Vacancy occurs upon failure of a candidate elected to an office to qualify for
such office, see Neb. Rev. Stat. § 32-560
§ 36.04 VACANCIES.
   Whenever a vacancy shall occur in the office of a City Council member or
other elective office of the city, except the office of Mayor, by reason of
death, resignation or removal from office, the office shall be filled for the
unexpired term by a person legally qualified to hold the office, such person to
be appointed by the Mayor with the consent of the City Council. Whenever the
City Council shall fail to consent to any appointment made hereunder by the
Mayor by the close of the second regular City Council meeting following the
announcement of the appointment, the vacancy shall be filled by a special
election to be held as prescribed by ordinance in the ward in which the vacancy
exists. When there is a vacancy in the office of the Mayor, the President of
the Council shall become Mayor for the unexpired term.
(Prior Code, § 36.04) (Ord. 2362, passed 6-19-1974)
§ 36.05 TIME OF ELECTION AND NONPARTISAN ELECTIONS.
   The city will hold all primary and general elections on the dates designated
by the state’s Election Act. All elections for city elective offices shall be
conducted on a nonpartisan basis as provided in the Election Act, being Neb.
Rev. Stat. §§ 32-101 et seq.
(Prior Code, § 36.05) (Ord. 2334, passed 12-19-1973; Ord. 04-39, passed 10-18-
2004)
§ 36.06 WARDS AND DISTRICTS.
   The four wards of the city provided for in this code are hereby divided into
election or polling districts as determined by the County Election
Commissioner.
(Prior Code, § 36.20) (Ord. 2499, passed 7-6-1977)
CHAPTER 37: PURCHASING PROCEDURES
Section
   
37.01   Purchasing procedures
§ 37.01 PURCHASING PROCEDURES.
   All contracts for services, material or labor, for enlargements or
improvements shall be subject to the bidding, publication and other terms of
state law and the provisions of the city’s purchasing policies and procedures
as adopted by resolution.
(Prior Code, § 37.01) (Ord. 2976, passed 4-2-1984; Ord. 05-16, passed 3-7-2005)
Statutory reference:
   Contracts, see Neb. Rev. Stat. § 16-321
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS/ENVIRONMENTAL SERVICES
   Chapter
      
50.   SOLID WASTE
      
51.   SEWER
      
52.   WATER
      
53.   STORMWATER POLLUTION
      
54.   CONSTRUCTION AND POST-CONSTRUCTION STORMWATER MANAGEMENT
CHAPTER 50: SOLID WASTE
Section
General Provisions
   
50.01   Definitions
   
50.02   Duty of Public Works Department
   
50.03   City transfer station hours
Collection
   
50.15   Collector’s license; fees; posting of bond
   
50.16   Collection periods
   
50.17   Office of collector
   
50.18   Contents of vaults, cesspools
   
50.19   Dumping grounds
   
50.20   Vehicle requirements
Regulations
   
50.35   Burning of garbage
   
50.36   Disposal receptacles
   
50.37   Manure and dead animals
   
50.38   Removal of dead animals; route
   
50.39   Removal of garbage/refuse required
   
50.40   Parking of vehicle in residential district
   
50.41   Concrete disposal
   
50.42   Dumping onto city streets
   
50.43   Separation of yard waste required
   
50.44   Private composting
   
50.45   Yard waste ban
 
   
50.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 50.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CITY SOLID WASTE TRANSFER STATION. The city-operated transfer station.
   COLLECTOR. A person licensed to haul refuse and/or garbage as herein
defined, including a person who leases roll-offs for the collection of any
waste materials.
   CONSTRUCTION AND DEMOLITION WASTE or C & D. Waste which results from land
clearing, the demolition of buildings, roads or other structures, including but
not limited to, beneficial fill materials, wood (including painted and treated
wood) and land clearing debris other than yard waste. Such waste shall also
include the above listed types of waste that result from construction projects.
CONSTRUCTION AND DEMOLITION WASTE shall not include friable asbestos waste,
special waste, liquid waste, hazardous waste and waste that contains
polychlorinated biphenyl (PCB), putrescible waste, household waste, industrial
solid waste, corrugated cardboard, appliances, tires, drums and fuel tanks.
   DEAD ANIMALS. All small animals such as cats, dogs and rabbits, which die
from any cause. They shall in no way mean large animals such as goats, horses,
mules and cows, which shall die from any cause.
   DETACHABLE CONTAINER. A container of the size approved by the Public Works/
Environmental Services Department that can be lifted and dumped by a collection
truck mechanism.
   DIRECTOR. The Director of the Public Works/Environmental Services Department
or the Director’s authorized representative.
   GARBAGE. Applies to, consists of, means and includes food waste from
kitchens, shops and stores, including peelings, vegetable tops, waste from
meats, fish and poultry and such leftovers as are not fit for keeping and
using, spoiled fruits, vegetables and meats and other perishable wastes that
attend the preparation, use, cooking or the dealing in or storage of meats,
fish, fowl, fruits or vegetables. GARBAGE may be referred to as (MUNICIPAL)
SOLID WASTE.
   LITTER. Includes, but is not limited to:
      (1)   Trash, rubbish, refuse, garbage, paper, rags and ashes;
      (2)   Wood, plaster, cement, brick or stone building rubble;
      (3)   Grass, leaves and worthless vegetation;
      (4)   Offal and dead animals; and
      (5)   Any machine, vehicle or parts of a machine or vehicle which have
lost their identity, character, utility or serviceability as such through
deterioration, dismantling or the ravages of time, are inoperative or unable to
perform their intended functions, or are cast off, discarded or thrown away or
left as waste, wreckage or junk.
   MASONRY RUBBLE. Applies to, consists of, means and includes brick, concrete,
concrete block, stone, tile or other masonry material that contains no plaster,
gypsum products, wood or combustible material.
   REFUSE. Consists of the waste material from normal households or living
conditions and business and construction operations other than garbage. In
general, the kinds of materials classified as REFUSE are paper, rags, bottles,
tin cans, bottle caps, cardboard, worn out clothing or furniture, household
appliances, garden or tree trimmings, wall coverings, drywall, plaster, non-
asbestos insulation, roofing shingles and other roof coverings, plumbing
fixtures, glass, plastic, carpeting, electrical wiring, pipe and metals and
similar materials.
   ROLL-OFFS. A removable container; a constructed container of any size so
designed for use to temporarily collect and contain refuse. The container is
mechanically picked up, dumped and/or transported by a specifically constructed
vehicle designed for this purpose.
   SPECIAL WASTE. A solid waste, except waste which is regulated as a hazardous
waste, which possesses physical, chemical or biological characteristics that
make it different from general household, or construction and demolition waste,
and which requires special handling, treatment or disposal methodologies in
order to protect public health, safety and the environment.
   WASTE MATERIAL. Includes all items, objects or material not included within
the definition of garbage, litter, dead animals, yard waste or refuse as well
as petroleum oils, greases, solvents and fuels, insecticides, herbicides,
chemical waste, hazardous materials or any materials similar to those listed
herein.
   YARD WASTE. The accumulation of grass and leaves collected as a result of
the care of lawns but shall not include other yard debris such as tree limbs
and brush.
(Prior Code, § 50.01) (Ord. 94-57, passed 9-19-1994; Ord. 08-23, passed 8-18-
2008)
§ 50.02 DUTY OF PUBLIC WORKS DEPARTMENT.
   (A)   The Public Works Department is hereby charged with the duty of
enforcing the provisions of this chapter pertaining to the collecting,
transporting and disposing, by approved methods, of all garbage, litter,
refuse, yard waste and waste materials within the city.
   (B)   Approved methods of disposal for garbage, litter, refuse and waste
materials are as follows:
      (1)   By delivery to a licensed garbage or refuse collector;
      (2)   By hauling to the city-operated transfer station and dispensing
there as directed by the person in charge; provided, that the transportation
conforms to the requirements of §
50.20 of this code; and
      (3)   By disposal of garbage in a home garbage disposal unit.
(Prior Code, § 50.02)
§ 50.03 CITY TRANSFER STATION HOURS.
   The transfer station shall be opened to licensed garbage collectors and all
other individuals hauling their own garbage or refuse during those hours as
established by the Director. All licensed garbage collectors and all non-
licensed individuals hauling their own garbage or refuse shall at all times
comply with the rules and regulations covering the use of the transfer station
dump areas as adopted and promulgated by the City Council or Director.
(Prior Code, § 50.03) (Ord. 89-8, passed 3-20-1989)
COLLECTION
§ 50.15 COLLECTOR’S LICENSE; FEES; POSTING OF BOND.
   (A)   No collector shall engage in the business of hauling any garbage/
refuse or leasing roll-offs for use within the city without having first
procured a license from the City Clerk’s office. No collector shall procure a
license from the Clerk until he or she posts a bond with the City Clerk. Each
collector shall supply to the city a bond protecting the city in an amount
equal to one-fourth of the total transfer station fee charges incurred by the
collector during the preceding calendar year. Any collector who has been
engaged in the business of hauling garbage or refuse for less than one full
calendar year immediately preceding the filing of the application shall post a
bond in an amount as set by resolution. All fees for use of transfer station as
set by resolution shall be paid at the time of use or may be charged by the
collector and paid to the city by the collector on a monthly basis. The
condition upon which the bond is to be held is that the collector shall be
allowed to charge fees for the use of the transfer station. However, all
charges shall be paid monthly to the City Clerk, and each payment shall be made
no later than the first of the month immediately following the billing. If the
payment is not made to the City Clerk as described above by the first day of
the month immediately following the billing, the collector shall pay in cash or
certified check, for all fees which the collector incurs as a result of using
the transfer station. If all of the payments are not paid as due to the City
Clerk as set forth, the bond shall be deemed forfeited up to the amount of the
total fee as charged but unpaid by the collector.
   (B)   After approval of the application by the City Council for the license
and bond as posted by the applicant, the Clerk shall issue a license to haul
garbage in the city, after payment has been received in a sum as set by
resolution, and which license shall expire on the last day of April next
following the date of issuance thereof. A license issued under the provisions
of this section shall further authorize the licensee to haul refuse as defined
in this chapter, provided, however, that all refuse shall be no greater than
eight feet in length. Any material dumped which is longer than eight feetshall
be required to pay an additional fee, as set by resolution, for each such
occurrence over and above the regularly established fees.
   (C)   (1)   A license issued under the provisions of this section may be
revoked or suspended by the City Council after a hearing to determine if any
provisions of this chapter have been violated by the collector.
      (2)   If a license is suspended, the equipment of the license holder may
not be used by any other party, person or entity for the purpose of picking up
or hauling garbage or refuse for a period of one year from and after the date
of revocation or suspension of the license.
(Prior Code, § 50.20) (Ord. 91-02, passed 4-1-1991; Ord. 05-22, passed 3-21-
2005; Ord. 08-23, passed 8-18-2008) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.16 COLLECTION PERIODS.
   A person having a license to collect garbage and/or refuse shall call at
least once every two weeks throughout the year, at each place where garbage
accumulates, and more often if the Director shall deem it necessary. All
garbage and refuse so collected shall be conveyed and disposed of at such place
and in such manner as herein provided.
(Prior Code, § 50.21) (Ord. 88-11, passed 3-21-1988; Ord. 05-22, passed 3-21-
2005) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.17 OFFICE OF COLLECTOR.
   It shall be the duty of a person having a license as herein specified for
the collection and removal of garbage and/or refuse to maintain an office with
at least one telephone therein. The office shall be kept open and in the charge
of a person from 8:00 a.m. to 4:00 p.m. of each day, except Sunday and legal
holidays, for the purpose of receiving calls for the collection and removal of
garbage and refuse and the receiving of such information as may be conveyed to
the collector.
(Prior Code, § 50.22) (Ord. 88-11, passed 3-21-1988) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.18 CONTENTS OF VAULTS, CESSPOOLS.
   Only a licensed septic tank waste hauler shall be permitted to clean out and
haul away the contents of any privy vault or cesspool in the city, and the
contents shall be disposed of in such manner as directed by the Director.
(Prior Code, § 50.23) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.19 DUMPING GROUNDS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful, except as set forth herein, to unload or deposit
any garbage, refuse, yard waste and the contents of privy vaults and cesspools
hauled from any premises within the corporate limits of the city and destined
for disposal within the state at any place other than the approved disposal
site. The prohibition herein shall not apply to garbage or refuse processed at
a materials recovery facility operated pursuant to a permit issued by the State
Department of Environmental Quality and Energy.
   (B)   Any garbage or collector, as defined in §
50.01 of this code, failing to dispose of garbage, refuse, yard waste, dead
animals and contents of privy vaults or cesspools at the disposal sites so
designated by the city shall be subject to having the collector’s license
revoked.
   (C)   The operator of the transfer station shall, at the operator’s sole and
absolute discretion, have the right to refuse burn barrels or fireplace ashes
if in the operator’s judgment, based on the time of day as relating to the time
of closing of the transfer station, the disposal will create the potential of
fires. All masonry rubble and tree limbs (over one inch in diameter) shall be
deposited at a disposal site designated by the Director.
(Prior Code, § 50.24) (Ord. 97-21, passed 8-18-1997) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.20 VEHICLE REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Any vehicle used by a refuse hauler licensee to collect and transport
refuse shall be equipped with a cover of such a material sufficient to prevent
any refuse and waste materials from being blown away or jarred off such
vehicle.
   (B)   Any vehicle used by a garbage hauler licensee to collect and transport
garbage shall have a body designed specifically for the transportation of
garbage.
   (C)   All garbage and refuse vehicles used by licensees shall display a
commercially prepared sign showing the name of the licensee in letters not
smaller than four inches high.
   (D)   All garbage and refuse vehicles, including trailers and roll-offs used
for the purpose of hauling garbage, shall be kept in a painted condition and in
as clean and sanitary a condition as possible while in use.
   (E)   All vehicles, including trailers and roll-offs, shall have the letter
or letters of the vehicle in bold letters and figures on both sides, each
vehicle to be separately lettered. The letters as assigned by the city shall be
stenciled or painted in 12-inch contrast-color lettering. Lettering and figures
shall be done and provided by the collector. Letting and numbering shall be
sequential in matter. Temporary lettering by the collector and approved by such
as a masking tape is not permissible.
   (F)   All applicants and licensees shall annually provide the Public Works
Department with a list of all vehicles and corresponding numbers to be used in
collecting and transporting garbage and refuse within the city.
      (1)   For each vehicle, the list shall state:
         (a)   The vehicle’s make and model;
         (b)   The VIN;
         (c)   The year produced;
         (d)   The license plate number; and
         (e)   The gross vehicle weight (GVW).
      (2)   In addition to annually, the list shall be updated whenever any
vehicle is added or deleted from usage.
   (G)   (1)   All garbage collectors must dump garbage and refuse collected by
them within the city limits at the transfer station on the same day it is
collected. However, should garbage or refuse be collected by the garbage hauler
as otherwise permitted herein on days that the transfer station is closed, the
garbage and refuse shall be deposited at the transfer station on the first
business day immediately following the collection of the garbage and refuse.
Failure to do so may result in a ten-day suspension of the operator’s license
for the first violation, a 30-day suspension for the second violation, and a
third violation may result in a termination of the license.
      (2)   A person, party or entity terminated will not be eligible to
reapply for a new license for a period of 12 months. Any suspensions or
terminations as set forth above will be effective following a hearing by the
City Council to determine if the collector has violated any provisions of this
subchapter.
   (H)   No garbage collector shall operate inside the corporate limits of the
city between the hours of 4:00 p.m. through 5:00 a.m. In addition, no garbage
collector shall operate on Saturday between the hours of 1:00 p.m. to 12:00
a.m. (midnight), and no garbage truck shall operate on Sundays, Thanksgiving
Day and Christmas Day, except upon special approval of the Director for
necessary pickups. Garbage collectors shall make request to the Director a
least two weeks in advance of special garbage pick up dates for review and
approval.
(Prior Code, § 50.25) (Ord. 92-01, passed 1-6-1992; Ord. 05-22, passed 3-21-
2005) Penalty, see §
50.99
REGULATIONS
§ 50.35 BURNING OF GARBAGE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to burn garbage or refuse within the
limits of the city.
(Prior Code, § 50.40) (Ord. 88-11, passed 3-21-1988) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.36 DISPOSAL RECEPTACLES.
   (A)   Receptacles; residential. It shall be the duty of every owner or
occupant of any residential premises where meals are served or where garbage or
refuse is created or accumulated to provide and keep on the premises suitable
and sufficient watertight, rodent-proof and insect-proof metal or plastic
receptacles, equipped with a tight-fitting lid and handles or a bail for easy
handling. Such receptacles shall not exceed the industry standard for the
specific location/purpose. In multi-family residential areas, where the owner
or manager of the premises rents a portion thereof to two or more families or
occupants, the owner or manager shall provide a suitable receptacle for garbage
to be used by all tenants or occupants which shall be placed on the portion of
the premises as not to create a nuisance. For the purposes of collection,
refuse shall be placed in garbage cans for garbage or placed in containers
suitable to enable the refuse to be easily and quickly picked up by the
collector.
   (B)   Receptacles; nonresidential. It shall be the duty of every owner or
occupant of any nonresidential premises where meals are served or where garbage
or refuse is created or accumulated to provide on such premises suitable and
sufficient watertight, rodent-proof and insect-proof metal or plastic
receptacles, equipped with a tight-fitting lid and handles or a bail for easy
handling, provided, other receptacles may be used upon approval of the
Director. Except as provided above, garbage receptacles in nonresidential areas
shall not exceed the industry standard for the specific location/purpose.
Fifty-five gallon barrels or drums shall not be permitted as garbage
receptacles.
   (C)   Duty to keep clean. It shall be the duty of every person to keep his
or her garbage receptacles or waste cans reasonably clean and free from
offensive odors.
   (D)   Receptacles; storage. All receptacles and cans used for the collection
of garbage and refuse shall be kept on the rear of the lot or at a convenient
place upon the private premises to facilitate the collection thereof; provided,
that where residential premises do not abut alleys, all baskets, boxes, plastic
sacks, bundles or other containers shall be placed by the owner or occupant of
any such residential premises at the curb adjacent to the premises prior to the
time of collection to facilitate the collection thereof. In no event shall
receptacles, cans or storage racks be located or permitted in city alleys,
easements or other city right-of-way.
   (E)   Receptacles; repair or replacement. If garbage cans or receptacles are
in a state of disrepair, or do not meet the requirements of this subchapter, it
shall be the duty of the owner to make such repair or replacement as may be
necessary.
(Prior Code, § 50.41) (Ord. 05-22, passed 3-21-2005) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.37 MANURE AND DEAD ANIMALS.
   It is hereby made the duty of all property owners and tenants occupying
premises upon which manure of any kind accumulates to provide cans, boxes, bins
or other suitable receptacles, and the receptacles shall be emptied promptly
and completely at all times as may be necessary to prevent the same from
becoming injurious and dangerous to the health, comfort or welfare of
individuals or the public. Dead animals are not permitted to be buried within
the city limits, except in grounds expressly provided by the city.
(Prior Code, § 50.42) (Ord. 88-11, passed 3-21-1988) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.38 REMOVAL OF DEAD ANIMALS; ROUTE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to haul or transport, or cause to be
hauled or transported, any dead animals which have died or been killed outside
of and beyond the city limits, except those streets and avenues designated as
state or federal highways.
(Prior Code, § 50.43) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.39 REMOVAL OF GARBAGE/REFUSE REQUIRED.
   (A)   (1)   It shall be the duty of every owner, tenant and occupant of any
dwelling, trailer house or building or business of any kind to provide storage
of garbage which shall be watertight and shall have a tightly fitting cover or
lid. The covers or lids shall remain on the containers at all times except when
the container is being filled or emptied. Garbage and refuse may be placed in
the same container.
      (2)   The number of containers required for each unit shall be
established by the amount of garbage and refuse normally produced during a
collection period. The containers shall be kept or placed, if inside, on the
ground floor, accessible to the collectors and if outside, at the rear of the
lot or accessible to collectors. The containers must be so arranged that they
cannot be turned over. In case of dispute as to the place where the containers
are to be kept, then the Director determines the place or someone designated by
the Director for the duty.
   (B)   It is hereby made the duty of every occupant of any dwelling house,
shop, storeroom, office or other building or premises to remove or cause to be
removed by the proper collector all garbage, refuse or other and similar
material placed, collected and deposited by them and to pay, or cause to be
paid, to the collector for the legal fees for removal as prescribed by this
chapter. It is hereby declared to be unlawful for any person to throw or
deposit or cause, permit, authorize or allow to be thrown or to remain upon
that person’s premises, either owned, rented or occupied, any such garbage or
refuse as to cause or create a nuisance or any offense.
(Prior Code, § 50.44) (Ord. 88-11, passed 3-21-1988; Ord. 94-23, passed 4-18-
1994) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.40 PARKING OF VEHICLE IN RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to keep, maintain or park any truck or
other vehicle used for hauling garbage, livestock or refuse on or adjacent to
property classified by the provisions of this code for residential purposes,
except for such period of time as is necessary for the expeditious collection
of such garbage, livestock or refuse from the property; and further except for
garbage haulers licensed under the provisions of this code who park their truck
or other vehicle used for hauling of garbage or refuse in residential areas
within the city, or within two miles thereof, in a fully enclosed building.
(Prior Code, § 50.45) (Ord. 88-11, passed 3-21-1988) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.41 CONCRETE DISPOSAL.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to deposit, dump or flush out of a vehicle excess
concrete not used in construction onto city alleyways, streets, public parking
lots or any other public property not designated to receive the material.
   (B)   Should the responsible party neglect or fail to remove the concrete
and the city must remove same, including cleanup and remediation, a statement
of the cost of the work shall be billed to the responsible party.
(Prior Code, § 50.46) (Ord. 93-49, passed 10-18-1993) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.42 DUMPING ONTO CITY STREETS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to deposit, dump or place dirt, rock, yard waste
or any other material that may hamper proper drainage, access to public
utilities or to private property on city streets.
   (B)   Should the responsible party neglect or fail to remove the dirt, rock,
yard waste or other materials and the city must remove same, including any
cleanup and remediation, a statement of the cost of the work shall be billed to
the responsible party.
(Prior Code, § 50.47) (Ord. 93-49, passed 10-18-1993) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.43 SEPARATION OF YARD WASTE REQUIRED.
   Yard waste must be kept separated from garbage, refuse or rubbish. Yard
wastes may be composted on the owner’s/tenant’s premises, placed out separately
for collection, left as mulch on lawns or taken to the transfer station or
designated yard waste collection sites. Kitchen scraps (except those
specifically excluded in this section) may be composted with yard waste if
completely covered with leaves, grass clippings or a layer of soil. Meat,
poultry, fish, bones and quantities of animal fats shall not be disposed of in
a compost pile.
(Prior Code, § 50.48) (Ord. 94-23, passed 4-18-1994) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.44 PRIVATE COMPOSTING.
   Private compost piles shall not be allowed to become anaerobic. It shall not
be allowed to produce obnoxious odors and/or liquids frequently detectable on
adjoining properties. Neither shall they be kept in a way that attracts vectors
or poses a danger to the public health.
(Prior Code, § 50.49) (Ord. 94-23, passed 4-18-1994) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.45 YARD WASTE BAN.
   (A)   All yard waste, as defined in §
50.01 of this code, shall be banned from landfill disposal.
   (B)   Yard waste shall be deposited at or disposed of at the designated
location at the transfer station.
(Prior Code, § 50.50) (Ord. 94-23, passed 4-18-1994; Ord. 94-58, passed 9-19-
1994) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person hauling or transporting, or causing to be hauled or
transported, dead animals which have died or been killed outside of and beyond
the city limits, except those to be used for consumption by humans or pets, on
any street, except streets which are occupied and designated as state or
federal highways, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.
(Prior Code, § 50.43)
CHAPTER 51: SEWER
Section
General Provisions
   
51.001   Agreement for service
   
51.002   Definitions
   
51.003   Supervision of sewers and drains
   
51.004   Wastewater treatment facility
   
51.005   Authority to enter private property
   
51.006   Violation notices
   
51.007   Commercial/industrial establishment exemption procedure
   
51.008   Damage to wastewater treatment works
   
51.009   Violations
Construction of Sewers
   
51.020   Sewers to meet city standards
   
51.021   Plans signed by engineer
   
51.022   Cost to review plans
   
51.023   Plans submitted to state
   
51.024   Construction permit
   
51.025   Workmanship and materials
   
51.026   Sewer inspection and approval
   
51.027   Certificate of inspection
   
51.028   Conforming plans
Lateral Sewers
   
51.040   Owner responsibilities
   
51.041   Lateral sewer to serve each building
   
51.042   Prohibited connections
   
51.043   Connection regulations; conformance with codes
   
51.044   Construction regulations
   
51.045   On-site requirements
   
51.046   Abandonment of sewer laterals
Connecting to Existing Public Sewers
   
51.060   Connections by licensed plumbers
   
51.061   Permit required
   
51.062   Classes of building sewer permits
   
51.063   Connection outside city limits; special connection charge
   
51.064   Liability of owner
   
51.065   Sewer for each building
   
51.066   Use of old building sewers
   
51.067   Construction requirements
   
51.068   Building sewer elevation
   
51.069   Applications for permits
   
51.070   Connections, when required
   
51.071   Connections when property not assessed
   
51.072   Excavations in streets
   
51.073   Sewer trenches
   
51.074   Exposure of sewer pipe to frost
   
51.075   Materials and construction procedures
   
51.076   Disconnection of laterals and drains
   
51.077   Revocation of plumber’s license
   
51.078   Violations of this subchapter
Private Wastewater and Septic Tank Waste Disposal
   
51.090   Compliance with Nebraska Department of Environment and Energy
   
51.091   Outside water closets
   
51.092   Privies prohibited in dwellings
   
51.093   Private disposal system, permitted
   
51.094   Unlawful connection to public sewers
   
51.095   Deposit of sewage
   
51.096   Disposal of septic tank waste
   
51.097   Discharge fee
   
51.098   Additional regulations
Prohibited Discharges
   
51.110   Stormwater and unpolluted drainage
   
51.111   Sanitary and other polluted waters
   
51.112   Other prohibited discharges
   
51.113   Substances which may be prohibited from public sewers
   
51.114   Dilution
   
51.115   Deleterious discharges
   
51.116   Wastes from garbage shredders
   
51.117   Grease, oil and sand traps
   
51.118   Unlawful use of manholes
Industrial Wastes and Discharge Permits
   
51.130   Major contributing industries
   
51.131   Industrial wastes; requirements
   
51.132   Pretreatment requirements
   
51.133   Discharge permit; application
   
51.134   Discharge permit; requirements
   
51.135   Discharge permit; term
   
51.136   Discharge permit; not transferable
   
51.137   Discharge permit; revocation
   
51.138   Monitoring facilities
   
51.139   Access to owner’s property
   
51.140   Reliability of monitoring facilities
   
51.141   Sampling methods
   
51.142   Special contracts or agreements
   
51.143   Indemnity
   
51.144   Charges to major industries
Industrial Waste Surcharge
   
51.155   When surcharge is applicable
   
51.156   Pollutants subject to surcharge
   
51.157   Amount of surcharge
   
51.158   Review of surcharge rates
   
51.159   Monitoring facilities
   
51.160   Surcharge for class groups
   
51.161   Contract for reserved capacity
Sewer Rates and Charges
   
51.175   Purpose of subchapter
   
51.176   “Customer” defined
   
51.177   Customer; classification
   
51.178   Rates; determination
   
51.179   Rates; billing; due date
   
51.180   Rates; lien
   
51.181   Special rates
   
51.182   User charge system review
Storm Sewer Rates and Charges
   
51.195   Creation of stormwater utility
   
51.196   Program responsibility
   
51.197   Operating budget
   
51.198   Surcharge fee schedule established
   
51.199   Bills
   
51.200   Delinquent accounts; lien against property
Administration and Enforcement
   
51.215   Power of employees to enter premises; liability
   
51.216   Inspector’s power to enter private properties
Grease (Fats, Oil and Grease) Management Program
   
51.230   Definitions
   
51.231   Grease discharge permit required; application; term
   
51.232   Conditions of the grease discharge permit
   
51.233   Maintenance of grease interceptors and devices; best management
practices; inspection
   
51.234   Denial, suspension or revocation of permit
   
51.235   Emergency suspension
 
   
51.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 51.001 AGREEMENT FOR SERVICE.
   (A)   The rules, regulations, rates, charges and other provisions of this
chapter pertaining to sanitary sewer service in the city and within the city
zoning jurisdiction shall be considered a part of the contract between the city
and every person supplied with sanitary sewer service through the sanitary
sewer system of the city.
   (B)   All rates, charges or fees pertaining to sanitary sewer service within
the city and the city’s zoning jurisdiction shall be set by resolution as
adopted by the City Council in a manner prescribed by law.
(Prior Code, § 51.001) (Ord. 2354, passed 5-1-1974; Ord. 03-39, passed 11-17-
2003)
§ 51.002 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACT. The Clean Water Act of 1977, Pub. Law No. 95-217, being 33 U.S.C. §§
1251 et seq., and any amendments thereto, as well as any guidelines,
limitations and standards promulgated by EPA, pursuant to the ACT.
   AMMONIA. The chemical combination of hydrogen and nitrogen occurring in
nature expressed as NH3, NH2 or any of its derivatives as contained in the
wastewater flow.
   BIODEGRADABLE OILS AND GREASE. The fats, oils and greases of animal or
vegetable origin contained in the wastewater flow.
   BOD5 or BIOCHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND. The rate at which organisms use the
oxygen in water or wastewater while stabilizing decomposable organic matter
under aerobic conditions. BOD5 measurements are determined under standard
laboratory procedure in five days at 20°C, expressed in milligrams per liter by
weight.
   BUILDING SEWER. The part of the lowest horizontal piping of a drainage
system, which receives the discharge from soil, waste and other drainage pipes
inside the walls of a building and conveys it to the lateral sewer. The
BUILDING SEWER shall extend five feet outside the building wall.
   CITY. The City of Columbus, Nebraska.
   COD or CHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND. A measure of the capacity of water to consume
oxygen during the decomposition of organic matter and the oxidation of organic
and inorganic chemicals such as ammonia and nitrate.
   COMBINED SEWER. A sewer receiving both surface runoff and sewage.
   COMMERCIAL USER.
      (1)   Any non-governmental, nonresidential user of the city’s treatment
works which discharges more than the equivalent of 1,000 gallons per day of
sanitary waste, and/or which is identified in the Standard Industrial
Classification Manual under divisions C, G, H or I; or
      (2)   Any non-governmental user of the city’s treatment works which
discharges wastewater to the treatment works which contains toxic pollutants or
poisonous solids, liquids or gases in sufficient quantity either singly or by
interaction with other wastes, to injure or interfere with any sewage treatment
process, constitute a hazard to humans or animals, create a public nuisance or
create any hazard in or have an adverse effect on the waters receiving any
discharge from the treatment works.
   COMPATIBLE WASTES. The wastes containing pollutants for which the wastewater
treatment facility was basically designed to treat and which are identified in
the NPDES permit that is applicable to this treatment facility.
   COMPOSITE. The makeup of a number of individual samples, so taken as to
represent the nature of wastewater or industrial wastes.
   CONSTITUENTS. The combination of particles, chemicals or conditions, which
exist in industrial wastes.
   COOLING WATER. The cleaned wastewaters discharged from any system of heat
transfer such as condensation, air conditioning, cooling or refrigeration.
   CUSTOMER. Shall be defined as residential, commercial or industrial users of
the sanitary sewer system. RESIDENTIAL CUSTOMERS shall be defined as persons or
parties whose premises are used as single-family units and duplexes. All other
CUSTOMERS shall be commercial or industrial customers.
   DEPARTMENT OF ENVIRONMENT AND ENERGY. The Nebraska Department of Environment
and Energy.
   DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC WORKS. The city’s Department of Public Works. Generally
charged with the operations and maintenance of the public utilities and
streets.
   DIRECTOR. The Director of the Public Works Department who supervises the
operations of the Department.
   EPA. The United States Environmental Protection Agency.
   GARBAGE. The solid wastes from domestic and commercial preparation, cooking
and dispensing of food and from the handling, storage and sale of produce.
   HYDROGEN SULFIDE. The chemical combination of hydrogen and sulfide occurring
in nature expressed as H2S, H2S or S2 as contained in the wastewater flow.
   ICR. Industrial cost recovery.
   INDUSTRIAL FACILITY. Any facility which discharges industrial wastes as
defined in this chapter.
   INDUSTRIAL USER. Any non-governmental, nonresidential user of the city’s
treatment works which discharges more than the equivalent of 25,000 gallons per
day of sanitary waste, or a volume of process waste, or combined process and
sanitary waste, equivalent to 25,000 gallons per day of sanitary waste and/or
which is identified in the Standard Industrial Classification Manual A, B, D, E
or I; or any non-governmental user of the city’s treatment works which
discharges wastewater to the treatment works which contains toxic pollutants or
poisonous solids, liquids or gases in sufficient quantity either singly or by
interaction with other wastes, to injure or interfere with any sewage treatment
process, constitute a hazard to humans or animals, create a public nuisance or
create any hazard in or have an adverse effect on the waters receiving any
discharge from the treatment works.
   INDUSTRIAL WASTES. The liquid wastes resulting from the processes employed
in industrial, manufacturing and trade or business establishments, as distinct
from domestic wastes.
   LATERAL SEWER. The sanitary sewer that extends from the building sewer to
the public sanitary sewer collection system.
   MAJOR CONTRIBUTING INDUSTRY. An industrial user that:
      (1)   Has a flow of 50,000 gallons or more per average workday;
      (2)   Has a waste strength greater than 5% of the plant design capacity;
      (3)   Has in its waste a toxic pollutant in toxic amounts; or
      (4)   Is found to have significant impact, either singly or in
combination with other contributing industries, on the wastewater treatment
facility or upon the quality of the plant effluent.
   mg/l. Milligrams per liter.
   NATURAL OUTLET. Any outlet extending into a watercourse, pond, ditch, lake
or other body of surface or groundwater.
   NORMAL STRENGTH WASTEWATER.
      (1)   Wastewater with pollutant strength values not exceeding the
following:
         (a)   Ammonia: 30 mg/l;
         (b)   Biochemical oxygen demand: 250 mg/l;
         (c)   Hydrogen sulfide: 0 mg/l;
         (d)   Suspended solids: 250 mg/l;
         (e)   Biodegradable oils and grease: 100 mg/l; and
         (f)   pH:
            1.   Minimum: 6.5 s.u.; and
            2.   Maximum: 9.0 s.u.
      (2)   Where the nature of the wastewater does not permit BOD5
determination, COD shall be substituted according to the relation BOD5 equals
(K) (COD), where “K” is a constant to be determined by the Department.
   NPDES PERMIT. The national pollutant discharge elimination system permit as
established by the Act. All municipalities, industries and commercial
enterprises that discharge to surface watercourses are required to have NPDES
PERMITS approved by EPA and in Nebraska by the Department of Environment and
Energy.
   OTHER WASTE. Any water or wastes containing dissolved gasses (such as
hydrogen sulfide, sulphur dioxide, nitrogen oxides and ammonia) in
concentrations sufficient to cause poisonous or toxic fumes or wastewater, or a
malodorous or harmful condition.
   PERSON or OWNER. Any individual, firm, company, association, developer,
corporation or group.
   pH. The logarithm of the reciprocal of the weight of hydrogen ions in grams
per liter of solution.
   POLLUTION. The placing of any noxious or deleterious substance in any waters
of the city in quantities, which are or may be potentially harmful or injurious
to human health or welfare, animal or aquatic life or property, or unreasonably
interfere with the enjoyment of life or property, including outdoor recreation.
   PRETREATMENT. The application of physical, chemical and biological processes
to reduce the amount of pollutants in or alter the nature of the pollutant
properties in a wastewater prior to discharge into a sanitary sewer.
   PROPERLY SHREDDED GARBAGE. The waste from the preparation, cooking and
dispensing of food that have been shredded to such a degree that all particles
will be carried freely under the flow conditions normally prevailing in public
sewers, with no particle greater than one-half inch (one and twenty-seven
hundredths centimeters) in any dimension.
   PUBLIC SEWER. The sanitary and/or storm sewers owned by the people of the
city and operated and maintained by the Department of Public Works.
   RESIDENTIAL STRENGTH WASTEWATER. Wastewater with pollutant strength values
which average 250 mg/l of BOD5 and 250 mg/l of SS.
   SANITARY SEWER. A sewer which carries sanitary wastewater and industrial
wastes and to which storm, surface and groundwater are not intentionally
admitted.
   SANITARY SEWERAGE SYSTEM. All facilities for collecting, pumping and
transporting wastewater to the wastewater treatment facility.
   SANITARY WASTES OR WASTEWATER. The water-carried wastes discharged from
building sewers by reason of human occupancy.
   STANDARD METHODS. Those procedures or methods established by the latest
edition of the Standard Methods for the Examination of Water and Wastewater, as
prepared, approved and published jointly by the American Public Health
Association and the American Water Works Association.
   STORM DRAIN or STORM SEWER. A sewer which carries stormwaters, surface
runoff, street wash waters and drainage, but which excludes sanitary wastewater
and industrial wastes, other than unpolluted cooling water.
   SUSPENDED SOLIDS or SS. Solids that either float on the surface of, or are
in suspension in, water, wastewater or other liquids, and which are removable
by laboratory filtering, expressed in milligrams per liter (mg/l).
   TOXIC. Constituents of wastes, which adversely affect the organisms involved
in wastewater treatment.
   UNPOLLUTED WATER OR DRAINAGE. Water to which no pollutants have been added,
either intentionally or accidentally.
   WASTEWATER. The liquid and water-carried domestic or industrial wastes from
dwellings, commercial buildings, industrial facilities and institutions,
together with any groundwater, surface water and stormwater that may be
present, whether treated or untreated, which is discharged into or permitted to
enter the city’s wastewater treatment works.
   WASTEWATER TREATMENT FACILITY. The wastewater treatment facility owned and
operated by the city for the benefit of all persons located within the city’s
limits and two-mile jurisdiction.
   WASTEWATER TREATMENT WORKS. The sanitary sewers, pumping and other equipment
and their appurtenances, and other facilities, which are an integral part of
the wastewater collection system, treatment processes and biosolids process
system.
   WATERCOURSE. A channel in which a flow of water occurs, either continuously
or intermittently.
(Prior Code, § 51.002) (Ord. 3059, passed 10-7-1985; Ord. 98-18, passed 6-1-
1998; Ord. 03-39, passed 11-17-2003)
§ 51.003 SUPERVISION OF SEWERS AND DRAINS.
   The Director of Public Works shall control and supervise the operation,
repair and maintenance of all sewers and drainage systems in the planning area,
whether the sewers are publicly or privately owned.
(Prior Code, § 51.003)
§ 51.004 WASTEWATER TREATMENT FACILITY.
   (A)   The city may continue operating the existing wastewater treatment
facility and may enlarge or expand the facility from time to time.
   (B)   The city may also construct other similar facilities and employ other
methods of treating wastewater sufficiently to comply with all applicable
federal and state regulations.
(Prior Code, § 51.004)
§ 51.005 AUTHORITY TO ENTER PRIVATE PROPERTY.
   The Director of Public Works and other duly authorized employees of the
Department of Public Works bearing proper credentials and identification shall
be permitted to enter all private properties to which a proper easement is on
record for the purpose of surveying, inspection, maintenance, operation, repair
and reconstruction of any portion of the sanitary and storm sewer systems under
the management of the Department subject to the terms of the easement.
(Prior Code, § 51.005)
§ 51.006 VIOLATION NOTICES.
   The Department of Public Works shall have authority to serve persons
discharging in violation of this chapter with written notice stating the nature
of the violation and providing a reasonable time limit for satisfactory
compliance. No person may continue discharging in violation of this chapter
beyond the time limit provided in the notice.
(Prior Code, § 51.006) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.007 COMMERCIAL/INDUSTRIAL ESTABLISHMENT EXEMPTION PROCEDURE.
   (A)   (1)   Any commercial and industrial establishment may apply for an
exemption to be treated as a residential user of the sewage and wastewater
treatment facility for purposes of providing a consumptive history.
      (2)   Any commercial or industrial entity may file an application to be
treated as a residential user for purposes of determining consumptive history
of the sewage system and use by the commercial or industrial entity by filing
an application in a form prepared by the Department of Public Works on or
before the first of November of each year for water usage relating to the
following summer.
   (B)   The application form shall certify that the peak water usage during
the summer months is due to the application of water to the lawn which would
not be discharged into the sanitary sewer, that the business does not have
water-cooled air conditioning that is discharged into the sanitary sewer system
and for such other information and certifications as deemed appropriate by the
Director of Public Works’ office. Upon the filing of the application, the
Director’s office shall review the same, together with the City Administrator
and shall approve or deny the application.
(Prior Code, § 51.007) (Ord. 96-07, passed 3-4-1996; Ord. 03-39, passed 11-17-
2003)
§ 51.008 DAMAGE TO WASTEWATER TREATMENT WORKS.
   No person shall maliciously, willfully or negligently break, damage,
destroy, uncover, deface or tamper with any structure, appurtenance or
equipment which is a part of the wastewater treatment works.
(Prior Code, § 51.008) (Ord. 03-39, passed 11-17-2003) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.009 VIOLATIONS.
   Any person found to be violating any provision of this chapter, except §
51.001 of this code, shall be served by the city with written notice stating
the nature of the violation and providing a reasonable time limit for the
satisfactory correction thereof. The offender shall, within the period of time
stated in the notice, permanently cease all violations.
(Prior Code, § 51.998) (Ord. 03-39, passed 11-17-2003) Penalty, see §
51.999
CONSTRUCTION OF SEWERS
§ 51.020 SEWERS TO MEET CITY STANDARDS.
   The design and construction of all sanitary or storm sewers connected,
either directly or indirectly, to the existing sanitary or storm sewer system
shall meet all standards and specifications established by the City Engineer.
(Prior Code, § 51.020) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.021 PLANS SIGNED BY ENGINEER.
   All sewer construction plans shall bear the signature and seal of the
registered professional engineer, licensed to practice in the State of
Nebraska, who has prepared them.
(Prior Code, § 51.021)
§ 51.022 COST TO REVIEW PLANS.
   The city may charge a few as set by resolution to review plans submitted by
persons proposing to construct sewer, water, storm sewer, paving and any other
related site development.
(Prior Code, § 51.022)
§ 51.023 PLANS SUBMITTED TO STATE.
   The property owner, owner’s agent or contractor will submit plans requiring
the approval of the Nebraska Department of Environment and Energy to them prior
to the review and approval.
(Prior Code, § 51.023)
§ 51.024 CONSTRUCTION PERMIT.
   The property owner, owner’s agent or contractor shall obtain a construction
permit from the Nebraska Department of Environment and Energy after the
engineering reports, plans and specifications have been approved by the City
Engineer, and before any sewer construction work has started.
(Prior Code, § 51.024) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.025 WORKMANSHIP AND MATERIALS.
   (A)   All workmanship and materials shall comply with the requirements of
the approved plans and specifications. If at any time within one year after the
date of the final inspection any defect should appear that is determined by the
City Engineer due to inferior materials or workmanship, the contractor shall do
whatever is necessary to remedy the defects at no cost to the city.
   (B)   The City Engineer will notify the contractor in writing of the defects
and repairs to be made. If the contractor fails to begin repairs within ten
days, the City Engineer may cause the defects to be remedied and charge the
cost and expense involved to the contractor or contractor’s surety. The
contractor’s surety shall not be relieved until the defects or repairs are
corrected and approved and the City Engineer furnishes the surety a written
release.
(Prior Code, § 51.025) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.026 SEWER INSPECTION AND APPROVAL.
   The City Engineer shall approve or reject the laying of all sewers and
drains. The City Engineer shall have the right to enter property containing
sewers or drains at all reasonable hours for inspection and investigation
purposes.
(Prior Code, § 51.026)
§ 51.027 CERTIFICATE OF INSPECTION.
   No architect, engineer, owner, agent or contractor shall accept any sewer
laid or drain laid of any description prior to the issuance of a certificate of
inspection.
(Prior Code, § 51.027) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.028 CONFORMING PLANS.
   Plans that conform to construction records must be provided to the City
Engineer and Nebraska Department of Environment and Energy in hard copy format
and on disk in an acceptable computer-aided drafting format before sewers can
be connected to the city’s sanitary sewer system. Data shown on the plans shall
be as specified by the Department.
(Prior Code, § 51.028)
LATERAL SEWERS
§ 51.040 OWNER RESPONSIBILITIES.
   (A)   Property owners and/or customers shall be required to install and
maintain, at their cost, all sewer laterals from the sewer main to the
customer’s home.
   (B)   Any cost that the city may incur in repairing the sewer lateral,
including, but not limited to replacement of street surfacing, replacement of
sod, cost of labor and materials and all other costs reasonably incurred in the
repairing of the sewer lateral, shall be promptly remitted to the city by the
property owner and/or customer.
   (C)   The property owner shall indemnify the city from any loss or damages
that may directly or indirectly result from installing lateral sewers.
(Prior Code, § 51.040) (Ord. 2270, passed 6-17-1972; Ord. 03-39, passed 11-17-
2003) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.041 LATERAL SEWER TO SERVE EACH BUILDING.
   One sewer tap shall be provided for every tract or parcel of land, except,
upon written request to the Director of Public Works, City Engineer or Chief
Building and Code Inspector or the administrative authority for an exception.
(Prior Code, § 51.041) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.042 PROHIBITED CONNECTIONS.
   No person shall connect interior or exterior roof downspouts, interior or
exterior foundation drains, areaway drains or other sources of surface runoff
or groundwater to a lateral sewer or a building drain, which in turn is
connected directly or indirectly to a public sanitary sewer. Any cross-
connection between a potable water supply and a sanitary sewer shall be
prohibited.
(Prior Code, § 51.042) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.043 CONNECTION REGULATIONS; CONFORMANCE WITH CODES.
   The connection of any lateral sewer into the public sanitary sewer system
shall conform to the requirements of the Building and Plumbing Codes or other
applicable rules and regulations of the city. The City Engineer must approve
any deviation from the prescribed procedures and materials prior to
installation.
(Prior Code, § 51.043) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.044 CONSTRUCTION REGULATIONS.
   The type and size of materials, slope and alignment of a lateral sewer, and
the methods used in excavating, placing of pipe, jointing, testing and
backfilling the trench, shall all conform to the requirements of the Building
and Plumbing Codes or other applicable rules and regulations of the city.
(Prior Code, § 51.044) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.045 ON-SITE REQUIREMENTS.
   All excavations for lateral sewer installation shall be adequately guarded
with barricades and lights in accordance with the current Manual of Uniform
Traffic Control Services to protect the public from hazard. Streets, sidewalks,
trails, parkways and other public property disturbed in the course of the work
shall be restored in a manner satisfactory to the City Engineer.
(Prior Code, § 51.045) (Ord. 2270, passed 6-17-1972; Ord. 03-39, passed 11-17-
2003) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.046 ABANDONMENT OF SEWER LATERALS.
   All abandoned sewer laterals must be terminated and capped at the tap on the
main sewer line.
(Prior Code, § 51.046) (Ord. 05-12, passed 3-7-2005) Penalty, see §
51.999
CONNECTING TO EXISTING PUBLIC SEWERS
§ 51.060 CONNECTIONS BY LICENSED PLUMBERS.
   No persons shall make any opening in, addition to, alterations of,
connections with, or tap any public sewer or associated appurtenances unless
they are a State of Nebraska and city permitted licensed plumber and have
complied with all the conditions and requirements of the city.
(Prior Code, § 51.060) (Ord. 2354, passed 5-1-1974; Ord. 03-39, passed 11-17-
2003) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.061 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   Before connecting with, tapping, modifying, altering or repairing any public
sewer in the city, a plumber shall first obtain a written permit from the Chief
Building and Code Inspector. The permit shall be posted upon the premises at
all times during the progress of the work.
(Prior Code, § 51.061) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.062 CLASSES OF BUILDING SEWER PERMITS.
   (A)   There shall be two classes of building sewer permits. For residential
and commercial cases, the owner or owner’s agent shall make application to the
city. The permit application shall be supplemented by any plans, specifications
or other information considered pertinent in the judgment of the City Engineer,
Director of Public Works or Chief Building and Code Inspector. A permit fee as
set by resolution for each connection with the sanitary sewer system shall be
charged to the applicant and in addition, if the connection is made to a
sanitary sewer main or mains on which the property had not paid a previous
sanitary sewer assessment, the applicant shall pay a special connection charge
as set by resolution, except in cases the front footage of the lot exceeds 66
feet, the applicant shall pay an amount as set by resolution per front foot of
the lot described in the application.
   (B)   The aforesaid fees and charges shall be in addition to other fees and
charges provided for in this chapter. Said special connection charges shall be
paid only once with respect to the property. For purposes of this section,
FRONT FOOTAGE OF THE LOT is determined as the portion of the lot facing the
sewer main to which the person wishes to connect. Such connection charge shall
be paid to the city at the time the application is filed.
(Prior Code, § 51.062) (Ord. 94-50, passed 9-6-1994; Ord. 03-39, passed 11-17-
2003)
§ 51.063 CONNECTION OUTSIDE CITY LIMITS; SPECIAL CONNECTION CHARGE.
   (A)   A special connection charge as set by resolution shall be paid to the
city prior to making a connection to the public sanitary sewer system of the
city outside the corporate limits of the city. This special connection fee
shall be in addition to any other fees and charges provided for in this chapter
and shall be applicable to each connection to the sanitary sewer system of the
city outside the corporate limits of the city.
(Prior Code, § 51.063)
   (B)   Applicants for sewer connection shall be charged for expenses for all
service pipe and trenching to which the applicant’s connection is to be made.
   (C)   (1)   If the connection is to be made to any sanitary sewer which have
been laid and constructed in a sewer district of the city wherein special
assessments have been levied upon the property in the district to pay all or
any part of the cost of construction thereof, and the property to which the
connection is made has not been assessed in the district, or if the connection
is to be made to any sanitary sewer hereafter constructed by the city without
the levying of any special assessments for the construction thereof, the person
desiring to connect shall pay the city a special connection charge as set by
resolution.
      (2)   The fees and charges shall be in addition to other fees and charges
provided for in this chapter. The special connection charge shall be paid only
once with respect to the property.
      (3)   For the purposes of this section, FRONT FOOTAGE OF THE LOT is
determined as that portion of the lot facing the sanitary sewer to which the
person wishes to connect. The connection charge shall be paid to the city at
the time the application is filed.
(Ord. 2696, passed 3-3-1980; Ord. 03-39, passed 11-17-2003)
§ 51.064 LIABILITY OF OWNER.
   All costs and expenses incident to the installation and connection of the
building sewer shall be the responsibility of by the owner. The owner shall
indemnify the city from any loss or damage that may directly or indirectly be
occasioned by the installation of the building sewer.
(Prior Code, § 51.064) (Ord. 2270, passed 6-17-1972; Ord. 03-39, passed 11-17-
2003)
§ 51.065 SEWER FOR EACH BUILDING.
   A separate and independent building sewer shall be provided for each
building.
(Prior Code, § 51.065) (Ord. 2270, passed 6-17-1972; Ord. 03-39, passed 11-17-
2003) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.066 USE OF OLD BUILDING SEWERS.
   Old building sewers may be used in connection with new buildings only when
they are found, on examination and test by the Developer or Contractor and
approved for use by the Department of Public Works.
(Prior Code, § 51.066) (Ord. 2270, passed 6-17-1972; Ord. 03-39, passed 11-17-
2003) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.067 CONSTRUCTION REQUIREMENTS.
   The type and size of materials, slope and alignment of a lateral sewer,
materials of construction of a building sewer and the methods to be used in
excavating, placing of pipe, jointing, testing and backfilling the trench shall
all conform to the requirements of the Building and Plumbing Codes or other
applicable rules and regulations of the city.
(Prior Code, § 51.067) (Ord. 2270, passed 6-17-1972; Ord. 03-39, passed 11-17-
2003) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.068 BUILDING SEWER ELEVATION.
   Whenever possible, the building sewer shall be brought to the building at an
elevation below the basement floor. In all buildings in which any building
drain is too low to permit gravity flow to the public sewer, sanitary sewage
carried by such building drain shall be lifted by an approved means and
discharged to the building sewer.
(Prior Code, § 51.068) (Ord. 2270, passed 6-17-1972; Ord. 03-39, passed 11-17-
2003) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.069 APPLICATIONS FOR PERMITS.
   Applications for permits to connect, tap, construct, modify or make
attachments to public sewers shall be made to the Director of Public Works,
City Engineer or Chief Building Code Inspector upon forms provided by the city.
A fee in accordance with the city fee schedule as set by resolution to cover
the cost of inspection, recording and other expenses shall accompany such
applications. The application shall show the exact location of the proposed
work, and when requested by the Director, the plumber shall provide plans or
specifications of the proposed work. When required, an application shall be on
file with the Director 24 hours before the issuance of a permit. If work is
commenced prior to application for the permit, an investigation fee in addition
to the permit fee in the same amount as the permit fee shall be assessed. Each
permit shall expire six months from date of issuance.
(Prior Code, § 51.069)
§ 51.070 CONNECTIONS, WHEN REQUIRED.
   The owners of all houses, buildings or properties used for human occupancy,
employment, recreation or other purposes within the city and whose property
line is within 300 feet of the public sanitary sewer system are hereby
required, at the owner’s expense, to install suitable toilet facilities and to
connect the facilities directly with the proper public sewer within one year
from the date the public sanitary sewer system is constructed and any septic
tanks, cesspools and similar private sewage disposal facilities shall be
abandoned and filled with suitable material. Should a health hazard exist, as
determined by the Board of Health, after a public sanitary sewer system is
constructed within 100 feet of the property line, the property owner will be
required to connect suitable toilet facilities directly with the proper public
sewer system.
(Prior Code, § 51.070) (Ord. 2354, passed 5-1-1974; Ord. 2818, passed 11-2-
1981; Ord. 2776, passed 5-3-1982; Ord. 03-39, passed 11-17-2003) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.071 CONNECTIONS WHEN PROPERTY NOT ASSESSED.
   No person shall connect with or tap any sanitary sewer in the city when the
property to be served has not been assessed for lateral services. In this
event, no plumber or other person shall make any connection with or tap any
sewer, nor shall the city grant a connection permit until the owner of the
property to be served, or the person desiring such connection first makes
application for permission to tap or connect with the public sewers and
complies with the conditions and requirements of the city which may include the
payment of an equitable amount for lateral service. The city reserves the right
to refuse to grant a permit to any person who applies for a permit to connect
with the public sewers, where the property to be served has not been assessed
for lateral service, or, if assessed, has not made such payment.
(Prior Code, § 51.071) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.072 EXCAVATIONS IN STREETS.
   (A)   Excavations in streets and alleys for the purpose of constructing,
repairing, altering or tapping sewers shall be made in a manner that will
impede travel as little as possible. The City Engineer or Public Works Director
may determine and limit the time such excavations remain open. Traffic control
features, including warning lights, shall be maintained at all unfinished work
from dark to daylight in accordance with the current Manual of Uniform Traffic
Control Devices.
   (B)   After work has been completed, the streets or alleys shall be repaired
to the satisfaction of the city. Within one year of the excavation, the City
Engineer or Director of Public Works may require the excavation to be refilled
if settling has occurred.
(Prior Code, § 51.072) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.073 SEWER TRENCHES.
   Sewer trenches more than six feet deep and all other trenches, when required
by the Director of Public Works, shall be properly braced in accordance with
the Occupational Safety and Health Act and the State of Nebraska Department of
Labor.
(Prior Code, § 51.073) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.074 EXPOSURE OF SEWER PIPE TO FROST.
   No person shall dig up or uncover any public sewer so as to expose it to
frost, except under the direction of the Director of Public Works.
(Prior Code, § 51.074) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.075 MATERIALS AND CONSTRUCTION PROCEDURES.
   All connections with the public sewers must be made with the kind and size
of materials approved by the city. When a connection is made to a public sewer,
a sanitary sewer wye shall be used and the connection shall be made under the
supervision of the Director. A maximum of only one connection may be made on
each length of public sewer pipe. Additional connections may be made or
alternate fittings may be used only after the Director grants written
authorization. Said authorization shall be noted on the permit required
pursuant to §
51.061 of this code.
(Prior Code, § 51.075) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.076 DISCONNECTION OF LATERALS AND DRAINS.
   No person shall make connection of roof downspouts, interior and exterior
foundation drains, areaway drains or other sources of surface runoff or
groundwater to a building sewer or building drain which is connected directly
to a public sanitary sewer. The Director shall have the right to disconnect any
lateral or drain from the public sewers, which is found to be used contrary to
the provisions of this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 51.076) (Ord. 2535, passed 12-5-1977; Ord. 03-39, passed 11-17-
2003) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.077 REVOCATION OF PLUMBER’S LICENSE.
   The City Council may at any time revoke the license of any plumber found
guilty of violating this subchapter or refusing to cooperate with the city in
performing the plumber’s duties.
(Prior Code, § 51.077)
§ 51.078 VIOLATIONS OF THIS SUBCHAPTER.
   Any owner, engineer, architect, agent, plumber, contractor or other persons
failing, neglecting, omitting, resisting or refusing to comply with any of the
rules or regulations of this subchapter shall be deemed guilty of a
misdemeanor.
Penalty, see §
51.999
PRIVATE WASTEWATER AND SEPTIC TANK WASTE DISPOSAL
§ 51.090 COMPLIANCE WITH NEBRASKA DEPARTMENT OF ENVIRONMENT AND ENERGY.
   The type, capacities, location and layout of a private sewage disposal
system shall comply with all recommendations of the Nebraska Department of
Environment and Energy. No permit shall be issued for any private sewage
disposal systems employing subsurface soil absorption facilities where the area
of the lot is less than one-half acre. No septic tank or cesspool shall be
permitted to discharge to any natural outlet.
(Prior Code, § 51.091) (Ord. 2354, passed 5-1-1974; Ord. 03-39, passed 11-17-
2003) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.091 OUTSIDE WATER CLOSETS.
   The construction of outside water closets, known as the “frost-proof” type,
shall be prohibited.
(Prior Code, § 51.092) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.092 PRIVIES PROHIBITED IN DWELLINGS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to permit any privy or privy pit to be
connected with or to remain connected with, or contained in any dwelling, house
or building within the city.
(Prior Code, § 51.093) (Ord. 2354, passed 5-1-1974; Ord. 03-39, passed 11-17-
2003) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.093 PRIVATE DISPOSAL SYSTEM, PERMITTED.
   (A)   Where a public sanitary sewer is not available to a building, the
sewer lateral shall be connected to an individual private wastewater disposal
system complying with appropriate rules and regulations of the Nebraska
Department of Environment and Energy.
   (B)   The owner shall operate and maintain such private wastewater disposal
facility in compliance with the requirements of the Nebraska Department of
Environment and Energy.
(Prior Code, § 51.094) (Ord. 2354, passed 5-1-1974; Ord. 03-39, passed 11-17-
2003) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.094 UNLAWFUL CONNECTION TO PUBLIC SEWERS.
   It shall be unlawful for any private residential wastewater disposal
facility to be connected to any public sewer.
(Prior Code, § 51.095) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.095 DEPOSIT OF SEWAGE.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to place, deposit or permit to be
deposited in any unsanitary manner on public or private property within the
city, or in any area under the jurisdiction of the city, any human or animal
excrement, garbage or other objectionable waste.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to discharge to any natural outlet within the
city, or in any area under the jurisdiction of the city, any sewage or other
polluted waters, except where suitable treatment has been provided in
accordance with this code.
(Prior Code, § 51.096) (Ord. 03-39, passed 11-17-2003) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.096 DISPOSAL OF SEPTIC TANK WASTE.
   No person shall discharge septic tank waste into any watercourse or storm
sewer. This type of waste may be discharged into the city’s wastewater
treatment works only at those locations and in a manner designated by the
Director of Public Works.
(Prior Code, § 51.097) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.097 DISCHARGE FEE.
   (A)   Any person discharging septic tank waste or portable toilet waste into
the wastewater treatment works shall pay a wastewater disposal charge at the
rate as set by resolution.
(Prior Code, § 51.098)
   (B)   Other waste shall be charged at a rate based on the composition of the
waste disposal as determined by the Director of Public Works.
§ 51.098 ADDITIONAL REGULATIONS.
   No statement contained in this chapter shall be construed to interfere with
any additional requirements that may be imposed by the Environmental Protection
Agency, Nebraska Department of Environment and Energy or the Department of
Public Works.
(Prior Code, § 51.099) (Ord. 2354, passed 5-1-1974; Ord. 03-39, passed 11-17-
2003)
PROHIBITED DISCHARGES
§ 51.110 STORMWATER AND UNPOLLUTED DRAINAGE.
   Stormwater and all other unpolluted drainage shall be discharged into sewers
specifically designed and designated as storm sewers or to a natural outlet, in
accordance with the City Storm Water Management Plan, NPDES permit, EPA and
Nebraska Department of Environment and Energy. No person shall discharge or
cause to be discharged, either directly or indirectly, to the sanitary sewer
system any surface water, groundwater, roof runoff, subsoil or sub-surface
drainage, cooling water or unpolluted industrial process water. Any such
connections made either before or after the effective date of these rules and
regulations shall be considered illegal and shall be subject to immediate
removal by the owner at the owner’s expense. Should the owner of an illegal
connection fail to remove it within 90 days after being notified by the
Director of Public Works, the Director of Public Works may cause the connection
to be removed and the cost billed to the owner of the property served by the
illegal connection.
(Prior Code, § 51.110) (Ord. 2535, passed 12-5-1977; Ord. 03-39, passed 11-17-
2003) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.111 SANITARY AND OTHER POLLUTED WATERS.
   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged to any natural outlet or
storm sewer any sanitary wastewater or other polluted waters. Effluent from
privately-owned individual household disposal devices shall not be discharged
to storm sewers.
(Prior Code, § 51.111) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.112 OTHER PROHIBITED DISCHARGES.
   No person shall discharge, or cause to be discharged, to any sanitary sewer,
any of the following described substances, water or wastes:
   (A)   Any liquid or vapor having a temperature higher than 65°C (150°F);
   (B)   Wastes containing oil or grease of petroleum origin;
   (C)   Any gasoline, benzene, naphtha, fuel oil, mineral spirits, commercial
solvent, motor oil or other flammable or explosive liquid or any other
petroleum derivative;
   (D)   Any water or wastes containing dissolved gases (such as hydrogen
sulfide, sulfur dioxide, nitrogen oxides and ammonia) in concentrations
sufficient to cause poisonous or toxic fumes or wastewater, or a malodorous or
harmful condition;
   (E)   Any ashes, cinders, sand, mud, straw, shavings, metal, glass, rags,
feathers, tar, plastics, wood, asphalt materials, cement or concrete, paunch
manure, hair and fleshing, entrails, lime slurry, lime residues, beer or
distillery spent grains, chemical residues, paint residues, cannery waste, bulk
solids or any other solid or viscous substances, in amounts capable of causing
obstructions to flow in sewers or interference with the proper operation of the
wastewater treatment works;
   (F)   Any waters or wastes having a pH lower than 5 or higher than 9 at any
time, or having any other corrosive property capable of causing damage or being
a hazard to structures, equipment and personnel of the wastewater treatment
works;
   (G)   (1)   Any waters or wastes containing pollutants in the form of
compounds or elements, in solution or suspension, in concentrations exceeding
the following:
Pollutant Maximum Concentration in mg/l
Pollutant             Maximum Concentration in mg/l
Arsenic (As)          0.050
Barium (Ba)           1.000
Cadmium (Cd)          0.100
Chromium (Cr) (total) 3.000
Copper (Cu)           1.000
Cyanides (Cn)         2.000
Lead (Pb)             0.100
Manganese (Mn)        1.000
Mercury (Hg)          0.005
Nickel (Ni)           1.000
Selenium (Se)         0.030
Silver (Ag)           0.100
 
      (2)   The maximum concentrations shown for the above metals may be used
as a guide in design and plant control but may be altered by the Director of
Public Works in the event of accumulative overload on the water pollution
control plant.
   (H)   (1)   Any waters or wastes containing heavy metals and toxic materials
in concentrations prohibited by state or federal rules, including but not
limited to:
         (a)   Antimony;
         (b)   Beryllium;
         (c)   Bismuth;
         (d)   Boron;
         (e)   Cobalt;
         (f)   Molybdenum;
         (g)   Rhenium;
         (h)   Strontium;
         (i)   Tellurium;
         (j)   Fungicides;
         (k)   Herbicides;
         (l)   Pesticides; and
         (m)   Uranyl ion.
      (2)   Unless the permit required for discharge of industrial wastes
specifies conditions of pretreatment, concentrations and volumes.
   (I)   Any noxious or malodorous gas or substance, capable of creating a
public nuisance or hazard to life or preventing entry into sewers for their
inspection, maintenance and repair;
   (J)   Any waters containing quantities of radium, naturally occurring or
artificially produced radioisotopes in excess of presently existing or
subsequently accepted limits for drinking water as established by the National
Committee on Radiation Protection and Measurement;
   (K)   Any concentrated dye wastes, spent tanning solutions or other wastes
which are highly colored, or wastes which are of unusual volume, concentration
of solids or composition that may create obstruction to the flow in sewers or
interference with the wastewater treatment processes without proper
pretreatment and written approval of the Director of Public Works;
   (L)   Waters or wastes containing substances which are not amenable to
treatment or reduction by the wastewater treatment processes employed, or are
amenable to treatment only to the degree that the wastewater treatment plant
effluent cannot meet the requirements of the NPDES permit;
   (M)   Any water or wastes containing more than 2,000 mg/l total solids;
   (N)   Wastes at a flow rate and/or pollutant discharge rate, which is
excessive over short periods of time so that there is a treatment process
overload and subsequent loss of treatment efficiency; and
   (O)   (1)   Any waters or wastes having any of the following shall be
subject to review by the Director of Public Works:
         (a)   A five-day biochemical oxygen demand greater than 250 parts per
million by weight;
         (b)   Containing more than 250 parts per million by weight of
suspended solids; or
         (c)   Having an average daily flow greater than 2% of the average
sewage flow of the city.
      (2)   Where necessary in the opinion of the Director of Public Works, the
owner shall provide, at such owner’s expense, such preliminary treatment as may
be necessary to:
         (a)   Reduce the biochemical oxygen demand to 250 parts per million by
weight;
         (b)   Reduce the suspended solids to 250 parts per million by weight;
or
         (c)   Control the quantities and rates of discharge of such waters or
wastes.
      (3)   Plans, specifications and any other pertinent information relating
to proposed preliminary treatment facilities shall be submitted for approval by
the City Engineer or Chief Building and Code Inspector and no construction of
such facilities shall be commenced until said approvals are obtained in
writing.
(Prior Code, § 51.112) (Ord. 2270, passed 6-17-1972; Ord. 2535, passed 12-5-
1977; Ord. 03-39, passed 11-17-2003) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.113 SUBSTANCES WHICH MAY BE PROHIBITED FROM PUBLIC SEWERS.
   (A)   (1)   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged the
following described substances, materials, waters or wastes if it appears in
the opinion of the Director of Public Works that such wastes can harm the
sewers, sewage treatment process or equipment, have an adverse effect on the
receiving stream, or can otherwise endanger life, limb, public property or
constitute a nuisance.
      (2)   In forming its opinion as to the acceptability of these wastes, the
city will give consideration to such factors as the quantities of subject
wastes in relation to flows and velocities in the sewers, materials of
construction of the sewers, nature of the sewage treatment process, capacity of
the sewage treatment plant, degree of treatability of wastes in the sewage
treatment plant, and other pertinent factors.
   (B)   The substances prohibited are:
      (1)   Any water or waste containing fats, wax, grease or oils, whether
emulsified or not, in excess of 100 mg/l or containing substances which may
solidify or become viscous at temperatures between 32°F and 150°F or 0°C and
65°C;
      (2)   Any waters or wastes containing strong acid iron pickling wastes or
concentrated plating solutions whether neutralized or not;
      (3)   Any water or wastes containing iron, chromium, copper, zinc and
similar objectionable or toxic substances; or wastes exerting an excessive
chlorine requirement, to such degree that any such material received in the
composite sewage at the sewage treatment works exceeds the limits established
by the city for such materials;
      (4)   Any water or wastes containing phenols or other taste- or odor-
producing substances, in such concentration exceeding limits which may be
established by the city as necessary after treatment of the composite sewage,
to meet the requirements of the state, federal or other public agencies of
jurisdiction for such discharge to the receiving waters;
      (5)   Any radioactive wastes or isotopes of such half-life or
concentration as may exceed limits established by the city in compliance with
applicable state or federal regulations; and
      (6)   Materials which exert or cause:
         (a)   Unusual concentration of inert suspended solids (such as, but
not limited to, Fullers earth, lime slurries and lime residues) or of dissolved
solids (such as, but not limited to, sodium chloride and sulfate);
         (b)   Excessive discoloration (such as, but not limited to, dye wastes
and vegetable tanning solutions);
         (c)   Unusual BOD, COD or chlorine requirements in such quantities as
to constitute a significant load on the sewage treatment works; or
         (d)   Unusual volume of flow or concentration of wastes causing
interference in process or operations constituting slugs.
(Prior Code, § 51.113) (Ord. 2270, passed 6-17-1972; Ord. 2535, passed 12-5-
1977; Ord. 03-39, passed 11-17-2003) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.114 DILUTION.
   The admission into the public sewers of any waters or wastes in volumes, or
with constituents, such that existing dilution conditions in the sewers or at
the treatment facility would be adversely affected, shall be subject to review
and approval of the Director of Public Works. Where necessary, in the opinion
of the Director, pretreatment or equalizing units may be required to bring
constituents or volume of flow within an acceptable level, and to hold or
equalize flows so that no peak flow conditions may hamper the operation of any
unit of the sewer system. The equalization or holding unit shall have a
capacity suitable to serve its intended purpose and be equipped with acceptable
outlet control facilities to provide flexibility in operation and accommodate
changing conditions in the waste flow.
(Prior Code, § 51.114) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.115 DELETERIOUS DISCHARGES.
   (A)   If any waters or wastes are discharged, or are proposed to be
discharged to the public sewers, which contain substances or possess the
characteristics enumerated in the preceding sections of this subchapter, and
which in the judgment of the City Engineer, Public Works Director or Chief
Building and Code Inspector or the local, state and federal agencies having
jurisdiction, may have a deleterious effect upon the wastewater treatment
processes, equipment or receiving waters, or which otherwise create a hazard to
life or constitute a public nuisance, the Director of Public Works may:
      (1)   Reject the wastes;
      (2)   Require pretreatment to an acceptable condition for discharge to
the public sewers;
      (3)   Require control over the quantities and rates of discharge; and
      (4)   Require payment to cover the added cost of handling and treating
the wastes not covered by existing taxes or sewer user charges.
   (B)   In forming an opinion as to the acceptability of wastes, the Director
of Public Works will give consideration to such factors as the quantities of
subject wastes in relation to flows and velocities in the sewers, materials of
construction of the sewers, nature of the wastewater treatment process,
capacity of the wastewater treatment facility, degree of treatability of wastes
in the wastewater treatment facility and other pertinent factors. Any waters or
wastes having a BOD5 concentration greater than 250 mg/l or a suspended solids
concentration greater than 250 mg/l or an average daily flow greater than 2% of
the average total waste flow of the city shall be subject to the review of the
Director of Public Works.
   (C)   If the Director of Public Works permits the pretreatment or
equalization of waste flows, the design and installation of the plants and
equipment shall be subject to the review and approval of the City Engineer,
Chief Building and Code Inspector or Director of Public Works, and the local,
state and federal agencies having jurisdiction and subject to the requirements
of all applicable codes, resolutions and laws. See §
51.132 of this code.
   (D)   In the event of an accidental spill or unavoidable loss to the drains
of any deleterious materials, the owner shall promptly notify the Director of
Public Works of the nature of the spill, the quantity and time of occurrence.
(Prior Code, § 51.115) (Ord. 03-39, passed 11-17-2003) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.116 WASTES FROM GARBAGE SHREDDERS.
   (A)   No person shall install and operate any garbage shredder equipped with
a motor of three-fourths horsepower (seventy-six hundredths metric) or greater
in size.
   (B)   No commercial/industrial establishment shall install any garbage
shredder or replace an existing garbage shredder.
   (C)   All garbage shredders shall shred the waste to a degree that all
particles will be carried freely under normal flow conditions prevailing in the
public sewer system. Garbage shredders shall not be used for grinding plastic,
paper products, inert materials or garden refuse.
(Prior Code, § 51.116) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.117 GREASE, OIL AND SAND TRAPS.
   Grease, oil and sand interceptors or traps shall be provided by the owner
when, in the opinion of the Director of Public Works, they are necessary for
the proper handling of liquid wastes containing grease in excessive amounts,
sand or other harmful ingredients; except that interceptors shall not be
required for private living quarters or dwelling units. All interceptors shall
be of a type and capacity approved by the Chief Building and Code Inspector or
Director of Public Works and shall be located as to be readily and easily
accessible for cleaning and inspection.
(Prior Code, § 51.117) (Ord. 03-39, passed 11-17-2003) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.118 UNLAWFUL USE OF MANHOLES.
   (A)   Opening or entering manholes or inlets for any purpose whatever is
strictly prohibited, except by persons duly authorized to do so.
   (B)   No person shall discharge any substance directly into a manhole, inlet
or other opening in the public sewers other than through an approved building
sewer, unless upon written application to the Director of Public Works and
payment of the applicable user charges and fees, and the Director of Public
Works issues a permit for such direct discharges.
(Prior Code, § 51.118) Penalty, see §
51.999
INDUSTRIAL WASTES AND DISCHARGE PERMITS
§ 51.130 MAJOR CONTRIBUTING INDUSTRIES.
   All major contributing industries proposing to directly or indirectly
connect to or discharge wastes into the sanitary sewers shall obtain a state
indirect discharge (SID) permit from the state before connecting to or
discharging into these sewers.
(Prior Code, § 51.130) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.131 INDUSTRIAL WASTES; REQUIREMENTS.
   Persons proposing to or who actually discharge industrial wastes which
contain none of the prohibited ingredients or characteristics set forth in §§
51.110 through
51.118 of this code, other than excessive concentrations of BOD5, suspended
solids and grease, hydrogen sulfide or ammonia shall be required to pretreat
their wastes to meet the requirements of normal strength wastewater with the
exception that wastes may be accepted for treatment if all the following
requirements are met:
   (A)   The wastes will not cause damage to the sanitary sewer system;
   (B)   The wastes will not impair the wastewater treatment process; and
   (C)   The discharger of the waste agrees to pay a surcharge over and above
the published sewer rates when the waste strength exceeds that of normal
strength wastewater.
(Prior Code, § 51.131) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.132 PRETREATMENT REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   When the City Engineer or Director of Public Works determines that any
industrial waste will be harmful to the structures, treatment processes or
operation of the wastewater treatment works, or detrimental to the wastewater
treatment facility effluent, the person discharging the waste shall provide, at
the person’s own expense, preliminary treatment or processing facilities as may
be determined by the Director of Public Works as necessary to make the waste
acceptable for admission to the public sanitary sewers.
   (B)   When the City Engineer or Director of Public Works determines that an
industrial waste must be pretreated, the owner shall submit plans and
specifications of the proposed pretreatment facilities to the City Engineer or
Director of Public Works for review. After the plans and specifications are
reviewed as approved, the owner shall proceed to provide pretreatment
facilities. If the pretreatment facilities are completed according to the plans
and specifications, and the owner provides a proper sewer connection permit
from the plant to the sanitary sewers, the Nebraska Department of Environment
and Energy will issue the owner an industrial waste discharge permit
authorizing such connection and permitting the owner to discharge waste into
the sanitary sewers at the rate and in the quantity stated in the permit. The
owner, at the owner’s expense, shall maintain these pretreatment facilities
continuously in satisfactory and effective operation.
(Prior Code, § 51.132) (Ord. 03-39, passed 11-17-2003) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.133 DISCHARGE PERMIT; APPLICATION.
   (A)   Persons requiring a discharge permit shall complete and file with the
Department of Public Works an application in the form prescribed by the
Director of Public Works and accompanied by applicable fees. Except as
otherwise agreed in writing by the Director of Public Works, the applicant
shall submit, in units and terms appropriate for evaluation, the following
information:
      (1)   Name, address and standard industrial classification (SIC) number
of applicant;
      (2)   Volume of waste to be discharged;
      (3)   Waste constituents and characteristics including BOD5, suspended
solids, pH, biodegradable oils and grease, hydrogen sulfide, ammonia and any
others required by the Director of Public Works;
      (4)   Time and duration of discharge;
      (5)   Average and 30-minute peak waste flow rates, including daily,
monthly and seasonal variations, if any;
      (6)   Ground plan or plat sufficient to indicate locations of building
sewers, building drains, process waste sewers, monitoring facilities and
pretreatment facilities with respect to buildings, property lines, streets,
public sewers and industrial process facilities;
      (7)   Description of plant activities, facilities and processes,
including all types of waste, which are or could be discharged;
      (8)   Each product produced by type, amount and rate of production when
required to determine compliance with pretreatment standards;
      (9)   Number and type of employees and hours of work; and
      (10)   Any other information the Director of Public Works may feel is
necessary to evaluate the permit application.
   (B)   The Department of Public Works will evaluate the data furnished and
may require additional information. After evaluation of the data furnished, the
Director of Public Works may issue a discharge permit subject to the terms and
conditions of this chapter. Wastewater constituents and characteristics shall
not be recognized as confidential information.
(Prior Code, § 51.133)
§ 51.134 DISCHARGE PERMIT; REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Discharge permits may contain any or all of the following conditions
and requirements:
      (1)   The average and maximum waste pollutant concentrations permitted to
be discharged into the sanitary sewers;
      (2)   The maximum daily amounts of BOD5,  suspended solids, biodegradable
oils and grease, hydrogen sulfide and ammonia permitted to be discharged into
the sanitary sewers;
      (3)   Limits on rate and time of discharge and requirements on flow
regulations and equalization;
      (4)   Requirements for installation of inspection and sampling
facilities;
      (5)   Pretreatment requirements;
      (6)   Specifications for monitoring programs, which may include sampling
locations, frequency and methods of sampling and the number, types and
standards for tests and reporting schedule;
      (7)   Requirements for submission of technical reports or discharge
reports; and
      (8)   Requirements for maintaining plant records relating to waste
discharges as specified by the Director of Public Works and making the records
available to the Department of Public Works.
   (B)   The Director may determine any additional requirements as needed.
(Prior Code, § 51.134)
§ 51.135 DISCHARGE PERMIT; TERM.
   (A)   Permits shall be issued for a specified period of time but in no event
shall a permit extend beyond three years from the date of issuance. Thirty days
prior to the expiration of the permit, the owner shall apply to the Department
of Public Works for a renewal of the permit.
   (B)   (1)   The owner shall be notified in writing of any proposed changes
in the permit at least 30 days prior to the effective date of change. The
notice shall include a specified time schedule for compliance.
      (2)   This time schedule shall be based on practical delivery and
construction time requirements and shall become part of the permit.
(Prior Code, § 51.135)
§ 51.136 DISCHARGE PERMIT; NOT TRANSFERABLE.
   Waste discharge permits are issued to a specific owner for a specific
operation. A waste discharge permit shall not be reassigned, transferred or
sold to a new owner. A waste discharge permit shall not be transferred to a new
or significantly changed operation.
(Prior Code, § 51.136) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.137 DISCHARGE PERMIT; REVOCATION.
   (A)   Any owner who violates any of these rules and regulations, or
applicable state and/or federal regulations, or any of the following conditions
which are hereby made part of every permit, whether stated therein or not, is
subject to having owner’s permit revoked:
      (1)   The owner shall factually report the waste constituents and
characteristics of the discharge;
      (2)   The owner shall report significant changes in operation, or in
waste constituents and characteristics;
      (3)   The owner shall allow reasonable access to owner’s plant or
facilities for the purpose of inspection or monitoring; and
      (4)   The owner shall comply with all terms and conditions of the permit.
   (B)   (1)   Before a permit is revoked, the Director of Public Works shall
send the owner written notice 15 days in advance of the date of a hearing.
      (2)   The owner shall have the opportunity to present evidence at the
hearing. The Director of Public Works shall notify the owner in writing of the
decision by no later than 15 days after the hearing.
(Prior Code, § 51.137) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.138 MONITORING FACILITIES.
   (A)   The Director of Public Works may require any industrial plant owner to
construct, at the owner’s expense, monitoring facilities to allow inspection,
sampling and flow measurement of the lateral sewer or internal drainage systems
and may also require sampling or metering equipment to be provided, installed
and operated at the owner’s expense.
   (B)   The monitoring facility shall be situated on the owner’s property and
located so that landscaping or parked vehicles will not obstruct it.
   (C)   The personnel of the Department of Public Works shall have access to
the monitoring facilities at all times for inspection and sample collection. If
the facilities are locked, special arrangements shall be made to allow access.
The Department of Public Works’ personnel shall also have the right to set up
monitoring devices at the facilities. There shall be ample room in or near such
monitoring facilities to allow adequate sampling and composition of samples for
analysis. The monitoring facilities, sampling and measuring equipment shall be
maintained at all times in a safe and proper operating condition at the expense
of the owner.
   (D)   The sampling and monitoring facilities shall be provided in accordance
with the Department of Public Works’ requirements, standards and
specifications. Unless the Director of Public Works otherwise grants a time
extension, construction shall be completed within 90 days following the
issuance of written notification by the Department of Public Works.
(Prior Code, § 51.138) (Ord. 03-39, passed 11-17-2003) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.139 ACCESS TO OWNER’S PROPERTY.
   (A)   The owner of any industrial plant where waste is created or discharged
shall allow employees of the Department of Public Works ready access at all
reasonable times to all parts of the property for purposes of inspection,
sampling or for performance of their duties. The Department of Public Works
shall have the right to set up on the owner’s property such devices as are
necessary to conduct sampling or metering operations. Where an owner has
security measures in force that would require proper identification and
clearance before entry into the facilities, the owner shall make necessary
arrangements with its security guards so that upon presentation of suitable
identification, personnel from the Department of Public Works will be permitted
to enter without delay for the purpose of performing specific responsibilities.
   (B)   While performing the work, the Department of Public Works personnel
shall observe all safety rules established by the owner and applicable to the
plant or facilities. The Department of Public Works shall have no authority to
inquire into any processes including metallurgical, chemical, oil, refining,
ceramic, paper or other industries beyond that point having a direct bearing on
the kind and source of discharge to the sewers or facilities for waste
treatment.
(Prior Code, § 51.139) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.140 RELIABILITY OF MONITORING FACILITIES.
   Approval of proposed monitoring facilities or equipment by the Director of
Public Works does not, in any way, guarantee that those facilities or equipment
will function in the manner prescribed by their constructor or manufacturer;
nor shall such approval relieve a person of the responsibility to enlarge or
otherwise modify such facilities to accomplish the intended purpose.
(Prior Code, § 51.140)
§ 51.141 SAMPLING METHODS.
   All measurements, tests and analyses of the characteristics of industrial
wastes shall be determined in accordance with EPA approved methods published in
the latest edition of Standard Methods for the Examination of Water and
Wastewater published by the American Health Association and American Water
Works Association or Methods for Chemical Analysis of Water and Wastes
published by the Environmental Monitoring and Support Laboratory, Office of
Research and Development, U.S. Environmental Protection Agency and shall be
determined at the monitoring facilities or from samples taken at the monitoring
facilities. In the event no special monitoring facility has been installed, the
sampling shall be done at the nearest downstream manhole in the public sewers
to the point at which the building lateral sewer is connected. Sampling shall
be carried out by customarily accepted methods to reflect the effects of waste
constituents upon the wastewater treatment works and to determine the existence
of possible hazards to life, limb and property.
(Prior Code, § 51.141) (Ord. 2270, passed 6-17-1972; Ord. 03-39, passed 11-17-
2003) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.142 SPECIAL CONTRACTS OR AGREEMENTS.
   No statement contained in these rules and regulations shall be construed as
preventing any special agreement or arrangement between the city and any person
whereby an industrial waste of unusual strength or character may be accepted by
the Department of Public Works for transport and/or treatment, subject to
applicable fees or payments.
(Prior Code, § 51.142) (Ord. 03-39, passed 11-17-2003)
§ 51.143 INDEMNITY.
   In the event a person does discharge excessive amounts of pollutants in
violation of the discharge permit, said person shall agree to indemnify and
hold the city harmless against and from any and all loss, damages claims,
demands, actions, causes of action, penalties, judgments, costs and expenses
which may result from injury to or death of persons, or from loss or
destruction of or damage to property, or results in the city being in violation
of state or federal regulatory agency requirements, when such violation,
injury, death, loss, destruction or damage arises in any way in connection with
or incident to a person depositing amounts of industrial waste in excess of
those permitted in the discharge permit into the city’s sanitary sewers. It
must be proved, on an individual case basis, that a person’s depositing of
excessive amounts of pollutants, on a daily basis, was in fact the cause of a
violation, injury, death, loss, destruction or damage, and that the excessive
discharge was not due to force majeure.
(Prior Code, § 51.144)
§ 51.144 CHARGES TO MAJOR INDUSTRIES.
   Each major contributing industry shall be assessed a monthly charge that
reflects the city’s cost of owning, operating and maintaining the facilities
used to serve these customers. The monthly charges shall be determined from
time to time based upon analysis of the costs of capital, operation and
maintenance costs associated with the facilities used to provide service.
(Prior Code, § 51.145)
INDUSTRIAL WASTE SURCHARGE
§ 51.155 WHEN SURCHARGE IS APPLICABLE.
   Industrial waste surcharge shall be assessed against any person discharging
industrial wastes into the city’s sanitary sewer system where the contributed
waste strength exceeds that of normal strength wastewater as defined in §
51.002 of this code. Persons subject to the industrial waste surcharge shall be
subject to the regular sewer user charges.
(Prior Code, § 51.155)
§ 51.156 POLLUTANTS SUBJECT TO SURCHARGE.
   The monthly amount of pollutants subject to the surcharge will be based on
the average loading per facility operating day, in excess of 250 mg/l for BOD5
or suspended solids, in excess of 100 mg/l for biodegradable oils and grease,
in excess of 30 mg/l for ammonia, in excess of zero (0) mg/l for hydrogen
sulfide, times the number of operating days per month.
(Prior Code, § 51.156)
§ 51.157 AMOUNT OF SURCHARGE.
   (A)   The industrial waste surcharge to be assessed each month will be
determined by application of the rates then in effect.
   (B)   The surcharge amount shall be determined by calculating the average
number of pollutant pounds per operating day based on the average of periodic
grab or composite samples obtained and tested as described in §
51.141.
   (C)   In computing the surcharge amount, no credit will be allowed because
pollutant strength is less than that allowed in normal strength wastewater.
(Prior Code, § 51.157)
§ 51.158 REVIEW OF SURCHARGE RATES.
   The Director of Public Works shall review the surcharges annually and adjust
them, if necessary, to reflect the actual cost to treat the pollutants subject
to the surcharge.
(Prior Code, § 51.158)
§ 51.159 MONITORING FACILITIES.
   When a person discharges a waste that is subject to the industrial waste
surcharge, the Director of Public Works may require monitoring facilities. The
installation and use of the monitoring facilities shall be in compliance with
§§
51.138 and
51.141 of this code.
(Prior Code, § 51.159) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.160 SURCHARGE FOR CLASS GROUPS.
   (A)   The Director of Public Works may classify certain commercial and
industrial establishments, which routinely discharge BOD5, and suspended solids
concentrations exceeding those established for normal strength wastewater, into
the following classes:
      (1)   Eating establishments. Includes restaurants, bars, lounges and
other establishments, which engage in the preparation of food or beverage,
which is served directly to the customer;
      (2)   Food and kindred products processing. Includes commercial
establishments which engage in the preparation, packaging, processing or
distribution of food, food products, grains or produce and which discharge less
than 200,000 gallons of wastes per month; and
      (3)   Equipment service facilities. Includes establishments, which
perform washing, cleaning or servicing of automobiles, trucks, buses, machinery
or equipment; this class to include public facilities, facilities limited to
specific companies and attended or coin-operated establishments.
   (B)   The Director of Public Works shall assess an industrial waste
surcharge for each class based on waste strength determinations established by
averaging grab, composite samples or both, taken from a representative number
of establishments in each class and shall apply this surcharge to the water
consumption or metered wastewater of the establishment. If the establishment is
within a larger facility for which water usage is determined from a master
meter, the Director of Public Works shall determine an estimated volume for the
establishment on which the surcharge is applied. The Director of Public Works
shall then add the appropriate industrial surcharge to billings for regular
water and sanitary sewer service for each establishment included in one of the
classes.
   (C)   If an establishment contains operations from more than one of the
classes, and the Director of Public Works determines that the surcharge for a
particular class would not adequately compensate the city for its cost of
treatment, the Director of Public Works may assess a surcharge based on a
proportional average of the class surcharges involved, or may require the
establishment to be billed under the requirements of §
51.157.
   (D)   The owner of an establishment classified into one of the classes may
elect to have the industrial surcharge billed under §
51.157, rather than this section, by making application to the Director of
Public Works and paying the required sampling costs.
   (E)   The Director of Public Works may revise the class surcharges in the
future to reflect a change in the average strength of the wastes discharged or
to reflect a change in the costs to treat these wastes.
(Prior Code, § 51.160)
§ 51.161 CONTRACT FOR RESERVED CAPACITY.
   (A)   A property owner who desires to reserve a portion of the design
capacity of the sanitary sewer system or wastewater treatment facility may
enter into a contract as approved by the City Council. The contract shall
contain a provision stating that an annual amount, representing the person’s
proportionate share of the city’s net annual capital investment cost in the
facilities reserved, shall be paid by the person signing the contract.
   (B)   The contract shall also contain a provision that if the person’s
average daily flow varies more than 20% on a yearly basis, either party may
open the contract for renegotiation of the minimum payment.
(Prior Code, § 51.161) (Ord. 03-39, passed 11-17-2003; Ord. 05-13, passed 3-7-
2005)
SEWER RATES AND CHARGES
§ 51.175 PURPOSE OF SUBCHAPTER.
   The Mayor and City Council hereby find and determine: This city has
constructed and owns and operates a sewerage system and plant for the
treatment, purification and disposal in a sanitary manner of the liquid and
solid wastes, sewage and night soil of such community and it is necessary, in
order to protect the health of the inhabitants of the city and to comply with
the law of the state and the requirements of the Nebraska Department of
Environment and Energy that the sewerage system be operated and maintained;
that in order to provide the revenues to operate and maintain the sewer system
and disposal plant and to create a reserve fund for the purpose of future
maintenance, it is necessary that the city establish just and equitable rates
and charges to be paid to the city for the use of such disposal plant and
sewerage system by each person whose premises are served thereby.
(Prior Code, § 51.175)
§ 51.176 “CUSTOMER” DEFINED.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CUSTOMER. Includes all users of the municipal sewerage system of the city,
including all persons whose premises are served thereby and all owners and
tenants of real estate and buildings connected with such sewerage system or
served thereby and all users of such system who in any way use the same or
discharge sanitary sewage, industrial waste, water or other liquid either
directly or indirectly into the sewerage system of the city.
(Prior Code, § 51.176)
§ 51.177 CUSTOMER; CLASSIFICATION.
   Customers shall be classified as residential, commercial or industrial. For
the purposes of this subchapter a RESIDENTIAL CUSTOMER is one whose property is
used exclusively for single-family units and duplexes. All other customers
shall be COMMERCIAL OR INDUSTRIAL CUSTOMERS.
(Prior Code, § 51.177)
§ 51.178 RATES; DETERMINATION.
   (A)   Usage. The customers and customers of the city-owned public sewer
shall be charged per 1,000 gallons or portion thereof as set by resolution.
   (B)   Service charge. Sewer customers of the city shall continue to pay a
monthly service charge in addition to the sewer rates as set forth in division
(A) above in the amount as set by resolution.
      (1)   For residential customers, the charge from the sewer rate table
shall be based on the average water usage for that property for the three
months during the preceding winter. Until consumptive history is properly
established for previously unoccupied residential properties, or if metering
does allow establishment of usage of individual residences and unmetered
properties, the monthly charge shall be the average charge of all other
residential customers per month.
      (2)   Commercial and industrial establishments that discharge wastewater
with an average daily five-day biochemical oxygen demand (BOD) not exceeding
250 mg/l or average daily total suspended solids (TSS) not exceeding 250 mg/
l shall be charged per the sewer rate table.
   (C)   Surcharge rate.
      (1)   If the concentration of wastes from any user exceeds 250 mg/l of
BOD, 250 mg/l of TSS or 100 mg/l of grease, the customer shall be subject to a
surcharge. The charge shall be at the rate as set by resolution.
      (2)   If any customer discharges wastes which are in violation of the
sewer use ordinance including sludge loads or incompatible wastes, said user
will be subject to a surcharge rate of up to twice the surcharge rates. The
enforcement of this surcharge clause shall be at the discretion of the city.
   (D)   Rate determination; penalty. Any customer discharging toxic pollutants
into the system shall pay for such increased costs of managing the effluent or
sludge by the wastewater treatment facility.
      (1)   Charges shall be as deemed necessary by the city to recover the
increased costs.
      (2)   For the purpose of determining the proper sewer charge for each
customer, the following shall be considered.
         (a)   For the use of the city sanitary sewage system, each customer
shall pay a charge which shall be computed and based upon that customer’s
contribution of sewage to such system.
         (b)   The contribution of sewage from a commercial use shall be
considered equal to the amount of water consumed as shown by the current water
billing, plus any water used from other than the municipal water system as
estimated or determined as provided by this section.
         (c)   Commercial customers without municipal water service or using
additional water from other than municipal water service shall be charged based
on the amount of contribution to the sewer system. This shall be determined by
a sewage flow meter or a water meter on the private well. The sewage flow meter
or water meter shall be installed and maintained by the customer.
         (d)   Commercial customers without water meters or sewage flow meters
shall be billed as follows: Car washes; grocery stores; radiator shops;
restaurants; manufacturing plants; and bars shall be charged the average of all
commercial customers. Other commercial accounts without water meters and sewage
flow meters shall be charged the average residential rate.
         (e)   A commercial customer who, because of extensive lawn watering or
loss of water in the establishment due to evaporation or use in the product and
desiring separate water and sewer usage quantities shall, at the customer’s
expense, install and maintain a sewage flow meter or separate water meters.
         (f)   Property owners will be required to install and maintain all
service lines from the main to the building.
         (g)   In the case of a commercial customer and a residential customer
occupying a single building and using the same water meter, the sewer charge
shall be based on the commercial customer rate.
         (h)   The service charge for all customers shall be based on the
number of water meters in each establishment.
         (i)   There shall be a charge to dispose septic tank or portable
toilet waste at the wastewater treatment facility at a per gallon rate as set
by resolution.
(Prior Code, § 51.178)
§ 51.179 RATES; BILLING; DUE DATE.
   (A)   (1)   All charges for sewer service furnished by the city shall become
due when billed and shall be delinquent on the twenty-first day after each
payment becomes due. Statements for sewer service by the city shall be
delivered to the consumer or owner of the premises by leaving at the premises
or by mailing to the owners of the premises or the consumers, and the city
shall retain all billing records.
      (2)   Such statement shall designate the reading of the water meter, and
the previous reading thereof, from which shall be computed the number of
gallons discharged and the amount due for sewer charges against the premises.
      (3)   A penalty of 10% of the amount due shall be added to each
statement, but if the same is paid on or before the twentieth day after the
account becomes due, such penalty shall not be collected.
   (B)   (1)   Whenever practicable, all charges owing hereunder shall be
billed in the same manner and at the same time as water customer under
Ch. 52 of this code. Failure to receive a statement of the amount due shall not
excuse the owner of the premises or the consumer from the liability to pay for
all sewer charges or for the penalty for failure to pay before the same becomes
delinquent.
      (2)   It shall be the duty of the Public Works Department to be open each
business day for the purpose of receiving payment of water and sewer accounts.
      (3)   It shall also be the duty of the Public Works Department to keep an
accurate record of all monies received, entering the same to the credit of the
proper department for which it is received. All monies received shall be
deposited with the Public Works Department shall report to the City Council the
monies received during the preceding month.
   (C)   Sewer charges made by this subchapter shall be rendered as for water
service of the city and all charges levied by this subchapter which are not
paid at or before water service charges of the city are required to be paid
shall be deemed delinquent and the water service of such customer may be
discontinued.
(Prior Code, § 51.179) (Ord. 98-18, passed 6-1-1998; Ord. 03-39, passed 11-17-
2003)
§ 51.180 RATES; LIEN.
   All charges prescribed by this subchapter shall be a lien upon the premises
and real estate for which the sewer service is supplied and used and if not
paid when due such charge shall be certified to the Finance Director and may be
recovered by the city in an action at law and such delinquent charges may be
certified to the County Clerk and assessed against the real estate and premises
served and be collected and returned in the same manner as other city taxes are
certified, collected and returned.
(Prior Code, § 51.180) (Ord. 3059, passed 10-7-1985; Ord. 03-39, passed 11-17-
2003)
§ 51.181 SPECIAL RATES.
   Where, in the judgment of the City Council, special conditions surround the
use of city waste water to the extent that the application of the service
charges and rates as specified by this subchapter would be inequitable and
unfair to either the city or such customers, the City Council shall establish a
special rate applying to such customers. Such special rates when adopted by
ordinance by the City Council shall apply to all customers under like
circumstances.
(Prior Code, § 51.181)
§ 51.182 USER CHARGE SYSTEM REVIEW.
   The city will review the rate schedule at least every five years and revise
rates as necessary to ensure that the system generates adequate revenues to pay
the cost of operation and maintenance, including replacement, and that the
system continues to provide for the proportional distribution of operation and
maintenance, including replacement expenses among users and user classes.
(Prior Code, § 51.182)
STORM SEWER RATES AND CHARGES
§ 51.195 CREATION OF STORMWATER UTILITY.
   The city does hereby establish a stormwater utility, the purpose of which is
to assist the city in its responsibility for the operation, construction,
maintenance and repair of stormwater drainage system facilities to provide
adequate systems of collection, conveyance, detention, treatment and release of
stormwater and the reduction of potential hazards to property and life
resulting from stormwater runoff, improvement in general health and welfare
through reduction of undesirable stormwater conditions and improvements to the
water quality in the storm and surface water system and its receiving waters.
(Prior Code, § 51.185) (Ord. 18-30, passed 9-4-2018)
§ 51.196 PROGRAM RESPONSIBILITY.
   The city shall be empowered to administer the stormwater utility and may
delegate such duty and responsibility as is necessary to carry out the
provisions of this subchapter within the limits of the budget, directives and
storm drainage regulations adopted by the governing body of the city for this
utility.
(Prior Code, § 51.186) (Ord. 18-30, passed 9-4-2018)
§ 51.197 OPERATING BUDGET.
   The city shall adopt an operating budget for each fiscal year. The operating
budget shall set forth, for each fiscal year, the estimated revenues and the
estimated costs for the stormwater utility. The initial operating budget shall
be for the fiscal year commencing on October 1, 2018.
(Prior Code, § 51.187) (Ord. 18-30, passed 9-4-2018)
§ 51.198 SURCHARGE FEE SCHEDULE ESTABLISHED.
   (A)   A monthly stormwater utility surcharge is hereby assessed against all
property within the city and extra-territorial jurisdiction, upon which
stormwater runoff enters of travels through a city system. Such surcharge fee
is based upon a determination of the size, zoning and use type for each
property. The owner, occupant and any person who is responsible for the payment
of water and/or sewer service to the property shall all be jointly and
severally responsible for the payment of said surcharge fee. Persons
responsible for the payment of water and/or sewer service to the property shall
include the person responsible for payment for water provided to a master meter
that is then distributed to multiple users, whether or not said users are
located on the same property as the master meter.
   (B)   The surcharge fee shall be as follows.
      (1)   All property devoted to a residential use shall be assessed a
monthly surcharge fee as set by resolution. The term RESIDENTIAL shall include
single-family homes, mobile homes and mobile home parks, duplexes and apartment
units. The term RESIDENTIAL shall not include rooming or boarding houses,
dormitories and similar facilities. The term LIVING UNIT shall mean one or more
rooms in a residential building which are arranged, designed, used or intended
for use by one family, and which includes cooking space and lawful sanitary
facilities reserved for the occupants thereof.
      (2)   Property devoted to any use other than residential, as set forth
above shall be assessed a monthly surcharge fee as set by resolution.
(Prior Code, § 51.188) (Ord. 18-30, passed 9-4-2018)
§ 51.199 BILLS.
   Bills shall be rendered monthly as provided in §§
51.179 and
52.131 of this code and shall be collected as a combined utility bill.
(Prior Code, § 51.189) (Ord. 18-30, passed 9-4-2018)
§ 51.200 DELINQUENT ACCOUNTS; LIEN AGAINST PROPERTY.
   In the event any person, except the United States and the state or any
political subdivision thereof, shall fail to pay the surcharge fee when due,
water service shall be terminated as provided in §§
51.179 and
52.132 of this code. All charges prescribed by this subchapter shall be a lien
upon the premises and real estate for which the sewer service is supplied and
used and if not paid when due such charge shall be certified to the Finance
Director and may be recovered by the city in an action at law and such
delinquent charges may be certified to the County Clerk and assessed against
the real estate and premises served and be collected and returned in the same
manner as other city taxes are certified, collected and returned.
(Prior Code, § 51.190) (Ord. 18-30, passed 9-4-2018)
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
§ 51.215 POWER OF EMPLOYEES TO ENTER PREMISES; LIABILITY.
   Authorized employees of the city bearing proper credentials and
identification shall be permitted to enter all properties for the purposes of
inspection, observation, measurement, sampling and testing in accordance with
the provisions of this chapter. Employees of the city shall not, however, have
the authority to inquire into any processes including metallurgical, chemical,
oil, refining, ceramic, paper or other industries beyond that point having a
direct bearing on the kind and source of discharge to the sewers or waterways
or facilities for waste treatment. While performing the necessary work on
private properties referred to in division (A) above, the duly authorized
employees of the city shall observe all safety rules applicable to the premises
established by the company, and the company shall be held harmless for injury
or death to the city employees. The city shall indemnify the company against
loss or damage to its property by city employees and against liability claims
and demands for personal injury or property damage asserted against the company
and growing out of the gauging and sampling operation, except as such may be
caused by negligence or failure of the company to maintain safe conditions as
required in §
51.138 of this code.
(Prior Code, § 51.195) (Ord. 03-39, passed 11-17-2003)
§ 51.216 INSPECTOR’S POWER TO ENTER PRIVATE PROPERTIES.
   Duly authorized employees of the city bearing proper credentials and
identification shall be permitted to enter all private properties through which
the city holds a duly negotiated easement for the purpose of, but not limited
to inspection, observation, measurement, sampling, repair and maintenance of
any portion of the sewage works lying within the easement. All entry and
subsequent work, if any, on the easement shall be done in full accordance with
the terms of the duly negotiated easement pertaining to the private property
involved.
(Prior Code, § 51.196) (Ord. 3059, passed 10-7-1985; Ord. 03-39, passed 11-17-
2003)
GREASE (FATS, OIL AND GREASE) MANAGEMENT PROGRAM
§ 51.230 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AUTOMATIC GREASE REMOVAL DEVICE. A plumbing appurtenance that is installed
in a sanitary drainage system to intercept free-flowing fats, oils and grease
from wastewater discharge. Such a device operates on a time- or event-
controlled basis and has the ability to remove free-floating fats, oils and
grease automatically without intervention from the user, except for
maintenance.
   FACILITIES. Any commercial food service business engaged in food prep and
sales. Including, but not limited to, any building, structure, sewer lines,
sewer mains, vaults, appliances, attachments, equipment, structures, manholes
and other like equipment, fixtures and appurtenances used in connection with
transmitting, supplying or furnishing sanitary sewage services.
   GREASE INTERCEPTOR. A plumbing appurtenance that is installed in a sanitary
drainage system to intercept oily and greasy wastes from a wastewater
discharge. Such device has the ability to intercept free-flowing fats and oils.
   GREASE-LADEN WASTE. Effluent discharge that is produced from food
processing, food preparation or other sources where grease, fats and oils enter
automatic dishwater pre-rinse stations, sinks or other appurtenances.
(Prior Code, § 51.200) (Ord. 18-29, passed 9-4-2018)
§ 51.231 GREASE DISCHARGE PERMIT REQUIRED; APPLICATION; TERM.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate a facility in which
grease-laden waste is produced without obtaining a valid grease discharge
permit for the facility. Provided that, FACILITY shall not include any
individual dwelling unit as such term is defined by the latest adopted Building
Code of the city.
   (B)   The owner, manager or agent of a facility, shall make written
application to the Director of Public Works, or his or her designee, on the
form furnished by the city. The application shall be accompanied by the
appropriate fee. Such permit fee will be set in accordance with the city’s fee
schedule as set by resolution. Permits issued pursuant to this subchapter are
nontransferable. A new permit application and fee shall be required for each
change of ownership of a licensed facility.
   (C)   The owner, manager or agent of a facility must submit a complete
application and registration fee prior to producing any grease-laden waste at
the facility.
   (D)   The term of the permit shall be from January 1 through December 31 of
each calendar year. Permit fees shall not be prorated for permits in effect for
less than the full calendar year.
   (E)   The Director of Public Works, or his or her designee, shall issue or
renew a permit for a facility that complies with the terms of this subchapter.
The Director of Public Works may modify the terms and conditions of any permit,
in order to protect the sanitary sewer system. The permit holder shall receive
at least a 30-day notice of such modification, except in the event of an
emergency.
   (F)   The permit fee, as set by resolution, shall be for each grease
interceptor and automatic grease removal device used at a facility. The permit
fee shall be doubled if the permit is not obtained or renewed, or the fee is
not paid, within 30 days of when the permit or fee is required.
(Prior Code, § 51.201) (Ord. 18-29, passed 9-4-2018)
§ 51.232 CONDITIONS OF THE GREASE DISCHARGE PERMIT.
   Each facility with a grease discharge permit is subject to the following
requirements, and such requirements shall apply to the issuance, and the
continued validity, of such permit.
   (A)   Each facility shall install and maintain grease interceptors or
automatic grease removal devices as required by the latest adopted Plumbing
Code of the city. If the facility’s existing grease interceptors or automatic
grease removal devices are not adequately sized for the facility’s activities,
the facility shall replace the devices to meet the requirements of the latest
adopted Plumbing Code of the city.
   (B)   The permit holder shall maintain, and shall require all employees,
agents and other representatives to maintain, the grease interceptors and
automatic grease removal devices in accordance with the requirements of this
subchapter and the grease (fats, oils and greases) management program.
   (C)   The permit holder shall allow the facility to be inspected by the
city, and the permit holder shall make the grease interceptors and automatic
grease removal devices accessible and exposed for inspection purposes, in
connection with the issuance or renewal of a grease discharge permit, or at any
reasonable time, without prior notice, to confirm the permit holder’s
compliance with this subchapter. Such inspections may include measuring,
testing or sampling.
(Prior Code, § 51.202) (Ord. 18-29, passed 9-4-2018)
§ 51.233 MAINTENANCE OF GREASE INTERCEPTORS AND DEVICES; BEST MANAGEMENT
PRACTICES; INSPECTION.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to discharge grease-laden waste
into the sanitary sewer collection system. It shall be unlawful for the permit
holder to direct or allow any person to discharge grease-laden waste into the
sanitary sewer collection system.
   (B)   The grease interceptors and automatic grease removal devices shall be
maintained to ensure that they operate continually, effectively and as
designed.
   (C)   If grease-laden waste spills onto the public right-of-way, parking
area, driveway or other location that may cause run-off into the stormwater
system, the spill shall be immediately cleaned-up in a manner that complies
with state and federal guidelines. The permit holder shall notify the Director
of Public Works, or his or her designee, that such spill occurred by the next
business day. If the permit holder fails to clean the spill to the city’s
satisfaction, the spill constitutes and shall be treated as a nuisance pursuant
to
Ch. 92 of this code.
   (D)   The permit holder shall have all grease interceptors and automatic
grease removal devices inspected by a city-licensed plumber annually. An
inspection fee will be set in accordance with the city’s fee schedule as set by
resolution. The results of the inspection shall be reported on a form produced
by the city and shall be submitted to the city within 15 days of the inspection
date. If the licensed plumber notes deficiencies in a grease interceptor or
automatic grease removal device, the permit holder shall make necessary repairs
to ensure compliance with this subchapter within 30 days of the date of the
inspection, unless an extension is approved by the Director of Public Works.
The permit holder shall provide documentation of such repairs to the Director
of Public Works, and allow inspections thereof, within 15 days of the
completion of the repairs. If the permit holder fails to meet the reporting
deadlines, the permit holder shall owe and pay a late fee as may be set by
resolution for these provisions.
(Prior Code, § 51.203) (Ord. 18-29, passed 9-4-2018) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.234 DENIAL, SUSPENSION OR REVOCATION OF PERMIT.
   (A)   The Director of Public Works may deny, revoke or suspend a license for
any of the following reasons:
      (1)   Failure to submit a complete application or pay any fees;
      (2)   Fraud, misrepresentation or false statement in the permit
application, inspection, and/or repair records; or
      (3)   Failure to comply with any of the provisions of this subchapter or
city ordinance.
   (B)   Such denial, revocation or suspension shall not become effective until
the applicant/permit holder has been served with a notice of such. The notice
shall state the reason for noncompliance and include a time period for the
applicant/permit holder to comply. Service may be accomplished by personal
service, service by restricted mail showing the date and to whom the mail was
delivered, or by regular mail if restricted mail has been refused by the
addressee. Service by personal service or by restricted mail shall be deemed
complete as of the date of such service. Service by regular mail shall be
deemed complete three days after the city has placed the notice in the U.S.
mail. Such notice shall inform the applicant/permit holder of the action taken
and shall notify the person of the right to appeal. If the application/permit
holder elects to appeal a written appeal shall be delivered to the City Clerk
within 20 days from the date of the denial, revocation or suspension. Hearing
on the appeal before the City Administrator shall take place within 15 days
from the date of receipt of the written appeal. If a written appeal is filed,
such action shall be stayed until the final written decision on the appeal is
rendered.
   (C)   In any suspension of the license, the Director of Public Works may
place such conditions upon the suspension as it deems advisable, including the
continued production of grease-laden waste under the stated provisions. Any
conditions of the suspension shall be set forth in the notice.
(Prior Code, § 51.204) (Ord. 18-29, passed 9-4-2018)
§ 51.235 EMERGENCY SUSPENSION.
   The Director of Public Works may immediately suspend the wastewater
treatment service when, in the option of the Director, such suspension is
necessary to stop an actual or threatened discharge which presents or may
present an imminent or substantial danger to the public health, safety and
welfare, or to prevent interference with, or a threat to, the sanitary sewer
collection system. If the person or permit holder notified of such suspension
fails to comply with the order, the Director of Public Works may take steps
necessary to block or sever the connection to the sanitary sewer collection
system. The person or permit holder may file a written appeal to such order
with the city of the order being made. The service shall remain suspended
during the appeal period. Service shall be re-stated when the condition causing
the threat is corrected, or if the person successfully appeals the Directorof
Public Works’ order.
(Prior Code, § 51.205) (Ord. 18-29, passed 9-4-2018)
§ 51.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person found to be violating any provision of this chapter, except
§
51.001, shall be served by the city with written notice stating the nature of
the violation and providing a reasonable time limit for the satisfactory
correction thereof. The offender shall, within the period of time stated in the
notice, permanently cease all violations.
   (B)   Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall
become liable to the city for any expense, loss or damage occasioned by reason
of the violation.
   (C)   Any person who shall continue any violation beyond the time limit
provided for in § ___ shall be guilty of a misdemeanor, and on conviction
thereof shall be fined in the amount in accordance with §
10.99. Each day in which any such violation shall continue shall be deemed a
separate offense.
   (D)   Failure to comply with the provisions of §§
51.230 through
51.235 by any person or entity shall be deemed a public offense, punishable by
a fine in an amount as may be set by resolution per each violation. Each day
that the violation continues, shall be deemed a separate and distinct offense.
Any penalty imposed by this provision shall be in addition to any other remedy
at law or equity available to the city arising out of applicant’s activities in
the public right-of-way.
CHAPTER 52: WATER
Section
General Provisions
   
52.001   Definitions
   
52.002   Agreement for service
   
52.003   Public fire hydrants
   
52.004   Pipes and boilers; construction
   
52.005   City may suspend use of water
   
52.006   Right of city to shut off water
   
52.007   Notice when premises vacated
   
52.008   Right of entry to examine fixtures and the like
   
52.009   Damage to water utility system
   
52.010   Violations
Service
   
52.025   Application for permits
   
52.026   Connections; when required
   
52.027   Turning water on and off
   
52.028   Prohibited water uses
   
52.029   Restricted use of municipal water system
   
52.030   Drawing water from water utility system
   
52.031   Maintenance of service lines
   
52.032   Abandonment of service lines
   
52.033   Fire connections
   
52.034   Pipes; serving more than one premises
Meters
   
52.045   Meters required
   
52.046   Location
   
52.047   Out of repair
   
52.048   Reading
   
52.049   Radio-read devices required
   
52.050   Testing
Mains Constructed By Private Parties
   
52.065   Water mains; city standards
   
52.066   Plans signed by engineer
   
52.067   Review and approval of plans
   
52.068   Cost to review plans
   
52.069   Workmanship and materials
   
52.070   Water main inspection and approval
   
52.071   Commencement of service
Backflow Prevention
   
52.085   Title
   
52.086   Policy and purpose
   
52.087   Responsibility
   
52.088   Surveys and investigations
   
52.089   Where protection is required
   
52.090   Type of protection required
   
52.091   Backflow prevention devices
   
52.092   Booster pumps
   
52.093   Yard hydrants
   
52.094   Fire suppression system
   
52.095   Violations
   
52.096   Approval standards
Regulations
   
52.110   Service pipes; tapping
   
52.111   Corporation stops
   
52.112   Curb stops; stop boxes
   
52.113   Pipes; depth laid
   
52.114   Pipes; digging near
   
52.115   Pipes; equipment
   
52.116   Excavations
   
52.117   Tapping mains or distributing pipes
   
52.118   Exposure of water pipes to frost
Rates; Charges; Fees
   
52.130   Rates
   
52.131   Rates; when due
   
52.132   Rates; lien
   
52.133   Minimum rates; consumer liability
   
52.134   Fee schedules for filling consumer’s tanks with water from city water
system
   
52.135   Water meters and miscellaneous charges
   
52.136   Water rates for building under construction
   
52.137   Tapping expense; special connection charges
   
52.138   Connection outside city limits; special connection charge
Water Wells
   
52.150   Water system encroachment
Institutional Control Area
   
52.165   Contaminated groundwater; findings and intent
   
52.166   Connection to public water system required; domestic water wells
allowed under certain circumstances
   
52.167   Declaration of the city’s institutional control area
   
52.168   Registration of existing water wells within the institutional control
area
   
52.169   Registration of existing water wells; information required
   
52.170   Required warning signs in the institutional control area
   
52.171   Nuisance
   
52.172   Prohibited acts
   
52.173   Violation
 
   
52.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 52.001 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AIR GAP SEPARATION. The unobstructed vertical distance through the free
atmosphere between the lowest opening of any pipe or faucet supplying water to
a tank, plumbing fixture or other device and flood level rim of the receptacle.
An approved air-gap shall be at least double the diameter of the supply pipe,
measured vertically, above the top of the rim of the receptacle and in no case
less than one inch.
   ANTISIPHON VACUUM BREAKER. A device which restricts the backflow of water
into a potable water system by a simple check valve. The vacuum is broken by
allowing air to enter upstream of the check valve.
   APPROVED. A backflow prevention device or method has been accepted by the
Director of Public Works as being suitable for the intended use.
   AUXILIARY WATER SYSTEM. Any water supply system available to the premises
other than the public water supply system and includes the water supplied by
the system. These AUXILIARY WATER SYSTEMS may include: Water from another
owner’s public water supply system; polluted or contaminated water; process
fluids; used water; or other sources of water which the owner of the public
water supply system does not have sanitary control.
   BACKFLOW or BACKSIPHONAGE. The flow of water or other liquids, mixtures or
substances into the water distribution system from any other source than the
intended source of the potable water supply.
   BACKFLOW PREVENTION ASSEMBLY. Any device, method or type of construction
intended to prevent backflow into a potable water system. Devices such as an
approved air-cap, double check valve assembly, antisiphon vacuum breaker or a
reduced pressure principle device can be used which have been approved by the
Director of Public Works.
   CITY. The City of Columbus, Nebraska, or the City Council and any department
or employee designated by the city to carry out any of the functions assigned
to the city under the terms of this subchapter.
   COMPLIANCE DATE. The date in which all existing wells within the
institutional control area shall be in compliance with this subchapter.
   CONTAMINATION. An impairment of the quality of the water by sewage or waste
to a degree which could cause an actual hazard to the public health through
poisoning or through spread of disease by exposure.
   CONTAMINATED WATER OR GROUNDWATER. The water or groundwater shall be deemed
contaminated if testing results show that the amount of any element, substance,
compound or mixture, including disease-causing agents, exceeds the maximum
contaminant level established for such substance under the drinking water
standards established by Title 179, Neb. Admin. Code, Ch. 2 (State Safe
Drinking Water Act).
   CROSS-CONNECTION. Any arrangement whereby contamination due to backflow or
backsiphonage can occur.
   CUSTOMER. The owner or person in control of any premises supplied by or in
any manner connected to a public water supply system.
   CUSTOMER’S WATER SUPPLY SYSTEM. Any water supply system located on the
customer’s premises, supplied by or in any manner connected to a public water
supply system. A household plumbing system is considered to be a CUSTOMER’S
WATER SUPPLY SYSTEM. A fire suppression system is also considered a CUSTOMER’S
WATER SUPPLY SYSTEM.
   DEGREE OF HAZARD. A term derived from an evaluation of the potential risk to
health and the adverse effects upon the potable water system.
   DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES. The State of Nebraska Department of
Health and Human Services.
   DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC WORKS. The city’s Public Works Department, which is
generally charged with the functions of planning, compliance, wellhead
protection, water utility service and water treatment production, operations
and maintenance.
   DIRECTOR OF PUBLIC WORKS. The person designated by the city to supervise the
operations of the Public Works/Environmental Services Department and who is
charged with certain duties and responsibilities by this subchapter. Also
referred to as “the Director.”
   DOMESTIC USE. Any use of groundwater required for human needs of health and
sanitation including, but not limited to, drinking, cooking, washing, bathing,
showering and other similar household uses of water.
   DOMESTIC WATER WELL. Any water well providing water to any water supply
system furnishing water for human consumption, with the exception of a public
water supply system, or for the watering of livestock, poultry, farm and
domestic animals used in operating a farm or for the irrigation of lands not
exceeding a total of two acres in area.
   DOUBLE CHECK VALVE ASSEMBLY. An assembly composed of two single,
independently acting check valves, including 100% closing shutoff ball valves
located at each end of the assembly and suitable connections for testing the
watertightness of each check valve.
   HEALTH HAZARD. Any condition, device or practice in a water system or its
operation that creates a real or potential danger to the health and well-being
of the customer.
   INSTITUTIONAL CONTROL AREA. An area wherein contaminated soils and/or
groundwater are located and which has been designated by city ordinance as an
institutional control area.
   INTERCHANGEABLE CONNECTION. An arrangement or device that will allow
alternate but not simultaneous uses of two sources of water.
   LICENSED PLUMBER. A person who has obtained the appropriate license from the
Chief Building and Code Inspector to perform plumbing-related work within the
city limits.
   NONPOTABLE WATER. Water that is not safe for drinking, personal or culinary
use or which does not meet the requirements of the Nebraska Department of
Health.
   OWNER. The person delivering water through a public water supply system. The
OWNER is the city operating through the Department of Public Works.
   PERSON. Any person, whether one or more, and any corporation, partnership,
limited liability company, limited liability partnership or other entity.
   PLUMBING HAZARD. A plumbing type cross-connection in a customer’s potable
water system that has not been properly protected by air gap separation or
backflow prevention devices.
   POLLUTION. The presence in water of any foreign substance (organic,
inorganic or biological) that degrades the quality of water to a degree which
does not necessarily cause an actual hazard to the public health, but which
does adversely and unreasonably affect the waters for any desired use.
   POLLUTION HAZARD. A condition through which an aesthetically objectionable
or degrading material, not dangerous to health may enter the public water
supply system or the customer’s water supply system.
   POTABLE WATER. Water which is satisfactory for drinking, culinary and
domestic purposes and meets the requirements of the Nebraska Department of
Health and Human Services.
   PUBLIC WATER SUPPLY SYSTEM. A water supply system designed and intended to
provide potable water to a designated customer. The water supply shall include
the water supply source and distribution piping network. The water supply
source is defined as an artificial or natural accumulation of water used to
supply the potable water system. The distribution piping network includes all
piping, pumping and treatment devices used to convey an adequate quality and
quantity of potable water to the customer.
   PUBLIC WATER SUPPLY WELL. Any water well designed and used to provide water
for a public water supply system which provides the public with piped water fit
for human consumption, where such system has at least 15 service connections or
regularly serves at least 25 individuals.
   REDUCED PRESSURE ZONE BACKFLOW PREVENTION ASSEMBLY. A device containing a
minimum of two independently acting check valves together with an automatically
operated pressure differential relief valve located between two check valves.
During normal flow and at the cessation of normal flow, the pressure between
these two checks shall be less than the supply pressure. In case of leakage of
either check valve, the differential relief valve, by discharging to the
atmosphere, shall operate to maintain the pressure between the check valves at
less than the supply pressure. The unit must include 100% closing shutoff ball
valves located at each end of the device, and each device shall be fitted with
properly located test cocks.
   SERVICE CONNECTION. The terminal end of a service line from the public water
system. If a meter is installed at the end of the service, then the SERVICE
CONNECTION means the downstream end of the meter.
   SYSTEM HAZARD. A condition posing an actual or potential threat of damage to
the physical properties of the public’s or the customer’s water supply system.
   USED WATER. Any water supplied by the public water supply system to a
customer’s water supply system after it has passed through the service
connection and is no longer under the sanitary control of the water supplier.
   WATER MAIN. Any pipe transporting water produced by one or more public water
supply wells.
   WATER WELL. Any excavation that is drilled, cored, bored, washed, driven,
dug, jetted or otherwise constructed for the purpose of exploring for
groundwater, monitoring groundwater, utilizing the geothermal properties of the
ground, obtaining hydrogeologic information or extracting water from or
injecting water into the underground water reservoir.
   WELL OWNER or OWNER OF A WELL. The person who is the record title owner of
the real estate upon which a well is located.
(Prior Code, §§ 52.077, 52.140) (Ord. 95-38, passed 12-18-1995)
§ 52.002 AGREEMENT FOR SERVICE.
   The rules, regulations, water rates and other provisions of this chapter
pertaining to the relations between the city and consumers shall be considered
to be a part of the contract between the city and every person supplied with
water through the Department of Public Works and every person taking such water
shall be held to consent to be bound thereby. All rates, charges or fees
pertaining to the public water supply within the city and the city’s zoning
jurisdiction shall be as set by resolution.
(Prior Code, § 52.001) (Ord. 90-56, passed 11-5-1990; Ord. 03-40, passed 11-17-
2003)
§ 52.003 PUBLIC FIRE HYDRANTS.
   All hydrants erected in the city for the purpose of extinguishing fire are
hereby declared to be public hydrants. It shall be unlawful for anyone, except
Fire Department or Department of Public Works authorized personnel to obstruct
a public hydrant, open any of such hydrants, attempt to draw water from the
same, or in any manner interfere with the same.
(Prior Code, § 52.002) (Ord. 3060, passed 10-7-1985; Ord. 03-40, passed 11-17-
2003) Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.004 PIPES AND BOILERS; CONSTRUCTION.
   All house boilers shall be constructed with one or more air holes near the
top of the inlet pipe and in sufficiently good order and repair and protect the
same from frost at their own risk and expense, and shall prevent all
unnecessary waste of water; and it is hereby expressly stipulated by the city
that no claim shall be made against them by reason of the breaking of any
service cock, pipe or other apparatus, or if from any cause the supply of water
should fail, or for damage arising from shutting off water to make repairs,
connections or extensions of mains, or for any other purpose as may be deemed
necessary; and the right is hereby reserved to cut off the supply of water at
any time, any permit to the contrary notwithstanding.
(Prior Code, § 52.003) (Ord. 3060, passed 10-7-1985; Ord. 03-40, passed 11-17-
2003) Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.005 CITY MAY SUSPEND USE OF WATER.
   The City Administrator or representative may declare a water emergency. No
person shall use water furnished by the city for the purpose of watering lawns,
gardens, trees or shrubs during a declared water emergency. The water emergency
declaration may restrict additional water uses as necessitated by the severity
of the water emergency. The water use restrictions may apply city-wide, to
either one of the city’s two water pressure zones, or such other area as
delineated by the water emergency declaration.
(Prior Code, § 52.004) (Ord. 3060, passed 10-7-1985)
§ 52.006 RIGHT OF CITY TO SHUT OFF WATER.
   The city may shut off the water supply at any time, from any or all
premises, to repair the plant, pumps or mains, to make extensions or
connections, or for violations of this chapter or failure to pay water charges,
or for any other purpose that may be deemed necessary by the Director of Public
Works, any permit granted to the contrary notwithstanding, and no claim for
damages shall be made against the city or the Director of Public Works on
account of any such shutoff or on account of a failure of the water supply from
any cause.
(Prior Code, § 52.005) (Ord. 3060, passed 10-7-1985)
§ 52.007 NOTICE WHEN PREMISES VACATED.
   If any consumer of city water shall move from the premises for which water
is being supplied by the city, or if such premises shall be destroyed by fire,
such consumer shall notify the Director of Public Works thereof, who shall
cause the water to be shut off from such premises.
(Prior Code, § 52.006)
§ 52.008 RIGHT OF ENTRY TO EXAMINE FIXTURES AND THE LIKE.
   All consumers of water shall permit an authorized employee or representative
of the city, any time between the hours of 7:00 a.m. and 6:00 p.m. and any
other times as necessary during emergencies, to enter their premises or
buildings for the purpose of testing meters, or to examine the pipes, meters or
other fixtures pertaining to the water utility system, and the manner in which
the water is issued, and must at all times, without concealment, answer all
questions relative to its consumption.
(Prior Code, § 52.007) (Ord. 3060, passed 10-7-1985; Ord. 03-40, passed 11-17-
2003) Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.009 DAMAGE TO WATER UTILITY SYSTEM.
   No person shall willfully or carelessly break, damage or deface, interfere
with or disturb any building, machinery, apparatus, fixture, attachment or
appurtenance of the water utility system of the city or any public or private
hydrant, hose, stop cock, meter, fountain, water supply, service pipe or any
part thereof. Nor shall any person deposit anything in any stop cock box or
commit any act tending to obstruct or impair the intended use of any of the
above-mentioned property.
(Prior Code, § 52.008) (Ord. 3060, passed 10-7-1985; Ord. 03-40, passed 11-17-
2003) Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.010 VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   Any person found to be violating any provision of this chapter except
§
52.002 of this code shall be served by the city with written notice stating the
nature of the violation and providing a reasonable time limit for the
satisfactory correction thereof. The offender shall, within the period of time
stated in the notice, permanently cease all violations.
   (B)   Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall
become liable to the city for any expense, loss or damage occasioned the city
by reason of the violation.
(Prior Code, § 52.998) Penalty, see §
52.999
SERVICE
§ 52.025 APPLICATION FOR PERMITS.
   Applications for permits to connect, tap, construct, modify or make
attachments to public water shall be made to the Director of Public Works, City
Engineer or Chief Building and Code Inspector. A fee, as set by resolution, to
cover the cost of inspection, recording and other expenses shall accompany such
applications. The application shall show the exact location of the proposed
work, and when requested by the Director of Public Works or Chief Building and
Code Inspector, the plumber shall provide plans or specifications of the
proposed work. When required, an application shall be on file with the Director
of Public Works or Chief Building and Code Inspector 24 hours before issuance
of permit. If work is commenced prior to application for the permit, a fee as
set by resolution, will be assessed. Each permit shall expire six months from
date of issuance.
(Prior Code, § 52.020) (Ord. 3060, passed 10-7-1985; Ord. 03-40, passed 11-17-
2003) Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.026 CONNECTIONS; WHEN REQUIRED.
   The owners of all houses, buildings or properties used for human occupancy,
employment, recreation or other purposes situated within the city and whose
property line is within 300 feet of the public water supply is hereby required,
at the owner’s expense, to connect the facilities directly with the proper
public water supply within one year from the date the public water supply
system is constructed.
(Prior Code, § 52.021) Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.027 TURNING WATER ON AND OFF.
   (A)   Consumers and plumbers are prohibited from turning the water into any
service pipe except on the order of the Director of Public Works; provided,
that this rule shall not be construed to prevent licensed plumbers from
admitting water to test pipes, but for that purpose only. The Director of
Public Works shall not order water to be supplied into any house or service
pipe, whether new or existing construction, until the water system to be served
has been inspected and approved by the Chief Building and Code Inspector or
that official’s designated representative.
   (B)   Whenever a consumer of city water requests that the water lines be
turned on or turned off, the water shall be turned off from the building.
Further, the water request shall not be turned on again except by order of the
Director of Public Works and upon payment of a sum as set by resolution for the
turning on or turning off of the water as such is applicable and upon such
other terms. Failure to pay the same shall result, at the discretion of the
city, in the shutting off of the water on any property or building for
nonpayment of these fees.
(Prior Code, § 52.022) (Ord. 3060, passed 10-7-1985; Ord. 03-40, passed 11-17-
2003) Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.028 PROHIBITED WATER USES.
   Any person using city water is prohibited from opening any hydrant, tap or
other connection of any description during the progress of any fire within the
city, and it is hereby made the duty of all customers, upon the sounding of the
fire siren, to immediately close and keep closed all water taps until the fire
shall have been extinguished.
(Prior Code, § 52.023) (Ord. 03-40, passed 11-17-2003) Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.029 RESTRICTED USE OF MUNICIPAL WATER SYSTEM.
   The City Council or Director of Public Works may order a reduction in the
use of water or shut off the water on any premises in the event of a water
shortage due to fire or other good and sufficient cause. The city shall not be
liable for any damages caused by shutting off the supply of water of any
customer while the system or any part thereof is undergoing repairs or when
there is a shortage of water due to circumstances over which the city has no
control.
(Prior Code, § 52.024) (Ord. 3060, passed 10-7-1985; Ord. 03-40, passed 11-17-
2003)
§ 52.030 DRAWING WATER FROM WATER UTILITY SYSTEM.
   Any person, other than members of the Fire Department, drawing water from
the waterworks system of the city or any fire hydrant shall draw the water only
from a location which is provided with a backflow preventer or vacuum breaker,
which backflow preventer or vacuum breaker shall be approved by the Chief
Building and Code Inspector. Any person drawing water from a location not
provided with a backflow preventer or vacuum breaker shall be in violation of
this section and shall be subject to the penalty provided in §
52.999.
(Prior Code, § 52.025) (Ord. 3060, passed 10-7-1985; Ord. 03-40, passed 11-17-
2003) Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.031 MAINTENANCE OF SERVICE LINES.
   Owners of premises and customers shall be required to install and maintain,
at their cost, all service lines from the public water main to the customer’s
meter. Any cost that the city may incur in repairing the service lines,
including, but not limited to replacement of street surfacing, replacement of
sod, cost of labor and materials and all other costs reasonably incurred in the
repairing of the service lines shall be promptly remitted to the city by the
property owner customer, or both the property owner and customer. Upon a water
service line leaking, the city shall send to the property owner, by next day
priority mail, a certified letter providing that the property owner shall have
24 hours to repair the line, and if not repaired within the 24-hour period, the
city shall cause the line to be repaired with the costs of time, material and
water loss billed to the property owner.
(Prior Code, § 52.026) (Ord. 95-05, passed 1-16-1995; Ord. 03-40, passed 11-17-
2003) Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.032 ABANDONMENT OF SERVICE LINES.
   All abandoned service lines must be terminated and capped at the tap on the
main water line.
(Prior Code, § 52.027) Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.033 FIRE CONNECTIONS.
   Proprietors of business establishments will be permitted to connect the
establishments by large pipes with hydrants and hose couplings with the water
mains at their own expense upon application to the City Engineer and Chief
Building and Code Inspector and under supervision of the Director of Public
Works and will be allowed to use the water from such taps for fire protection
only.
(Prior Code, § 52.028) (Ord. 3060, passed 10-7-1985; Ord. 03-40, passed 11-17-
2003) Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.034 PIPES; SERVING MORE THAN ONE PREMISES.
   When one service pipe supplies two or more distinct premises or tenements,
there shall be provided, subject to the supervision of the Director of Public
Works, a separate stop for each of the premises or tenements so that the water
may be shut off from the one without interfering with the supply of the others.
(Prior Code, § 52.029) (Ord. 3060, passed 10-7-1985; Ord. 03-40, passed 11-17-
2003) Penalty, see §
52.999
METERS
§ 52.045 METERS REQUIRED.
   All water sold by the city to any customer shall be measured by a water
meter. This water meter is the property of the city and will be maintained by
the city. All charges for water sold shall be based upon meter measure.
(Prior Code, § 52.040)
§ 52.046 LOCATION.
   Every water meter shall be placed so that it may be easily examined and read
by an authorized agent of the city, and the owner or tenant shall provide such
person ready and convenient access to said meter. Every meter shall be placed
no more than 36 inches above the floor level and a minimum of 24 inches of
unobstructed space from the outer side of the meter for maintenance and repair.
No meter pits shall be allowed without the approval of the Director of Public
Works.
(Prior Code, § 52.041) (Ord. 03-40, passed 11-17-2003) Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.047 OUT OF REPAIR.
   Should any water meter become out of repair and fail to register correctly,
the Department of Public Works shall remove, repair, test and reinstall a meter
and the customer shall be charged at the rate of average monthly consumption as
shown by the meter when in good working order for the time the meter is out of
order.
(Prior Code, § 52.042) (Ord. 03-40, passed 11-17-2003)
§ 52.048 READING.
   It shall be the duty of the Department of Public Works to read and inspect
all water meters throughout the city. A billing statement showing the
consumption of water in gallons shall be provided to the customer.
(Prior Code, § 52.043) (Ord. 3060, passed 10-7-1985; Ord. 03-40, passed 11-17-
2003)
§ 52.049 RADIO-READ DEVICES REQUIRED.
   All water meters required pursuant to this chapter shall be equipped with a
radio-read device to enable the Department of Public Works to take meter
readings without having to enter the premises. Existing water meters shall be
so equipped by the Department of Public Works as soon as practicable. All
radio-reading devices and water meters shall remain the property of the city
and shall be maintained by the city.
(Prior Code, § 52.044) (Ord. 3060, passed 10-7-1985; Ord. 03-40, passed 11-17-
2003)
§ 52.050 TESTING.
   The city reserves the right to set meters to any service pipe whenever there
is any doubt as to the quantity of water consumed or wasted, and in that event
the measurement of the test meter shall be accepted as accurate.
(Prior Code, § 52.045) (Ord. 03-40, passed 11-17-2003)
MAINS CONSTRUCTED BY PRIVATE PARTIES
§ 52.065 WATER MAINS; CITY STANDARDS.
   The design and construction of all water mains connected, either directly or
indirectly, by private persons or entities, to the existing city water system
shall meet all standards and specifications established by the City Engineer.
(Prior Code, § 52.055)
§ 52.066 PLANS SIGNED BY ENGINEER.
   All water main construction plans and specifications shall bear the
signature and seal of a registered professional engineer licensed to practice
in the State of Nebraska who has prepared them.
(Prior Code, § 52.056)
§ 52.067 REVIEW AND APPROVAL OF PLANS.
   All water main construction plans and specifications shall be reviewed and
approved by the City Engineer. Prior to commencement of construction, the
entity constructing the water main shall obtain a construction permit from the
Nebraska Department of Health and Human Services after the water main
construction plans and specifications have been approved as set forth above and
before any water main construction work has commenced.
(Prior Code, § 52.057) Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.068 COST TO REVIEW PLANS.
   The city may charge a fee as set by resolution to review plans submitted by
persons or entities proposing to construct water sewer storm sewer, paving and
any other related site development.
(Prior Code, § 52.058)
§ 52.069 WORKMANSHIP AND MATERIALS.
   (A)   All workmanship and materials shall comply fully with the requirements
of the approved plans and specifications. If at any time within one year after
the date of the final inspection any defect shall appear which in the opinion
of the City Engineer is due to inferior materials or workmanship, the property
owner shall do whatever is necessary to remedy the defect at no cost to the
city.
   (B)   The Director of Public Works or City Engineer will notify the property
owner in writing of the defects and repairs to be made. If the party notified
fails to commence repairs within ten days, the city may cause the defects to be
remedied and charge the costs and expense involved to the property owner. The
contractor surety shall not be relieved until the defects or repairs are
corrected, approved and a written release is furnished to the surety by the
city.
(Prior Code, § 52.059) Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.070 WATER MAIN INSPECTION AND APPROVAL.
   The City Engineer shall investigate and approve or reject the laying of all
water mains. The city shall have the right to enter property containing water
mains at all reasonable hours for inspection and investigation purposes.
(Prior Code, § 52.060)
§ 52.071 COMMENCEMENT OF SERVICE.
   Before any water main which is constructed by a private person or entity and
connected to the city water system will be accepted and service commenced, the
following requirements must be met.
   (A)   The water mains must pass all pressure tests required by either the
Department of Public Works or the City Engineer.
   (B)   The water mains must pass all water quality tests required by the city
and the Nebraska Department of Health and Human Services.
   (C)   The registered professional engineer licensed to practice in the State
of Nebraska must inspect and approve the water main and issue a certificate of
completion attesting that the water mains were constructed in accordance with
the water main construction plans and specifications.
   (D)   The PW/ES Director and City Engineer must accept the engineer’s
certificate of completion.
   (E)   Records must be presented to the City Engineer and Nebraska Department
of Health and Human Services in hard copy format and an acceptable computer
aided drafting format within 60 days of city acceptance of the project.
(Prior Code, § 52.061)
BACKFLOW PREVENTION
§ 52.085 TITLE.
   This subchapter and any amendments pertaining hereto shall be known as the
Backflow Prevention Ordinance.
(Prior Code, § 52.075) (Ord. 95-38, passed 12-18-1995)
§ 52.086 POLICY AND PURPOSE.
   (A)   The purpose of this subchapter is to protect the public water supply
system of the city from the possibility of contamination by isolating real or
potential sources of contamination or pollution which may backflow into the
public water supply system. This subchapter provides for the maintenance of a
continuing program of cross-connection control which will systematically and
effectively prevent the contamination or pollution of the potable water supply
systems.
   (B)   The Director of Public Works shall be responsible for the
implementation of the cross-connection control program as outlined within this
subchapter. If, in the judgment of the Director of Public Works, an approved
backflow prevention assembly is required for the safety of the public water
supply system, then the Director of Public Works shall give notice in writing
to the customer to install the device at each recommended location. The
Director of Public Works shall inspect and approve all installations of the
required backflow prevention assembly. The costs for purchasing, installing and
maintaining a backflow prevention assembly shall be the responsibility and sole
expense of the customer. The installation of backflow prevention assembly,
except for outlet fixture vacuum breakers, shall be by a licensed plumber.
Annual testing of all approved backflow prevention assemblies with test ports,
except on underground lawn sprinkling systems, shall be tested upon initial
installation and annually thereafter by a grade VI water supply operator,
certified by the Nebraska of Health and Human Services as a backflow preventer
test and repair technician. Test results shall be forwarded to the city on a
standard reporting form and signed by the water supply operator. If deemed by
the Director of Public Works that maintenance or repairs are necessary, the
owner shall be contacted and issued an order to make all necessary maintenance
or repairs. The owner shall complete all maintenance or repairs within 30 days.
If not, the owner shall be considered in violation of this subchapter and will
be subject to disconnection of the service.
   (C)   No person shall install or maintain a water service connection
containing cross-connections to a public water supply system or a customer’s
potable water supply system unless the cross-connections are abated or
controlled in accordance with this rule and as required by the laws and
regulations of the Nebraska Department of Health and Human Services.
   (D)   Public water supply customers are required to assess and report
potential backflow hazards on their premises and take the necessary steps for
the protection of the public health and safety as often as required but not
less than every five years. Once backflow and backsiphonage protection
requirements have been determined, customers will have three months to complete
the installation. Failure to comply will result in water shutoff or
implementation of penal provisions.
   (E)   For the purposes of this subchapter, whenever the Director of Public
Works is to make any decision or interpretation or whenever reference is made
to the fact that the Director of Public Works is to exercise judgment, the
decision, interpretation or judgment shall be in accordance with the provisions
of this subchapter and any other applicable provisions of this code, and state
and federal law.
   (F)   Backflow prevention assemblies shall be required on underground lawn
sprinkling systems, but annual testing of these assemblies is not required.
(Prior Code, § 52.076) (Ord. 95-38, passed 12-18-1995) Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.087 RESPONSIBILITY.
   The customer, as defined in §
52.001 of this code, if requested by the Director of Public Works, shall
designate an individual or individuals who shall be responsible for contact and
communications with the Director of Public Works in matters relating to system
alteration and construction, monitoring and sampling, maintenance, operation,
record keeping and reporting as required by law and these regulations. Any
change in assigned responsibilities or designated individuals shall be promptly
reported to the Director of Public Works.
(Prior Code, § 52.078) (Ord. 95-38, passed 12-18-1995)
§ 52.088 SURVEYS AND INVESTIGATIONS.
   (A)   It shall be the responsibility of the water customer to conduct or
cause to be conducted periodic surveys of water use practices on the customer’s
premises as necessary to determine whether there are actual or potential cross-
connections in the customer’s water supply system. The Director of Public Works
shall have the authority to conduct or cause to be conducted periodic surveys
and investigations, of a frequency as determined by the Director of Public
Works, of water use practices within a customer’s premises to determine whether
there are actual or potential cross-connections to the customer’s water supply
system through which contaminants or pollutants could backflow into the public
water supply system. The Director may conduct these surveys to provide
information in determining what level of protection will be necessary to
protect the public health and safety.
   (B)   On request by the Director of Public Works, the customer shall furnish
the Director of Public Works information on water use practices within the
customer’s premises. If the customer refused to submit the property information
or to cooperate in obtaining the proper information, the Director of Public
Works shall treat the premises as if no appropriate cross-connection survey has
been completed, and in such event, the customer shall be required to a licensed
plumber install an approved backflow prevention assembly.
   (C)   The Director of Public Works shall have the right to enter a premises
served by the public water supply system at all reasonable times for the
purpose of making surveys and investigations of water use practices within the
premises. In order to inspect the premises, the Director of Public Works shall
give notice setting forth a proposed date and time to the customer at least ten
days in advance. If the customer cannot make the premises available for
inspection at the proposed date and time, the customer shall contact the
Director of Public Works and arrange for another date and time for the
inspection. If the Director of Public Works and the customer cannot agree on a
date and time, the Director of Public Works shall treat the premises as if no
appropriate cross-connection survey has been completed and, in such event, the
customer shall be required to install an approved backflow prevention device.
   (D)   The Public Property, Safety and Works Committee of the City Council is
hereby appointed as the Hearing Board to hear differences between the Director
of Public Works and the customer on matters concerning interpretation and
execution of the provisions of this subchapter by the Director of Public Works.
Any customer aggrieved by being required to pay the expense of installing,
furnishing and/or maintaining a backflow prevention assembly may, within 14
days of the act or event causing the grievance, request a hearing in writing to
present those grievances to the Hearing Board. The Hearing Board shall schedule
the matter for hearing within 30 days and provide written notice of the meeting
by first class mail to the customer. The notice shall be mailed to the customer
at least seven and not more than 21 days before the hearing. At the hearing,
the customer shall first state the nature of the grievance, and the Director of
Public Works shall be entitled to respond thereto, whereupon the Hearing Board
shall render its decision which will be binding upon the customer and the
Director of Public Works, provided it is in compliance with the Nebraska
Department of Health and Human Services regulations.
(Prior Code, § 52.079) (Ord. 95-38, passed 12-18-1995)
§ 52.089 WHERE PROTECTION IS REQUIRED.
   (A)   An approved backflow prevention assembly shall be installed between
the service connection and the point of potential backflow into a customer’s
water supply system when in the judgment of the Director of Public Works a
health, plumbing, pollution or system hazard exists. The device should be
located after the water meter with a minimum of 12 inches and a maximum of 36
inches from the floor to the drain, a minimum of 12 inches from the well to the
service pipe, adequate bracing to make the unit secure, 24 inches of
unobstructed space from the face of the device for maintenance, repair and
testing. The Director of Public Works may require a strainer and a
manufacturer’s air gap device of approved type and size to be installed. A
manufacturer’s approved air gap device will ensure that the proper air gap is
maintained at all times.
   (B)   Backflow protection requirements of facilities connected to the city
water system at the time of enactment of this code shall require the completion
of appropriate backflow protection measures at these existing facilities in
accordance with the following schedule:
      (1)   Phase I:
         (a)   Hospitals;
         (b)   Dental clinics;
         (c)   Medical clinics;
         (d)   Health clinics;
         (e)   Laboratories;
         (f)   Mortuaries;
         (g)   Nursing homes;
         (h)   Convalescent homes;
         (i)   Pharmaceutical plants;
         (j)   Cosmetic plants;
         (k)   Radioactive materials plants;
         (l)   Veterinary establishments;
         (m)   All city-owned facilities;
         (n)   Premises where, because of security requirements or other
prohibitions, restrictions or other existing conditions, it is impossible or
impractical to make a complete cross-connection premises survey;
         (o)   Automotive service stations;
         (p)   Car washes;
         (q)   Chemical processing plants;
         (r)   Chemical storage plants;
         (s)   Film laboratories;
         (t)   Film development facilities;
         (u)   Laundries;
         (v)   Dry cleaning facilities;
         (w)   Packing facilities;
         (x)   Petroleum processing plants;
         (y)   Petroleum storage plants; and
         (z)   Rendering plants.
      (2)   Phase II:
         (a)   Fire suppression systems;
         (b)   Premises utilizing boilers or water cooling systems;
         (c)   Premises utilizing water recirculating systems and pumps;
         (d)   Beauty salons;
         (e)   Barber shops;
         (f)   Swimming pools with connections to customer service pipes;
         (g)   Feed yards;
         (h)   Stock yards;
         (i)   Kennels; and
         (j)   Pet grooming salons.
      (3)   Phase III:
         (a)   Sand and gravel plants;
         (b)   Food processing plants;
         (c)   Beverage processing plants;
         (d)   Machine tool plants;
         (e)   Dye and metal processing plants;
         (f)   Metal plating plants;
         (g)   Multi-storied buildings greater than three stories in height;
         (h)   Paper product plants;
         (i)   Schools; and
         (j)   Multiple dwelling units served by one water service pipe.
      (4)   Phase IV: All nonresidential and residential facilities not
included in Phases I through III.
   (C)   Upon notification by the city, the owner of an affected facility shall
have 180 days to complete the required backflow protection measures. If the
customer fails to complete protection measures, including submittal of initial
certification test results to the city within 90 days, the water service line
shall be shut off or penal provision enacted.
   (D)   Backflow preventers shall not be located in any area containing fumes
that are toxic, poisonous or corrosive; nor in any area in which they could be
damaged by freezing or by excessively high temperatures or pressures,
vibrations, physical impact or structural stress; nor knowingly be allowed to
conduct highly corrosive or sandy waters without a special testing and
maintenance program to assure proper safe operation.
   (E)   The general and specific installation requirements as set forth in the
most current edition of the Manual of Cross-Connection Control for those
conditions or situations not otherwise provided for herein.
   (F)   Fire protection systems shall be equipped with not less than the
backflow prevention assembly as described in the most current edition of the
American Water Works Association’s Manual of Cross- Connection Control.
Backflow preventers under this regulation and connected to fire protection
systems shall be considered part of those systems. As such, they shall not be
installed, moved, removed, replaced, shut off or in any way altered unless in
strict compliance with the rules and regulations promulgated by the State Fire
Marshal and shall be tested and repaired only by authorized fire protection
system certified testers and a grade VI backflow test and repair technician.
The backflow protection device shall be underwriters laboratory listed.
   (G)   The Nebraska Department of Health and Human Services regulations,
Title 179, Ch. 2, as may be amended from time to time, are hereby fully
incorporated as if set forth herein and are included within the terms and
requirements of this subchapter.
   (H)   The city shall have the authority to issue any order consistent with
the provisions of this subchapter in order to protect the public health and
safety. Any order shall be in writing and shall clearly state the nature of the
order, compliance requirements and set a reasonable date by which compliance
must be met. All orders will be mailed to the customer certified mail, return
receipt requested.
   (I)   When a containment type backflow assembly is installed, a thermo-
expansion device must be provided for within the facility for which such
assembly is installed.
(Prior Code, § 52.080) (Ord. 95-38, passed 12-18-1995) Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.090 TYPE OF PROTECTION REQUIRED.
   (A)   The type of protection required under this subchapter shall depend
upon the degree of hazard that exists as follows.
      (1)   An approved air gap separation or an approved reduced pressure
principle backflow prevention assembly shall be installed where a public water
supply system may be contaminated with any substance that could cause a system
hazard or health hazard.
      (2)   An approved double check valve assembly shall be installed where a
public water supply system may be contaminated with any substance that could
cause a pollution hazard.
      (3)   An approved reduced pressure principle backflow prevention assembly
shall be installed at the service connection where there exists a plumbing
hazard.
      (4)   In the case of any premises where, because of security requirements
or other prohibitions it is impossible or impractical to make a complete cross-
connection survey of the customer’s potable water system, a reduced pressure
principle backflow prevention assembly shall be installed at the service
connection.
   (B)   An approved atmospheric or pressure vacuum breaker may be used as a
backflow prevention assembly where it is not subjected to back pressures. The
above assemblies shall be installed in accordance with the requirements of
Nebraska Department of Health and Human Services.
(Prior Code, § 52.081) (Ord. 95-38, passed 12-18-1995) Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.091 BACKFLOW PREVENTION DEVICES.
   (A)   Any approved backflow prevention assembly required by these provisions
shall be installed at a location and in a manner approved by the Director of
Public Works. For more instructions, see §
52.089, “Where protection is required.” The customer, at the customer’s sole
expense, shall obtain and install the approved backflow prevention device(s)
within 90 days of notice and as directed by the Director.
   (B)   Existing backflow prevention assembly approved by the Director of
Public Works prior to the effective date of this rule and which are properly
maintained shall, except for inspection, testing and maintenance requirements
be excluded from the requirements of these provisions, but only if the Director
of Public Works determines that the devices will satisfactorily protect the
public water supply system and are approved for this installation. One hundred
percent closing shutoff ball valves for testing shall be provided on existing
backflow prevention assembly if deemed necessary for proper testing by the
Director of Public Works. If deemed necessary by the Director of Public Works
that an existing backflow prevention assembly requires replacement, it shall be
replaced with an approved backflow prevention assembly.
(Prior Code, § 52.082) (Ord. 95-38, passed 12-18-1995) Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.092 BOOSTER PUMPS.
   (A)   No person shall install or maintain a water service connection to any
premises where a booster pump has been installed on the service line to or
within the premises, unless the booster pump is equipped with a low pressure
cut-off designed to shut off the booster pump when the pressure in the service
line on the suction side of the pump drops to 20 pounds per square inch gauge
or less.
   (B)   It shall be the duty of the water customer to maintain the low
pressure cut-off device in proper working order.
(Prior Code, § 52.083) (Ord. 95-38, passed 12-18-1995) Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.093 YARD HYDRANTS.
   (A)   Yard hydrants or hose bibs which would be used by the customer to
provide water to mix pesticides, fertilizer or other chemicals for direct use
or aerial application to surface areas shall be equipped with an antisiphon
vacuum breaker or where a cross-connection could occur.
   (B)   All underground lawn and garden sprinkler systems shall be equipped
with an approved backflow prevention device, but annual testing is not
required.
(Prior Code, § 52.084) (Ord. 95-38, passed 12-18-1995) Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.094 FIRE SUPPRESSION SYSTEM.
   (A)   All proposed installations of fire suppression systems shall be
reviewed by the Director of Public Works to determine the appropriate type of
backflow prevention assemblies required.
   (B)   All proposed fire suppression systems requiring an antifreeze solution
shall use a pharmaceutical grade antifreeze. The customer shall provide to the
Director of Public Works annually a certification identifying the type of
pharmaceutical grade antifreeze which is used. A double check valve backflow
prevention device shall be installed in an approved manner.
   (C)   A double check valve of an approved type shall be installed on all
proposed fire suppression systems not utilizing antifreeze, but this may be
done only when there are no other cross-connections.
   (D)   (1)   All existing fire suppression systems shall meet the
requirements of divisions (B) or (C) above, whichever applies. An inspection by
a certified fire suppression specialist shall be done to determine whether
pharmaceutical grade antifreeze(s) have been utilized. This shall be done at
the expense of the customer.
      (2)   If it cannot be certified that only pharmaceutical grade
antifreezes have been used, then a reduced pressure principle backflow
prevention assembly shall be installed as approved by the Director of Public
Works. This also shall be done at the expense of the customer.
   (E)   In the event cross-connections such as those found in using auxiliary
water supply systems or in providing other water additives such as foaming
agents are necessary for the proper operation of the fire suppression system,
then a reduced pressure zone backflow prevention assembly shall be installed in
an approved manner unless the agent possesses a non-health hazard. If the agent
possesses a non-health hazard, then a double check valve assembly can be used.
(Prior Code, § 52.085) (Ord. 95-38, passed 12-18-1995) Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.095 VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   The Director of Public Works shall deny or discontinue, after notice
to the customer thereof, the water service to any premises when the following
occur:
      (1)   Any backflow prevention assembly required by these regulations is
not installed or maintained in a manner acceptable to the Director of Public
Works;
      (2)   It is found that the backflow prevention assembly has been removed
or bypassed;
      (3)   An unprotected cross-connection exists on the premises;
      (4)   A low pressure cut-off required by these provisions is not
installed and maintained in working order; or
      (5)   The Director of Public Works is denied entry to determine
compliance with these regulations.
   (B)   The Director of Public Works shall immediately deny or discontinue,
without notice to the customer thereof, the water service to any premises
wherein a health hazard exists which constitutes an immediate threat to the
safety of the public water system. The Director of Public Works shall notify
the customer within 24 hours of the denial or discontinuation of service.
   (C)   Water service to the premises shall not be restored until the customer
has corrected or eliminated the conditions or defects in conformance with these
regulations and to the satisfaction of the Director of Public Works.
(Prior Code, § 52.086) (Ord. 95-38, passed 12-18-1995)
§ 52.096 APPROVAL STANDARDS.
   (A)   Any backflow prevention assemblies required herein shall be of a model
and size approved by the Director of Public Works. The term APPROVED BACKFLOW
PREVENTION ASSEMBLY shall mean a device that has been manufactured in full
conformance with the standards established by the American Water Works
Associations (AWWA) entitled: Current AWWA C506-69 Standards for Reduced
Pressure Principle and Double Check Valve Backflow Prevention Devices.
   (B)   The standards and specifications have been adopted by the Director of
Public Works. Final approval shall be evidenced by a certificate of approval
issued by an approved testing laboratory certifying full compliance with the
standards and specifications.
   (C)   The Director of Public Works shall keep a current list of all
certified suppliers and their appropriate list of makes and models of backflow
prevention devices which the Director of Public Works has deemed approved.
   (D)   (1)   The Director of Public Works may require a strainer and a
manufacturer’s air gap device of approved type and size to be installed in
conjunction with required backflow prevention devices.
      (2)   The installation of strainers shall preclude the fouling of
backflow device(s) due to foreseen and unforeseen circumstances occurring to
the water supply system such as water main repairs, water main breaks, fires,
periodic cleaning and flushing of mains causing fouling of backflow device(s).
      (3)   A manufacturer’s approved air gap device will ensure that the
proper air gap maintained at all times.
(Prior Code, § 52.087) (Ord. 95-38, passed 12-18-1995) Penalty, see §
52.999
REGULATIONS
§ 52.110 SERVICE PIPES; TAPPING.
   No person shall be permitted to make or have made any taps or connection
with any water service pipe between the water meter and the water mains.
(Prior Code, § 52.100) (Ord. 03-40, passed 11-17-2003) Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.111 CORPORATION STOPS.
   The city or any licensed plumber will furnish the corporation stops and
place same in the mains and charge a fee of time and cost of materials.
(Prior Code, § 52.101) (Ord. 03-40, passed 11-17-2003)
§ 52.112 CURB STOPS; STOP BOXES.
   (A)   Unless otherwise permitted, curb stops shall be placed in the service
pipe within six inches of the property line and protected by a valve box
reaching from the top of the curb stop to the surface of the ground, of
suitable size to admit a valve key for turning on and off the stop, and with a
cast iron cover, having the letter “W” marked thereon, visible and even with
the pavement, sidewalk or top of the ground. The valve box shall be kept closed
and in good repair by the water consumer.
   (B)   In case a consumer refuses to keep the valve box in good condition,
the Department of Public Works shall put the same in good order, at the expense
of the owner of the premises.
(Prior Code, § 52.102) (Ord. 3060, passed 10-7-1985; Ord. 03-40, passed 11-17-
2003) Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.113 PIPES; DEPTH LAID.
   All service pipe must be laid as far under the surface of the ground as the
main pipe in the street, and in no case less than five feet in depth, and in
all cases to be protected as to prevent rupture by freezing.
(Prior Code, § 52.103) (Ord. 03-40, passed 11-17-2003) Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.114 PIPES; DIGGING NEAR.
   No person shall make an excavation in any street or highway within six feet
of any laid water pipe while the ground is frozen or uncover as to expose to
frost any water pipe or sewer of the city, except under the direction of the
City Engineer or Director of Public Works.
(Prior Code, § 52.104) (Ord. 03-40, passed 11-17-2003) Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.115 PIPES; EQUIPMENT.
   Every service pipe must be provided with a stop and waste cock for each
consumer, same to be easily accessible and so situated that the water can be
conveniently drained and shut off from the pipes; stop cocks to be of such
pattern as shall be approved by the PW/ES Director.
(Prior Code, § 52.105) (Ord. 03-40, passed 11-17-2003) Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.116 EXCAVATIONS.
   (A)   In making excavations in the streets for the laying of service pipe or
making repairs, the paving and earth removed must be deposited in a manner that
will render the least inconvenience to the public and provide for the passage
of storm or drainage water along the gutter.
   (B)   No person shall leave any excavation made in the street or highway
open at any time without barricades and during the night, red lights must be
maintained in accordance with the current Manual of Uniform Traffic Control
Devices at such excavations. After service pipes are laid, in refilling the
opening, the earth must be laid in layers of not more than nine feet in depth
and each layer thoroughly tamped or settled with water. The streets and
sidewalks must be restored to as good a condition as before making the
excavations and all dirt, stones and rubbish must be removed immediately after
completing the work. Should an excavation in any street, avenue or alley be
left open or unfinished for the space of 24 hours, or should the work be
improperly done, or rubbish not removed, the Department of Public Works shall
have the right to finish the work or correct it and the expense incurred shall
be charged to the plumber and shall be paid by the plumber before the water is
turned on. No opening of the streets for the tapping of the mains will be
permitted when the ground is frozen, except upon permission of the Chief
Building and Code Inspector, City Engineer or Public Works Director.
(Prior Code, § 52.106) (Ord. 3060, passed 10-7-1985; Ord. 03-40, passed 11-17-
2003) Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.117 TAPPING MAINS OR DISTRIBUTING PIPES.
   No person, except an authorized representative of the city or a licensed
plumber under the supervision of the Chief Building and Code Inspector, will be
permitted, under any circumstances, to tap the water mains or distributing
pipes or install corporation stops or appurtenances thereon. All taps must be
made between the hours of 8:00 a.m. and 5:00 p.m. of the day and all pipes must
in all cases be tapped between the ten o’clock or two o’clock position and not
in any case nearer than 36 inches of either end of the pipe, nor nearer than 48
inches to any other tap.
(Prior Code, § 52.107) (Ord. 03-40, passed 11-17-2003) Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.118 EXPOSURE OF WATER PIPES TO FROST.
   No person shall dig up or uncover so as to expose to the frost, any water
pipe of the city, except under the direction of the Director of Public Works,
City Engineer or Chief Building and Code Inspector.
(Prior Code, § 52.108) (Ord. 03-40, passed 11-17-2003) Penalty, see §
52.999
RATES; CHARGES; FEES
§ 52.130 RATES.
   (A)   The consumers of water furnished by the city shall pay to the city
those rates per 1,000 gallons or portion thereof as set by resolution.
   (B)   The consumers of water furnished by the city shall pay a monthly
service charge as set by resolution in addition to the water rates as mentioned
in division (A) above.
(Prior Code, § 52.120) (Ord. 98-19, passed 6-1-1998; Ord. 00-01, passed 1-3-
2000; Ord. 03-40, passed 11-17-2003)
§ 52.131 RATES; WHEN DUE.
   (A)   (1)   All charges for water furnished by the city shall become due
when billed and delinquent on the twenty-first day of each month. Statements
for water furnished by the city shall be delivered to the consumer or owner of
the premises by leaving at the premises or by mailing to the owners of the
premises or the consumers.
      (2)   Such statement shall designate the reading of the meter, and the
previous reading thereof, from which shall be computed the number of gallons
consumed and the amount due and shall also contain a statement of the amount
due for sewer charges against the premises.
   (B)   A penalty of 10% of the amount due shall be added to each delinquient
account, after the twentieth day month, such penalty is not collected. Failure
to receive a statement of the amount due shall not excuse the owner of the
premises or the consumer from the liability to pay for all water used or sewer
charges or for the penalty for failure to pay before the same becomes
delinquent. It shall be the duty of the Public Works Department to be open each
business day for the purpose of receiving payment of water and sewer accounts.
   (C)   It shall also be the duty of the Public Works Department to keep an
accurate record of all monies received, entering the same to the credit of the
proper department for which it is received. All monies so received shall be
deposited with the Finance Director, who shall report to the City Council each
month the monies received during the preceding month.
(Prior Code, § 52.121) (Ord. 89-4, passed 3-6-1989; Ord. 03-40, passed 11-17-
2003)
§ 52.132 RATES; LIEN.
   (A)   All water used by consumers shall be charged to and collected from the
owners or occupants of the premises and same shall be a lien on the premises
and the real estate where used and may be collected by the city at any time
after same becomes due by civil action in the courts and it shall be the duty
of the Director of Public Works to report the names of all persons delinquent
in the payment of their water charges, showing the amount due from each
delinquent person, together with a description of the property upon or for
which the water has been used or supplied; and, thereupon, the City Council
shall, by resolution, direct the City Clerk to file with the County Clerk a
certified copy of the report and resolution directing that the amounts assessed
against the different premises as shown by the report be placed upon the
assessment roll and tax list of the county for collection as other taxes.
   (B)   Whenever charges for water service shall be delinquent, the Director
of Public Works may shut off the water and discontinue the service.
(Prior Code, § 52.122) (Ord. 3060, passed 10-7-1985; Ord. 03-40, passed 11-17-
2003)
§ 52.133 MINIMUM RATES; CONSUMER LIABILITY.
   All water consumers shall be liable for the minimum rate provided herein
unless the consumer shall, by written order, direct the Director of Public
Works to shut off the water at the stop box, in which case the consumer shall
not be liable thereafter for water rate until the water is turned on again.
(Prior Code, § 52.123) (Ord. 3060, passed 10-7-1985; Ord. 03-40, passed 11-17-
2003)
§ 52.134 FEE SCHEDULES FOR FILLING CONSUMER’S TANKS WITH WATER FROM CITY WATER
SYSTEM.
   Any person or consumer of water who, with permission of the city, fills
tanks with water shall pay to the city the sum as set by resolution for the
first 1,000 gallons per tank load and an additional sum as set by resolution
for every 1,000 gallons, or portions thereof over 1,000 gallons.
(Prior Code, § 52.124) (Ord. 3096, passed 5-5-1986; Ord. 03-40, passed 11-17-
2003)
§ 52.135 WATER METERS AND MISCELLANEOUS CHARGES.
   (A)   There shall be a service surcharge as set by resolution for all
insufficient funds received from any consumer by the city.
   (B)   Upon such time that the consumer requests the remote reading device be
relocated, for reasons such as remodeling, the city shall charge a sum as set
by resolution for the removal and replacement of the remote reading device. The
city will not be held responsible for the working condition of the remote
reading device if the consumer does not make request upon the city to do the
work of relocation. The city reserves the right to discontinue water or sewer
service to said property for nonpayment of the above-mentioned fees.
(Prior Code, § 52.125) (Ord. 91-16, passed 4-1-1991; Ord. 03-40, passed 11-17-
2003)
§ 52.136 WATER RATES FOR BUILDING UNDER CONSTRUCTION.
   The Director of Public Works shall have the authority to issue permits for
the use of water for building and construction purposes. The regular charge
shall be paid as though the water was taken by regular customer service.
(Prior Code, § 52.126) (Ord. 98-20, passed 6-1-1998; Ord. 03-40, passed 11-17-
2003)
§ 52.137 TAPPING EXPENSE; SPECIAL CONNECTION CHARGES.
   (A)   Applicants for water shall be charged for expenses of tapping and for
all service pipe and trenching from the main to which such applicant’s
connection is to be made.
   (B)   If the connection is to be made to any water main(s), which have been
laid and constructed in a water district or water extension district of the
city, wherein special assessments have been levied upon the property in said
district to pay all or any part of the cost of construction thereof, and the
property to which said connection is made has not been assessed in said
district, or if the connection is made to any water main(s) hereafter laid or
constructed by the city without the levying of any special assessments for the
construction thereof, the person desiring said connection shall pay the city a
special connection charge as set by resolution. The aforesaid fees and charges
shall be in addition to the other fees and charges provided for in this
chapter. The special connection charge shall be paid only once with respect to
said property; the lot facing the water main to which the person wishes to
connect. Such connection charge shall be paid to the city at the time the
application is filed.
(Prior Code, § 52.127) (Ord. 2696, passed 3-3-1980; Ord. 03-40, passed 11-17-
2003)
§ 52.138 CONNECTION OUTSIDE CITY LIMITS; SPECIAL CONNECTION CHARGE.
   (A)   A special connection charge as set by resolution shall be paid to the
city before any person or party shall make a connection to the public water
system of the city outside the corporate limits of the city. This special
connection charge shall be in addition to any other fees and charges provided
for in this chapter and shall be applicable to each and every connection to the
water system of the city outside the corporate limits of the city.
   (B)   Applicants for water shall be charged for expenses of tapping and for
all service pipe and trenching from the main to which the applicant’s
connection is to be made.
   (C)   (1)   If the connection is to be made to any water main or mains which
have been laid and constructed in a water district or water extension district
of the city wherein special assessments have been levied upon the property in
the district to pay all or any part of the cost of construction, and the
property to which the connection is made has not been assessed in the district,
or if the connection is to be made to any water main or mains or laid or
constructed by the city without the levying of any special assessments for the
construction thereof, the person desiring the connection shall pay the city a
special connection charge as set by resolution. The fees and charges shall be
in addition to the other fees and charges provided for in this chapter. The
special connection charge shall be paid only once with respect to the property.
      (2)   For the purposes of this section, FRONT FOOTAGE OF THE LOT is
determined as the portion of the lot facing the water main to which the person
wishes to connect. The connection charge shall be paid to the city at the time
the application is filed.
(Prior Code, § 52.128) (Ord. 94-50, passed 9-6-1994; Ord. 03-40, passed 11-17-
2003)
WATER WELLS
§ 52.150 WATER SYSTEM ENCROACHMENT.
   (A)   Purpose. The purpose of this section is to meet the requirements of §
1428 of the 1986 amendments to the Federal Safe Drinking Water Act, being 42
U.S.C. §§ 300f et seq., as adopted and implemented by Neb. Rev. Stat. §§ 71-
5301 through 71-5313, which shall be known and may be cited as the Nebraska
Safe Drinking Water Act and by the Nebraska Department of Health and Human
Services, Rules and Regulations, Title 179, Ch. 22-005, Item 5, which require
the city to identify risks of contamination potentially impacting city wells,
to reduce or eliminate those risks and develop an enforceable means to prevent
encroachment to the water system and its components.
   (B)   Drilling and operation of wells without well registration. It shall be
unlawful for any person, corporation or other legal entity to drill or operate
a well within the zoning limits of the city without providing a copy of the
proper water well registration form from the Nebraska Department of Natural
Resources to the Director of Public Works.
   (C)   Procedure to register wells. In order to properly register the
operation of any well, the owner of the property on which the proposed well is
to be located or the Nebraska-licensed well driller performing the service must
provide a copy of the Nebraska Department of Natural Resources water well
registration form to the Director of Public Works, when filed with the Nebraska
Department of Natural Resources, but no later than 30 days following
activation.
   (D)   Drilling or installation of water wells within designated distance
from municipal water sources, prohibited. Under no circumstances shall any
person, corporation or legal entity drill, install or operate a well within the
regulated set back requirements from any city municipal water well, in
accordance with the Nebraska Department of Health and Human Services Title 179
NAC 7.
Category Distance
Category                                     Distance
Absorption or disposal field for waste       500 feet
Cesspool                                     500 feet
Chemical or petroleum product storage        500 feet
Corral                                       500 feet
Dump                                         500 feet
Feedlot or feedlot runoff                    500 feet
Non-potable water well                       1,000 feet
Pit toilet                                   500 feet
Sanitary landfill                            500 feet
Sanitary sewer connection                    100 feet
Sanitary sewer line                          50 feet
Sanitary sewer line (permanently watertight) 10 feet
Sanitary sewer manhole                       100 feet
Septic tank                                  500 feet
Sewage treatment plant                       500 feet
Sewage lagoon                                1,000 feet
Sewage wet well                              500 feet
 
   (E)   Abatement procedure and penalties. In the event any well is drilled,
installed or operated without providing the well registration form to the city
when filed with the Nebraska Department of Natural Resources, or within the
designated set back requirements from any municipal water supply well, then
such facilities shall be deemed a nuisance and the governing body shall abate
such facility as a public nuisance. Any person violating any of the terms of
this section is hereby subject to the procedures and penalties of
Chapter 92 of this code of ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 52.130) (Ord. 10-04, passed 3-1-2010; Ord. 10-15, passed 6-21-
2010) Penalty, see §
52.999
INSTITUTIONAL CONTROL AREA
§ 52.165 CONTAMINATED GROUNDWATER; FINDINGS AND INTENT.
   (A)   The City Council finds and determines that certain contaminants have,
for many years, existed in certain areas of the groundwater in and near the
city, and that certain legislation is necessary and appropriate for the purpose
of supplementing the various measures undertaken by the city and others, aimed
at reducing or eliminating the possibility that humans will come into contact
with such contaminants.
   (B)   It is the intention of the city that existing water wells within the
area where contaminated groundwater exists, which area shall be hereafter known
as the city’s institutional control area, shall be allowed to remain in
existence only if reasonable safeguards are implemented so that there is no
reasonable likelihood of human contact with the contaminants in the
groundwater.
   (C)   It is the intention of the city that owners of existing water wells
(i.e., domestic, irrigation and the like) within the area where contaminated
groundwater exists shall be notified that such condition exists and imposes a
potential health risk.
   (D)   It is also the intention of the city that no new water wells shall be
installed within the city’s institutional control area.
(Prior Code, § 52.141)
§ 52.166 CONNECTION TO PUBLIC WATER SYSTEM REQUIRED; DOMESTIC WATER WELLS
ALLOWED UNDER CERTAIN CIRCUMSTANCES.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to operate or maintain any domestic water well
within the city’s institutional control area, except as provided hereinafter.
   (B)   Any existing drinking water well within the city’s institutional
control area on the effective date of this subchapter may remain in use so long
as the water, either at the wellhead, or after point of use treatment, meets
the drinking water standards established by Title 179, Neb. Admin. Code, Ch. 2,
§ 002.
   (C)   Any existing drinking water well within the city’s institutional
control area shall be exempt from the requirement to connect to a public water
supply main so long as the well is operable. At such time as replacement of
such well is necessary, or ownership of said property is sold, the property
shall become subject to this section, and the property owner shall make the
application to the city for connection to the public water supply.
   (D)   The city shall not issue a building permit for any new structure
within the city’s institutional control area until it is satisfied that the
water service to such structure will be connected to the public water supply.
   (E)   All point of use treatment devices shall be installed and maintained
at the expense of the property owner; provided, that nothing herein shall
prevent the property owner from pursuing damages or other relief from any party
responsible for contamination of groundwater available to the property owner.
(Prior Code, § 52.142) Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.167 DECLARATION OF THE CITY’S INSTITUTIONAL CONTROL AREA.
   The controls described herein shall apply within the bounds of the city’s
institutional control area, which boundaries are hereby defined as follows: An
area bounded by Mahood Drive/24th Street on the north, Loup River on the south,
33rd Avenue on the west and 16th Avenue on the east.
(Prior Code, § 52.143)
§ 52.168 REGISTRATION OF EXISTING WATER WELLS WITHIN THE INSTITUTIONAL CONTROL
AREA.
   Within 60 days after the effective date of this subchapter, all existing
water wells within the city’s institutional control area, other than public
water supply wells and EPA or state-approved monitoring or response action
wells, shall be in compliance with this subchapter and registered and in the
office of the Public Works Department. There shall be no fee for registering an
existing well.
(Prior Code, § 52.144) Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.169 REGISTRATION OF EXISTING WATER WELLS; INFORMATION REQUIRED.
   The following information shall be furnished in connection with registering
all existing water wells within the city’s institutional control area on the
effective date of this subchapter:
   (A)   The name and address of the person owning the real estate upon which
the well is located;
   (B)   The address and legal description of the property on which the well is
located;
   (C)   The address of all properties being served by groundwater pumped from
the well;
   (D)   A description of the uses of the water pumped from the well. The
application shall state whether the groundwater is being, or will be, used for
human consumption including, but not limited to, drinking, cooking, washing or
other household uses;
   (E)   The location of the nearest public water main to the property served
by the well;
   (F)   The depth of the well; and
   (G)   An accurate diagram showing the location of the well in respect to the
boundaries of the property, the nearest street, road or highway intersection
and any on-site septic or waste disposal system.
(Prior Code, § 52.145) Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.170 REQUIRED WARNING SIGNS IN THE INSTITUTIONAL CONTROL AREA.
   (A)   Every owner of real estate located within the city’s institutional
control area upon which a well is now or may hereafter be located shall
conspicuously post and maintain a warning sign on or near such well and at all
water service points where water may be obtained from said well for human
consumption.
   (B)   The warning sign shall, at a minimum, bear the following wording:
“Warning. This water is not for human consumption.” The signs will be uniform
in appearance and shall be designed and produced by the Director. The cost of
such sign shall be borne by the city.
   (C)   The foregoing sign requirement shall not apply to a domestic water
well or a service point which meets the special exception provisions of §
52.166 of this code.
(Prior Code, § 52.146) Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.171 NUISANCE.
   (A)   All wells within the city’s institutional control area which do the
following are hereby declared to be a public nuisance:
      (1)   Are not registered or permitted as required by this subchapter;
      (2)   Produce contaminated water which is made available in any way for
human consumption; or
      (3)   Provide a conduit for contamination into the aquifer for any
reason, such as being in a state of disrepair, or the manner in which the well
was constructed.
   (B)   These public nuisance wells shall be immediately brought into
compliance with this subchapter or decommissioned at the owner’s expense in
accordance with all local, state and federal rules and regulations governing
the decommissioning of wells.
(Prior Code, § 52.147) Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.172 PROHIBITED ACTS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to fail to register any well as required by this
subchapter.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for a person to fail to erect or maintain any
warning sign required by the terms of this subchapter.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person to install a well within the
city’s institutional control area without filing a registration with the city.
(Prior Code, § 52.148) Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.173 VIOLATION.
   (A)   Any person found to be in violation of this subchapter will be fined
in an amount not to exceed the amount set in §
52.999(B). Each day that the violation continues, shall be deemed to be a
separate and distinct offense.
   (B)   In the event that the city determines that any well is a nuisance
within the meaning of §
52.172 of this code, it shall send a written notice to the owner by certified
mail, return receipt requested, notifying the addressee of the violation. The
written notice shall contain the following information:
      (1)   The street address and legal description sufficient for
identification of the premises on which the well is located;
      (2)   A brief and concise description of the acts or circumstances
constituting the nuisance;
      (3)   A brief and concise description of the corrective action required
to be taken to eliminate the nuisance; and
      (4)   A brief and concise statement advising the addressee that if the
nuisance is not remedied within seven days after receipt of the certified
letter, the city will request the City Attorney to file an action to abate the
public nuisance.
   (C)   If the addressee of the notice referred to above fails to abate said
nuisance within the time specified, the City Attorney shall, upon the request
of the Mayor and City Council, proceed to abate said public nuisance pursuant
to this code and take all steps to have the costs of said action assessed
against the owner or the real estate upon which the well is located.
   (D)   In the event the use of the groundwater in violation of this
subchapter might cause irreparable harm or pose a threat to public health,
safety or welfare, the written notice to abate as set forth above, shall not be
required as a condition precedent to commencing a legal action to obtain
abatement of the nuisance. The city, upon the request of the Mayor and City
Council, shall immediately file an action requesting such temporary and
permanent orders as are appropriate to expeditiously and permanently abate said
public nuisance and protect the public health, safety and welfare.
(Prior Code, § 52.149) Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Whoever violates any provision of this chapter for which no specific
penalty is provided shall be punished as set forth in §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person found to be in violation of §§
52.165 through
52.173 will be fined in an amount not to exceed $100. Each day that the
violation continues shall be deemed to be a separate and distinct offense.
   (C)   Any person who shall continue any violation beyond the time limit
provided for in §
52.010 shall be guilty of a misdemeanor, and a conviction shall be fined in the
amount not exceeding $250 for each violation. Each day in which any such
violation shall continue shall be deemed a separate offense.
(Prior Code, § 52.998)
CHAPTER 53: STORMWATER POLLUTION
Section
   
53.01   Definitions
   
53.02   Purpose and intent
   
53.03   Applicability
   
53.04   Compatibility with other regulations
   
53.05   Responsibility for administration
   
53.06   Ultimate responsibility
   
53.07   Prohibition of illegal discharges
   
53.08   Prohibition of illicit connections
   
53.09   Industrial or construction activity discharges
   
53.10   Requirements to prevent, control and reduce stormwater pollutants by
the use of best management practices
   
53.11   Requirement to eliminate illegal discharges
   
53.12   Watercourse protection/stream bank protection
   
53.13   Suspension of MS4 access
   
53.14   Access and inspection of properties and facilities
   
53.15   Requirement to monitor and analyze
   
53.16   Notification of accidental discharges and spills
   
53.17   Notice of violation
   
53.18   Appeal of notice of violation
   
53.19   Enforcement measures after appeal
   
53.20   Cost of abatement of the violation
   
53.21   Injunctive relief
   
53.22   Alternative actions upon violation
   
53.23   Violations deemed a public nuisance
   
53.24   Remedies not exclusive
   
53.25   Severability
 
   
53.99   Penalty
§ 53.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACCIDENTAL DISCHARGE. A discharge prohibited by this chapter which occurs by
chance and without planning or thought prior to occurrence.
   AUTHORIZED ENFORCEMENT AGENCY. Employees or designees of the city designated
to enforce this chapter.
   BEST MANAGEMENT PRACTICES (BMPs). Schedules of activities, prohibitions of
practices, general good housekeeping practices, pollution prevention and
educational practices, maintenance procedures and other management practices to
prevent or reduce the discharge of pollutants directly or indirectly to
stormwater, receiving water or stormwater conveyance systems. BMPs also include
treatment practices, operating procedures and practices to control site runoff,
spillage or leaks, sludge or water disposal or drainage from raw materials
storage.
   CLEAN WATER ACT. The Federal Water Pollution Control Act (33 U.S.C. §§ 1251
et seq.) and subsequent amendments thereto.
   CONSTRUCTION ACTIVITY. Activities subject to the national pollutant
elimination system (NPDES) construction permits. Currently these include
construction projects resulting in land disturbance of one acre or more. Such
activities include, but are not limited to, clearing and grubbing, grading,
excavation and demolition.
   HAZARDOUS MATERIALS. Any material, including any substance, waste or
combination thereof, which because of its quantity, concentration or physical,
chemical or infectious characteristics may cause, or significantly contribute
to, a substantial present or potential hazard to human health, safety, property
or the environment when improperly treated, stored, transported, disposed of or
otherwise managed.
   ILLEGAL DISCHARGE. Any direct or indirect non-stormwater discharge to the
storm drain system, except as exempted in §
53.07 of this code.
   ILLICIT CONNECTIONS. Any drain or conveyance, whether on the surface or
subsurface, which allows an illegal discharge to enter the storm drain system
including, but not limited to, any conveyances which allow any non-stormwater
discharge including sewage, process wastewater and wash water to enter the
storm drain system and connections to the storm drain system from indoor drains
and sinks, regardless of whether drain or connection had been previously
allowed, permitted or approved by an authorized enforcement agency or any drain
or conveyance connected from a commercial or industrial land use to the storm
drain system which has not been documented in plans, maps or equivalent records
and approved by an authorized enforcement agency.
   INDUSTRIAL ACTIVITY. Activities subject to NPDES industrial permits as
defined 40 C.F.R. § 122.26(b)(14).
   MUNICIPAL SEPARATE STORM SEWER SYSTEM (MS4). The stormwater sewer system and
appurtenances, including established natural drain-ways and ditches used to
transport and handle the flow of stormwater.
   NATIONAL POLLUTANT DISCHARGE ELIMINATION SYSTEM (NPDES) STORMWATER DISCHARGE
PERMIT. A permit issued by EPA (or by a state under authority delegated
pursuant to 33 U.S.C. § 1342(B)) that authorizes the discharge of pollutants to
waters of the United States, whether the permit is applicable on an individual,
group or general area-wide basis.
   NON-STORMWATER DISCHARGE. Any discharge to the storm drain system that is
not composed entirely of stormwater.
   PERSON. Any individual, association, organization, partnership, firm,
corporation or other entity recognized by law and acting as either the owner or
as the owner’s agent.
   POLLUTANT. Anything which causes or contributes to pollution. POLLUTANTS may
include, but are not limited to: Soils; paints, varnishes and solvents; oils
and other automotive fluids; non-hazardous liquid and solid wastes and yard
wastes; refuse, rubbish, garbage, litter or other discarded or abandoned
objects, military supplies and inventories, so the same may cause or contribute
to pollution; floatables; pesticides, herbicides and fertilizers; hazardous
substances and wastes; sewage, fecal coliform and pathogens; dissolved and
particulate metals; animal wastes; wastes and residues that result from
constructing a building or structure; and noxious or offensive matter of any
kind. POLLUTANTS lead to the human-made or human-induced alteration of the
chemical, physical, biological or radiological integrity of an aquatic
ecosystem.
   PREMISES. Any building, lot, parcel of land or portion of land, whether
improved or unimproved, including adjacent sidewalks and parking areas.
   STORM DRAINAGE SYSTEM. Publicly-owned facilities by which stormwater is
collected and/or conveyed, including but not limited to any roads with drainage
systems, municipal streets, gutters, curbs, inlets, piped storm drains, pumping
facilities, retention and detention basins, natural and human-made or altered
drainage channels, reservoirs and other drainage structures.
   STORMWATER. Any surface flow, runoff and drainage consisting entirely of
uncontaminated water from any form of natural precipitation and resulting from
such precipitation.
   WASTEWATER. Any water or other liquid, other than uncontaminated stormwater,
discharged from a facility.
(Prior Code, § 53.01) (Ord. 18-21, passed 9-4-2018)
§ 53.02 PURPOSE AND INTENT.
   The purpose of this chapter is to protect the public health, safety,
environment and general welfare through the regulation of non-stormwater
discharges to the city municipal separate storm sewer system to the maximum
extent practicable as required by federal and state law. This chapter
establishes methods for controlling the introduction of pollutants into the
municipal separate storm sewer system (MS4) in order to comply with
requirements on the national pollutant discharge elimination system (NPDES)
permit process. The objectives of this chapter are:
   (A)   To regulate the contribution of pollutants to the municipal separate
storm sewer system (MS4) by stormwater discharges by any user;
   (B)   To prohibit illicit connection and discharges to the municipal
separate storm sewer system;
   (C)   To prevent non-stormwater discharges generated as a result of spills,
inappropriate dumping or disposal to the municipal separate storm sewer system;
and
   (D)   To establish legal authority to carry out all inspections,
surveillance, monitoring and enforcement procedures necessary to ensure
compliance with this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 53.02) (Ord. 18-31, passed 9-4-2018)
§ 53.03 APPLICABILITY.
   This chapter shall apply to all water generated on any developed and
undeveloped lands entering the municipal separate storm sewer system unless
explicitly exempted.
(Prior Code, § 53.03) (Ord. 18-31, passed 9-4-2018)
§ 53.04 COMPATIBILITY WITH OTHER REGULATIONS.
   This chapter is not intended to modify or repeal any other ordinance, rule,
regulation or other provision of law. The requirements of this chapter are in
addition to the requirements of any other ordinance, rule, regulation or other
provision of law. Where this chapter is in conflict with any other provisions
of law, the provision which is more restrictive or imposes higher protective
standards for human health or the environment shall control.
(Prior Code, § 53.04) (Ord. 18-31, passed 9-4-2018)
§ 53.05 RESPONSIBILITY FOR ADMINISTRATION.
   The City Engineer shall administer, implement and enforce the provisions of
this chapter. The City Engineer may delegate enforcement powers to any employee
of the city.
(Prior Code, § 53.05) (Ord. 18-31, passed 9-4-2018)
§ 53.06 ULTIMATE RESPONSIBILITY.
   The standards set forth herein and promulgated pursuant to this chapter are
minimum standards; therefore, this chapter is not to be interpreted as meaning
that compliance by any person will ensure that there will be no contamination,
pollution, nor unauthorized discharge of pollutants into waters of the United
States caused by said person. The owner shall indemnify and hold harmless the
city and its agents, officers and employees for any and all claims, damages,
losses or expenses, including reasonable attorney fees that arise out of or
allegedly arise out of the design, construction or maintenance of the systems
and facilities described in this agreement that are not due to negligence or
omission on the part of the city, its agents, officers and employees.
(Prior Code, § 53.07) (Ord. 18-31, passed 9-4-2018)
§ 53.07 PROHIBITION OF ILLEGAL DISCHARGES.
   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged into the municipal
separate storm sewer system or watercourses any materials other than
stormwater, including, but not limited to pollutants or waters containing any
pollutants that cause or contribute to a violation of applicable water quality
standard. The commencement, conduct or continuance of any illegal discharge to
the municipal separate storm drain system is prohibited except as follows:
   (A)   The following discharges are exempt from discharge prohibitions
established by this chapter: Water line flushing or other potable water
sources, landscape irrigation or lawn watering, diverted stream flows, rising
groundwater, groundwater infiltration to storm drains, uncontaminated pumped
groundwater, foundation or footing drains (not including active groundwater de-
watering system), crawl space pumps, air conditioning condensation, springs,
non-commercial washing of vehicles, natural riparian habitat or wetland flows,
swimming pools (if de-chlorinated, typically less than one part per million of
chlorine), fire fighting activities and any other water source not containing
pollutants;
   (B)   Discharges specified in writing by the City Engineer as being
necessary to protect public health and safety;
   (C)   Dye testing is an allowable discharge, but requires a written
notification to the City Engineer prior to the time of test; and
   (D)   The prohibition shall not apply to any non-stormwater discharge
permitted under a NPDES permit, waiver or waste discharge order issued to the
discharger and administered under the authority of the Federal Environmental
Protection Agency, provided that the discharger is in full compliance with all
requirements of the permit, waiver or order and other applicable laws and
regulations, and provided that written approval has been granted for any
discharge to the municipal separate storm sewer system.
(Prior Code, § 53.08) (Ord. 18-31, passed 9-4-2018)
§ 53.08 PROHIBITION OF ILLICIT CONNECTIONS.
   The construction, connection, use, maintenance or continued existence of any
illegal connection to the municipal separate storm sewer system is prohibited.
   (A)   This prohibition expressly includes, without limitation, illicit
connections made in the past, regardless of whether the connection was
permissible under law or practices applicable or prevailing at the time of
connection.
   (B)   A person is considered to be in violation of this chapter if the
person connects a line conveying pollutants to the municipal separate storm
sewer system or allows such a connection to continue.
(Prior Code, § 53.09) (Ord. 18-31, passed 9-4-2018) Penalty, see §
53.99
§ 53.09 INDUSTRIAL OR CONSTRUCTION ACTIVITY DISCHARGES.
   (A)   Any person subject to an industrial or construction activity NPDES
stormwater discharge permit shall comply with all provisions of such permit.
   (B)   Proof of compliance with said permit may be required in a form
acceptable to the city prior to, or as a condition of, a subdivision map, site
plan, building permit or development or improvement plan; upon inspection of
the facility; during any enforcement proceeding or action; or for any other
reasonable cause.
(Prior Code, § 53.10) (Ord. 18-31, passed 9-4-2018)
§ 53.10 REQUIREMENTS TO PREVENT, CONTROL AND REDUCE STORMWATER POLLUTANTS BY
THE USE OF BEST MANAGEMENT PRACTICES.
   (A)   The city adopted requirements identifying best management practices
for any activity, operation or facility which may cause or contribute to
pollution or contamination of stormwater, the municipal separate storm sewer
system or waters of the state or the United States of America.
   (B)   The owner or operator of a commercial or industrial establishment
shall provide, at the expense of the owner or operator, reasonable protection
from accidental discharge of prohibited materials or other wastes into the
municipal separate storm sewer system or water courses through the use of these
structural and non-structural best management practices to prevent the further
discharge of pollutants to the municipal separate storm sewer system.
   (C)   Compliance with all terms and conditions of a valid NPDES permit
authorizing the discharge of stormwater associated with the industrial
provisions of this section is required. These best management practices shall
be part of a stormwater pollution prevention plan as necessary for compliance
with requirements of the NPDES permit.
(Prior Code, § 53.11) (Ord. 18-31, passed 9-4-2018)
§ 53.11 REQUIREMENT TO ELIMINATE ILLEGAL DISCHARGES.
   The city requires by written notice that a person responsible for an illegal
discharge immediately, or by a specified date, discontinue the discharge,
regardless of whether or not the connection or discharges to it had been
established or approved prior to the effective date of this chapter; and, if
necessary, take measures to eliminate the source of the discharge to prevent
the occurrence of future illegal discharges.
(Prior Code, § 53.12) (Ord. 18-31, passed 9-4-2018)
§ 53.12 WATERCOURSE PROTECTION/STREAM BANK PROTECTION.
   (A)   Watercourse protection. No person shall throw, deposit, leave,
maintain, keep or permit to be thrown, deposited, left or maintained, in or
upon any public or private property, driveway, parking area, street, alley,
sidewalk, component of the storm drain system or water of the United States,
any refuse, rubbish, garbage, litter or other discarded or abandoned objects,
articles, excessive sediment and accumulations, so that the same may cause or
contribute to pollution. Wastes deposited in streets in proper covered waste
receptacles for the purpose of collection are exempted from this prohibition.
All waste containers must be solid and able to retain all accumulated liquids.
The discharge of accumulated liquids onto paved surfaces is prohibited. Waste
receptacles shall be equipped with covers to prevent rainwater accumulation.
   (B)   Stream bank protection. Every person owning property through which a
watercourse passes, or such person’s lessee, shall keep and maintain that part
of the watercourse within the property free of trash, debris, excessive
vegetation and other obstacles that would pollute, contaminate or significantly
retard the flow of water through the watercourse. In addition, the owner or
lessee shall maintain existing privately-owned structures within or adjacent to
a watercourse so that such structures will not become a hazard to the use,
function or physical integrity of the watercourse. The owner or lessee shall
not remove healthy bank vegetation beyond that actual necessary for
maintenance, nor remove said vegetation in such a manner as to increase the
vulnerability of the watercourse to erosion. The property owner shall be
responsible for maintaining and stabilizing that portion of the watercourse
that is within his or her property lines in order to protect against erosion
and degradation of the water course originating or contributed from his or her
property.
(Prior Code, § 53.13) (Ord. 18-31, passed 9-4-2018)
§ 53.13 SUSPENSION OF MS4 ACCESS.
   (A)   Suspension due to illicit discharges in emergency situations. The city
may, without prior notice, suspend MS4 discharge access to a person when such
suspension is necessary to stop an actual or threatened discharge which
presents or may present imminent and substantial danger to the environment or
to the health or welfare of persons, or to the MS4 or waters of the United
States. If the violator fails to comply with a suspension order issued in an
emergency, the authorized enforcement agency may take such steps as deemed
necessary to prevent or minimize damage to the MS4 or waters of the state or
the United States of America, or to minimize danger to persons or property.
   (B)   Suspension due to the detection of illicit discharge. Any person
discharging to the MS4 in violation of this chapter may have his or her MS4
access terminated if such termination would abate or reduce an illicit
discharge. The city will notify a violator of the proposed termination of its
MS4 access. The violator may petition the City Administrator for
reconsideration and hearing. A person commits an offense if that person
reinstates MS4 access to premises terminated pursuant to this section, without
prior written approval of the City Engineer.
(Prior Code, § 53.14) (Ord. 18-31, passed 9-4-2018)
§ 53.14 ACCESS AND INSPECTION OF PROPERTIES AND FACILITIES.
   The City Engineer or designee may enter and inspect properties and
facilities at reasonable times as often as may be necessary to determine
compliance with this chapter.
   (A)   Employees of the city may enter and inspect facilities subject to
regulations under this chapter as often as may be necessary to determine
compliance with this chapter.
   (B)   Facility operators shall allow authorized employees of the city ready
access to all parts of the premises for the purposes of inspection, sampling,
examination and copying of records that must be kept under the conditions of a
NPDES permit to discharge stormwater and performance of any additional duties
as defined by state and federal law.
   (C)   The city may set up on any permitted facility such devices as are
necessary in the opinion of the City Engineer to conduct monitoring and/or
sampling of the facility’s stormwater discharge.
   (D)   The city may require the discharger to install monitoring equipment as
necessary. The facility’s sampling and monitoring equipment shall be maintained
at all times in a safe and proper operating condition by the discharger at its
own expense. All devices used to measure stormwater flow and quality shall be
calibrated to ensure accuracy.
   (E)   The temporary or permanent obstruction to safe and easy access to the
facility to be inspected and/or sampled shall be promptly removed by the
operator at the written or oral request of the city and shall not be replaced.
The costs of clearing such access shall be borne by the operator.
   (F)   Unreasonable delays in allowing the city access to a permitted
facility is a violation of a stormwater discharge permit and of this chapter. A
person who is the operator of a facility with a NPDES permit to discharge
stormwater associated with industrial activity commits an offense if the person
denies the authorized enforcement agency reasonable access to the permitted
facility for the purpose of conducting any activity authorized or required by
this chapter.
   (G)   If the representatives of the city have been refused access to any
part of the premises from which stormwater is discharged, the city may seek
issuance of a search warrant from any court of competent jurisdiction.
(Prior Code, § 53.15) (Ord. 18-31, passed 9-4-2018)
§ 53.15 REQUIREMENT TO MONITOR AND ANALYZE.
   The city may require by written notice of requirement that any person
engaged in any activity and/or owning or operating any facility which may cause
or contribute to stormwater pollution, illegal discharges, and/or non-
stormwater discharges to the storm drain system or waters of the United States,
to undertake at said person’s expense such monitoring and analyses and furnish
such reports to the city as deemed necessary to determine compliance with this
chapter.
(Prior Code, § 53.16) (Ord. 18-31, passed 9-4-2018)
§ 53.16 NOTIFICATION OF ACCIDENTAL DISCHARGES AND SPILLS.
   (A)   Notwithstanding other requirements of the law, as soon as any person
responsible for a facility, activity or operation, or responsible for emergency
response for a facility, activity or operation has information of any known or
suspected release of pollutants or non-stormwater discharges from that facility
or operation which are resulting or may result in illicit discharges or
pollutants discharging into the city separate storm sewer system, waters of the
state or the waters of the United States of America, said person shall take all
necessary steps to ensure the discovery, containment and cleanup of such
release so as to minimize the effects of the discharge.
   (B)   (1)   Said person shall notify the City Engineer or designee of the
City Engineer within 24 hours of the nature, quantity and time of occurrence of
the discharge. Notifications that are not in writing shall be confirmed by
written notice addressed and mailed to the City Engineer or designee within
three business days of the telephone call or personal notification.
      (2)   If the discharge of prohibited materials emanates from a commercial
or industrial establishment, the owner or operator of such establishment shall
also retain an on-site written record of the discharge and the action taken to
prevent its recurrence. Such records shall be retained for at least three
years. Said person shall also take immediate steps to ensure no recurrence of
the discharge or spill.
   (C)   In the event of such a release of hazardous materials, emergency
response agencies and/or other appropriate agencies shall be immediately
notified.
   (D)   Failure to provide notification of a release as provided above is a
violation of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 53.17) (Ord. 18-31, passed 9-4-2018) Penalty, see §
53.99
§ 53.17 NOTICE OF VIOLATION.
   Whenever the city finds that a person has violated a prohibition or failed
to meet a requirement of this chapter, the City Engineer may order compliance
by written notice of violation to the responsible person. Such notice shall be
sent via regular U.S. mail or via hand delivery to the owner of the property.
   (A)   The notice shall include:
      (1)   The name and address of the alleged violator;
      (2)   The address when available or a description of the building,
structure or land upon which the violation is occurring or has occurred;
      (3)   A statement specifying the nature of the violation;
      (4)   A description of the remedial action;
      (5)   A statement of the penalty or penalties that shall or may be
assessed against the person or persons to whom the notice of violation is
direct; and
      (6)   A statement that the determination of violation may be appealed to
the City Administrator by filing a written notice of appeal within 30 days of
service of notice of violation.
   (B)   In the event of a violation, the city may require:
      (1)   The performance of monitoring, analyses and reporting;
      (2)   The elimination of illicit discharges and illegal connections;
      (3)   That violating discharges, practices or operations shall cease and
desist;
      (4)   The abatement or remediation of stormwater pollution or
contamination hazards and the restoration of any affected property;
      (5)   Payment of costs to cover administrative and abatement costs;
      (6)   The implementation of pollution prevention practices; and
      (7)   Such other action as may be reasonably necessary to accomplish the
purposes of this chapter.
   (C)   If abatement of a violation and/or restoration of affected property is
required, the notice shall set forth a deadline within which such remediation
or restoration must be completed. Said notice shall further advise that, should
the violator fail to remediate or restore within the established deadline, the
work will be done by the city or a contractor designated by the Director of
Public Works and the expense thereof shall be charged to the violator pursuant
to this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 53.18) (Ord. 18-31, passed 9-4-2018)
§ 53.18 APPEAL OF NOTICE OF VIOLATION.
   (A)   (1)   Any person receiving a notice of violation may appeal the
determination of the city. The notice of appeal shall be in writing and shall
be delivered to the City Clerk within 30 days from the date of the notice of
violation.
      (2)   Hearing on the appeal before the City Administrator shall take
place within 15 days from the date of receipt of the notice of appeal.
   (B)   The pendency of an appeal shall not relieve the responsible person
from complying with the requirements of the notice of violation, unless the
City Engineer otherwise consents in writing.
(Prior Code, § 53.19) (Ord. 18-31, passed 9-4-2018)
§ 53.19 ENFORCEMENT MEASURES AFTER APPEAL.
   If the violation has not been corrected pursuant to the requirements set
forth in the notice of violation, or, in the event of an appeal, within 15 days
of the decision of the City Administrator, then representatives of the city may
enter upon the subject private property and are authorized to take any measures
necessary to abate the violation and/or restore the property. It shall be
unlawful for any person, owner, agent or person in possession of any premises
to refuse to allow the city or designated city contractor to enter upon the
premises for the purposes set forth above.
(Prior Code, § 53.20) (Ord. 18-31, passed 9-4-2018) Penalty, see §
53.99
§ 53.20 COST OF ABATEMENT OF THE VIOLATION.
   Within 30 days after abatement of the violation, the owner of the property
will be notified of the cost of abatement, including administrative costs. The
property owner may file a written protest with the City Clerk objecting to the
assessment or to the amount of the assessment within 30 days of such notice. If
the amount due is not paid within 30 days after receipt of the notice or if an
appeal is taken within 30 days after a decision on said appeal, the assessment
may be collected pursuant to law.
(Prior Code, § 53.21) (Ord. 18-31, passed 9-4-2018)
§ 53.21 INJUNCTIVE RELIEF.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to violate any provision or fail to
comply with any of the requirements of this chapter. If a person has violated
or continues to violate the provisions of the chapter, the city may petition
for a preliminary or permanent injunction restraining the person from
activities that would create further violations or compelling the person to
perform abatement or remediation of the violation.
(Prior Code, § 53.22) (Ord. 18-31, passed 9-4-2018) Penalty, see §
53.99
§ 53.22 ALTERNATIVE ACTIONS UPON VIOLATION.
   In lieu of enforcement proceedings, penalties and remedies authorized by
this chapter, the city may impose upon a violator alternative compensatory
action, such as storm drain stenciling, attendance at compliance workshops,
waterway cleanup or other community service work.
(Prior Code, § 53.23) (Ord. 18-31, passed 9-4-2018)
§ 53.23 VIOLATIONS DEEMED A PUBLIC NUISANCE.
   In addition to the enforcement processes and penalties provided, any
condition caused or permitted to exist in violation of any of the provisions of
the chapter is a threat to public health, safety and welfare and is declared
and deemed a nuisance and may be summarily abated or restored at the violator’s
expense, and/or a civil action to abate, enjoin or otherwise compel the
cessation of such nuisance may be taken by the city.
(Prior Code, § 53.24) (Ord. 18-31, passed 9-4-2018)
§ 53.24 REMEDIES NOT EXCLUSIVE.
   The remedies listed in this chapter are not exclusive of any other remedies
available under any applicable federal, state or local law, and it is within
the discretion of the city to seek cumulative remedies.
(Prior Code, § 53.26) (Ord. 18-31, passed 9-4-2018)
§ 53.25 SEVERABILITY.
   The provisions of this chapter are hereby declared to be severable. If any
provision, clause, sentence or paragraph of the chapter of the application
thereof to any person, establishment or circumstance shall be held invalid,
such invalidity shall not affect the other provisions or applications of this
chapter.
§ 53.99 PENALTY.
   (A) Any person who has violated or continues to violate this chapter shall
be liable for criminal prosecution to the fullest extent of the law and shall
be subject to a criminal penalty of $1,000 per violation per day for each day
deemed to be in violation.
   (B)   The city may recover all attorney fees, court costs and other expenses
associated with enforcement of this chapter, including sampling and monitoring
expenses.
(Prior Code, § 53.25) (Ord. 18-31, passed 9-4-2018)
CHAPTER 54: CONSTRUCTION AND POST-CONSTRUCTION STORMWATER MANAGEMENT
Section
   
54.01   Purpose
   
54.02   Definitions
   
54.03   Liability
   
54.04   Responsibility for administration
   
54.05   Applicability
   
54.06   Prohibitions
   
54.07   Construction
   
54.08   Post-construction
   
54.09   Technical standards, specifications and guidance
   
54.10   Submissions from the general public
   
54.11   Authorization of enforcement personnel
   
54.12   Right of entry and sampling
   
54.13   Action without prior notice
   
54.14   Other legal action
 
   
54.99   Penalty
§ 54.01 PURPOSE.
   The intent of this chapter is to protect and enhance the water quality of
local receiving waters in a manner pursuant to and consistent with the Federal
Clean Water Act, being 33 U.S.C. §§ 1251 et seq., and also to provide for the
health, safety and general welfare of the citizens of the city through the
regulation of non-stormwater discharges to the municipal separate storm sewer
system (MS4) according to locally-approved standards as required by federal and
state law. The objectives of this chapter are:
   (A)   To regulate the contribution of pollutants to the MS4 by stormwater
discharges from construction activity and development;
   (B)   To reduce pollutants in stormwater discharges from construction
activity by guiding, regulating and controlling the design, construction, use
and maintenance of any development or other activity that disturbs or breaks
the topsoil or results in the movement of earth on land;
   (C)   To require the construction of locally-approved, permanent stormwater
runoff controls to protect water quality and maintain non-erosive hydrologic
conditions downstream of construction activity and development;
   (D)   To require responsibility for and long-term maintenance of structural
stormwater control facilities and nonstructural stormwater management; and
   (E)   To enable legal authority to carry out all permitting, inspection,
surveillance, monitoring and enforcement procedures necessary to ensure
compliance with this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 54.01) (Ord. 18-32, passed 9-4-2018)
§ 54.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BEST MANAGEMENT PRACTICES (BMPs). Schedules of activities, prohibitions of
practices, general good housekeeping practices, pollution prevention and
educational practices, maintenance procedures and other management practices to
prevent or reduce the discharge of pollutants directly or indirectly to
stormwater, receiving waters or stormwater conveyance systems. BMPs also
include treatment practices, operating procedures and practices to control site
runoff, spillage or leaks, sludge or water disposal and drainage from raw
materials storage.
   BUILDING PHASE OF DEVELOPMENT. Period of construction activity when a
portion(s) of a common plan of development or sale requires a building permit.
   COMMON PLAN OF DEVELOPMENT OR SALE. A contiguous area where multiple
separate and distinct land-disturbing activities may be taking place at
different times, on different schedules, but under one proposed plan which may
include, but is not limited to, any announcement or piece of documentation
(including a sign, public notice or hearing, sales pitch, advertisement,
drawing, permit application, zoning request, computer design and the like) or
physical demarcation (including boundary signs, lot stakes, surveyor markings
and the like) indicating construction activities may occur on a specific plot.
   CONSTRUCTION ACTIVITY. Such activities include, but are not limited to,
clearing and grubbing, grading, excavating, demolition and other land-
disturbing actions.
   CONSTRUCTION SITE. Any location where construction activity occurs.
   CONTRACTOR. Any person performing or managing construction work at a
construction site including, but not limited to, any construction manager,
general contractor or subcontractor and any person engaged in any one or more
of the following: Earthwork; pipework; paving; building; plumbing; mechanical;
electrical; landscaping; or material supply.
   CLEARING. Any activity that removes the vegetative surface cover.
   DISTURBED AREA. Area of the land’s surface disturbed by any work or activity
upon the property by means including, but not limited to, grading, excavating,
stockpiling soil, fill or other materials, clearing, vegetation removal,
removal or deposit of any rock, soil or other materials or other activities
which expose soil. DISTURBED AREA does not include the tillage of land that is
zoned for agricultural use.
   DRAINAGE DESIGN GUIDANCE OR MANUAL. Documentation that references design
criteria and guidance by a community for stormwater management.
   EARTHWORK. The disturbance of soil on a site associated with construction
activities.
   EIGHTIETH PERCENTILE RAIN EVENT. A rainfall storm event equivalent to a
depth of rainfall which is not exceeded in 80% of the historic runoff producing
rainfall events. The depth of rainfall to be used shall be that which is
identified in the post-construction stormwater management plan (PCSMP). The
depth of rainfall is used in hydrologic calculations to determine the water
quality volume or rate of discharge to be controlled for.
   EROSION. The detachment and movement of soil or rock fragments by water,
wind, ice or gravity.
   EROSION AND SEDIMENT CONTROL PLAN. A plan that indicates the specific
measures and sequencing to be used for controlling sediment and erosion on a
development site during construction activity according to locally-approved
standards, specifications and guidance.
   EROSION CONTROL. Measures that prevent soil erosion to the maximum extent
practicable.
   FINAL DRAINAGE PLAN. Project specific grading plan as approved by the City
Engineer.
   FINAL STABILIZATION. When all soil disturbing activities at the site have
been completed and vegetative cover has been established with a uniform density
of at least 70% of pre-disturbance levels or equivalent permanent, physical
erosion reduction methods have been employed. For purposes of this chapter,
establishment of a vegetative cover capable of providing erosion control
equivalent to pre-existing conditions at the site is considered FINAL
STABILIZATION.
   GRADING. Excavation or fill of material, including the resulting conditions
thereof.
   LAND DEVELOPMENT. Any land change including, but not limited to, clearing,
digging, grubbing, stripping, removal of vegetation, dredging, grading,
excavating, transporting and filling of land, construction, paving and or any
other installation of impervious cover.
   LAND DISTURBANCE ACTIVITY. Any land development that may result in soil
erosion from wind, water and/or ice and the movement of sediments into or upon
waters, and/or right-of-way.
   MS4 BOUNDARY. This area is defined as the urbanized area map boundary
prepared by the U.S. Census Bureau. This is the minimum boundary adopted by the
EPA for Phase II communities as part of the MS4 program.
   MUNICIPAL SEPARATE STORM SEWER SYSTEM (MS4). Publicly-owned facilities by
which stormwater is collected and/or conveyed including, but not limited to,
any roads with drainage systems, municipal streets, gutters, curbs, catch
basins, inlets, pipe storm drains, pumping facilities, retention and detention
basins, natural and human-made or altered drainage ditches/channels, reservoirs
and other drainage structures.
   NATIONAL POLLUTANT DISCHARGE ELIMINATION SYSTEM (NPDES) STORMWATER DISCHARGE
PERMIT. A permit issued by the Environmental Protection Agency (or by a state
under authority delegated pursuant to 33 U.S.C. § 1342(b), i.e., the Nebraska
of Environmental Quality) that authorizes the discharge of pollutants to waters
of the state.
   NON-STORMWATER DISCHARGE. Any discharge to the storm drain system that is
not composed entirely of stormwater.
   OPERATOR. The individual who has day-to-day supervision and control of
activities occurring at the construction site. This can be the owner, the
developer, the general contractor or the agent of one of these parties. It is
anticipated that with any different phases of a construction project, different
types of parties will satisfy the definition of OPERATOR and the pertinent
portions of any applicable permit authorization from the State of Nebraska will
be transferred as the roles change.
   OWNER. The person who owns a facility, development, part of a facility or
land.
   PERSON. Any individual, association, organization, partnership, firm,
corporation, cooperative, limited liability company or other entity recognized
by law.
   PHASING. Clearing a parcel of land in distinct phases, with the
stabilization of each phase before the clearing of the next.
   POLLUTANT. Anything which causes or contributes to pollution. POLLUTANT may
include, but are not limited to: Paints, varnishes and solvents; oil and other
automotive fluids; nonhazardous liquid and solid wastes and yard wastes;
refuse, rubbish, garbage, litter or other discarded or abandoned objects,
ordinances and accumulations, so that same may cause or contribute to
pollution; floatables; pesticides; herbicides and fertilizers; hazardous
substances and wastes; sewage, fecal coliform and pathogens; dissolved and
particulate metals; animal wastes; wastes and residues that result from
constructing a building or structure; wastes and residues that result from
mobile washing operations; waste and residue from carpet cleaning and noxious
or offensive matter of any kind.
   POLLUTION. The presence in waters of the state of any substances,
contaminants, pollutants or human-made or human-induced impairment of waters or
alteration of the chemical, physical, biological or radiological integrity of
water in quantities or at levels which are or may be potentially harmful or
injurious to human health or welfare, animal or plant life or property or which
unreasonably interfere with the enjoyment of life or property, including
outdoor recreation unless authorized by applicable law.
   POST-CONSTRUCTION. The general time period referenced in perpetuity from the
approval for final acceptance of the construction phase of any construction
activity.
   POST-CONSTRUCTION STORMWATER MANAGEMENT. The management of stormwater for a
period of time in perpetuity from approval for final acceptance of the
construction phase of any construction activity. The management of stormwater
includes the use of STFs that meet minimum site performance standards in
accordance with the city’s MS4 permit. STFs are intended to provide stormwater
treatment during this time period and are considered functional after
vegetation has been established.
   POST-CONSTRUCTION STORMWATER MANAGEMENT PLAN. Documentation supporting
analysis, design, maintenance and inspection of STFs installed on a site in
order to meet minimum site performance standards in accordance with the city’s
MS4 permit.
   POST-CONSTRUCTION STORMWATER MANAGEMENT PROGRAM. Municipality controlled
program that stems from requirements in the MS4 permit. This is the guiding
document behind designs for the required STFs and post-construction stormwater
management plan for each site.
   PREMISES. Any building, lot, parcel or tract of land, or portion thereof,
whether improved or unimproved and including adjacent sidewalks and parking
strips.
   RECEIVING WATERS. Any water of the state, including any and all surface
waters that are contained in or flow in or through the State of Nebraska, all
watercourses, even if they are usually dry, irrigation ditches that receive
municipal stormwater and storm sewer systems owned by other entities.
   REDEVELOPMENT. Any construction, alteration or improvement performed on a
previously developed site.
   SEDIMENT. Soil (or mud) that has been disturbed or eroded and transported
naturally by water, wind, gravity or mechanically by any person.
   SEDIMENT CONTROL. Measures that prevent eroded sediment from leaving the
site.
   SEVENTIETH PERCENTILE RAIN EVENT. A rainfall storm event equivalent to a
depth of rainfall which is not exceeded in 70% of the historic runoff producing
rainfall events. The depth of rainfall to be used shall be that which is
identified in the post-construction stormwater management plan (PCSMP). The
depth of rainfall is used in hydrologic calculations to determine the water
quality volume or rate of discharge to be controlled for.
   SITE. The land or water area where any facility or activity is physically
located or conducted, including adjacent land used in connection with the
facility or activity.
   SPILL. A release of solid or liquid material which may cause pollution of
the MS4 or waters of the state.
   STABILIZATION. The use of practices that prevent exposed soil from eroding.
   STORMWATER. Any surface flow, runoff and drainage consisting entirely of
water from any form of natural precipitation and resulting from such
precipitation.
   STORMWATER POLLUTION PREVENTION PLAN (SWPPP). A document which narrates the
best management practices and activities to be implemented by a person during
the construction activities, which identifies sources of pollution or
contamination at a site and the actions to eliminate or reduce pollutant
discharges to stormwater, stormwater conveyance systems and/or receiving
waters.
   STORMWATER TREATMENT FACILITIES (STF). Permanent best management practices
(BMPs) put in place to provide control and treatment of stormwater runoff after
construction for land development is complete. These facilities are physical in
nature and sometimes referred to as structural BMPs.
   SUBDIVISION DEVELOPMENT. Includes activities associated with the platting of
any parcel of land into two or more lots and all construction activity taking
place thereon.
   UTILITY AGENCY/CONTRACTOR. Private utility companies, public utility
departments or other contractors working for such private utility companies or
public entity utility departments or other utility providers engaged in the
construction or maintenance of utility lines and services, including water,
sanitary sewer, storm sewer, electric, gas, telephone, television and
communication services.
   WASTEWATER. Any water or other liquid, other than uncontaminated stormwater,
discharged from a facility.
   WATERCOURSE. A natural or artificial channel through which water can flow.
   WATERS OF THE STATE. Any and all surface and subsurface waters that are
contained in or flow through the State of Nebraska. This definition includes
all watercourses, even if they are usually dry.
(Prior Code, § 54.02) (Ord. 18-32, passed 9-4-2018)
§ 54.03 LIABILITY.
   The standards set forth herein and promulgated pursuant to this chapter are
minimum standards that shall apply to all construction activities which require
an approval according to §
54.05 of this code. Compliance with this chapter does not act as a waiver or
defense to any person for operating a construction site in a manner that allows
or causes stormwater contamination, pollution or unauthorized discharge of
pollutants. The owner and operator of any approved construction activity shall
be responsible for ensuring all activity, including the actions of all
contractors, subcontractors, trade professionals, delivery personnel and others
present at a construction site are in compliance with all requirements of this
chapter. An owner shall be responsible for notifying the city when any transfer
of ownership and liability under this chapter occurs.
(Prior Code, § 54.03) (Ord. 18-32, passed 9-4-2018)
§ 54.04 RESPONSIBILITY FOR ADMINISTRATION.
   The city shall administer, implement and enforce the provisions of this
chapter. Any powers granted or duties imposed upon the city may be delegated by
the Mayor or City Administrator to persons or entities acting in the beneficial
interest of or in the employ of the city.
(Prior Code, § 54.04) (Ord. 18-32, passed 9-4-2018)
§ 54.05 APPLICABILITY.
   (A)   This chapter shall be applicable to all construction activity and land
developments requiring, including, but not limited to, site plan applications,
subdivision applications, building applications and right-of-way applications
from the city, unless exempt pursuant to division (B) below. These provisions
apply to all portions of any common plan of development or sale which would
cause the disturbance of at least one acre of soil even though multiple,
separate and distinct land development activities may take place at different
times on different schedules.
   (B)   The following activities are exempt from this chapter:
      (1)   Any emergency activity that is necessary for the immediate
protection of human health, property or natural resources; and
      (2)   Construction activity that provides maintenance and repairs
performed to maintain the original line and grade, hydraulic capacity or
original purpose of a facility.
(Prior Code, § 54.06) (Ord. 18-32, passed 9-4-2018)
§ 54.06 PROHIBITIONS.
   Except as provided in §
53.07 of this code, it is unlawful for any person to discharge non-stormwater
into the MS4. It is unlawful for any person or representative at a construction
site to cause, or allow to be caused, the impact, damage and/or removal of any
approved stormwater pollution control measure without the owner’s knowledge and
consent. Stormwater discharges from construction activities shall not cause or
threaten to cause pollution, contamination or degradation of waters of the
state.
(Prior Code, § 54.07) (Ord. 18-32, passed 9-4-2018) Penalty, see §
54.99
§ 54.07 CONSTRUCTION.
   (A) General requirements for construction activities.
      (1)   Except for construction activity relating to the building phase of
development, the city shall require proof of coverage by a NDEE general permit
authorization for stormwater discharges from construction sites before
providing approval for construction activity covered in §
54.05 of this code.
      (2)   A pre-construction meeting shall be scheduled with the City
Engineer or designated representative to review the installation of all
temporary erosion and sediment control BMPs included on the approved erosion
and sediment control plan at least two business days before any construction
activities are scheduled to start.
      (3)   Solid waste, industrial waste, yard waste and any other pollutants
or waste on any construction site shall be controlled through the use of BMPs.
Waste or recycling containers shall be provided and maintained by the owner or
contractor on construction sites where there is the potential for release of
waste. Uncontained waste that may blow, wash or otherwise be released from the
site is prohibited. Sanitary waste facilities shall be provided and maintained
in a secured manner.
      (4)   Ready-mixed concrete or any materials resulting from the cleaning
of vehicles or equipment containing such materials or used in transporting or
applying ready-mixed concrete shall not be allowed to discharge from any
construction site.
      (5)   Cover or perimeter control shall be applied within 14 days to any
soil stockpiles that will remain undisturbed for longer than 30 calendar days.
      (6)   Disturbed soil shall be managed with BMPs that are adequately
designed, installed and maintained according to locally-approved technical
standards, specifications and guidance for the duration of the construction
activity to minimize erosion and contain sediment within the construction
limits.
      (7)   Sediment tracked or discharged on public right-of-way shall be
removed immediately.
      (8)   Bulk storage structures for petroleum products and other chemicals
shall have adequate protection to contain all spills and prevent any spilled
material from entering the MS4 or waters of the state.
      (9)   Temporary BMPs shall be removed and disturbed areas shall be
stabilized with permanent BMPs at the conclusion of all approved construction
activity.
   (B)   Requirements for the building phase of development. Any person who
engages in construction activity is responsible for compliance with this
chapter and all applicable terms and conditions of the approved construction
activity and SWPPP as it relates to the building phase of development. The
following information shall be included with the application for a building
permit and be submitted to the City Engineer:
      (1)   Either the legal description and NPDES permit number for the larger
common plan of development or the location of the property where the building
phase of development is to occur;
      (2)   A certification that the building phase of development for the
property described on the application for a building permit will be conducted
in conformance with this chapter and the construction activity SWPPP; and
      (3)   A copy of the SWPPP as required by NPDES permit will be reviewed
and approved by the City Engineer before a construction permit will be granted
to commence construction activity.
   (C)   Construction stormwater pollution prevention plan.
      (1)   A SWPPP shall be prepared and updated in accordance with locally-
approved technical standards, specifications and guidance for construction
activity within the city and shall include an erosion and sediment control plan
for land disturbance.
      (2)   SWPPP shall include a description of all potential pollution
sources, temporary and permanent BMPs that will be implemented at the site as
approved by the city.
      (3)   The erosion and sediment control plan shall be submitted to the
City Engineer or designated representative for review with any application
covered in §
54.05 of this code.
      (4)   Land-disturbing activities may not proceed until approval of the
erosion and sediment control plan is provided by the City Engineer or
designated representative.
      (5)   The owner or operator is required to have a copy of the SWPPP
readily available for review with content that reflects the current condition
of the construction activity and all records that demonstrate compliance and
are required by this chapter.
      (6)   The SWPPP shall include a description of routine site inspections.
         (a)   The owner, if certified, or his or her certified representative
shall inspect all BMPs at intervals of no greater than 14 calendar days and
within 24 hours after any precipitation event of at least one-half inch.
         (b)   Inspections of BMPs shall be conducted by a certified individual
or person knowledgeable in the principles and practice of erosion and sediment
controls who possesses the skills to assess conditions at the construction site
that could impact stormwater quality and to assess the effectiveness of any
erosion and sediment control measures selected to control the quality of
stormwater discharges from the construction activity.
         (c)   Inspection reports shall provide the name and qualification of
the inspector, date of the evaluation, risks to stormwater quality identified
and all corrective actions necessary to prevent stormwater pollution.
         (d)   The owner or operator of a construction activity may be
requested to submit copies of inspection reports for review on a periodic basis
by the city.
      (7)   Based on inspections performed by the owner, operator, authorized
city personnel, state or federal regulators, modifications to the SWPPP will be
necessary if, at any time, the specified BMPs do not meet the objectives of
this chapter. In this case, the owner shall meet with an appointed official of
the city to determine the appropriate modifications. All required modifications
shall be completed within seven calendar days of receiving notice of inspection
findings and shall be recorded in the SWPPP.
      (8)   The owner or operator of a construction site shall be responsible
for amending the SWPPP whenever there is a significant change in design,
construction, operation or maintenance, which has a significant effect on the
potential for discharge of pollutants to the MS4 or receiving water or if the
SWPPP proves to be ineffective in achieving the general objectives of
controlling pollutants in stormwater discharges associated with land
disturbance.
      (9)   Records of inspection are to be maintained with the SWPPP for the
life of the project. Inspection records are to be available to city inspectors
upon request. Delay in providing a copy of the SWPPP or any requested records
shall constitute a violation of this chapter.
   (D)   Requirements for utility construction.
      (1)   Utility agencies or their representatives shall develop and
implement BMPs to prevent the discharge of pollutants on any site of utility
construction within the city. The city may require additional BMPs on utility
construction activity. If the utility construction disturbs greater than one
acre, the utility agency must comply with the requirements of divisions (A) and
(B) above.
      (2)   Utility agencies or their representatives shall implement BMPs to
prevent the release of sediment from utility construction sites. Disturbed
areas shall be minimized, disturbed soil shall be managed and construction site
exits shall be managed to prevent sediment tracking. Sediment tracked on to
public right-of-way shall be removed immediately.
      (3)   Prior to entering a construction site or subdivision development,
utility agencies or their representatives shall obtain and comply with any
approved erosion and sediment control plans for the project. Any impact to
construction and post-construction BMPs resulting from utility construction
shall be repaired by the utility company within 48 hours.
(Prior Code, § 54.08) (Ord. 18-32, passed 9-4-2018)
§ 54.08 POST-CONSTRUCTION.
   (A)   Post-construction requirement of permanent BMPs.
      (1)   Land development that meets the requirements of §
54.05 of this code must address stormwater runoff quality through the use of
permanent BMPs. Permanent BMPs shall be provided for in the drainage plan for
any subdivision plat, annexation plat, development agreement, subdivision
agreement or other local development plan.
      (2)   Structural BMPs located on private property shall be owned and
operated by the owner(s) of the property on which the STF is located, unless
the city agrees in writing that a person or entity other than the owner shall
own or operate said STF. As a condition of approval of the STF, the owner shall
also agree to maintain the STF in perpetuity to its design capacity unless or
until the city shall relieve the property owner of that responsibility in
writing. The obligation to maintain the shall be memorialized on the
subdivision plat, annexation plat, development agreement, subdivision agreement
or other form acceptable to the city and shall be recorded with the city’s
Engineering Department.
   (B)   Certification of permanent BMPs. Upon completion of a project, and
before a certificate of occupancy shall be granted, the city shall be provided
a written certification stating that the completed project is in compliance
with the approved final drainage plan. All applicants are required to submit
“as built” plans for any permanent BMPs once final construction is completed
and must be certified by a professional engineer licensed in the state. A final
inspection by the city of all post-construction BMPs shall be required before a
certificate of occupancy will be issued or any public infrastructure is
accepted.
   (C)   Ongoing inspection and maintenance of permanent BMPs.
      (1)   The owner of site must, unless an on-site stormwater management
facility or practice is dedicated to and accepted by the city, execute an
inspection and maintenance agreement that shall be binding on all subsequent
owners of the permanent BMPs.
      (2)   Permanent BMPs included in a final drainage plan which are subject
to an inspection and maintenance agreement must undergo inspections to document
maintenance and repair needs and to ensure compliance with the requirements of
the agreement, the plan and this chapter.
   (D)   Timeline for post-construction criteria implementation.
      (1)   Proposed redevelopment. (Applies to lands which have been platted
and previously built upon.) Stormwater treatment facilities must be accounted
for on any proposed redevelopment project if it has not already submitted a
complete preliminary plat or building permit for approval. Proposed
redevelopment projects that are exempt from treatment are those that have
already submitted a complete plat, preliminary plat or building permit for
approval. Any non-exempt projects must account for a seventieth percentile rain
event.
      (2)   Proposed new development. (Applies to lands which are being platted
for development or have been platted but have not previously been built upon.)
Stormwater treatment facilities must be accounted for on any proposed new
development project that has not already submitted a complete preliminary plat
or building permit for approval. Proposed new development projects that are
exempt from treatment are those that have already submitted a complete final
plat, preliminary plat or building permit for approval. Any non-exempt projects
must account for an eightieth percentile rain event.
(Prior Code, § 54.09) (Ord. 18-32, passed 9-4-2018)
§ 54.09 TECHNICAL STANDARDS, SPECIFICATIONS AND GUIDANCE.
   (A)   All BMPs designed to meet the requirements of this chapter shall
reference the appropriate technical standards, specifications and guidance as
follows:
      (1)   City standards and specifications for construction;
      (2)   The Nebraska Department of Transportation drainage design and
erosion control standards, specifications and guidance; and
      (3)   Any other alternative methodology, approved by the City Engineering
Department, which is demonstrated to be effective.
   (B)   Further description of the post-construction stormwater management
program can be found through the City Engineering Department.
(Prior Code, § 54.10) (Ord. 18-32, passed 9-4-2018)
§ 54.10 SUBMISSIONS FROM THE GENERAL PUBLIC.
   The city will consider information from the public as it pertains to the
implementation and enforcement of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 54.11) (Ord. 18-32, passed 9-4-2018)
§ 54.11 AUTHORIZATION OF ENFORCEMENT PERSONNEL.
   The city shall designate appointed personnel with authority to conduct
inspections, issue notices of violations and implement other enforcement
actions under this chapter as provided by the city.
(Prior Code, § 54.12) (Ord. 18-32, passed 9-4-2018)
§ 54.12 RIGHT OF ENTRY AND SAMPLING.
   (A)   (1)   Whenever the city has cause to believe that there exists, or
potentially exists, in or upon any premises, any condition which constitutes a
violation of this chapter, the owner or operator shall provide access to the
premises at any reasonable time to determine if there exists an actual or
potential violation of this chapter.
      (2)   In the event that the owner or occupant refuses entry after a
request to enter has been made, the city is hereby empowered to seek assistance
from a court of competent jurisdiction in obtaining such entry.
   (B)   The city shall have the right to employ such devices and undertake
such inspection, on or off premises, as necessary, to determine whether the
requirements of this chapter are met. The inspection may include, but is not
limited to, the following:
      (1)   Sampling of any discharge and/or process waters;
      (2)   The taking of photographs;
      (3)   Interviewing staff on alleged violations and access to any; and
      (4)   All facilities or areas within the premises that may have any
effect on the discharge.
(Prior Code, § 54.13) (Ord. 18-32, passed 9-4-2018)
§ 54.13 ACTION WITHOUT PRIOR NOTICE.
   Any person who violates a prohibition or fails to meet a requirement of this
chapter will be subject, without prior notice, to one or more of the
enforcement actions identified in §
54.12 of this code when attempts to contact the person have failed and the
enforcement actions are necessary to stop an actual or potential discharge
which presents or may present imminent danger to the environment or the health
or welfare of person or to the MS4.
(Prior Code, § 54.15) (Ord. 18-32, passed 9-4-2018)
§ 54.14 OTHER LEGAL ACTION.
   (A)   Notwithstanding any other remedies or procedures available to the
city, if any person discharges into the MS4 in a manner that is contrary to the
provisions of this chapter, the City Attorney may commence an action for
appropriate legal and equitable relief, including damages and costs in the
county court.
   (B)   The City Attorney may seek a preliminary or permanent injunction or
both which restrains or compels the activities on the part of the discharger.
(Prior Code, § 54.16) (Ord. 18-32, passed 9-4-2018)
§ 54.99 PENALTY.
   (A) It shall be unlawful for any person to violate any provision or fail to
comply with any of the requirements of this chapter. Any person who violates
any of the provisions of this chapter shall be subject to one or more of the
enforcement actions outlined in
Ch. 92 of this code, as is relevant to compliance with this chapter.
   (B)   In the event the violation constitutes an immediate danger to public
health or public safety, the city representative is authorized to enter upon
the subject private property, without giving prior notice, to take any and all
measures necessary to abate the violation and/or restore the property. The city
is authorized to seek costs of abatement as outlined in §
92.09 of this code.
      (1)   Compliance directive. In addition to any other remedy available to
the city, city inspectors may issue compliance directives at the time of
inspection to require the owner/operator to implement immediate actions that
will correct any violation of this chapter.
      (2)   Notice of violation.
         (a)   Whenever the city finds that the owner/operator has violated a
prohibition or failed to meet a requirement of this chapter, the authorized
enforcement agency may order compliance by written notice of violation to the
responsible party. Such notice may require without limitation:
            1.   The performance of monitoring, analyses and reporting;
            2.   The elimination of illicit connections or discharges;
            3.   That violating discharges, practices or operations shall cease
and desist;
            4.   The abatement or remediation of stormwater pollution or
contamination hazards and the restoration of any affected property;
            5.   Payment of a fine to cover administrative and remediation
costs; and
            6.   The implementation of source control or treatment BMPs.
         (b)   If abatement of a violation or the restoration of affected
property is required, the notice shall set forth a deadline within which such
remediation or restoration must be completed. Said notice shall further advise
that, should the violator fail to complete the remediation or restoration
within the established deadline, the work may be done by the authorized
enforcement agency or its designee and the expense thereof shall be charged to
the violator.
      (3)   Appeal of notice of violation. Any person receiving a notice of
violation may appeal the determination of the authorized enforcement agency.
The notice of appeal must be received within ten days from the date of the
notice of violation. Hearing on the appeal before the appropriate authority or
its designee shall take place within 15 days from the date of receipt of the
notice of appeal. The decision of the municipal authority or their designee
shall be final.
      (4)   Enforcement measures after appeal. If the violation has not been
corrected pursuant to the requirements set forth in the notice of violation,
or, in the event of an appeal, within ten days of the decision of the municipal
authority upholding the decision of the authorized enforcement agency, then
representatives of the authorized enforcement agency and its designees are
authorized to enter upon the subject private property and are authorized to
take any and all measures necessary to abate the violation and/or restore the
property. It shall be unlawful for any person, owner, agent or person in
possession of any premises to refuse to allow the city or designated agent to
enter upon the premises for the purposes set forth above.
      (5)   Stop work order. Whenever the city determines that any activity is
occurring which is not in compliance with the requirements of this chapter, the
city may order such activity stopped upon service of written notice upon the
owner and/or operator responsible for or conducting such activity, Such owner
and/or operator shall immediately stop all activity until authorized in writing
by the city to proceed. If the appropriate owner and/or operator cannot be
located, the notice to stop shall be posted in a conspicuous place upon the
area where the activity is occurring. The notice shall state the nature of the
violation. The notice shall not be removed until the violation has been cured
or authorization to remove the notice has been issued by the city. It shall be
unlawful for any owner and/or operator to fail to comply with a stop work
order.
      (6)   Cost of abatement of the violation. If the authorized enforcement
agency abates a violation, then within ten days after abatement of the
violation, the owner of the property will be notified of the cost of abatement,
including administrative costs. Such notice shall be given by personal delivery
or by mail to the last known address of the owner as shown in the records of
the County Assessor. Such notice shall be effective upon the date of mailing or
personal delivery. The property owner may file a written protest objecting to
the amount of the assessment within ten days of the effective date of the
notice. If no protest is filed, then the charges shall become due and payable
on the date set forth in the notice, which date shall be after the expiration
of the time in which to file an appeal, and such charges shall become a special
assessment against the property and shall constitute a lien on the property for
the amount of the assessment. In the event a protest is filed, a hearing on
such protest shall be held before the appropriate authority or its designee
within 15 days from the date of receipt of the written protest. If any charges
are upheld upon completion of such hearing, then such charges shall become due
and payable ten days after the issuance of the order upon such protest and if
not timely paid, such charges shall become a special assessment against the
property and shall constitute a lien on the property for the amount of the
assessment. Such charges may also be recovered in a civil action against the
owner or other person in control of the premises for which such charges were
incurred, and any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall
be liable to the city for all costs, fees, charges and expenses, including, but
not limited to administrative costs and legal fees and costs, by reason of such
violation.
      (7)   Civil penalties. In the event the alleged violator fails to take
the remedial measures set forth in the notice of violation or otherwise fails
to cure the violations described therein within ten days after the city has
taken the actions described above, the city may impose a penalty not to exceed
$1,000, depending on the severity of the violation, for each day the violation
remains unremedied after the receipt of the notice of violation.
      (8)   Criminal penalties; enforcement costs. Any person who violates any
provision of this chapter shall be liable to criminal prosecution to the
fullest extent of the law and shall be subject to a criminal penalty of up to
$1,000 per violation per day and/or imprisonment for a period of time not to
exceed one year. The city may recover all attorneys’ fees court costs and other
expenses associated with enforcement of this chapter, including sampling and
monitoring expenses.
      (9)   Injunctive relief. The authorized enforcement agency may petition
for a preliminary or permanent injunction restraining any person from
undertaking any activities which would result in a violation or continued
violation of this chapter and may seek mandatory injunctive relief compelling
the person to perform abatement or remediation of any violation of this
chapter.
      (10)   Violations deemed a public nuisance. In addition to the
enforcement processes and penalties provided herein, any condition caused or
permitted to exist in violation of any of the provisions of this chapter or a
threat to public health, safety and welfare, and is declared and deemed a
nuisance, and may be summarily abated or restored at the violator’s expense, or
may be subject of a civil action to abate, enjoin or otherwise compel the
cessation of such nuisance, including proceedings under §§
92.01 through
92.12 of this code with the following exceptions:
         (a)   The penalty as stated in §§
92.07(A)(6) and
92.08(B) of this code will be amended to address the gravity of the violation
up to, but not exceeding, $1,000 per day at the recommendation of the City
Administrator.
         (b)   The time limit for accruing penalties as stated in §§
92.07(A)(7) and
92.08(B) of this code will be limited to a reasonable termination as pertains
to the gravity of the violation.
      (11)   Remedies not exclusive. Except as expressly provided above, the
remedies in this section are cumulative, and the exercise of any one or more
remedies shall not prejudice any other remedies that may otherwise be pursued
for a violation of this chapter. The remedies listed in this chapter are not
exclusive of any other remedies available under any applicable federal, state
or local law and it is within the discretion of the authorized enforcement
agency to seek cumulative remedies.
(Prior Code, § 54.14) (Ord. 18-32, passed 9-4-2018)
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
   Chapter
      
70.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
71.   TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
      
72.   STOPPING, STANDING AND PARKING
      
73.   RECREATIONAL VEHICLES
      
74.   TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
      
75.   PARKING SCHEDULES
CHAPTER 70: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
70.001   Definitions
   
70.002   Control outside city limits
   
70.003   Police jurisdiction extended
   
70.004   Authorized emergency vehicles
   
70.005   Television and video devices in vehicles
Registration and License Requirements
   
70.020   Operation of vehicle; license required
   
70.021   Registration required
   
70.022   Rear license plate illuminated
   
70.023   License plates to be kept clean
   
70.024   Registration of trailers
Accidents
   
70.035   Duty to stop; information to furnish; report
   
70.036   Driver’s duty
   
70.037   Report damage to fixtures or improvements
   
70.038   Duties of garage keeper
Equipment; Loads
   
70.050   Muffler
   
70.051   Warning devices or horns
   
70.052   Unnecessary noise with warning device
   
70.053   Red taillights required
   
70.054   Headlights required
   
70.055   Headlights to be dimmed
   
70.056   Efficient brakes required
   
70.057   Vehicular requirements
   
70.058   Obstruction of operator’s view prohibited; exceptions
   
70.059   Windshield and window tinting
   
70.060   Inspection of vehicles
   
70.061   Occupant protection system
   
70.062   Child passenger restraint system
   
70.063   Projecting loads
   
70.064   Spilling loads
Traffic-Control Devices
   
70.075   City Council to regulate or prohibit traffic
   
70.076   Obedience to traffic signs, signals and devices
   
70.077   Automatic signals
   
70.078   Pedestrian-control signals
   
70.079   Display of unauthorized signs and signals
   
70.080   Flashing signals; exceptions
   
70.081   Interference with traffic signs, signals and devices
   
70.082   Avoiding traffic-control devices
Administration and Enforcement
   
70.095   Authority of Chief of Police
   
70.096   Records of violations
   
70.097   Investigation of accidents
   
70.098   Emergency regulations
   
70.099   Handicapped parking
   
70.100   Automobile pound created; location
   
70.101   Vehicles impounded; fee; discharge
   
70.102   Disposition of fees
   
70.103   Disregarding traffic summons or citation
   
70.104   Applicability of impoundment procedures
   
70.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 70.001 DEFINITIONS.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/c898f04873aad83d2018fee9d1c91b72c99beaa9/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2454.png]Publisher's Note: This Section has been AMENDED by new
legislation (Ord. 25-11, passed 7-21-2025). The text of the amendment will be
incorporated below when the amending legislation is codified.
   For the purpose of this title, the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ALLEY. An open way or public passage intended to provide access to the rear
side of lots or buildings and not intended for the purpose of through vehicular
traffic.
   AUTHORIZED EMERGENCY VEHICLE. The Fire Department vehicles, Police
Department vehicles and ambulances as are publicly-owned and such other
publicly- or privately-owned vehicles as are designed or authorized by the
Chief of Police or City Council.
   BICYCLE. Any device propelled by human power which has handlebars, pedals
for propulsion and two tandem wheels.
   BUS. Any motor vehicle which is designed for carrying more than ten
passengers and used for the transportation of persons.
   BUSINESS DISTRICT. Property properly zoned for business use as listed in the
city zoning code and shown on the current zoning map adopted by the city.
   COMMERCIAL VEHICLE. Any vehicle which is designed, maintained or used
primarily for the transportation of property.
   COMMUNITY SERVICE TECHNICIAN. A non-sworn employee of the Police Department
who shall have general charge, direction and authority to ensure that the
ordinances of the city are properly enforced and obeyed regardless of the
department under which the ordinances may be published. COMMUNITY SERVICE
TECHNICIANS shall have the authority to issue traffic infraction tickets.
   CROSSWALK.
      (1)   Any portion of a road which is protected for pedestrian crossing by
lines or other distinct markings on the surface, by signs or other devices,
designated by competent authority, whether at an intersection or elsewhere.
      (2)   In the absence of lines or other identifying markings, signs or
devices, the part of a road at an intersection included within the connections
of the lateral lines of opposite sidewalks, measured from the curbs or, in the
absence of curbs, from the edges of the road.
   DAYTIME. The period of time between sunrise and sunset.
   DRIVER. Any person who operates or is in actual physical control of a
vehicle.
   ELECTRIC SCOOTER. Any two-wheeled motor vehicle which has a total wheel and
tire diameter of less than 14 inches or an engine capacity of less than 45
cubic centimeters displacement.
   GOLF CAR VEHICLE. Golf car vehicle means a vehicle that:
      (1)   Has at least four wheels;
      (2)   Has a maximum level ground speed of less than 20 mph;
      (3)   Has a maximum payload capacity of 1,200 pounds;
      (4)   Has a maximum gross vehicle weight of 2,500 pounds;
      (5)   Has a maximum passenger capacity of not more than four persons; and
      (6)   Is designed and manufactured for operation on a golf course for
sporting and recreational purposes.
   HIGHWAY. Any paved road which is divided into two or more clearly marked
lanes for vehicular traffic.
   INTERSECTION.   
      (1)   The area included within the prolongation or connection of the
lateral curb lines of a street.
      (2)   The area included within the prolongation or connection of the
lateral boundary lines of two roads or highways which join one another at, or
approximately at, right angles.
      (3)   The area within which vehicles traveling upon different roads,
streets or highways joining at any other angle may come in conflict.
      (4)   Where a road intersects a divided highway made up of a total of
four or more lanes, each crossing of the divided highway by the road shall be
regarded as a separate INTERSECTION. In the event the intersecting road is also
a divided highway made up of a total of four or more lanes, each crossing of
the highways shall be regarded as a separate INTERSECTION.
   MINIBIKE. Any two-wheel motor vehicle which has a total wheel and tire
diameter of less than 14 inches, or an engine rated capacity of less than 45
cubic centimeters displacement, or any other two-wheel motor vehicle designed
by the manufacturer primarily for off-road use only.
   MOPED. A bicycle with fully operative pedals for propulsion by human power,
an automatic transmission and a motor with a cylinder capacity not exceeding 50
cubic centimeters which produces no more than two brake horsepower and is
capable of propelling the bicycle at a maximum design speed of no more than 30
mph on level ground.
   MOTOR VEHICLE. Any vehicle which is propelled by any power other than
muscular power, except for the following:
      (1)   Self-propelled chairs used by persons who are disabled;
      (2)   Mopeds;
      (3)   Vehicles which run only on rails or tracks;
      (4)   Golf carts, go-carts, riding lawn mowers and garden tractors;
      (5)   Electric scooters;
      (6)   Utility type vehicles; and
      (7)   Golf cart vehicles.
   MOTORCYCLE. Any motor vehicle, excluding a tractor, where the rider sits on
an unenclosed saddle or seat and which is designed to travel with not more than
three wheels in contact with the ground.
   NIGHTTIME. The period of time between sunset and sunrise.
   OWNER. Any person who holds the legal title to a vehicle. In the event that
a vehicle is the subject of an agreement for the conditional sale or lease
thereof and with an immediate right of possession vested in the conditional
vendee or lessee, or in the event that a mortgagor of a vehicle is entitled to
possession, then the conditional vendee, lessee or mortgagor shall be deemed
the OWNER for the purpose of this title.
   PARK or PARKING. The standing of a vehicle, whether occupied or not, unless
standing of the vehicle is in obedience to traffic regulations, signs or
signals or temporarily for the purpose of and while actually engaged in loading
or unloading merchandise or passengers.
   PEDESTRIAN. Any person traveling on foot.
   PEDESTRIAN ZONE. The area or space within a road or street, but not
necessarily at an intersection, which is officially protected for use by
pedestrians and which is so marked or indicated by adequate signs as to be
plainly visible at all times.
   POLICE OFFICER. Any officer authorized to direct or regulate traffic or to
make arrests for violations of traffic regulations or other regulations in this
code or violations of state law.
   PRIVATE ROAD or DRIVEWAY. Any way or place which is privately-owned and/or
used for vehicular travel only by the owner thereof or by those having express
or implied permission from the owner.
   RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT. The territory contiguous to and including a public
road not compromising a business district when the property on the road for a
distance of 300 feet or more is mainly improved with residences.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY. The right of one vehicle or pedestrian to proceed in a lawful
manner in preference to another vehicle or pedestrian approaching under such
circumstances of direction, speed and proximity as to give rise to danger of
collision unless one grants precedence to the other.
   ROAD. An open way or public passage, whether paved or unpaved, which is used
for the purpose of vehicle travel, including a street.
   SCHOOL BUS. Any motor vehicle which is owned by a public or governmental
agency and operated for the purpose of transporting pupils to or from school,
or any motor vehicle which is privately-owned and operated for compensation for
the purpose of transporting pupils to or from school.
   SCHOOL CROSSING ZONE. The area of a roadway designated to the public by the
Department of Roads, county or city, as a school crossing zone through the use
of a sign or traffic-control device as specified by the Department, county or
city, in conformity with the state driver’s manual, but does not include any
area of a freeway. A SCHOOL CROSSING ZONE starts at the location of the first
sign or traffic-control device identifying the school crossing zone and
continues until a sign or traffic-control device indicates that the school
crossing zone has ended.
   SEMI-TRAILER. A vehicle without automotive power which has a set or sets of
wheels at the rear only, which is so constructed that some part of its weight
rests upon or is supported by a truck tractor or another towing vehicle and
which is designed to be used primarily for the transportation of property.
   SIDEWALK. Any walk or raised path, whether paved or unpaved, intended for
use by pedestrians.
   STAND or STANDING. The halting of a vehicle, whether occupied or not.
   STOP or STOPPING. 
      (1)   Complete cessation from movement; and
      (2)   When prohibited, any halting, even momentarily, of a vehicle or
bicycle, whether occupied or not, except when necessary to avoid conflict with
other traffic or in compliance with the directions of a police officer or
traffic-control sign, signal or other device.
   STREET. Any curbed and guttered or otherwise improved road set apart for
public travel which may or may not be abutted by sidewalks.
   TRAFFIC. Pedestrians, vehicles and other conveyances either singly or
together while using any road, street or highway for the purpose of travel.
   TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICE. Any sign, signal or marking which is placed or
erected by authority of the City Council or the Chief of Police or their
designees for the purpose of regulating, warning or guiding traffic or
standing, stopping or parking.
   TRAFFIC-CONTROL SIGNAL. Any signal, whether manually, electronically or
mechanically operated, by which traffic is alternately directed to stop and to
proceed.
   TRAILER. Any vehicle with or without automotive power which is designed for
carrying persons or property and for being drawn by a motor vehicle.
   TRICYCLE. A device propelled by human power which has handlebars, pedals for
propulsion and three wheels, designed primarily for use by children.
   TRUCK. Any motor vehicle which is equipped or used to transport anything
other than persons. This definition shall not include pickup trucks which have
a box not greater than 96 inches in length.
   TRUCK TRACTOR. Any motor vehicle which has a cab and no body and is designed
and used primarily for pulling large vehicles such as semi-trailers.
   UTILITY TYPE VEHICLE. Any motorized off-highway vehicle which:
      (1)   Is not less than 48 inches nor more than 74 inches in width;
      (2)   Is not more than 180 inches, including the bumper, in length;
      (3)   Has a dry weight of not less than 900 pounds nor more than 2,000
pounds;
      (4)   Travels on four or more low-pressure tires;
      (5)   Is equipped with a steering wheel and a bench or bucket type
seating designed for at least two persons to sit side-by-side; and
      (6)   A utility type vehicle does not include a golf cart or low-speed
vehicles.
   VEHICLE. Any device by which any person or property may be transported upon
a public road, street or highway, except those devices operated upon rails and
permanent tracks.
(Prior Code, § 70.001) (Ord. 98-27, passed 7-20-1998; Res. R00-127, passed 11-
6-2000; Ord. 00-35, passed 11-6-2000; Ord. 11-30, passed 10-3-2011; Ord. 16-18,
passed 8-1-2016; Ord. 22-25, passed 10- 17-2022)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. Rev. Stat. §§ 60-606 through 60-676
§ 70.002 CONTROL OUTSIDE CITY LIMITS.
   All of the provisions of this title pertaining to traffic shall apply and
shall be in full force and effect in all areas outside the corporate limits of
the city which are owned, controlled or operated by the city or by agency or
authority thereof, including city parks, airports, dumps, garbage or sewage
treatment facilities and any other facility or area owned, controlled or
operated by the city, or by any agency or authority thereof.
(Prior Code, § 70.002) (Ord. 98-27, passed 7-20-1998)
§ 70.003 POLICE JURISDICTION EXTENDED.
   The police jurisdiction of the city shall extend to all of the areas and
facilities outside the corporate limits of the city which are owned, controlled
or operated by the city or by agency or authority thereof with the same force
and effect as though the areas or facilities were located within the corporate
limits of the city. The police jurisdiction of the city shall also extent to
those areas and matters outside of the aforementioned in accordance with any
interlocal agreement which has been or may be entered into by the city from
time to time.
(Prior Code, § 70.003) (Ord. 98-27, passed 7-20-1998)
§ 70.004 AUTHORIZED EMERGENCY VEHICLES.
   (A)   The driver of an authorized emergency vehicle, when responding to an
emergency call, when pursuing an actual or suspected violator of the law or
when responding to, but not returning from a fire alarm may exercise the
privileges set forth in this section, subject to the conditions herein stated.
   (B)   The driver of an authorized emergency vehicle may:
      (1)   Park, stand or stop irrespective of the provisions of this title;
      (2)   Proceed past a steady red indication, a flashing red indication or
a stop sign, but only after slowing down as may be necessary in order to safely
pass through the intersection;
      (3)   Exceed the posted speed limits so long as the driver does not
endanger life or property; and
      (4)   Disregard regulations governing directions of movement or turning
in specified directions.
   (C)   (1)   Except for such emergency vehicle operated as a police or other
law enforcement vehicle, the privileges granted in this section to authorized
emergency vehicles shall apply only when the driver of the vehicle, while in
motion, sounds an audible signal by bell, siren or exhaust whistle as may be
reasonably necessary, and when the vehicle is equipped with at least one
lighted lamp displaying a red light visible under normal atmospheric conditions
from a distance of 500 feet to the front of the vehicle.
      (2)   The foregoing provisions shall not relieve the driver of an
authorized emergency vehicle from the duty to drive with due regard for the
safety of all persons, nor shall the provisions protect the driver from the
consequences of the driver’s reckless disregard for the safety of others.
(Prior Code, § 70.004) (Ord. 98-27, passed 7-20-1998)
Statutory reference:
   Similar state law, see Neb. Rev. Stat. § 60-6,114
§ 70.005 TELEVISION AND VIDEO DEVICES IN VEHICLES.
   No television or video devices shall be installed so as the screen or
viewing area are visible from the front seats of all or any motor operated
vehicle, and it shall be unlawful to operate any such installation within the
city.
(Prior Code, § 70.005) (Ord. 717, passed 6-20-1951; Ord. 03-13, passed 5-19-
2003) Penalty, see §
70.999
REGISTRATION AND LICENSE REQUIREMENTS
§ 70.020 OPERATION OF VEHICLE; LICENSE REQUIRED.
   (A)   (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person to drive, operate or be in
physical control of a motor vehicle, motorcycle or moped on any road, street,
highway or alley within the city limits without a valid state driver’s license
or a valid driver’s license that is recognized under state law except as
provided in division (A)(2) below.
      (2)   A person who does not have a valid license as set forth in division
(A)(1) above may drive, operate or be in physical control of a motor vehicle,
motorcycle or moped on any road, street, highway or alley within the city
limits when that person:
         (a)   Has a valid school permit, learner’s permit or provisional
license as authorized by state statute; and
         (b)   Only when the person is using that permit or provisional license
in conformity with the requirements thereof and state statutes.
      (3)   It shall be unlawful for any owner, driver or person in control of
any motor vehicle to permit any of the persons identified in division (A)(1)
above to drive, operate or be in physical control of any motor vehicle.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to drive, operate or be in
physical control of a vehicle, golf cart, or utility type vehicle upon any
road, street, highway or alley within the city without having in full force and
effect a Class O operator’s license issued by the state’s Department of Motor
Vehicles, as provided by the laws of the state or to operate a vehicle or
utility type vehicle upon any road, street, highway or alley without carrying
the operator’s license while operating the vehicle or utility type vehicle.
   (C)   (1)   A golf cart vehicle and/or utility type vehicle shall not be
considered a motor vehicle for purposes of requiring a state motor vehicle
registration of the same, except any individual or entity who desires to
operate a utility type vehicle shall make written request to the city’s Police
Department for a permit allowing the use and shall display the identification
tag issued by the city’s Police Department on the golf cart vehicle and/or
utility type vehicle.
      (2)   The kind and style of the identification tag required to operate a
golf car vehicle and/or utility type vehicle shall be in a manner that has been
designated and approved by the city’s Police Department. The applicant’s cost
to obtain the permit and the identification tag shall be set by resolution.
      (3)   The identification tag must be placed and displayed on the back of
the golf car vehicle and/ or utility type vehicle in a prominent place so as to
be unobstructed and clearly viewable.
   (D)   Except as provided in this division (D), a golf cart vehicle and/or
utility type vehicle shall not be operated on State Highway Nos. 30 and 81 or
the Lost Creek Parkway. Highway 30 (23rd Street) may be crossed at a 90 degree
angle at the lighted traffic control signals at the following locations: At
East 11th Avenue; at East 3rd Avenue; at 3rd Avenue; at 18th Avenue; at 23rd
Avenue; at 26th Avenue; at 30th Avenue; at 45th Avenue; and at 48th Avenue.
Highway 81 (33rd Avenue) may be crossed at a 90 degree angle at the lighted
traffic control signals at the following locations: At 8th Street; at 13th
Street; and at 14th Street.
   (E)   Every golf cart vehicle and/or utility type vehicle shall display a
lighted headlight and taillight and be equipped with turn signals during
operation.
   (F)   (1)   Every golf cart vehicle and/or utility type vehicle shall be
equipped with:
         (a)   A brake system maintained in good operating condition;
         (b)   An adequate muffler system in good working condition;
         (c)   A United States Forest Service qualified spark arrestor; and
         (d)   A roll bar designed and manufactured to prevent injuries in the
event of a rollover.
      (2)   Every person in a golf cart vehicle and/or utility type vehicle
during operation shall be in a permanent and regular seat which includes an
occupant protection system which utilizes a lap belt, a shoulder belt or any
combination of belts which restrains driver and passengers and which conforms
to Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standards for passenger restraint systems
applicable for the golf cart vehicle and/or utility type vehicle’s model and
year and which shall be in use by all occupants at all times.
   (G)   (1)   Every golf cart vehicle and/or utility type vehicle may only be
operated on city streets between the hours of sunrise and sunset.
      (2)   Any person operating a golf cart vehicle and/or utility type
vehicle shall have liability insurance coverage for the utility type vehicle
while operating the golf cart vehicle and/or utility type vehicle in the city.
Such liability insurance shall be issued by an insurance company authorized to
do business in the state and shall be within the limits stated in Neb. Rev.
Stat. § 60-509, as amended from time to time.
      (3)   If not in a driver’s possession when stopped by law enforcement,
the person operating the golf cart vehicle and/or utility type vehicle shall
provide proof of insurance coverage within five days of such stop establishing
that insurance was in effect when the law enforcement stop occurred.
   (H)   (1)   Except as otherwise specifically stated above, the operation of
a golf cart vehicle and/or utility type vehicle shall be subject to all of the
statutory requirements for the operation of any motor vehicle in the state;
specifically including those statutes dealing with the rules of the road, child
restraint systems and the operation of a motor vehicle by any person impaired
by alcohol or drugs.
      (2)   Any violations could result in revocation of the right to operate
the golf cart vehicle and/or utility type vehicle.
   (I)   The operator of the utility type vehicle shall not exceed 30 mph or
less where posted speed limits are less. The operator of the golf car vehicle
shall not exceed 20 mph or less where posted speed limits are less.
   (J)   (1)   During the operation of a golf cart vehicle and/or utility type
vehicle, the golf cart vehicle and/or utility type vehicle shall be equipped
with a bicycle safety flag which extends above the utility type vehicle not
less than five feet above the ground and is attached to the rear of such
vehicle.
      (2)   The bicycle safety flag shall be triangular in shape with an area
of not less than 30 square inches and shall be fluorescent in nature,
regardless of color.
(Prior Code, § 70.015) (Ord. 98-27, passed 7-20-1998; Ord. 11-30, passed 10-3-
2011; Ord. 11-37, passed 11-7-2011; Ord. 15-21, passed 10-19-2015; Ord. 18-49,
passed 11-5-2018; Ord. 19-30, passed 8-19-2019; Ord. 22-25, passed 10-17-2022;
Ord. 22-31, passed 12-5-2022) Penalty, see §
70.999
Statutory reference:
   Motor Vehicle Operator’s License Act, see Neb. Rev. Stat. § 60-462
§ 70.021 REGISTRATION REQUIRED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate any motor vehicle upon
any road, street, highway or alley without having registered the same as
provided by the laws of the state.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate a motor vehicle upon
any road, street, highway or alley without having attached thereto the license
plates furnished by the state or county in connection with the registration.
   (C)   The vehicle shall at all times have displayed thereon one license
plate on the back thereof and one license plate on the front thereof, which
license plates shall be securely fastened to the motor vehicle in an upright
position, so as to prevent the plates from swinging, at a minimum distance of
12 inches from the ground and shall have properly affixed thereto the renewal
tabs furnished by the state or county in connection with the registration.
(Prior Code, § 70.016) (Ord. 98-27, passed 7-20-1998) Penalty, see §
70.999
§ 70.022 REAR LICENSE PLATE ILLUMINATED.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/c898f04873aad83d2018fee9d1c91b72c99beaa9/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2454.png]Publisher's Note: This Section has been AMENDED by new
legislation (Ord. 24-25, passed 10-7-2024). The text of the amendment will be
incorporated below when the amending legislation is codified.
   The rear license plate shall be illuminated during such time as lights are
required to be lighted upon a vehicle.
(Prior Code, § 70.017) (Ord. 98-27, passed 7-20-1998) Penalty, see §
70.999
§ 70.023 LICENSE PLATES TO BE KEPT CLEAN.
   The license plates upon a vehicle shall be kept clear and clean and free
from grease, dust or other blurring matter, so as to be at all times visible
and legible, and nothing shall be attached to the plates.
(Prior Code, § 70.018) (Ord. 98-27, passed 7-20-1998) Penalty, see §
70.999
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. Rev. Stat. § 60-324
§ 70.024 REGISTRATION OF TRAILERS.
   When any trailer is attached to any motor vehicle standing or in use upon
the streets, the trailer shall carry a trailer registration number and rear
light as required of other motor vehicles.
(Prior Code, § 70.019) (Ord. 98-27, passed 7-20-1998) Penalty, see §
70.999
ACCIDENTS
§ 70.035 DUTY TO STOP; INFORMATION TO FURNISH; REPORT.
   (A)   Except as provided in division (B) below, the driver of any vehicle
involved in an accident either upon a public highway, private road or private
drive, resulting in damage to property, shall immediately stop the vehicle at
the scene of such accident and give the driver’s name, address, telephone
number and operator’s license number to the owner of the property struck or the
driver or occupants of any other vehicle involved in the collision.
   (B)   The driver of any vehicle involved in an accident either upon a public
highway, private road or private drive, resulting in damage to an unattended
vehicle or property, shall immediately stop such vehicle and leave in a
conspicuous place in or on the unattended vehicle or property a written notice
containing the information required by division (A) above. In addition, the
driver shall, without unnecessary delay, report the collision by telephone or
otherwise to an appropriate peace officer.
(Neb. Rev. Stat. § 60-696) (Prior Code, § 70.030) Penalty, see §
70.999
Statutory reference:
   Operator’s license, assessment of points, see Neb. Rev. Stat. §§ 60-497.01
and 60-4,182 et seq.
§ 70.036 DRIVER’S DUTY.
   The driver of any vehicle involved in an accident upon either a public
highway, private road or private drive, resulting in injury or death to any
person, shall immediately stop such vehicle at the scene of such accident, give
the driver’s name and address and the registration number of the vehicle and
exhibit the driver’s operator’s license to the person struck, or the driver or
occupants of any vehicle collided with, and render to any person injured in
such accident reasonable assistance, including the carrying of such person to a
physician or surgeon for medical or surgical treatment if it is apparent that
such treatment is necessary or is requested by the injured person. Any person
violating any of the provisions of this section shall, upon conviction thereof,
be punished as provided in Neb. Rev. Stat. § 60-698.
(Neb. Rev. Stat. § 60-697) (Prior Code, § 70.031)
Statutory reference:
Operator’s license, assessment of points, revocation, see Neb. Rev. Stat. §§
60-497.01, 60-498 and 60-4,182 et seq.
§ 70.037 REPORT DAMAGE TO FIXTURES OR IMPROVEMENTS.
   The driver of any vehicle involved in an accident resulting in damage to
fixtures or improvements legally in, upon or adjacent to a road, street,
highway or alley shall, within 24 hours, notify the owner or person in charge
of the damaged fixture or improvement of the driver’s name and address and of
the name and address of the owner of the vehicle causing the damage.
(Prior Code, § 70.032) (Ord. 98-27, passed 7-20-1998) Penalty, see §
70.999
§ 70.038 DUTIES OF GARAGE KEEPER.
   The person in charge of any garage or repair shop at which has been left a
motor vehicle of unknown ownership for a period of 15 consecutive days without
being removed by its owner or any other person duly authorized to remove the
same shall report to the Police Department such information, giving the name,
engine number, manufacturer’s serial number, registration number and the name
and address of the person abandoning the same, if known.
(Prior Code, § 70.033) (Ord. 98-27, passed 7-20-1998) Penalty, see §
70.999
EQUIPMENT; LOADS
§ 70.050 MUFFLER.
   Any motor vehicle operated within the city shall be equipped with a muffler.
It shall be unlawful for any person to operate any motor vehicle without a
muffler or with the muffler open or damaged, or in any other manner so as to
make any unnecessary or excessive noise in the normal operation of the vehicle,
provided that this section shall not apply to the apparatus of the Fire
Department.
(Prior Code, § 70.045) (Ord. 98-27, passed 7-20-1998) Penalty, see §
70.999
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. Rev. Stat. §§ 60-6,286 and 60-6,371
§ 70.051 WARNING DEVICES OR HORNS.
   Any motor vehicle while in use on the roads, streets or alleys of the city
shall be equipped with an efficient and audible warning device or horn,
provided that no vehicle, except an ambulance or an authorized emergency
vehicle, shall be equipped with a siren.
(Prior Code, § 70.046) (Ord. 98-27, passed 7-20-1998) Penalty, see §
70.999
§ 70.052 UNNECESSARY NOISE WITH WARNING DEVICE.
   It shall be unlawful for the driver or operator of any vehicle or motor
vehicle to make, or allow to be made, any unnecessary noise with the vehicle’s
warning device or horn or to use the same except as a warning signal.
(Prior Code, § 70.047) (Ord. 98-27, passed 7-20-1998) Penalty, see §
70.999
§ 70.053 RED TAILLIGHTS REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate any motor vehicle or trailer
upon the roads, streets or alleys of the city from one-half hour after sunset
until one-half hour before sunrise without having a red taillight visible from
a distance of 500 feet to the rear of the vehicle.
(Prior Code, § 70.048) (Ord. 98-27, passed 7-20-1998) Penalty, see §
70.999
§ 70.054 HEADLIGHTS REQUIRED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate any two-wheeled motor
vehicle upon the roads, streets or alleys of the city from one-half hour after
sunset until one-half hour before sunrise, or at any other time when there is
not sufficient light to render clearly discernible any person on the street at
a distance of 500 feet ahead, without having one white-lighted headlight on the
front of the vehicle.
   (B)   (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate a motor vehicle
upon the roads, streets or alleys of the city from one-half hour after sunset
until one-half hour before sunrise or at any other time when there is not
sufficient light to render clearly discernible any person on the street at a
distance of 500 feet ahead, without two lighted white headlights on the front
thereof, one on each side.
      (2)   Headlights shall not project a glaring or dazzling light to persons
in front of the headlights. Headlights shall be deemed as not causing a glaring
or dazzling light if none of the main bright portion of the headlight beam on
either side rises above a horizontal plane passing through the light centers,
parallel to the level of the road upon which the loaded vehicle stands and in
no case higher than 42 inches and 75 feet ahead of the vehicle.
      (3)   In all other respects, the headlights and any auxiliary lighting
devices on the motor vehicle shall be maintained at all times in strict
compliance with the laws of the state.
(Prior Code, § 70.049) (Ord. 98-27, passed 7-20-1998) Penalty, see §
70.999
§ 70.055 HEADLIGHTS TO BE DIMMED.
   (A)   Any person operating a motor vehicle on any road, street or alley
within the city shall dim the high beams of the vehicle’s headlights either
upon the signal of another vehicle approaching from the opposite direction or
before the approaching vehicle is within 500 feet so as not to blind or confuse
the vision of the operator of the approaching vehicle.
   (B)   Any person operating a motor vehicle on any road, street or alley
within the city shall, when following another vehicle, dim the high beams of
the vehicle’s headlights within no less than 200 feet of the forward vehicle.
(Prior Code, § 70.050) (Ord. 98-27, passed 7-20-1998) Penalty, see §
70.999
§ 70.056 EFFICIENT BRAKES REQUIRED.
   (A)   (1)   Every motor vehicle, when operated upon the streets, shall at
all times be equipped with brakes adequate to control the movement of and to
stop and to hold the vehicle, including two separate means of applying the
brakes, each of which means shall be effective to apply the brakes to at least
two wheels and so constructed that no part which is liable to failure shall be
common to the two, except that a motorcycle need be equipped with only one
brake.
      (2)   Every motor vehicle, trailer or semi-trailer equipped with four or
more wheel brakes must show braking force on each of the four or more wheels.
Every motor vehicle, trailer or semi-trailer equipped with two wheel brakes
must show braking force on each of the two wheels. All such brakes shall be so
adjusted as to operate as equally as practicable on the wheels on opposite
sides of the vehicle, and the braking effort of one wheel shall not exceed the
braking effort of the opposite wheel on the same axle by more than 25%. The
brakes on all wheels must reach their maximum retarding effort at the same
time. When brakes are fully applied, there shall be not less than one inch of
pedal reserve, which is the distance between the pedal and floorboard or stop.
   (B)   (1)   All such brakes shall be maintained in good working order at all
times and at all times be so adjusted that when the vehicle, except commercial
motor vehicles exceeding 7,000 pounds gross weight, is being driven on a level
highway, the pavement of which is dry and free from loose material, at a rate
of speed of ten mph, the vehicle, if equipped with two wheel brakes, can be
brought to a stop within nine feet, and if equipped with four wheel brakes can
be brought to a stop within five feet; when driven at a rate of speed of 15
mph, if equipped with two wheel brakes, can be brought to a stop within 22 feet
and if equipped with four wheel brakes can be brought to a stop within 12 feet;
when driven at a rate of speed of 20 mph, if equipped with two wheel brakes,
can be brought to a stop within 39 feet and if equipped with four wheel brakes
can be brought to a stop within 21 feet; and when driven at a rate of speed of
25 mph, if equipped with two wheel brakes, can be brought to a stop within 60
feet and if equipped with four wheel brakes can be brought to a stop within 32
feet.
      (2)   The brakes on all commercial motor vehicles exceeding 7,000 pounds
gross weight shall be maintained in good working order at all times and at all
times shall be so adjusted that when the vehicle is being driven on a level
highway, the pavement of which is dry and free from loose material, at a rate
of speed of 20 mph, the vehicle can be brought to a stop within 50 feet with
the service and emergency brakes applied simultaneously, and can be brought to
a stop within 75 feet with the service and emergency brakes applied separately.
(Prior Code, § 70.051) (Ord. 98-27, passed 7-20-1998) Penalty, see §
70.999
§ 70.057 VEHICULAR REQUIREMENTS.
   Any motor vehicle operated upon the roads, streets, highways or alleys of
the city shall meet the following requirements.
   (A)   The vehicle shall be equipped with windshield wipers in good working
condition which will wipe off moisture uniformly over the entire sweep of the
wiper.
   (B)   The vehicle shall be equipped with a rearview mirror, sufficiently
large and in good reflecting condition, which is so located, fastened and
adjusted as to reflect to the driver at all times a clear view of the road,
street or highway for a distance of at least 200 feet to the rear of the
vehicle.
   (C)   All glass shall be clear of stickers, signs or any other material
which is not required by law to be affixed, and no glass shall be broken,
cracked, discolored or obscured to such an extent that the operator’s
visibility is impaired.
   (D)   All tires shall be in a safe condition. A tire shall be considered
unsafe if it has any of the following:
      (1)   Any bump, bulge or knot affecting the tire structure;
      (2)   A break which exposes a tire body cord or is repaired with a boot
or patch;
      (3)   The outer tread is worn down to the breaker strip; or
      (4)   Such other conditions as may be reasonably demonstrated to render
the tire unsafe.
   (E)   All steering equipment must be in good condition, and wheel play shall
not exceed 25 inches. With the weight of the vehicle off the wheels, inspection
of the vehicle shall show no excessive wear or defective condition and
adjustment of the steering mechanism, springs and axle assemblies, particularly
the steering post and gear, drop arm, drag link, tire rod, kingpins and
bushings, spindles and bearings, springs, loose or missing spring clips, axles,
wishbone brace, knee action arms, pins and bushings.
   (F)   The vehicle shall be equipped with a muffler in good working
condition.
   (G)   The vehicle shall not be of greater dimensions than the following:
      (1)   Maximum length of single vehicle, including front and rear bumper
and load: 40 feet;
      (2)   Maximum length of tractor and semi-trailer, including front and
rear bumper and load: 40 feet;
      (3)   Maximum length any combination, not more than two vehicles in one
combination: 60 feet;
      (4)   Maximum width, including tires and load: Eight feet; and
      (5)   Maximum height: 13 feet, six inches.
(Prior Code, § 70.052) (Ord. 98-27, passed 7-20-1998) Penalty, see §
70.999
§ 70.058 OBSTRUCTION OF OPERATOR’S VIEW PROHIBITED; EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate a motor vehicle with
any object placed or hung in or upon the vehicle, except objects which are
required or permitted equipment of the vehicle, in such a manner as to obstruct
or interfere with the view of the operator through the windshield or as to
prevent the operator from having a clear and full view of the road and
condition of traffic behind the vehicle.
   (B)   Any sticker or identification authorized or required by the federal
government, or any agency thereof, the state or any political subdivision
thereof may be placed upon the windshield without violating the provisions of
this section.
   (C)   The front windshield, side wing vents and side or rear windows may
have a visor or other shade device which is easily moved aside or removable, is
normally used by a motor vehicle operator during daylight hours and does not
impair the driver’s field of vision.
(Prior Code, § 70.053) (Ord. 98-27, passed 7-20-1998) Penalty, see §
70.999
§ 70.059 WINDSHIELD AND WINDOW TINTING.
   It shall be unlawful for a person to drive a motor vehicle required to be
registered in this state upon a highway if the windows in the motor vehicle are
tinted so that the driver’s clear view through the windshield or side or rear
windows is reduced, the ability to see in the motor vehicle is substantially
impaired, if the windshield has any sunscreening material that is not clear and
transparent below the AS-1 line or if it has a sunscreening material that is
red, yellow or amber in color above the AS-1 line. The amount of tint and
sunscreen allowable shall be determined by current state law.
(Prior Code, § 70.054) (Ord. 98-27, passed 7-20-1998) Penalty, see §
70.999
§ 70.060 INSPECTION OF VEHICLES.
   The Chief of Police is hereby given authority to require any motor vehicle,
trailer or semi-trailer found being operated upon the roads, streets, highways
or alleys of the city to be inspected when the vehicle, trailer or semi-trailer
does not appear to meet the safety requirements herein prescribed. In the event
that, upon any such inspection, the motor vehicle, trailer or semi-trailer is
found to be in violation of any of the requirements set forth in this
subchapter, the same shall not be thereafter driven upon any street until the
same meets the requirements.
(Prior Code, § 70.055) (Ord. 98-27, passed 7-20-1998) Penalty, see §
70.999
§ 70.061 OCCUPANT PROTECTION SYSTEM.
   (A)   Definition. For purposes of this section, OCCUPANT PROTECTION SYSTEM
shall mean a system utilizing a lap belt, shoulder belt or any combination of
belts installed in a motor vehicle which restrains drivers and passengers and
conforms to Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standards, 49 C.F.R. §§
571.208, 571.209 and 571.210, to the Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standards for
passenger restraint systems applicable for the motor vehicle’s model year or
other safety standards which may be hereafter promulgated by the federal
government.
   (B)   Occupant protection system required.
      (1)   Every motor vehicle designated by the manufacturer as a 1973 model
or later which is driven or operated on any highway, road, street or alley
shall be equipped with an occupant protection system of a type which does the
following:
         (a)   Meets the requirements of the Federal Motor Vehicle Safety
Standards referenced in division (A) above as such regulations currently exist
or as the regulations existed when the occupant protection system was
originally installed by the manufacturer; and
         (b)   If the occupant protection system has been replaced, meets the
requirements of the Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standards referenced in
division (A) above that applied to the originally installed occupant protection
system or of a more recently issued version of the regulations. The purchaser
of any such vehicle may designate the make or brand or furnish the occupant
protection system to be installed.
      (2)   This division (B) shall not apply to farm tractors and implements
of husbandry designed primarily or exclusively for use in agricultural
operations, motorcycles, motor-driven cycles, mopeds or buses.
   (C)   Use required. Except as provided in division (B)(2) above, no driver
shall operate a motor vehicle upon a highway, street, alley or road of this
city unless the driver and each front seat occupant in the vehicle are wearing
occupant protection systems and all occupant protection systems worn or used
are properly adjusted and fastened.
   (D)   Exceptions. The following persons shall not be required to wear an
occupant protection system:
      (1)   A person who possesses written verification from a physician that
the person is unable to wear an occupant protection system for medical reasons;
      (2)   A rural letter carrier of the United States Postal Service while
performing that person’s duties as a rural letter carrier between the first and
last delivery points; and
      (3)   A member of an ambulance or rescue service unit while involved in
patient care.
   (E)   Enforcement. Enforcement of this section shall be accomplished only as
a secondary action when a driver of a motor vehicle has been cited or charged
with a violation of some other offense.
(Prior Code, § 70.056) (Ord. 98-27, passed 7-20-1998) Penalty, see §
70.999
§ 70.062 CHILD PASSENGER RESTRAINT SYSTEM.
   (A)   Definition. For purposes of this section, CHILD PASSENGER RESTRAINT
SYSTEM shall mean a system which meets the requirements of Federal Motor
Vehicle Safety Standard 213 as developed by the National Highway Traffic Safety
Administration as of July 10, 1990, or other safety standards which may be
hereafter promulgated by the federal government and which system is correctly
installed in the motor vehicle.
   (B)   Use required. It shall be unlawful for any person who resides in the
state and drives or operates any motor vehicle which has or is required to have
an occupant protection system to transport any child under the age of four or
weighing less than 40 pounds without securing the child in a child passenger
restraint system which meets the requirements referenced in division (A) above.
   (C)   Other children. Any child which weighs at least 40 pounds or being at
least four years old and which is not secured in a child passenger restraint
system shall be secured in an occupant protection system.
      (1)   This division (C) shall apply to any children weighing at least 40
pounds or being at least four years old who are being transported in any motor
vehicle which is equipped with an occupant protection system or is required to
be equipped with restraint systems pursuant to Federal Motor Vehicle Safety
Standard 208.
      (2)   This division (C) shall not apply to taxicabs, mopeds, motorcycles
and any other motor vehicle designated by the manufacturer as a 1963 year model
or earlier which is not equipped with an occupant protection system.
   (D)   Exceptions. This section shall not apply to the following:
      (1)   Drivers of authorized emergency vehicles when operating the
vehicles pursuant to their employment; or
      (2)   Whenever any physician licensed to practice medicine in the state
determines, through accepted medical procedures, that use of a child passenger
restraint system by a particular child would be harmful by reason of the
child’s weight, physical condition or other medical reason. The driver of any
vehicle transporting such a child shall carry on the child’s person or in the
vehicle a written statement signed by the physician, identifying the child and
stating the grounds for the exemption.
   (E)   Defense. Any person who is charged with a violation of this section,
who does not have in that person’s possession a child restraint system meeting
the requirements of Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standard 213, and who
subsequently purchases or rents for a one-year period such a system prior to
that person’s court appearance shall, upon presentation of proof of purchase or
proof of rental for a one-year period of such a system, be able to utilize the
presentation as an absolute defense and cause for dismissal of the charge upon
payment of court costs, if any.
(Prior Code, § 70.057) (Ord. 98-27, passed 7-20-1998) Penalty, see §
70.999
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. Rev. Stat. § 60-6,267
§ 70.063 PROJECTING LOADS.
   It shall be unlawful for any vehicle to carry a load on any road or street
when the load projects beyond the front end or the rear end of the vehicle
unless the following conditions are met.
   (A)   During daylight, a red warning flag is securely fastened to the load
in a conspicuous place at the extreme end of the load.
   (B)   After sunset, a red warning light is securely fastened to the load in
a conspicuous place at the extreme end of the load.
(Prior Code, § 70.058) (Ord. 98-27, passed 7-20-1998) Penalty, see §
70.999
§ 70.064 SPILLING LOADS.
   No vehicle or trailer shall be driven or moved on any roadway unless the
vehicle or trailer is so constructed or loaded as to permit the contents from
dropping, sifting, leaking or otherwise escaping from the vehicle or trailer.
(Prior Code, § 70.059) (Ord. 98-27, passed 7-20-1998; Ord. 01-38, passed 8-6-
2001) Penalty, see §
70.999
TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES
§ 70.075 CITY COUNCIL TO REGULATE OR PROHIBIT TRAFFIC.
   The City Council shall regulate or entirely prohibit traffic upon any street
or portion thereof, and when regulated or prohibited, the Street Department
shall place suitable signs, signals or other devices upon the streets to
indicate the regulation or prohibition. The regulation or prohibition of
traffic contemplated in this section shall be undertaken by and through the
creation of the Traffic Control Device Committee, consisting of the City
Engineer, Police Chief, Streets Superintendent and City Administrator, which
shall be responsible for performing the following duties.
   (A)   The Traffic Control Device Committee shall be responsible for
placement and maintenance of traffic control signs, signals and devices when
and as required under the traffic ordinances of this city, to make effective
the provisions of such ordinances and may place and maintain such additional
traffic control devices, either temporary or permanent as may be necessary to
regulate traffic under the traffic ordinances of this city or under state law
to guide or warn traffic; may cause traffic control devices to be tested under
actual conditions of traffic; shall conduct engineering investigations of
traffic conditions and conduct engineering analysis of traffic accidents and to
devise remedial measures therefore in the city; and shall approve the
installation of all street signs and traffic signals, and where traffic
requirements dictate, initiate their installation.
   (B)   The Traffic Control Device Committee shall report to the Public
Property, Safety and Works Committee of the City Council quarterly on traffic
regulation or prohibition requests considered by the Traffic Control Device
Committee and the actions taken on those request. The Public Property, Safety
and Works Committee of the City Council reserves the right to review and hear
appeals on actions taken by the Traffic Control Device Committee.
(Prior Code, § 70.070) (Ord. 98-27, passed 7-20-1998; Ord. 06-16, passed 5-1-
2006)
§ 70.076 OBEDIENCE TO TRAFFIC SIGNS, SIGNALS AND DEVICES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to disobey the instructions of any
official traffic sign, signal or device placed in accordance with this title,
unless otherwise directed by a police officer.
(Prior Code, § 70.071) (Ord. 98-27, passed 7-20-1998) Penalty, see §
70.999
§ 70.077 AUTOMATIC SIGNALS.
   At each intersection where an automatic signal is installed and actually
functioning, all vehicular and pedestrian traffic crossing or entering the
intersections shall be governed by the automatic signals, and it shall be
unlawful to violate the signals. When automatic signals control traffic by
exhibiting different colored lights, colored lighted arrows, word legends or
symbols, the signals shall indicate and apply to drivers of vehicles and
pedestrians as follows.
   (A)   Green indications.
      (1)   Vehicular traffic facing a circular green indication may proceed
straight through or turn right or left unless a sign at such place prohibits
either such turn, but vehicular traffic, including vehicles turning right or
left, shall yield the right-of-way to other vehicles and to pedestrians
lawfully within the intersection or an adjacent crosswalk at the time the
indication is exhibited.
      (2)   Vehicular traffic facing a green arrow indication, shown alone or
in combination with another indication, may cautiously enter the intersection
only to make the movement indicated by the arrow or such other movement as is
permitted by other indications shown at the same time, and the vehicular
traffic shall yield the right-of-way to pedestrians lawfully within an adjacent
crosswalk and to other traffic lawfully using the intersection.
      (3)   Unless otherwise directed by a pedestrian-control signal,
pedestrians facing any green indication, except when the sole green indication
is a turn arrow, may proceed across the road within any marked or unmarked
crosswalk.
   (B)   Yellow indications.
      (1)   (a)   Vehicular traffic facing a steady or flashing yellow
indication is thereby warned that any movement related to a green indication is
being terminated or that a red indication will be exhibited immediately
thereafter when vehicular traffic shall not enter the intersection.
         (b)   Upon display of a steady or flashing yellow indication,
vehicular traffic shall stop before entering the nearest crosswalk at the
intersection, but if the stop cannot be made in safety, a vehicle may be driven
cautiously through the intersection.
      (2)   Vehicular traffic facing a flashing yellow arrow indication may
cautiously enter the intersection only to make the movement as is permitted and
shall yield the right-of-way to pedestrians lawfully within an adjacent
crosswalk and to other traffic legally using the intersection.
   (C)   Red indications.
      (1)   Vehicular traffic facing a steady red indication alone shall stop
at a marked stop line or shall stop if there is no such line before entering
the crosswalk on the near side of the intersection or, if there is no
crosswalk, before entering the intersection. The traffic shall remain standing
until an indication to proceed is shown except as provided in divisions (C)(2)
and (C)(3) below.
      (2)   Except where a traffic-control device is in place prohibiting a
turn, vehicular traffic facing a steady red indication may cautiously enter the
intersection to make a right turn after stopping as required by division (C)(1)
above. The vehicular traffic shall yield the right-of-way to pedestrians
lawfully within an adjacent crosswalk and to other traffic lawfully using the
intersection.
      (3)   Except where a traffic-control device is in place prohibiting a
turn, vehicular traffic facing a steady red indication at the intersection of
two one-way streets may cautiously enter the intersection from the left-hand
lane to make a left turn after stopping as required by division (C)(1) above.
The vehicular traffic shall yield the right-of-way to pedestrians lawfully
within an adjacent crosswalk and to other traffic lawfully using the
intersection.
      (4)   Unless otherwise directed by a pedestrian-control signal,
pedestrians facing a steady red indication alone shall not enter the road.
Pedestrians facing a flashing red signal are thereby advised that there is
insufficient time to cross the roadway before a red indication is shown, and no
pedestrian shall then start to cross the road.
   (D)   Other applicable provisions.
      (1)   If a traffic-control signal is erected and maintained at a place
other than an intersection, the provisions of this section shall be applicable
except as to those provisions which by their nature can have no application.
      (2)   Any stop required shall be made at a sign or marking on the
pavement indicating where the stop shall be made, but in the absence of any
such sign or marking, the stop shall be made at the signal.
(Prior Code, § 70.072) (Ord. 98-27, passed 7-20-1998) Penalty, see §
70.999
§ 70.078 PEDESTRIAN-CONTROL SIGNALS.
   Whenever special pedestrian-control signals exhibiting the terms “walk” or
“don’t walk,” or exhibiting the symbol of a walking person or an upraised hand
are in place, the signals shall take precedence over pedestrian movements. The
signals shall indicate the following.
   (A)   Pedestrians facing a steady “walk” indication or a symbol of a walking
person may proceed across the road in the direction of the signal and shall be
given the right-of-way by the drivers of all vehicles.
   (B)   No pedestrian shall start to cross the roadway in the direction of a
“don’t walk” indication or a symbol of an upraised hand, but any pedestrian who
has partially completed the crossing on the “walk” or walking person indication
shall immediately proceed to the nearest sidewalk or safety island.
(Prior Code, § 70.073) (Ord. 98-27, passed 7-20-1998) Penalty, see §
70.999
§ 70.079 DISPLAY OF UNAUTHORIZED SIGNS AND SIGNALS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to place, maintain or display upon
or in view of any road any unauthorized sign, signal, light, marking or device
which:
      (1)   Purports to be, is an imitation of or resembles an official traffic
sign, signal or device or railroad sign or signal;
      (2)   Attempts to direct the movement of traffic;
      (3)   Prominently displays the words “stop” or “danger;” or
      (4)   Hides from view or interferes with the effectiveness of any
official traffic sign, signal or device or any railroad sign or signal.
   (B)   Any such prohibited sign, signal or device is hereby declared to be a
public nuisance, and any police officer is hereby empowered to remove the same
or cause it to be removed without notice.
(Prior Code, § 70.074) (Ord. 98-27, passed 7-20-1998) Penalty, see §
70.999
Statutory reference:
   Related provision, see Neb. Rev. Stat. § 60-6,127
§ 70.080 FLASHING SIGNALS; EXCEPTIONS.
   Whenever an illuminated flashing red or yellow light is used in a traffic
signal or with a traffic sign, it shall require obedience by vehicular traffic
as follows.
   (A)   When a red lens is illuminated with rapid intermittent flashes,
drivers of vehicles shall stop at a clearly marked stop line or shall stop, if
there is no such line, before entering the crosswalk on the near side of the
intersection or, if there is no crosswalk, at the point nearest the
intersecting roadway where the driver has a view of approaching traffic on the
intersecting roadway before the intersection. The right to proceed shall be
subject to the rules applicable after making a stop at a stop sign.
   (B)   When a yellow lens is illuminated with rapid intermittent flashes,
drivers of vehicles may proceed through the intersection or past the light only
with caution. This section shall not apply at railroad grade crossings.
(Prior Code, § 70.075) (Ord. 98-27, passed 7-20-1998) Penalty, see §
70.999
§ 70.081 INTERFERENCE WITH TRAFFIC SIGNS, SIGNALS AND DEVICES.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to deface, injure, knock down,
remove, obstruct or interfere with any official traffic sign, signal or device,
any railroad sign or signal or any part of such a device, sign or signal, or to
attempt to do the same.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person, other than a duly authorized
representative of the Nebraska Department of Transportation, the county or the
city to remove any sign, signal or device or railroad sign or signal, placed by
official action of the Department, county or city along a road or highway for
traffic control, warning or informational purposes.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person to possess a sign, signal or
device which has been removed in violation of this section.
(Prior Code, § 70.076) (Ord. 98-27, passed 7-20-1998) Penalty, see §
70.999
§ 70.082 AVOIDING TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES.
   It shall be unlawful for the driver of a vehicle to drive through a public
or private parking lot or driveway for the sole purpose of avoiding a traffic-
control device.
(Prior Code, § 70.077) (Ord. 98-27, passed 7-20-1998) Penalty, see §
70.999
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
§ 70.095 AUTHORITY OF CHIEF OF POLICE.
   It shall be the duty of the Chief of Police to carry out all duties imposed
upon the Chief by this title, and the Chief of Police is granted the power and
authority to do the same by effective measures.
(Prior Code, § 70.090) (Ord. 98-27, passed 7-20-1998)
§ 70.096 RECORDS OF VIOLATIONS.
   The Police Department shall keep a record of all violations of the traffic
regulations of the city and shall make the records available for use and study
by the City Council.
(Prior Code, § 70.091) (Ord. 98-27, passed 7-20-1998)
§ 70.097 INVESTIGATION OF ACCIDENTS.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of the Police Department to investigate traffic
accidents. The Police Department shall maintain a suitable system of filing
traffic accident reports.
   (B)   All such reports shall be available for the use and information of the
City Council.
(Prior Code, § 70.092) (Ord. 98-27, passed 7-20-1998)
§ 70.098 EMERGENCY REGULATIONS.
   The Chief of Police is empowered to make and enforce temporary regulations
in response to or during the course of an emergency.
(Prior Code, § 70.093) (Ord. 98-27, passed 7-20-1998)
Statutory reference:
   Powers and duties of Nebraska State Patrol, see Neb. Rev. Stat. § 81-2005
§ 70.099 HANDICAPPED PARKING.
   (A)   For any offense classified as a HANDICAPPED PARKING INFRACTION, which
for purposes of this section shall mean the violation of any statute, ordinance
or resolution of the state or city regulating the use of parking spaces
designated for use by handicapped or disabled persons, a handicapped parking
citation may be issued by any peace officer or by any person designated by
ordinance of the city to exercise the authority to issue a citation for any
handicapped parking infraction.
   (B)   The form of the handicapped parking citation to be used shall be that
form as prescribed by the Supreme Court of the state, provided that should the
Supreme Court fail to prescribe the form of the handicapped parking citation,
then the handicapped parking citation to be used shall be as prescribed by the
Police Department. The handicapped parking citation shall include a description
of the handicapped parking infraction, the time and place at which the person
cited is to appear, a warning that failure to appear in accordance with the
command of the citation is a punishable offense and any other matters as the
Supreme Court, or alternatively the Police Department, deems appropriate.
   (C)   When a handicapped parking citation is issued for a handicapped
parking infraction, the person issuing the handicapped parking citation shall
enter thereon all required information, including, but not limited to the name
and address of the cited person, or if not known, the license number and
description of the offending motor vehicle, the offense charged and the time
and place the person cited is to appear in court.
(Prior Code, § 70.094) (Ord. 98-27, passed 7-20-1998)
§ 70.100 AUTOMOBILE POUND CREATED; LOCATION.
   (A)   A pound for the impounding of automobiles and any other vehicles of
any character is hereby created and is hereby designated as an “automobile
pound.”
   (B)   The Chief of Police is hereby empowered and directed to locate the
automobile pound where and as may seem appropriate for the purpose and as may
be necessary to accommodate the vehicles impounded. The Chief of Police may
change the location of the automobile pound whenever it appears to be necessary
or desirable.
(Prior Code, § 70.095) (Ord. 98-27, passed 7-20-1998)
§ 70.101 VEHICLES IMPOUNDED; FEE; DISCHARGE.
   (A)   Whenever any vehicle is found by a police officer parked or left
standing on the roads, streets, highways or alleys of the city in violation of
the provisions of this code, the police officer may remove and convey the
vehicle, or may cause the vehicle to be removed and conveyed by means of towing
or otherwise to the automobile pound.
   (B)   The vehicle shall not be discharged or removed from the pound except
by payment by the owner, driver or operator of the vehicle of a fee as set by
resolution, plus reasonable storage fees to the person in charge of the
automobile pound.
   (C)   When the owner or driver of the vehicle so impounded presents himself
or herself at the automobile pound to claim that owner or driver’s vehicle, it
shall be the duty of the person in charge to inform the owner or driver of the
nature and circumstances of the violation resulting in the impounding of the
vehicle.
      (1)   If the owner or driver of any vehicle so impounded protests against
the payment for the impounding and storage fee, the owner or driver shall
receive from the person in charge of the automobile pound a receipt for the
payment marked “paid under protest” but only if the owner or driver of the
impounded vehicle executes an affidavit denying the facts upon which the
impounding of the vehicle was based and protesting against the payment of the
impounding and storage fees.
      (2)   It shall thereupon be the duty of the Chief of Police to forthwith
make complaint in conformity with the provisions of this code, setting forth
the factual circumstances which led to the impounding of the vehicle. If any
such person is found not guilty by the court of a violation based upon the
factual circumstances, it shall be the duty of the persons in charge of the
automobile pound to refund to the person the fees so paid under protest.
(Prior Code, § 70.096) (Ord. 98-27, passed 7-20-1998)
§ 70.102 DISPOSITION OF FEES.
   It shall be the duty of the Chief of Police to account for any fees
collected by the Chief under the provisions of this title to the Finance
Director, who shall place the same in the General Fund. The Chief of Police
shall also keep a record of the name of the owner of all vehicles impounded,
the number of their registration plates, the nature and circumstances of each
violation involved and the disposition of the case.
(Prior Code, § 70.097) (Ord. 98-27, passed 7-20-1998)
§ 70.103 DISREGARDING TRAFFIC SUMMONS OR CITATION.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to disregard a summons or citation
issued on account of a violation of any of the provisions of this title, or to
fail to appear in court as directed by the summons or citation.
(Prior Code, § 70.098) (Ord. 98-27, passed 7-20-1998) Penalty, see §
70.999
§ 70.104 APPLICABILITY OF IMPOUNDMENT PROCEDURES.
   Nothing in §§
70.101 through
70.103 of this code shall be construed as superseding any other provisions of
this title concerning the proper parking or operation of vehicles of any
character in this city. In addition, the impounding of any vehicle and the
collection of a fee therefor under §
70.101 of this code shall not prevent or preclude prosecution for the
violations of any of the provisions of this title concerning the parking or
operations of vehicles in the city.
(Prior Code, § 70.099) (Ord. 98-27, passed 7-20-1998) Penalty, see §
70.999
§ 70.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this traffic code for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person violating §
70.035(A) or (B) of this code shall be guilty of a Class III misdemeanor. If
such person has had one or more convictions under this section in the 12 years
prior to the date of the current conviction under this section, such person
shall be guilty of a Class II misdemeanor. As part of any sentence, suspended
sentence or judgment of conviction under this section, the court shall order
the defendant not to drive any motor vehicle for any purpose in the state for
not less than 30 days nor more than one year from the date ordered by the
court.
(Neb. Rev. Stat. § 60-696) (Prior Code, § 70.030)
   (C)   Any person who violates §
70.061 of this code shall be fined $25. Regardless of the number of persons in
the vehicle not wearing an occupant protection system pursuant to §
70.061(C) of this code, only one violation shall be assessed against the driver
of the motor vehicle for each time the motor vehicle is stopped and a violation
of §
70.061(C) of this code is found.
(Prior Code, § 70.056)
   (D)   Any person who violates §
70.062(B) or (C) of this code shall be fined $25 for each violation. The
failure to provide a child restraint system for more than one child in the same
vehicle at the same time as required shall not be treated as a separate
offense. Any person who has acquired the statement authorized by §
70.062(D)(2) of this code but fails to show a police officer the statement when
requested to do so shall be fined $10 for each offense. The failure to produce
a statement for more than one child in the same vehicle at the same time shall
not be treated as a separate offense.
(Prior Code, § 70.057)
   (E)   Any person violating the provisions of §
70.081 of this code, in addition to criminal penalties provided in this code,
shall be assessed liquidated damages in the amount of the value of the sign,
signal or device or railroad sign or signal and the cost of replacing it.
(Prior Code, § 70.076)
CHAPTER 71: TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
71.001   Safety of blind persons in public places
   
71.002   Signals of the road
   
71.003   Careless driving
   
71.004   Negligent driving
   
71.005   Excessive torque
   
71.006   Engine braking and semi-tractors, prohibited noise
   
71.007   Request to move vehicle
   
71.008   Alcoholic beverages; persons under 21 years of age
   
71.009   Hazardous activities for children
   
71.010   Moving disabled vehicles
   
71.011   Obstructing funeral processions
   
71.012   Tractors on pavement prohibited
   
71.013   Overweight permits for licensed garbage haulers
   
71.014   All-terrain and utility vehicles
Pedestrians
   
71.025   Pedestrian jaywalking
   
71.026   Driving through pedestrian zones
Speed Limits
   
71.040   Speed regulated
   
71.041   Use of radar to measure speed; arrest authorized
Turning
   
71.055   Turning right
   
71.056   Turning left
   
71.057   U-turns
Right-of-Way
   
71.070   Approaching or entering intersection
   
71.071   Turning left
   
71.072   Pedestrians
   
71.073   Entering a public road
   
71.074   Moving a stopped, standing or parked vehicle
   
71.075   Authorized emergency vehicles
   
71.076   Stop signs
   
71.077   Yield signs
Material or Debris on Road
   
71.090   Scattering of glass or nails
   
71.091   Duty to remove scattered materials
   
71.092   Duty to remove debris left by damaged vehicle
Street Designations
   
71.105   Arterial or collector streets
   
71.106   Truck routes
Regulations for Operators
   
71.120   Position of vehicles
   
71.121   Overtaking vehicles; intersections
   
71.122   Keep to right of center line of street
   
71.123   Overtaken vehicle to yield right-of-way
   
71.124   Following too closely
   
71.125   Following authorized emergency vehicles
   
71.126   Stop required while buses loading, unloading
   
71.127   Improper lane change
   
71.128   Driving against traffic
   
71.129   Failure to maintain control
   
71.130   Clinging to motor vehicles
   
71.131   Unhampered operation
   
71.132   Endgates in place
   
71.133   Dragging ropes or chains
   
71.134   Driving over fire hose
   
71.135   Driving over newly laid pavement
Regulations for Passengers
   
71.150   Riding on outside of vehicle
   
71.151   Riding in truck beds
   
71.152   Soliciting rides
 
   
71.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 71.001 SAFETY OF BLIND PERSONS IN PUBLIC PLACES.
   (A)   For the purpose of guarding against accidents, persons who are wholly
or partially blind may use a white cane or walking stick while walking in a
public place as a means of identifying them to operators of vehicles or motor
vehicles.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person who is not wholly or partially
blind to use a white cane or walking stick in a public place as if that person
were wholly or partially blind.
   (C)   (1)   The driver or operator of any vehicle or motor vehicle shall
immediately come to a full stop when the driver approaches or is coming in
close proximity to a person who is in the path or about to enter the path of
the vehicle or motor vehicle and that person is carrying a white cane or
walking stick or is accompanied by a seeing eye dog or service dog, and the
driver knows or has reason to know that the person is being accompanied by a
seeing eye dog or service dog.
      (2)   The driver or operator shall not proceed until the driver may do so
without causing an accident or injury to the person carrying the white cane or
walking stick or accompanied by the seeing eye dog or service dog.
   (D)   The phrase WHITE IN COLOR as used to describe a cane or walking stick
shall mean a cane or walking stick which is painted or enameled white. This
phrase shall not describe a cane or walking stick which is unpainted or whose
natural wood color is white.
(Prior Code, § 71.001) (Ord. 98-27, passed 7-20-1998) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.002 SIGNALS OF THE ROAD.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the driver of any vehicle to move left or
right upon a street or road, to change lanes or to turn right or left unless
and until the movement can be made with reasonable safety and then only after
giving an appropriate signal in accordance with divisions (B) or (C) below.
   (B)   The signals required in division (A) above shall be given by means of
the signal lights of a vehicle unless the signal lights are inoperative, in
which case, the required signals shall be made in accordance with division (C)
below.
   (C)   If the signal lights of a vehicle are inoperative or the vehicle is
not equipped with signal lights, then the signals required in division (A)
above shall be given by means of hand and arm signals from the left side of the
vehicle as follows:
      (1)   Left turn: By extending the left hand and arm horizontally to the
left;
      (2)   Right turn: By extending the left hand and forearm upward;
      (3)   Stop or decrease speed: By extending the left hand and arm
downward; and
      (4)   Bicycles, right turn: Any person operating a bicycle may signal a
right turn by fully extending the right arm and pointing.
(Prior Code, § 71.002) (Ord. 98-27, passed 7-20-1998) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.003 CARELESS DRIVING.
   Any person who drives any motor vehicle within the city carelessly or
without due caution so as to endanger any person or property shall be guilty of
careless driving.
(Prior Code, § 71.003) (Ord. 98-27, passed 7-20-1998) Penalty, see §
71.999
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. Rev. Stat. § 60-6,212
§ 71.004 NEGLIGENT DRIVING.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to drive, use, operate, park,
cause to park or stop any motor vehicle in a negligent manner so as to endanger
person or property.
   (B)   The term NEGLIGENT, as it is used in this section, shall mean a
failure to exercise due care which is the omission of that care which a person
of common prudence usually takes of that person’s concerns.
(Prior Code, § 71.004) (Ord. 98-27, passed 7-20-1998) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.005 EXCESSIVE TORQUE.
   No person shall cause more torque to be applied to the drive wheels of a
motor vehicle than is reasonably necessary to cause movement of the vehicle
under the circumstances.
(Prior Code, § 71.005) (Ord. 98-27, passed 7-20-1998) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.006 ENGINE BRAKING AND SEMI-TRACTORS, PROHIBITED NOISE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person in any part of the city to make, or
cause to be made, loud or disturbing noises with any mechanical devices
operated by compressed air and used for purposes of assisting braking on any
semi-tractor.
(Prior Code, § 71.006) (Ord. 98-27, passed 7-20-1998) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.007 REQUEST TO MOVE VEHICLE.
   It shall be unlawful for the driver of a vehicle to refuse, fail or neglect
to move that driver’s vehicle when requested to do so by a law enforcement
official with a legitimate reason for the request.
(Prior Code, § 71.007) (Ord. 98-27, passed 7-20-1998; Ord. 00-35, passed 11-6-
2000) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.008 ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES; PERSONS UNDER 21 YEARS OF AGE.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person under the age of 21 years to
operate or be in the actual physical control of any motor vehicle when the
person has a concentration of two hundredths of one gram, but less than ten
hundredths of one gram or more by weight of alcohol per 100 milliliters of that
person’s blood; or when the person has a concentration of two hundredths of one
gram, but less than ten hundredths of one gram or more by weight of alcohol per
210 liters of that person’s breath.
   (B)   Any person who operates or has in that person’s actual physical
control a motor vehicle in this state shall be deemed to have given consent to
submit to a chemical test or tests of that person’s blood or breath for the
purpose of determining the concentration of alcohol in the blood or breath.
   (C)   (1)   Any peace officer who has been duly authorized to make arrests
for violations of traffic laws of this city may require any person under 21
years of age to submit to a chemical test or tests of that person’s blood or
breath for the purpose of determining the concentration of alcohol in the blood
or breath when the officer has probable cause to believe that the person was
driving or was in the actual physical control of a motor vehicle in this state
in violation of division (A) above.
      (2)   The peace officer may require the person to submit to a preliminary
breath test.
      (3)   Any person who refuses to submit to the preliminary breath test or
whose preliminary breath test results indicate an alcohol concentration in
violation of division (A) above shall be placed under arrest.
   (D)   (1)   Any person arrested as provided in this section may, upon the
direction of a peace officer, be required to submit to a chemical test or tests
of that person’s blood or breath for a determination of the concentration of
alcohol.
      (2)   If the chemical test discloses the presence of a concentration of
alcohol in violation of division (A) above, the person shall be found guilty of
a traffic infraction and upon conviction shall have that person’s operator’s
license impounded by the court for 30 days for each violation of division (A)
above.
(Prior Code, § 71.008) (Ord. 99-04, passed 2-1-1999) Penalty, see §
71.999
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. Rev. Stat. §§ 60-6,211.01, 60-6,211.02, 60-
6,203
§ 71.009 HAZARDOUS ACTIVITIES FOR CHILDREN.
   It shall be unlawful for any parent, guardian or custodian of a minor child
to allow the child to play upon the roads or streets, to ride bicycles,
tricycles, skates, coasters, skateboards or any other toy vehicle or conveyance
upon the roads or streets, or to allow the child to ride in the back of an
unenclosed pickup bed or trailer while the vehicle is in motion, except for
parades.
(Prior Code, § 71.009) (Ord. 98-27, passed 7-20-1998) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.010 MOVING DISABLED VEHICLES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to move a disabled vehicle by pushing
the vehicle with another vehicle for a distance greater than 500 feet. Any
disabled vehicle, or vehicle to be moved by other than its own power for any
distance greater than 500 feet, shall be moved by towing. If the disabled
vehicle is towed by a vehicle other than a tow truck or similar vehicle
designed to tow disabled vehicles, then the towing connection between the two
vehicles shall not exceed 15 feet in length, and there shall be displayed upon
the connection a red flag or other red signal or cloth not less than 12 inches
square.
(Prior Code, § 71.010) (Ord. 98-27, passed 7-20-1998) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.011 OBSTRUCTING FUNERAL PROCESSIONS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to delay or in any way interfere with or
obstruct any funeral procession or to drive any vehicle through the funeral
procession.
(Prior Code, § 71.011) (Ord. 98-27, passed 7-20-1998) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.012 TRACTORS ON PAVEMENT PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to drive or operate any tractor or
similar vehicle upon any paved road or street when the tractor or similar
vehicle has lugs, flanges, blades or other sharp protruding metals affixed to
the wheels, or when the tractor or similar vehicle is pulling any kind of farm
implement with lugs, flanges, blades or other sharp protruding metals attached
to it unless it meets the following conditions:
   (A)   The paved road or street is temporarily planked at the expense of the
owner of the tractor; and
   (B)   The lugs, flanges, blades or other sharp protruding metals are covered
with bands sufficient to protect the pavement from being cut, dented or
otherwise damaged in any manner by the protruding metals.
(Prior Code, § 71.012) (Ord. 98-27, passed 7-20-1998) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.013 OVERWEIGHT PERMITS FOR LICENSED GARBAGE HAULERS.
   (A)   Licensed garbage haulers shall comply with weight restrictions and
weight requirements while operating their vehicles within the corporate limits
of the city. However, a continuing permit may be issued for the movement of a
licensed garbage hauler’s truck; the truck must have an enclosed body and a
compacting mechanism designed and used exclusively for the collection and
transportation of garbage or refuse. The truck and load may exceed the maximum
axle load permitted by law by no more than 20% on only one axle, on one tandem
axle or one group of axles when the vehicle is laden with garbage or refuse and
when the vehicle is within the maximum gross load as permitted by state
statutes.
   (B)   (1)   The permit applied for shall be accompanied by a fee as set by
resolution of the Mayor.
      (2)   The permit shall be issued, if it is accompanied by the fee and if
it complies with the requirements as set forth herein, by resolution.
   (C)   Any fees which may be required by the state or any applications for
special continuing permits for hauling garbage or refuse shall be completed by
the applicant and submitted to the appropriate state Department of
Transportation office.
(Prior Code, § 71.013) (Ord. 98-27, passed 7-20-1998) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.014 ALL-TERRAIN AND UTILITY VEHICLES.
   (A)   All-terrain vehicles (ATVs). ATVs shall not include utility type
vehicles (UTVs) which are described in §
70.001 of this code. ATVs are hereby prohibited from being operated on any
public property, street, alley, sidewalk, golf course or park.
   (B)   Public parks. ATVs may be used in public parks upon meeting the
following criteria.
      (1)   All operators must be 16 years of age or older.
      (2)   All operators must possess a valid driver’s license.
      (3)   The ATVs must be used in the city parks only for the operation and
maintenance of the park facilities.
      (4)   All individuals or entities using the ATVs for the above purposes
must carry their own insurance on the vehicle and fully hold harmless the city
from any liability arising out of the use and operation of the ATVs.
      (5)   Any individual or entity which desires to operate an ATV in public
parks as permitted above shall make written request to the Board of Parks
Commissioners for approval.
   (C)   Use in golf courses. Any individual or entity which desires to operate
an ATV in city golf courses shall make written request to the Park Board for
approval.
   (D)   Use for snow removal.
      (1)   ATVs may be used for snow removal from public sidewalks upon
meeting the following criteria.
         (a)   All individuals or entities must carry their own insurance on
the vehicles and fully hold harmless the city from any liability arising out of
the use and operation of the ATVs.
         (b)   The ATV must weigh a minimum of 500 pounds dry weight.
         (c)   The use of the ATV shall be restricted to its work site and must
be transported between work sites; ATVs may not be driven between work sites
unless properly registered and licensed.
         (d)   One permit issued per ATV, and the permit number shall be
prominently displayed upon the ATV. The ATVs headlights and taillights shall be
operable and in use during the times that the snow removal is occurring.
      (2)   Any individual or entity which desires to operate an ATV for snow
removal purposes shall make written request to the city’s Police Department for
a permit allowing the use, which permit shall be issued upon the applicant
meeting the above criteria.
      (3)   With respect to the insurance on the ATV, the city shall be named
as an additional insured and shall be insured in a face amount of not less than
$250,000, with proof of insurance accompanying the application.
      (4)   The use of the ATV to clean sidewalks shall be limited to within 24
hours from and after the conclusion of the snowstorm which deposited snow upon
the sidewalks to be cleaned.
   (E)   Agricultural purposes. ATVs may be used on public roads when the
operation is incidental to the vehicle’s use for agricultural purposes upon
meeting the following criteria:
      (1)   The operation only occurs between the hours of sunrise and sunset;
      (2)   Any person operating an ATV on a public road shall have a valid
Class O operator’s license or a farm permit as provided in Neb. Rev. Stat. §
60-4,126;
      (3)   The ATV shall not be operated at a speed in excess of 30 mph;
      (4)   The ATV must weigh a minimum of 900 pounds dry weight;
      (5)   When operated on a public road, the headlight and taillight of the
vehicle shall be on and the vehicle shall be equipped with a bicycle safety
flag which extends not less than five feet above ground attached to the rear of
the vehicle. The bicycle safety flag shall be triangular shape with an area of
not less than 30 square inches and shall be day-glow in color;
      (6)   All individuals or entities must carry their own insurance on the
vehicles and fully hold harmless the city from any liability arising out of the
use and operation of the ATVs;
      (7)   Use of the ATV shall be restricted to its work site; however, the
ATV can be driven between work sites upon full compliance with all of the
requirements of this division (E);
      (8)   One permit shall be issued per ATV and the permit number shall be
prominently displayed on the ATV;
      (9)   Any individual or entity which desires to operate an ATV for
agricultural purposes shall make written request to the Police Department for a
permit allowing the use; the permit shall be issued upon the applicant meeting
the above criteria; and
      (10)   With respect to insurance on the ATV, the city shall be named as
an additional insured and shall be insured in the face amount of not less than
$250,000, with proof of insurance accompanying the application.
(Prior Code, § 71.014) (Ord. 99-30, passed 5-17-1999; Ord. 04-11, passed 6-7-
2004; Ord. 11-30, passed 10-3-2011; Ord. 18-42, passed 9-4-2018) Penalty, see §
71.999
PEDESTRIANS
§ 71.025 PEDESTRIAN JAYWALKING.
   It shall be unlawful for a pedestrian to cross any street at a place other
than a crosswalk where a crosswalk is present. Where no crosswalk is present,
it shall be unlawful for a pedestrian to cross a street at a place other than a
corner of an intersection. In any case, it shall further be unlawful for a
pedestrian to cross any street intersection diagonally.
(Prior Code, § 71.025) (Ord. 98-27, passed 7-20-1998) Penalty, see §
71.999
Statutory reference:
   Pedestrians, see Neb. Rev. Stat. § 60-6,154
§ 71.026 DRIVING THROUGH PEDESTRIAN ZONES.
   It shall be unlawful to drive any vehicle through a pedestrian zone when any
person is standing therein.
(Prior Code, § 71.026) (Ord. 98-27, passed 7-20-1998) Penalty, see §
71.999
SPEED LIMITS
§ 71.040 SPEED REGULATED.
   The Street Department is hereby authorized to place suitable speed limit
signs along the highways within the city informing the traveling public as to
the maximum speed limit on the highways at the places designated. It shall be
unlawful to violate speed limits set within the city as set forth in
Chapter 74, Schedule I, or as may otherwise be posted. The fines for speeding
within the city shall be consistent with those set for speeding on the state
highways, including the fact that the fines shall double if speeding in a
construction zone or school crossing zone.
(Prior Code, § 71.040) (Ord. 98-27, passed 7-20-1998)
§ 71.041 USE OF RADAR TO MEASURE SPEED; ARREST AUTHORIZED.
   (A)   The speed of any motor vehicle being driven upon any public road,
street or highway within the city limits may be determined by the use of radio
microwaves, Doppler radar or other electronic devices. The results of the
determination shall be accepted as prima facie evidence of the speed of the
motor vehicle in any court or legal proceedings where the speed of the motor
vehicle is at issue.
   (B)   The driver of any such motor vehicle may be arrested without a warrant
under the authority granted by this chapter if the arresting officer is in
uniform or displays the officer’s badge of authority, provided that the
following occur.
      (1)   The officer observed the recordings of the speed of the motor
vehicle by the radio microwaves, Doppler radar or other electronic device, or
received a radio message from the officer who observed the speed of the motor
vehicle, recorded by the radio microwaves, Doppler radar or other electronic
device.
      (2)   In the event of an arrest based on such a message, the message had
been dispatched immediately after the speed of the motor vehicle was recorded
and furnished a description of the vehicle and the recorded speed to the
arresting officer.
(Prior Code, § 71.041) (Ord. 98-27, passed 7-20-1998)
TURNING
§ 71.055 TURNING RIGHT.
   The driver of a vehicle intending to turn to the right at an intersection
shall do the following.
   (A)   Signal the driver’s intention to turn right continuously for at least
100 feet prior to the making of the right turn, in accordance with §
71.002 of this code.
   (B)   Approach the intersection in the lane for traffic nearest to the
right-hand side of the street and, in making the right turn, shall keep as
close as practicable to the right-hand curb or edge of the road.
(Prior Code, § 71.055) (Ord. 98-27, passed 7-20-1998) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.056 TURNING LEFT.
   The driver of a vehicle intending to turn to the left at an intersection
shall do the following:
   (A)   Signal the driver’s intention to turn left continuously for at least
100 feet prior to the making of the left turn, in accordance with §
71.002 of this code;
   (B)   Approach the intersection in the extreme left-hand lane lawfully
available to traffic moving in the direction of travel of the vehicle and in
any event nearest to the center line of the street or road; and
   (C)   After entering the intersection, the vehicle shall remain to the right
of the center line where it enters the intersection until the left turn is
actually made, and the vehicle turning left shall complete the left turn to the
right of the center line of the street or road just entered, provided that on
one-way streets or roads, the driver of the vehicle shall make the left turn
from the lane of traffic nearest to the left-hand side of the street or road
and provided that, upon entering a two-lane road or street, the left turn shall
be completed in the lane nearest the center line.
(Prior Code, § 71.056) (Ord. 98-27, passed 7-20-1998) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.057 U-TURNS.
   On any street not an arterial street, it shall be unlawful for the driver of
any vehicle to make a U-turn so as to proceed in the opposite direction, except
at a street intersection. Nothing in this section should be construed to permit
a U-turn on an arterial street at an intersection where the U-turn is
prohibited by an officially authorized traffic-control sign.
(Prior Code, § 71.057) (Ord. 98-27, passed 7-20-1998) Penalty, see §
71.999
RIGHT-OF-WAY
§ 71.070 APPROACHING OR ENTERING INTERSECTION.
   (A)   When two vehicles approach or enter an intersection from different
roads at approximately the same time, the driver of the vehicle on the left
shall yield right-of-way to the vehicle on the right, except as otherwise
herein provided.
   (B)   It is prima facie evidence that two vehicles entered the intersection
at approximately the same time if those vehicles collide in the intersection.
(Prior Code, § 71.070) (Ord. 98-27, passed 7-20-1998) Penalty, see §
71.999
Statutory reference:
   Similar state law, see Neb. Rev. Stat. § 60-6,146
§ 71.071 TURNING LEFT.
   The driver of a vehicle who intends to turn to the left within an
intersection or into an alley, private road or driveway shall yield the right-
of-way to any vehicle approaching from the opposite direction which is within
the intersection or approaching so close as to constitute an immediate hazard.
(Prior Code, § 71.071) (Ord. 98-27, passed 7-20-1998) Penalty, see §
71.999
Statutory reference:
   Related provision, see Neb. Rev. Stat. § 60-6,154
§ 71.072 PEDESTRIANS.
   (A)   The driver of any vehicle shall yield the right-of-way to a pedestrian
crossing the road within a crosswalk who is in the lane in which the driver is
proceeding or is in the lane immediately adjacent thereto.
   (B)   At intersections where traffic is regulated by a traffic officer, an
automatic traffic signal or a pedestrian-control signal, the pedestrian, to be
entitled to the right-of-way, must proceed in accordance with the directions of
the traffic officer, automatic traffic signal or pedestrian-control signal
regulating the movement of traffic at the intersection.
   (C)   Any pedestrian who crosses a road at any point other than within a
marked crosswalk, or within an unmarked crosswalk at an intersection, shall
yield the right-of-way to all vehicles upon the road.
   (D)   No pedestrian shall suddenly leave a curb or other place of safety and
walk or run into the path of a vehicle which is so close that it is impossible
for the driver to stop.
(Prior Code, § 71.072) (Ord. 98-27, passed 7-20-1998) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.073 ENTERING A PUBLIC ROAD.
   (A)   The driver of a vehicle entering a public road from an alley,
driveway, private road, building, parking lot or garage shall stop the vehicle
immediately before driving onto a sidewalk if present and shall yield the
right-of-way to any pedestrian approaching on any sidewalk.
   (B)   Before entering the public road, the driver shall yield the right-of-
way to all vehicles approaching on the road.
(Prior Code, § 71.073) (Ord. 98-27, passed 7-20-1998) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.074 MOVING A STOPPED, STANDING OR PARKED VEHICLE.
   The driver of any vehicle which is stopped, standing or parked shall, when
leaving the position, yield the right-of-way to all vehicles and pedestrians
affected by the movement and in no event until the movement can be made with
reasonable safety.
(Prior Code, § 71.074) (Ord. 98-27, passed 7-20-1998) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.075 AUTHORIZED EMERGENCY VEHICLES.
   The driver of any other vehicle shall yield the right-of-way and shall
immediately drive to a position parallel to and as close as possible to the
right-hand edge of the road or right-hand curb of the street, or to either edge
or curb of a one-way road or street, clear of any intersection and shall stop
and remain in such position until the emergency vehicle passes unless otherwise
directed by any police officer.
(Prior Code, § 71.075) (Ord. 98-27, passed 7-20-1998) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.076 STOP SIGNS.
   (A)   Any vehicle approaching an intersection where a stop is indicated by a
stop sign shall stop at a clearly marked stop line or shall stop, if there is
no such line, before entering the crosswalk on the near side of the
intersection or, if no crosswalk is indicated, at the point nearest the
intersecting road where the driver has a view of approaching traffic on the
intersecting road before entering the intersection.
   (B)   After having stopped, the driver shall yield the right-of-way to any
vehicle which has entered the intersection from another road or which is
approaching so closely on the road as to constitute an immediate hazard if the
driver moved across or into the intersection.
(Prior Code, § 71.076) (Ord. 98-27, passed 7-20-1998) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.077 YIELD SIGNS.
   (A)   The driver of a vehicle approaching a yield sign shall slow to a speed
reasonable under the existing conditions and, if required for safety to stop,
shall stop at a clearly marked stop line or shall stop, if there is no such
line, before entering the crosswalk on the near side of the intersection or, if
no crosswalk is indicated, at the point nearest the intersecting road where the
driver has a view of approaching traffic on the intersecting road.
   (B)   After slowing or stopping, the driver shall yield the right-of-way to
any vehicle in the intersection or approaching on another road so closely as to
constitute an immediate hazard if the driver moved across or into the
intersection.
(Prior Code, § 71.077) (Ord. 98-27, passed 7-20-1998) Penalty, see §
71.999
MATERIAL OR DEBRIS ON ROAD
§ 71.090 SCATTERING OF GLASS OR NAILS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to throw, scatter or deposit any glass,
nails, tacks, wire, cans or other material or article likely to injure any
person, animal or vehicle upon any road or street.
(Prior Code, § 71.090) (Ord. 98-27, passed 7-20-1998) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.091 DUTY TO REMOVE SCATTERED MATERIALS.
   The driver or operator of any vehicle who drops, throws or scatters any
material or article which is destructive, dangerous or likely to damage other
vehicular traffic, or who permits a passenger to drop, throw or scatter the
same must immediately stop and cause the material or article to be removed from
the road or street.
(Prior Code, § 71.091) (Ord. 98-27, passed 7-20-1998) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.092 DUTY TO REMOVE DEBRIS LEFT BY DAMAGED VEHICLE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person removing a wrecked or damaged vehicle
from any road or street to fail to remove any glass, metal parts or other
debris left by the damaged vehicle which is likely to be injurious to traffic.
(Prior Code, § 71.092) (Ord. 98-27, passed 7-20-1998) Penalty, see §
71.999
STREET DESIGNATIONS
§ 71.105 ARTERIAL OR COLLECTOR STREETS.
   The City Council may, by resolution, designate certain streets or portions
of streets, as arterial or collector streets in accordance with the current
version of the State and National Classification systems.
(Prior Code, § 71.105) (Ord. 98-27, passed 7-20-1998)
§ 71.106 TRUCK ROUTES.
   The City Council may, by resolution, designate certain streets in the city
upon which trucks shall or shall not travel, and it shall be unlawful for any
person operating trucks to travel streets other than those designated, except
to pick up or make deliveries. The Traffic Control Device Committee shall cause
notices to be posted or signs erected indicating the streets so designated and
shall make recommendation to the Public Property, Safety and Works Committee
for such signage.
(Prior Code, § 71.106) (Ord. 98-27, passed 7-20-1998) Penalty, see §
71.999
Statutory reference:
   Authorization, see Neb. Rev. Stat. § 60-680
REGULATIONS FOR OPERATORS
§ 71.120 POSITION OF VEHICLES.
   Vehicles in motion must keep between the right-side curb and the center of
the street or between the right line and the center line of a highway, and slow
moving, large or heavily loaded vehicles shall keep as near to the right-side
curb or to the right line as possible.
(Prior Code, § 71.120) (Ord. 98-27, passed 7-20-1998) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.121 OVERTAKING VEHICLES; INTERSECTIONS.
   (A)   (1)   The driver of any vehicle overtaking another vehicle proceeding
in the same direction may do so only if the road markings indicate that the
same can be done with safety. The driver shall first give a visible signal of
the driver’s intention and shall pass to the left of the other vehicle at a
safe distance and shall not again drive to the right side of the road until
safely clear of the overtaken vehicle.
      (2)   Nothing in this section shall be construed to prohibit a driver
overtaking and passing upon the right of another vehicle which is making or
about to make a left turn.
   (B)   (1)   The driver of a vehicle may overtake and pass on the right of
another vehicle proceeding in the same direction in an intersection only when
the movement may be made safely, when the vehicle to be overtaken is making or
about to make a left turn or when there are two or more traffic lanes provided
in each direction.
      (2)   It shall be unlawful for the driver of a vehicle to overtake or
pass on the left of another vehicle proceeding in the same direction in an
intersection except on one-way streets or roads.
(Prior Code, § 71.121) (Ord. 98-27, passed 7-20-1998) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.122 KEEP TO RIGHT OF CENTER LINE OF STREET.
   It shall be unlawful for the driver of a vehicle to drive to the left side
of the center line of a street except as is otherwise provided in this title. A
driver may not move to the left side of the center line in order to overtake
and pass another vehicle proceeding in the same direction, or a vehicle parked
at the curb, unless the left side is clearly visible and is free of oncoming
traffic for a sufficient distance ahead to permit the overtaking and passing to
be made in safety and the road marking indicates that it is permissible to pass
other vehicles.
(Prior Code, § 71.122) (Ord. 98-27, passed 7-20-1998) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.123 OVERTAKEN VEHICLE TO YIELD RIGHT-OF-WAY.
   It shall be unlawful, on streets or roads where traffic lanes are not
marked, for the driver of a vehicle about to be overtaken and passed from the
rear by another vehicle to fail to give the right-of-way to the overtaking
vehicle and to move to the right upon suitable or audible signal being given by
the driver of the overtaking vehicle.
(Prior Code, § 71.123) (Ord. 98-27, passed 7-20-1998) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.124 FOLLOWING TOO CLOSELY.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the driver of a vehicle to follow another
vehicle more closely than is reasonable and prudent.
   (B)   Any driver of a vehicle shall have due regard for the speed of any
vehicle which the driver is following and the traffic upon and the condition of
the street or road.
(Prior Code, § 71.124) (Ord. 98-27, passed 7-20-1998) Penalty, see §
71.999
Statutory reference:
   Following vehicles; restrictions, see Neb. Rev. Stat. § 60-6,140
§ 71.125 FOLLOWING AUTHORIZED EMERGENCY VEHICLES.
   It shall be unlawful for the driver of any vehicle to follow any authorized
emergency vehicle at a distance closer than 300 feet.
(Prior Code, § 71.125) (Ord. 98-27, passed 7-20-1998) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.126 STOP REQUIRED WHILE BUSES LOADING, UNLOADING.
   (A)   Upon approaching a place where buses are loading or unloading
passengers, vehicles moving in the same direction or opposite direction as the
buses shall not pass the buses but shall stop ten feet to the rear or front of
the buses and shall not again proceed until the passengers have entered or left
the bus.
   (B)   This section shall not apply where pedestrian zones have been
established.
(Prior Code, § 71.126) (Ord. 98-27, passed 7-20-1998) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.127 IMPROPER LANE CHANGE.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful on any arterial street for the driver of any
vehicle to cross from one side of the street to another, except when lawfully
overtaking or passing another vehicle, when lawfully turning at a street
intersection or when making a lawful U-turn.
   (B)   On one-way streets or roads, the driver of any vehicle may cross from
one lane of traffic to an adjacent lane when the same may be done with safety.
(Prior Code, § 71.127) (Ord. 98-27, passed 7-20-1998) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.128 DRIVING AGAINST TRAFFIC.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to drive a motor vehicle in other
than the same general direction as other traffic on the same side of the street
or road.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for the driver of any vehicle to drive the
vehicle in reverse, whether proceeding in the same general direction as other
traffic or against other traffic, except when entering a parallel parking stall
or leaving an angle parking stall or when backing from a private road or drive,
and then only when the movements can be made in safety.
(Prior Code, § 71.128) (Ord. 98-27, passed 7-20-1998) Penalty, see §
71.999
Statutory reference:
   Backing, see Neb. Rev. Stat. § 60-6,169
§ 71.129 FAILURE TO MAINTAIN CONTROL.
   (A)   Prohibited. It shall be unlawful for any person to drive, use,
operate, park, cause to park or stop any motor vehicle in such a manner so as
to endanger persons or property, or in such a manner so as to endanger or
interfere with the lawful traffic upon any public or private road, street,
alley, highway or parking lot within the city.
   (B)   Incidents. The following specific acts, by way of illustration and not
by way of limitation, shall constitute specific acts of failure to maintain
control when coupled with injury to persons or property:
      (1)   Failure of the driver of a motor vehicle to maintain a proper
lookout while operating the motor vehicle;
      (2)   Operation of a motor vehicle at a speed greater than is reasonable
and prudent under the conditions then and there existing; and
      (3)   Failure of the driver of a motor vehicle to yield the right-of-way
to any other vehicle or to any pedestrian as required by state law or city
ordinance.
(Prior Code, § 71.129) (Ord. 98-27, passed 7-20-1998) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.130 CLINGING TO MOTOR VEHICLES.
   It shall be unlawful for the driver of any vehicle to allow or permit any
person traveling upon a bicycle, coaster, sled, roller skates or any other toy
vehicle to cling to, or attach that person’s self or the bicycle, coaster,
sled, roller skates or toy vehicle to the moving vehicle, and it shall be
unlawful for a person traveling upon a bicycle, coaster, sled, roller skates or
a toy vehicle to cling to or attach that person’s self or the bicycle, coaster,
sled, roller skates or toy vehicle to the moving vehicle.
(Prior Code, § 71.130) (Ord. 98-27, passed 7-20-1998) Penalty, see §
71.999
Statutory reference:
   Bicycles; clinging to vehicles; prohibited, see Neb. Rev. Stat. § 60-6,316
§ 71.131 UNHAMPERED OPERATION.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to drive or operate a vehicle upon
the roads or streets of the city when the driver has another person in front of
the driver or in the driver’s embrace, or has another person, package or other
encumbrance which prevents the free and unhampered operation of the vehicle.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for the operator of any vehicle of three wheels
or less to carry any passenger upon the vehicle, unless the vehicle is, by the
manufacturer, designed or intended to carry the number of persons being
conveyed, and then only in conformity with the provisions of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 71.131) (Ord. 98-27, passed 7-20-1998) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.132 ENDGATES IN PLACE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to drive a vehicle upon the roads,
streets or alleys of the city with the endgate or rear doors of the vehicle
open, extended or not in place, unless a red flag is securely fastened in a
conspicuous position at the extreme end of the endgate or door.
(Prior Code, § 71.132) (Ord. 98-27, passed 7-20-1998) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.133 DRAGGING ROPES OR CHAINS.
   It shall be unlawful for the operator of any vehicle or motor vehicle to
permit any rope, strap, chain or other article to drag behind the vehicle upon
the surface of a road or street while the vehicle is in use.
(Prior Code, § 71.133) (Ord. 98-27, passed 7-20-1998) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.134 DRIVING OVER FIRE HOSE.
   It shall be unlawful for the driver of any vehicle to drive a vehicle over
an unprotected fire hose.
(Prior Code, § 71.134) (Ord. 98-27, passed 7-20-1998) Penalty, see §
71.999
Statutory reference:
   Similar state law, see Neb. Rev. Stat. § 60-6,184
§ 71.135 DRIVING OVER NEWLY LAID PAVEMENT.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to ride or drive any vehicle or toy
conveyance over or across any newly laid or newly repaired pavement which is
protected or surrounded by a barrier, or near which there is a person or sign
warning against riding or driving over the pavement.
(Prior Code, § 71.135) (Ord. 98-27, passed 7-20-1998) Penalty, see §
71.999
REGULATIONS FOR PASSENGERS
§ 71.150 RIDING ON OUTSIDE OF VEHICLE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to ride on the running board, hood, top,
fenders or bumpers of any motor vehicle or for the driver of the vehicle to
permit the same.
(Prior Code, § 71.145) (Ord. 98-27, passed 7-20-1998) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.151 RIDING IN TRUCK BEDS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to ride in the bed of any pickup or
other truck within the corporate limits of the city, or for the driver of the
vehicle to permit the same, provided that riding in pickup or other truck beds
shall not be prohibited when the riding occurs while participating in a parade.
A PARADE, for purposes of this section, is defined as an organized march or
procession in which the organizers have provided to the appropriate city
officials written notification and received permission.
(Prior Code, § 71.146) (Ord. 98-27, passed 7-20-1998) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.152 SOLICITING RIDES.
   No person shall stand in a roadway for the purpose of soliciting a ride,
employment, contributions or business from the occupant of any vehicle.
(Prior Code, § 71.147) (Ord. 98-27, passed 7-20-1998; Ord. 01-33, passed 6-4-
2001; Ord. 02-60, passed 11-4-2002) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.999 PENALTY.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/c898f04873aad83d2018fee9d1c91b72c99beaa9/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2454.png]Publisher's Note: This Section has been AMENDED by new
legislation (Ord. 25-12, passed 7-21-2025). The text of the amendment will be
incorporated below when the amending legislation is codified.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person who refuses to submit to the test or tests required
pursuant to §
71.009 of this code shall not have the tests taken but shall be found guilty of
a traffic infraction and upon conviction shall have that person’s operator’s
license impounded by the court for 90 days for refusal to submit to the tests
required pursuant to this section.
(Prior Code, § 71.008) (Ord. 99-04, passed 2-1-1999)
CHAPTER 72: STOPPING, STANDING AND PARKING
Section
General Provisions
   
72.001   Time limits set by City Council
   
72.002   Painting curbs
   
72.003   Parking spaces
   
72.004   Prohibited parking
   
72.005   Abandoned vehicles
Regulations
   
72.020   Parking near street intersections
   
72.021   Driving or parking within sidewalk space
   
72.022   Parking near traffic-control devices
   
72.023   Parking near fire hydrants
   
72.024   Parking of semi-truck/trailer and commercial vehicle
   
72.025   Angle parking
   
72.026   Parking of oversize vehicles, trailer, mobile home, camping trailer or
bus in residential districts
   
72.027   Parking upon roadways or city parking lots for certain purposes
prohibited
   
72.028   Obstructing driveways or roads
   
72.029   Parking in alleys
   
72.030   Impeding or obstructing traffic
   
72.031   Stopping, standing or parking in loading zone
   
72.032   Large or dangerous vehicles
   
72.033   Parking for purpose of selling merchandise
   
72.034   Stopped school buses
   
72.035   Parking time limit in public parking lots
   
72.036   Parallel parking
   
72.037   Restricted or private parking lots
   
72.038   Streets without curb
   
72.039   Handicapped parking enforcement
   
72.040   Overtime parking
   
72.041   Stopping, standing or parking in places which would cause hazardous
conditions or traffic congestion
   
72.042   Obstructing use of public parking spaces
   
72.043   Unattended motor vehicles
   
72.044   Parking in fire zones; prohibited
   
72.045   Automobile parking and storage restrictions
Snow Emergencies
   
72.060   Emergency declarations by Mayorand Public Works Director
   
72.061   Provisions temporarily effective take precedence
   
72.062   Snow emergency routes
   
72.063   Prohibition of parking on snow emergency routes
   
72.064   Prohibition of parking on arterial and residential streets
   
72.065   Operation of vehicles on snow emergency routes, designated arterial
and residential streets
   
72.066   Removal of parked, stalled or stuck vehicles
   
72.067   Parallel parking during snow removal
   
72.068   Windrows, removal of vehicles
   
72.069   Obstruction of view of drivers
   
72.070   Payment of fines and costs
Administration and Enforcement
   
72.085   Violations Bureau
   
72.086   Owner responsible
   
72.087   Emergency vehicles
   
72.088   Automobile impoundment
   
72.089   Impoundment of motor vehicles for failure to pay parking tickets
   
72.090   Account for fees collected
 
   
72.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 72.001 TIME LIMITS SET BY CITY COUNCIL.
   (A)   The City Council may, by resolution, entirely prohibit or fix a limit
for the parking and stopping of any vehicle on any street, road or district
designated in the resolution. The parking or stopping of any vehicle on any
such street, road or district for a period of time longer than is fixed by the
resolution, shall constitute a violation of this chapter. During any one day,
it shall be unlawful for any vehicle to be parked or to be consecutively parked
and remain within the same block on the same street or road within the same
district for a longer period of time than so designated for the street, road or
district.
   (B)   When signs are erected giving notice thereof, no person shall park a
vehicle for longer than the posted time between the hours indicated thereon of
any day, except Sundays and public holidays, within the city.
(Prior Code, § 72.01) (Ord. 98-27, passed 7-20-1998; Ord. 02-53, passed 10-7-
2002) Penalty, see §
72.999
§ 72.002 PAINTING CURBS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to paint the curb of any street or
in any manner set aside or attempt to prevent the parking of vehicles in any
street or part thereof otherwise authorized by law.
   (B)   The marking or designating of portions of streets or alleys where the
parking of vehicles is prohibited or limited shall be effected only by the city
through its proper officers.
(Prior Code, § 72.02) (Ord. 98-27, passed 7-20-1998; Ord. 02-53, passed 10-7-
2002) Penalty, see §
72.999
§ 72.003 PARKING SPACES.
   (A)   The City Council shall cause lines or markings to be painted or placed
upon the curb and/or upon the street adjacent to each limited parking space for
the purpose of designating the parking space to be used and each vehicle parked
therein shall be parked within the lines or markings so established.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful and a violation of this chapter to park any
vehicle or portion thereof across or beyond any such line or marking or to park
the vehicle in such position that the same shall not be entirely within the
parking space so designated by the lines or markings.
(Prior Code, § 72.03) (Ord. 98-27, passed 7-20-1998; Ord. 02-53, passed 10-7-
2002) Penalty, see §
72.999
§ 72.004 PROHIBITED PARKING.
   (A)   Except when necessary to avoid contact with other traffic or when in
compliance with a police officer, others authorized to direct traffic or
traffic-control devices, no person shall:
      (1)   Stop, stand or park any vehicle:
         (a)   On the roadway sides of any vehicle stopped or parked at the
edge or curb of a street;
         (b)   On a sidewalk;
         (c)   Within an intersection;
         (d)   On a crosswalk;
         (e)   Between a safety zone and the adjacent curb within 30 feet of
points on the curb immediately opposite the ends of a safety zone unless
competent authority indicates a different length by signs or markings;
         (f)   Alongside or opposite any street excavation or obstruction when
stopping, standing or parking would obstruct traffic;
         (g)   Upon any bridge or other elevated structure of a highway;
         (h)   On any railroad track;
         (i)   At any place where official signs prohibit stopping;
         (j)   On any public alley, roadway, street, highway or right-of-way
when such vehicle is not displaying current legal, valid and proper
registration plates in accordance with state registration laws; or
         (k)    On the front, back or side yards in residential districts where
such stopping, standing or parking is done in violation of the zoning code
adopted by the city.
      (2)   Stand or park a vehicle, whether occupied or not, except
momentarily to pick up or discharge a passenger or passengers:
         (a)   In front of a public or private driveway;
         (b)   Within 15 feet of a fire hydrant;
         (c)   Within 20 feet of a crosswalk at an intersection;
         (d)   Within 30 feet of any flashing signal, stop sign, yield sign or
other traffic-control device located at the side of a roadway; or
         (e)   Within 20 feet of a driveway entrance to a fire station and on
the side of a street opposite the entrance of any fire station within 75 feet
of such entrance that is properly signposted.
      (3)   Park a vehicle, whether occupied or not, except temporarily for the
purpose of and while actually engaged in loading or unloading merchandise or
passengers:
         (a)   Within 50 feet of the nearest rail of a railroad crossing; or
         (b)   At any place where official signs prohibit parking.
   (B)   No person shall move a vehicle not lawfully under his or her control
into any such prohibited area or away from the curb such a distance as shall be
unlawful.
(Prior Code, § 72.04) (Ord. 98-27, passed 7-20-1998; Ord. 02-53, passed 10-7-
2002; Ord. 19-03, passed 2-19-2019) Penalty, see §
72.999
§ 72.005 ABANDONED VEHICLES.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to cause a vehicle to be
abandoned. A motor vehicle is an abandoned vehicle:
      (1)   If left unattended, with no license plates or in-transit decals
issued pursuant to Neb. Rev. Stat. §§ 60-1901 et seq. affixed thereto, for more
than six hours on any public property;
      (2)   If left unattended for more than 24 hours on any public property,
except a portion thereof on which parking is legally permitted;
      (3)   If left unattended for more than 48 hours after the parking of such
vehicle has become illegal, if left on a portion of any public parking on which
parking is legally permitted;
      (4)   If left unattended for more than seven days on private property, if
left initially without permission of the owner, or after permission of the
owner is terminated; or
      (5)   If left for more than 30 days in the custody of a law enforcement
agency after the agency has sent a letter to the last registered owner under
Neb. Rev. Stat. § 60-1903.01.
   (B)   An all-terrain vehicle or minibike is an abandoned vehicle:
      (1)   If left unattended for more than 24 hours on any public property,
except a portion thereof on which parking is legally permitted;
      (2)   If left unattended for more than 48 hours after the parking of such
vehicle has become illegal, if left on a portion of any public parking on which
parking is legally permitted;
      (3)   If left unattended for more than seven days on private property, if
left initially without permission of the owner, or after permission of the
owner is terminated; or
      (4)   If left for more than 30 days in the custody of a law enforcement
agency after the agency has sent a letter to the last registered owner under
Neb. Rev. Stat. § 60-1903.01.
   (C)   (1)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
         PUBLIC PROPERTY. Any public right-of-way, street, highway, alley or
park, or other state, county or municipally owned property.
         PRIVATE PROPERTY. Any privately-owned property which is not included
within the definition of public property.
      (2)   No motor vehicle subject to forfeiture under Neb. Rev. Stat. § 28-
431 shall be an abandoned vehicle under this section.
(Prior Code, § 72.05) (Ord. 99-31, passed 5-17-1999; Ord. 02-53, passed 10-7-
2002) Penalty, see §
72.999
Statutory reference:
   Abandoned vehicles, see Neb. Rev. Stat. §§ 60-1901 through 60-1911
REGULATIONS
§ 72.020 PARKING NEAR STREET INTERSECTIONS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to park any vehicle or to allow any
vehicle to remain standing for any purpose or for any period of time whatsoever
within 20 feet of any intersection, unless otherwise designated.
(Prior Code, § 72.15) (Ord. 98-27, passed 7-20-1998; Ord. 02-53, passed 10-7-
2002) Penalty, see §
72.999
§ 72.021 DRIVING OR PARKING WITHIN SIDEWALK SPACE.
   It shall be unlawful for the driver or operator of any vehicle to drive or
park the vehicle within any sidewalk space. However, where a permanent or
temporary driveway crosses a sidewalk, the vehicle may be driven across a
sidewalk as it operates upon the driveway.
(Prior Code, § 72.16) (Ord. 98-27, passed 7-20-1998; Ord. 02-53, passed 10-7-
2002) Penalty, see §
72.999
§ 72.022 PARKING NEAR TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to allow any vehicle to remain
standing or to park any vehicle, whether occupied or not, within 30 feet of any
flashing signal, stop sign, yield sign or other traffic-control device located
at the side of a road.
   (B)   It shall not be a violation of this section to stand or park a vehicle
when the following occur.
      (1)   It is necessary momentarily to stand or park the vehicle in order
to pick up or discharge a passenger or passengers. In no case shall such
momentary stopping or parking exceed three minutes.
      (2)   It is necessary to stand or park the vehicle in order to avoid
conflict with other traffic.
      (3)   Standing or parking the vehicle is done in compliance with the law
or with the directions of a law enforcement officer, community service
technician or traffic-control device.
(Prior Code, § 72.17) (Ord. 98-27, passed 7-20-1998; Ord. 02-53, passed 10-7-
2002) Penalty, see §
72.999
§ 72.023 PARKING NEAR FIRE HYDRANTS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to park any vehicle or to allow any
vehicle to remain standing for any purpose whatsoever or for any period of time
whatsoever within 15 feet of a fire hydrant.
(Prior Code, § 72.18) (Ord. 98-27, passed 7-20-1998; Ord. 02-53, passed 10-7-
2002) Penalty, see §
72.999
Statutory reference:
   Stopping, standing and parking, see Neb. Rev. Stat. § 60-6,166
§ 72.024 PARKING OF SEMI-TRUCK/TRAILER AND COMMERCIAL VEHICLE.
   It shall be unlawful to park a semi-trailer or tractor, attached or standing
alone, within an area zoned as a residential district, except for the purpose
of loading or unloading. Parking of commercial vehicles is permitted in duly
designated and sign-posted loading zones, and in alleys, for a period of up to
20 minutes. It is unlawful to park a detached semi-trailer upon any street,
municipally owned parking lot or other public property.
(Prior Code, § 72.19) (Ord. 98-27, passed 7-20-1998; Ord. 02-53, passed 10-7-
2002) Penalty, see §
72.999
§ 72.025 ANGLE PARKING.
   Where angle parking has been established and is allowed, as shown by curb
marking or sign posting, or both, each vehicle stopped or parked shall be at an
angle of approximately 45 degrees to 60 degrees with the front wheel touching
the curb and within any parking lines painted on the curb or street, provided
that the front wheel not touching the curb shall be the portion of the vehicle
furthest in the direction of the closest lane of traffic, and it is unlawful to
park in violation of this section.
(Prior Code, § 72.20) (Ord. 98-27, passed 7-20-1998; Ord. 02-53, passed 10-7-
2002) Penalty, see §
72.999
§ 72.026 PARKING OF OVERSIZE VEHICLES, TRAILER, MOBILE HOME, CAMPING TRAILER OR
BUS IN RESIDENTIAL DISTRICTS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the driver of any motor vehicle that is
either of the following to stop or park that vehicle on any street in a
residential district, except for the purpose of loading or unloading freight:
      (1)   Twenty-two feet or longer and/or eight feet in width (as specified
by vehicle manufacturer); or
      (2)   Any trailer, house trailer, mobile home, camping trailer, bus or
other similar recreational vehicle.
   (B)   In no case shall the time period allowed for loading or unloading
exceed six consecutive hours, except where authorized by special permit
authorized by the Police Department.
(Prior Code, § 72.21) (Ord. 02-53, passed 10-7-2002) Penalty, see §
72.999
§ 72.027 PARKING UPON ROADWAYS OR CITY PARKING LOTS FOR CERTAIN PURPOSES
PROHIBITED.
   No person shall park a vehicle upon any roadway or city parking lot for the
purpose of:
   (A)   Displaying the vehicle for sale; or
   (B)   Washing, greasing or repairing the vehicle except repairs necessitated
by an emergency.
(Prior Code, § 72.22) (Ord. 02-53, passed 10-7-2002) Penalty, see §
72.999
§ 72.028 OBSTRUCTING DRIVEWAYS OR ROADS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to stop or park any vehicle so as to
obstruct a driveway or road or to stop or park any vehicle within five feet of
a private driveway or road.
(Prior Code, § 72.23) (Ord. 98-27, passed 7-20-1998; Ord. 02-53, passed 10-7-
2002) Penalty, see §
72.999
§ 72.029 PARKING IN ALLEYS.
   It shall be unlawful for the operator of any vehicle to stop, stand or park
such vehicle in any alley for a period of time longer than is necessary for the
loading or unloading and said vehicle shall be parked in such a manner as will
cause the least obstruction possible to traffic in the alley, and in any case
will not remain parked for the purpose of loading or unloading for a period to
exceed 20 minutes.
   In the downtown business district, vehicles will be parked generally on the
north and west side of the alley unless alternative parking is permitted by the
Traffic Control Device Committee.
(Prior Code, § 72.24) (Ord. 98-27, passed 7-20-1998; Ord. 02-53, passed 10-7-
2002; Ord. 07-16, passed 9-17-2007) Penalty, see §
72.999
§ 72.030 IMPEDING OR OBSTRUCTING TRAFFIC.
   (A)   Except in the case of an accident or emergency, it shall be unlawful
for any person to impede or obstruct other lawful vehicle or pedestrian traffic
on any street, road or alley.
   (B)   Impeding or obstructing traffic shall include, but not be limited to
parking or stopping any vehicle within any street, road, lot or alley or in any
other location so as to impede or obstruct other lawful vehicle or pedestrian
traffic on any street, avenue, alley or lot, or the lawful use of any street
crossing, intersection, crosswalk, alley entrance or any on-street or off-
street parking space, and traveling less than 15 mph below the posted speed
limit except during periods of poor weather conditions where a reasonably
prudent person would travel at lower speeds.
(Prior Code, § 72.25) (Ord. 98-27, passed 7-20-1998; Ord. 02-53, passed 10-7-
2002) Penalty, see §
72.999
§ 72.031 STOPPING, STANDING OR PARKING IN LOADING ZONE.
   (A)   No person shall stop, stand or park a vehicle for any purpose or
period of time, other than for expeditious loading or unloading of passengers
or materials in any place marked as a loading zone during hours and days as
posted, and then only for a period not to exceed five minutes for passengers or
20 minutes for materials.
   (B)   The City Council will, by resolution, determine the location of
loading zones, and the city shall place and maintain appropriate signs
indicating the same and stating the hours and days during which the provisions
of this section are applicable.
(Prior Code, § 72.26) (Ord. 02-53, passed 10-7-2002) Penalty, see §
72.999
§ 72.032 LARGE OR DANGEROUS VEHICLES.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the driver of any motor vehicle which is 22
feet or longer (including any attachments of any kind) to stop or park the
vehicle on any street where angle parking is permitted, except for the purpose
of loading or unloading freight, provided that the vehicle shall not be parked
in any angle parking stall but shall stand on the street with the flow of
traffic and with its hazard signals engaged but only for the amount of time
necessary to accomplish the loading or unloading of freight.
   (B)   It shall also be unlawful for the operator of any commercial or farm
vehicle, regardless of its length, to park the commercial or farm vehicle with
its endgate down and extending beyond the body of the vehicle into the street.
(Prior Code, § 72.27) (Ord. 99-50, passed 9-20-1999; Ord. 02-53, passed 10-7-
2002) Penalty, see §
72.999
§ 72.033 PARKING FOR PURPOSE OF SELLING MERCHANDISE.
   It is unlawful for any person to park or let stand, for a period to exceed
ten minutes, any vehicle, to include vehicles commonly known as peddler’s car
or wagon, on any street, right-of-way or terrace, for the purpose of selling
the vehicle or other merchandise thereon or therein for a period, provided,
however, that the City Council may waive this section during special events.
(Prior Code, § 72.28) (Ord. 98-27, passed 7-20-1998; Ord. 02-53, passed 10-7-
2002) Penalty, see §
72.999
§ 72.034 STOPPED SCHOOL BUSES.
   It shall be unlawful for the driver of any school bus, van or other large
vehicle transporting persons to stop the vehicle in the lane of traffic for
more than one minute, unless the driver is loading or unloading children.
(Prior Code, § 72.29) (Ord. 98-27, passed 7-20-1998; Ord. 02-53, passed 10-7-
2002) Penalty, see §
72.999
§ 72.035 PARKING TIME LIMIT IN PUBLIC PARKING LOTS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to park any vehicle or to permit any
vehicle to stand in the parking lots owned or operated by the city for longer
than 24 consecutive hours or as is posted in each lot.
(Prior Code, § 72.30) (Ord. 98-27, passed 7-20-1998; Ord. 02-53, passed 10-7-
2002) Penalty, see §
72.999
§ 72.036 PARALLEL PARKING.
   (A)   Except as otherwise provided in this chapter, any vehicle stopped or
parked upon a two-way road where parking is permitted shall be so stopped or
parked with the right-hand wheels parallel to and within 12 inches of the
right-hand curb or edge of such roadway. No vehicle shall be parked upon a
roadway when there is a shoulder adjacent to the roadway which is available for
parking.
   (B)   Except when otherwise provided by competent authority, every vehicle
stopped or parked upon a one-way road shall be so stopped or parked parallel to
the curb or edge of the roadway, in the direction of authorized traffic
movement with its right-hand wheels within 12 inches of the right curb or edge
of the roadway, or its left-hand wheels within 12 inches of the right curb or
edge of such roadway.
(Prior Code, § 72.31) (Ord. 02-53, passed 10-7-2002) Penalty, see §
72.999
Statutory reference:
   Parking regulations, see Neb. Rev. Stat. § 60-6,167
§ 72.037 RESTRICTED OR PRIVATE PARKING LOTS.
   (A)   Unauthorized parking on restricted or private lots. It shall be
unlawful for any person to park a motor vehicle in a properly posted restricted
or private lot without the consent of the owner or tenant
authorized to give permission.
      (1)   (a)   Any motor vehicle which is parked in violation of this
division (A) shall be subject to being towed away at the request of the lot
owner or tenant. The towing shall be at the expense of the registered owner of
the vehicle.
         (b)   In any event, when any law enforcement officer or community
service technician observes or is advised that a motor vehicle may be in
violation of this division (A), that officer shall determine whether a
violation has in fact occurred and, if so, shall personally serve or attach to
the motor vehicle a citation.
      (2)   Any person found guilty under this division (A) shall be subject to
the penalties provided in §
72.999 of this code. If the identity of the operator of a motor vehicle in
violation of this division (A) cannot be determined, the owner or person in
whose name the vehicle is registered shall be held prima facie responsible for
the infraction.
   (B)   Signs designating. Signs designating a restricted or private parking
lot shall be readily visible and shall state the purpose or purposes for
parking on the lot. If the lot is closed after business hours, the hours that
parking is not allowed must be stated on the sign. Restricted parking lot signs
must state: “Parking on this lot is restricted to customers only. No parking or
loitering from           to           . Violators will be prosecuted in
accordance with City Code,
Chapter 72, §
72.037. Contact              to determine location of towed vehicle.”
   (C)   Motor vehicle towed away. A motor vehicle towed away under this
section which is not claimed by the owner is subject to liens by the person who
towed the vehicle under the state statutes.
   (D)   Properly parked; liability. Any owner or tenant causing the towing
away of a motor vehicle that is not improperly parked on a restricted lot shall
cause the return of the motor vehicle to its owner or driver at no charge to
the owner or driver. The person causing the motor vehicle to be towed shall be
liable for any reasonably foreseeable damage incurred by the owner or driver of
the motor vehicle due to loss of transportation.
   (E)   Liability for reasonably foreseeable damages. Anyone towing away a
motor vehicle pursuant to this section shall be liable for any reasonably
foreseeable damages to the motor vehicle that occur during the hookup, towing
or disengagement of the motor vehicle to or from the towing vehicle, and anyone
storing a towed motor vehicle shall be liable for any reasonably foreseeable
damage to the motor vehicle and the personal contents therein during the
storage period.
   (F)   Written statement by tower. The owner or driver of any motor vehicle
towed away pursuant to this section shall, upon regaining possession of the
motor vehicle from the tower, be given a written statement by the tower fully
detailing the following: The name and address of the person or persons who
caused the vehicle to be towed; under what statutory authority the vehicle was
towed; and the owner or driver’s rights under this section.
   (G)   Person towing motor vehicle. Anyone towing a motor vehicle pursuant to
this section shall take reasonable steps to ascertain that the person causing
the motor vehicle to be towed is the owner or tenant of the lot from which the
motor vehicle is to be towed.
   (H)   Towing and storage fees. The owner or other person lawfully entitled
to the possession of any vehicle towed or stored shall be charged with the
reasonable cost of towing and storage fees. Any towing or storage fee shall be
a lien upon the vehicle prior to all other claims. Any person towing or storing
a vehicle shall be entitled to retain possession of the vehicle until the
charges are paid. The lien provided for in this section shall not apply to the
contents of any vehicle.
   (I)   Owner or tenant of lot; solicitation. Any owner or tenant causing the
towing away of a motor vehicle shall not solicit nor accept therefor a
commission, gift, gratuity or any form of compensation or wealth from the
person or business towing away the motor vehicle.
(Prior Code, § 72.32) (Ord. 98-27, passed 7-20-1998; Ord. 02-53, passed 10-7-
2002) Penalty, see §
72.999
Statutory reference:
   Restricted parking, see Neb. Rev. Stat. §§ 60-2401 through 60-2411
§ 72.038 STREETS WITHOUT CURB.
   Parking is prohibited upon streets that are less than 33 feet in width, not
having a curb, whether paved or unpaved.
(Prior Code, § 72.33) (Ord. 02-53, passed 10-7-2002) Penalty, see §
72.999
§ 72.039 HANDICAPPED PARKING ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   For any offense classified as a HANDICAPPED PARKING INFRACTION, which
for purpose of this section shall mean the violation of any statute, ordinance
or resolution of the state or city regulating the use of parking spaces
designated for use by handicapped or disabled persons, a handicapped parking
citation may be issued by any police officer, community service technician or
any other person designated by the Chief of Police.
   (B)   The form of the handicapped parking citation to be used shall be that
form as prescribed by the Supreme Court of the state, provided that should the
Supreme Court fail to prescribe the form of the handicapped parking citation,
then the handicapped parking citation to be used shall be as prescribed by the
Police Department. The handicapped parking citation shall include a description
of the handicapped parking infraction, the time and place at which the person
cited is to appear, a warning that failure to appear in accordance with the
command of the citation is a punishable offense and any other matters as the
Supreme Court, or alternatively the Police Department, deems appropriate.
   (C)   When a handicapped parking citation is issued for a handicapped
parking infraction, the person issuing the citation shall enter thereon all
required information, including, but not limited to, the name and address of
the cited person, or if not known, the license number and description of the
offending motor vehicle, the offense charged and the time and place the person
cited is to appear in court.
(Prior Code, § 72.34) (Ord. 98-49, passed 12-21-1998; Ord. 02-53, passed 10-7-
2002)
Statutory reference:
   Handicapping parking, see Neb. Rev. Stat. §§ 18-1736 through 18-1741.07
§ 72.040 OVERTIME PARKING.
   It is unlawful for any person to stop, park or leave standing any vehicle
upon any street for a continuous period in excess of 24 hours.
(Prior Code, § 72.35) (Ord. 02-53, passed 10-7-2002) Penalty, see §
72.999
§ 72.041 STOPPING, STANDING OR PARKING IN PLACES WHICH WOULD CAUSE HAZARDOUS
CONDITIONS OR TRAFFIC CONGESTION.
   (A)   The Chief of Police is hereby authorized to determine and designate a
zone not to exceed 100 feet in length in which the stopping, standing or
parking of vehicles would create an especially hazardous condition or would
cause unusual delay to traffic.
   (B)   When official signs are erected at hazardous or congested places as
authorized herein, no person shall stop, stand or park a vehicle in any
designated place.
(Prior Code, § 72.36) (Ord. 02-53, passed 10-7-2002) Penalty, see §
72.999
§ 72.042 OBSTRUCTING USE OF PUBLIC PARKING SPACES.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to intentionally or knowingly
remove or cause to be removed from any vehicle, any markings or other devices
used by the city to determine parking violations. This includes, but is not
limited to, chalk markings on tires and/or pavement or warning tags affixed to
a window or antenna of the vehicle.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to intentionally or knowingly move
or cause to be moved any vehicle for the purpose of removing markings or other
devices used by the city to determine parking violations, which moving does not
actually and entirely vacate the parking space and permit the occupancy
thereof. The vehicle shall be subject to the service charges provided for in
this section and the general penalty provided for in this code.
   (C)   It shall not be considered a violation of this section for a person to
remove a vehicle from a limited parking space and immediately thereafter park
the vehicle in the same parking space, provided that the space is actually and
entirely vacated by the vehicle, and all obstructions preventing the occupancy
thereof by another vehicle are removed for a reasonable period of time which is
of a duration that, should the operator of another vehicle desire to occupy the
space, the operator would have the opportunity to do so.
   (D)   Whenever a vehicle is removed from a limited parking space in the
manner provided for in this division and is thereafter parked in the same
space, the vehicle may legally occupy the space for the entire parking time
limit duly established for the space.
(Prior Code, § 72.37) (Ord. 02-53, passed 10-7-2002) Penalty, see §
72.999
§ 72.043 UNATTENDED MOTOR VEHICLES.
   No person having control or charge of a motor vehicle shall allow the
vehicle to stand unattended on a public street or roadway without first
stopping the motor of the vehicle, locking the ignition, removing the key from
the ignition, and effectively setting the brakes thereon and, when standing
upon any street or roadway, turning the front wheels of the vehicle to the curb
or side of the street or roadway.
(Prior Code, § 72.38) (Ord. 02-53, passed 10-7-2002) Penalty, see §
72.999
§ 72.044 PARKING IN FIRE ZONES; PROHIBITED.
   (A)   Definition and designation of fire zones.
      (1)   The Fire Chief, with notice to the Police Chief, may request or
require that a public or private property owner establish fire zones on the
owner’s property where the health, safety and welfare of the public requires
it.
      (2)   An owner of public or private property may, with the written
approval of the Chief of Police, erect on the owner’s property a standard sign
(s) and paint a curb or boundary area red to create a fire zone.
      (3)   Fire zones shall be marked with a red painted curb or boundary area
and/or a standard fire zone sign. This sign will state “fire zone, no stopping,
standing or parking.” The cost of painting and signing fire zones shall be
solely that of the owner or possessor of the real property. Maintenance of fire
zones shall be the sole responsibility of the owner or possessor of the real
property.
      (4)   No person shall park, stop or leave standing a vehicle in an area
or space set aside and identified by painting and/or signage as a fire zone.
   (B)   Enforcement.
      (1)   An owner of public or private property who has created a fire zone
appoints and authorizes the city as the agent of the owner and impliedly
authorizes the full enforcement by the city of the fire zone parking
restriction on that property.
      (2)   A law enforcement officer, or community service technician,
employed or authorized by the city who finds a motor vehicle which is not an
authorized emergency vehicle parked, stopped or standing, whether occupied or
unoccupied, in an area designated as a fire zone may issue a parking violation
notice to the operator, owner or other person in charge of the motor vehicle.
(Prior Code, § 72.39) (Ord. 02-53, passed 10-7-2002) Penalty, see §
72.999
§ 72.045 AUTOMOBILE PARKING AND STORAGE RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      ABANDONED VEHICLE. Any motor vehicle to which the last registered owner
of record thereof has relinquished all further domain and control. Any vehicle
which is wrecked or partially wrecked or dismantled or inoperable for a period
of seven days shall in such case constitute a prima facie presumption that the
last registered owner thereof has abandoned such vehicle, regardless of whether
the physical possession of such vehicle remains in the technical custody or
control of such owner.
      ANTIQUE VEHICLE. Any vehicle currently registered with the state as an
antique vehicle.
      OWNER. Any person who, alone or jointly or severally with others shall
have:
         (a)   Record legal title to any property or structure thereon, with or
without accompanying actual possession thereof; or
         (b)   Charge, care or control of any property or structure thereon as
owner or agent of the owner, or as executor, executrix, administrator,
administratrix, trustee or guardian of the estate of the owner.
      PREMISES. A lot, plot or parcel of land, including unenclosed structures
located thereon.
      PROPERTY. Any real property within the city which is not a street or
highway.
      SPECIAL INTEREST VEHICLE. Any vehicle currently registered with the state
as a special interest vehicle.
      VEHICLE. A machine propelled by power other than human power and
designated to travel along the ground by use of wheels, treads, runners or
slides and which transports persons or property or pulls machinery and shall
include without limitation an automobile, truck, trailer, motorcycle, tractor,
buggy and wagon.
   (B)   Prohibition.
      (1)   Except as provided in this section, it shall be unlawful to permit
rusted, wrecked, junked, partially dismantled, inoperative or abandoned
vehicles to be parked, stored or left on any private property within the city
for a period in excess of seven days unless such vehicle is completely enclosed
within a building or unless the vehicle is so stored or parked on private
property for the purpose of repair or licensing by a duly licensed business or
commercial enterprise operated and conducted pursuant to law, and then such
vehicle may be parked or stored for only the time necessary to effect the
repair or licensing. In no case will such time for repair or licensing exceed
30 days. The building will conform to the building and zoning requirements of
the particular district in which it is located. Any one of the following
conditions shall raise the presumption that a vehicle is junked, wrecked or
inoperable:
         (a)   Absence of a current registration plate upon the vehicle;
         (b)   Placement of the vehicle or parts thereof upon jacks, blocks or
other supports; or
         (c)   Absence of one or more parts of the vehicle necessary for the
lawful operation of the vehicle upon the street or highway.
      (2)   A motor vehicle may be parked outside of an enclosed structure only
if the following conditions are met:
         (a)   The vehicle has a current and valid registration and license;
         (b)   The vehicle is parked on a hard surface. For purposes of this
section, a HARD SURFACE is defined as a paved hard surface driveway, paved pad
or gravel driveway, with dimensions of not less than ten feet by 20 feet, or if
graveled, a gravel depth of not less than three inches;
         (c)   The vehicle is parked on private property, but not within two
feet of the property line; and
         (d)   Antique vehicle storage is addressed separately.
   (C)   Antique or special interest vehicle. An antique or special interest
vehicle kept or maintained on private property as an abandoned vehicle shall be
subject to the provisions of this section and considered to be an abandoned
vehicle unless the owner or collector thereof shall:
      (1)   Completely enclose such vehicle within a lawful and aesthetically
pleasing wood, brick or stone fence so as not to be visible from the main-
traveled way of any adjoining street or highway; and
      (2)   Keep and maintain such vehicle on blocks or racks with at least 18
inches of clearance between the bottom of the vehicle and the ground so as to
prevent rodent harborage and breeding.
   (D)   Right to enter premises. For the purposes of carrying out the
provisions of this section, the Chief of Police, a police officer or a
community service technician, is authorized, with the permission of the owner,
tenant, agent, lessee or occupant, to enter into or upon any premises or
establishment for the purpose of making a thorough examination and to determine
whether a violation exists. If such permission is denied and a further
examination of the property is required to substantiate a violation, it will be
necessary for the Police Department to obtain an administrative search warrant.
A lack of consent does not itself bar all police observation from a vantage
point which the law enforcement official was legally entitled to be.
   (E)   Notice of violation.
      (1)   Notice requiring the removal of abandoned, junked or dismantled
vehicles from private property is to be made to the landowner or person in
lawful possession of the property upon which such vehicle is located, and the
last known registered owner of any vehicle which is in violation of this
section, advising them that the motor vehicle violates provisions of this
section and directing that the vehicle be moved to a place of lawful storage
within ten days or that within ten days the vehicle is to be housed within a
building. An attempt to serve written notice upon the registered owner of the
vehicle by mail addressed to the owner at the last known address of record
listed at the state’s Department of Motor Vehicles is to be made, as well as an
attempt to serve written notice upon the landowner of record upon whose land
such vehicle is located.
      (2)   Notice of violation shall be served by certified mail, or in
person, to the owner of the real property where the property is located and the
last registered owner of the vehicle at the address of record listed at the
state’s Department of Motor Vehicles.
   (F)   Abatement of the city.
      (1)   Upon the failure of the person upon whom notice to abate a
violation was served pursuant to the provisions of this section to abate such
violation, in addition to the remedy of prosecution and enforcement as provided
in the nuisance ordinance, the Chief of Police or the Chief’s designated
representative, or other duly designated officer of the city shall proceed to
abate such violation and shall prepare a statement of costs incurred in the
abatement thereof to be certified to the City Council.
      (2)   The abatement of a violation of this section under the direction of
the Chief of Police, or designated representative, shall not be a defense or
excuse to the owner of a vehicle or property for not conforming with the
provisions of this section.
      (3)   If the owner, occupant, tenant, lessee or agent of the real
property where the automobile is located does not remove the automobile(s), or
properly store the automobile(s) in accordance within the provisions of this
section, the city or its authorized agent, will remove the vehicle(s) and
assess the cost of removal, including a reasonable administrative fee, against
the owner, occupant, tenant, lessee or agent of the real property where the
vehicle was located. Charges for removal of a vehicle when done by the city, or
for the city by its agent, or otherwise, shall pay a fee as set by resolution.
   (G)   Assessment of costs. Any and all costs incurred by the city in the
abatement of a nuisance under the provisions of this section shall be assessed
against each lot or piece of ground chargeable therewith, as a special
assessment or lien as provided by law.
   (H)   Applicability. This section shall apply to all motor vehicles as
defined in §
70.001 of this code except for:
      (1)   All-terrain vehicles as defined in state statutes;
      (2)   Snowmobiles as defined in state statutes;
      (3)   Minibikes as defined in state statutes; and
      (4)   Road and general purpose construction and maintenance machinery not
designed or used primarily for the transportation of persons or property,
including, but not limited to, ditch digging apparatus, asphalt spreaders,
bucket loaders, leveling graders, earth moving carryalls, power shovels, earth
moving equipment and crawler tractors when being used in an active construction
or repair project on the real property where located, and then only for so long
as the construction or project authorized by a building permit issued by the
city is underway.
(Prior Code, § 72.40) (Ord. 98-27, passed 7-20-1998; Ord. 01-23, passed 4-2-
2001) Penalty, see §
72.999
SNOW EMERGENCIES
§ 72.060 EMERGENCY DECLARATIONS BY MAYOR AND PUBLIC WORKS DIRECTOR.
   (A)   The Mayor and Public Works Director or designee shall publicly
announce each declaration of a snow emergency made pursuant to this subchapter
by means of broadcast or telecast from broadcasting stations with a normal
operating range covering the city and in newspapers of general circulation when
so desired. Each announcement shall describe the action taken by the Mayor and
Public Works Director or designee, including the time it became or will become
effective, and shall specify the streets or areas affected. The Mayor and
Public Works Director or designee shall issue an executive order to record the
details of the snow emergency as soon after the declaration of an emergency as
is feasible.
   (B)   The Mayor and Public Works Director or designee may declare the
prohibition terminated, in whole or in part, effective immediately upon
announcement or at a later specified time.
(Prior Code, § 72.50) (Ord. 3165, passed 6-1-1987)
§ 72.061 PROVISIONS TEMPORARILY EFFECTIVE TAKE PRECEDENCE.
   Any provision of this subchapter which becomes effective by order or
declaration of the Mayor and Public Works Director or designee upon the
occurrence of a snow emergency, while temporarily in effect, shall take
precedence over other conflicting provisions of law normally in effect, except
that it shall not take precedence over provisions of law relating to traffic
accidents, emergency travel of authorized emergency vehicles or emergency
traffic directions by a police officer or other person designated by the Chief
of Police.
(Prior Code, § 72.51) (Ord. 3165, passed 6-1-1987)
§ 72.062 SNOW EMERGENCY ROUTES.
   (A)   Definition. The term SNOW EMERGENCY ROUTES, as used in this
subchapter, shall mean those streets established as such in accordance with the
provisions of this subchapter.
   (B)   Establishment of routes. The Mayor and Public Works Director or
designee is hereby authorized to establish snow emergency routes upon any
street or highway of the city and may place appropriate signs, marks, lines,
signals or other traffic-control devices indicating the existence of the snow
emergency routes. The designation of any street, highway or portion thereof as
a snow emergency route shall in no way affect any previous designation of that
street or highway as an arterial or other road designation.
(Prior Code, § 72.52) (Ord. 2326, passed 9-5-1973)
§ 72.063 PROHIBITION OF PARKING ON SNOW EMERGENCY ROUTES.
   The Mayor and Public Works Director or designee may order a parking
prohibition on all snow emergency routes by declaring that an emergency exists
on the basis of falling snow, sleet, freezing rain or official forecast by the
U.S. Weather Service of snow, sleet, freezing rain or other weather conditions
making it necessary that parking on a snow emergency route be prohibited for
snow plowing or other purposes. In such declaration, the Mayor and Public Works
Director or designee shall state the time that the emergency shall be in
effect. It shall be unlawful for any person to park or allow to remain parked
any vehicle on any portion of a snow emergency route during a parking
prohibition affecting such streets. Once in effect, the parking prohibition
imposed under this section shall remain in effect until terminated by the Mayor
and Public Works Director or designee. However, nothing in this section shall
be construed to permit parking at any time or place where it is forbidden by
any other provision of law.
(Prior Code, § 72.53) (Ord. 3165, passed 6-1-1987) Penalty, see §
72.999
§ 72.064 PROHIBITION OF PARKING ON ARTERIAL AND RESIDENTIAL STREETS.
   Whenever the Mayor and Public Works Director or designee shall find, on the
basis of falling snow, accumulated snow, sleet or freezing rain or on the basis
of an official forecast by the U.S. Weather Bureau of snow, snow accumulation,
sleet or freezing rain that weather conditions will make it necessary that
parking on arterial and residential streets be prohibited or restricted for
snow plowing and other purposes, the Mayor and Public Works Director or
designee may put into effect a parking prohibition on a part of or all of any
arterial or residential street by declaring that emergency conditions exist and
that all parking be prohibited on both sides of any arterial or residential
street or by declaring that parking be prohibited on one side of the arterial
or residential street, designating either the odd or even address numbered
side, at the Mayor and Public Works Director or designee’s discretion. In such
declaration of emergency conditions, the Mayor and Public Works Director or
designee shall state the time that the emergency shall be in effect, and from
the time so designated, all parking of motor vehicles on arterial or
residential streets shall be prohibited. While the prohibition is in effect, no
person shall allow to remain parked any motor vehicle on any portion of an
arterial or residential street designated herein. Once in effect, a parking
prohibition imposed under this section shall remain in effect until terminated
by declaration of the Mayor and Public Works Director or designee, who may then
declare that there shall be in effect a parking prohibition on the opposite
side of those arterial or residential streets designated herein, which
prohibition shall remain in effect until terminated by declaration of the Mayor
and Public Works Director or designee.
(Prior Code, § 72.54) (Ord. 3165, passed 6-1-1987) Penalty, see §
72.999
§ 72.065 OPERATION OF VEHICLES ON SNOW EMERGENCY ROUTES, DESIGNATED ARTERIAL
AND RESIDENTIAL STREETS.
   (A)   Whenever an emergency has been declared pursuant to this subchapter,
no person operating a motor vehicle on a designated snow emergency route or
designated arterial or residential street shall allow the motor vehicle to
become stalled or stuck, including those motor vehicles which become stalled or
stuck due to the fact that the motor fuel supply is exhausted or the battery
has become inoperative.
   (B)   Whenever a motor vehicle becomes stalled or stuck for any reason on
any designated snow emergency route or designated arterial or residential
street on which there is a parking prohibition in effect, the person operating
the motor vehicle shall take immediate action to have the motor vehicle towed
or pushed off the roadway of the designated snow emergency route or designated
arterial or residential street, either to the nearest cross street which is not
subject to a parking prohibition or to another appropriate location.
   (C)   No person shall abandon or leave a motor vehicle in the roadway of a
designated snow emergency route or designated arterial or residential street
except for the purpose of securing assistance during the actual time necessary
to go to nearby telephone, garage, service station or other place of assistance
and return without delay.
(Prior Code, § 72.55) (Ord. 2326, passed 9-5-1973) Penalty, see §
72.999
§ 72.066 REMOVAL OF PARKED, STALLED OR STUCK VEHICLES.
   (A)   The Police Chief or his or her designee is hereby authorized to remove
or have removed a vehicle from a street or city-owned or operated parking
facility to the Police Department impound lot or other place designated by the
Police Department when one or more of the following occur:
      (1)   The vehicle is parked on a snow emergency route on which there is a
parking prohibition in effect.
      (2)   The vehicle is stalled on a snow emergency route on which there is
a parking prohibition in effect, and the person who is operating the vehicle
does not appear to be removing it in accordance with the provisions of this
subchapter.
      (3)   The vehicle is parked on any street or other public area in
violation of any parking prohibition or provision of law contained in this
subchapter and is interfering or about to interfere with snow removal
operations.
   (B)   The owner or other person lawfully entitled to the possession of any
vehicle towed or stored shall be charged with the reasonable cost of towing and
storage fees. Any such towing or storage fee shall be a lien upon the vehicle
prior to all other claims. Any person towing or storing a vehicle shall be
entitled to retain possession of the vehicle until the charges are paid. The
lien provided for in this section shall not apply to the contents of the
vehicle.
Penalty, see §
72.999
§ 72.067 PARALLEL PARKING DURING SNOW REMOVAL.
   Whenever the Mayor and Public Works Director or designee shall determine on
the basis of accumulated snow on 16th Street, 15th Street, 14th Street, 13th
Street, 12th Street, 11th Street and 10th Street from 21st Avenue to 30th
Avenue and 21st Avenue, 22nd Avenue, 23rd Avenue, 24th Avenue, 25th Avenue,
26th Avenue, 27th Avenue, 28th Avenue, 29th Avenue and 30th Avenue from 10th
Street to 16th Street, the Mayor and Public Works Director or designee may put
into effect an angle parking prohibition on any or all of the streets or
avenues, inclusive, and require parallel parking on all of the streets so
designated. In such declaration, the Mayor and Public Works Director or
designee shall state the time that the parallel parking shall be in effect, and
from the time so designated, all parking of motor vehicles by angle parking or
any method other than parallel parking directly adjacent to the curbs on the
streets and avenues shall be prohibited. Violation of this section shall be
unlawful and prosecuted as such.
(Prior Code, § 72.57) (Ord. 3189, passed 12-7-1987) Penalty, see §
72.999
§ 72.068 WINDROWS, REMOVAL OF VEHICLES.
   Upon the removal or moving of snow by the city from streets or avenues
located within the corporate limits of the city and the creation of any
windrows or piles of snow left around or upon a vehicle, the vehicle must be
moved within 12 hours (6:00 p.m. to 6:00 a.m.) from the date of the creation of
the windrow or pile of snow to a location at least 100 feet from the nearest
windrow located upon the portion of public right-of-way used for vehicular
traffic or be moved upon privately-owned property.
(Prior Code, § 72.58) (Ord. 94-09, passed 2-7-1994) Penalty, see §
72.999
§ 72.069 OBSTRUCTION OF VIEW OF DRIVERS.
   Snow shall not be moved or piled on any location upon private property which
obstructs the view of drivers of motor vehicles at intersections within the
corporate limits of the city. Property owners or residents who have caused snow
to be piled in such a manner as to obstruct the view of motor vehicle drivers
at intersections as described above shall be contacted to remove the snow, and
should they fail to comply within 24 hours from the date of the request being
made, the snow shall be removed by the city at the property owner’s expense.
(Prior Code, § 72.59) (Ord. 94-09, passed 2-7-1994) Penalty, see §
72.999
§ 72.070 PAYMENT OF FINES AND COSTS.
   (A)   Whenever a police officer or community service technician of the city
shall observe any motor vehicle parked, stopped, stalled or stuck in violation
of any of the provisions of this subchapter, that officer shall take the
registration number of the vehicle and may take any other information displayed
on the vehicle which may identify its owner or operator, and shall
conspicuously affix to such vehicle a traffic citation on a form provided by
the Chief of Police for such purpose, which form shall require the owner or
operator to answer the charge against the owner or operator in accordance with
this section.
   (B)   A parking violation citation for violation of provisions of this
subchapter shall contain, in addition to other information required by law, the
following information:
      (1)   The amount of the administrative fee and fine if paid within five
days;
      (2)   The amount of the administrative fee and fine if paid after five
days;
      (3)   The location where the payment of the administrative fee and fine
may be made; and
      (4)   A statement that a complaint will be filed after 15 days if the
administrative fee and fine is not paid within that time.
(Prior Code, § 72.60) (Ord. 2326, passed 9-5-1973) Penalty, see §
72.999
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
§ 72.085 VIOLATIONS BUREAU.
   (A)   Whenever any motor vehicle with or without a driver is found parked,
standing or stopped in violation of this chapter or any statute of the state
relating to parking, all of which shall be referred to in this section as
“parking violations,” the police officer or community service technician
finding the vehicle shall take the registration number of the vehicle and may
take any other information displayed on the vehicle which may identify its
owner or operator and shall conspicuously affix to the vehicle a traffic
citation on a form provided by the Chief of Police for such purpose, which form
shall require the owner or operator to answer to the charge against the owner
or operator in accordance with this section.
   (B)   All citations for parking violations shall contain, in addition to any
other information required by law, the following information:
      (1)   The amount of the administrative fee and fine if paid within five
days;
      (2)   The amount of the administrative fee and fine if paid after five
days;
      (3)   The location where the payment of the administrative fee and fine
may be made; and
      (4)   A statement that a complaint will be filed after 15 days if the
administrative fee and fine is not paid within that time.
   (C)   A police officer or community service technician may issue a parking
citation in lieu of a state uniform citation for notifying alleged violators of
violation of this chapter.
   (D)   Minor parking violators may waive being issued a state uniform
citation to appear in county court by paying to the Police Department the fine
designated on the parking ticket.
   (E)   Administrative fees and parking fines are set by resolution.
(Prior Code, § 72.75) (Ord. 98-27, passed 7-20-1998; Ord. 02-53, passed 10-7-
2002)
§ 72.086 OWNER RESPONSIBLE.
   If any vehicle is found upon any street, road, terrace or alley in violation
of any of the provisions of this chapter and the identity of the driver cannot
be determined, the owner or person in whose name the vehicle is registered
shall be held prima facie responsible for the violation.
(Prior Code, § 72.76) (Ord. 98-27, passed 7-20-1998; Ord. 02-53, passed 10-7-
2002)
§ 72.087 EMERGENCY VEHICLES.
   Emergency vehicles are exempt from the provisions of this section, when
being operated as such by a valid operator.
(Prior Code, § 72.77) (Ord. 02-53, passed 10-7-2002)
§ 72.088 AUTOMOBILE IMPOUNDMENT.
   (A)   There is hereby created in the city a pound for the impounding of
automobiles and other vehicles of any character, which is hereby designated as
an “automobile pound.”
   (B)   The Mayor is hereby empowered and directed to locate the automobile
pound and to designate any other locations as may be contracted for by the city
for the placement of impounded vehicles where and as may seem appropriate for
the purpose and as may be necessary to accommodate the vehicles impounded. The
Mayor may change the location of the automobile pound or location designated
for the placement of impounded vehicles as may seem appropriate for the purpose
and as may be necessary to accommodate the vehicles impounded. The city may
enter into a contract with private persons, firms and corporations for the
towing of the impounded vehicles and any other vehicle found to be in violation
of the ordinances of the city.
   (C)   Whenever any vehicle is found by a police officer or community service
technician to be left standing in the streets, alleys, public ways or parking
facilities, or other public places of the city in violation of any ordinances
of the city or which presents a traffic hazard or obstruction to traffic,
vehicular or pedestrian, the police officer or community service technician may
remove and convey the vehicle by means of towing it or otherwise to the
automobile pound, or the police officer or community service technician may
remove the vehicle or order that the vehicle be towed to the location
contracted for by the city for the placement of impounded vehicles; and
thereupon the vehicle shall not be discharged or removed from the automobile
pound, or the location as may have been contracted for by the city for the
placement of impounded vehicles, except upon payment by the owner, driver or
operator of the vehicle of a towing, administrative, citation and storage fee.
In the case when the vehicle is towed or removed to a location contracted for
by the city for the placement of impounded vehicles, then the owner, driver or
operator shall pay the towing fees and storage costs as may be established by a
contract between the city and the person, firm or corporation operating the
facility. When the owner, driver or operator of the vehicle so impounded claims
the vehicle, it shall be the duty of the person in charge to inform the owner,
driver or operator of the nature and circumstances of the violation for which
the vehicle was impounded.
   (D)   Nothing in this section shall be construed as superseding any other
provisions of this title concerning the proper parking or operation of
vehicles, and the collection of a fee therefor under this section shall not
prevent or preclude prosecution for the violation of any of the provisions of
this title concerning the parking or operation of vehicles in the city.
(Prior Code, § 72.78) (Ord. 98-27, passed 7-20-1998; Ord. 02-53, passed 10-7-
2002)
§ 72.089 IMPOUNDMENT OF MOTOR VEHICLES FOR FAILURE TO PAY PARKING TICKETS.
   (A)   Any motor vehicle parked upon a street, highway or public property,
against which there are three or more unpaid parking violation citations, or
state uniform citations for parking violations, shall be subject to removal,
impoundment, detention or immobilization by the city or by a third party
contracted to provide these services to the city.
   (B)   Prior to removal, impoundment, detention or immobilization pursuant to
division (A) above, the last registered owner of the motor vehicle, if known,
shall be mailed a notice to the address shown on the records of the state’s
Department of Motor Vehicles. The notice shall inform the owner of the proposed
order to remove, detain, impound or immobilize the vehicle and the reasons
therefor, and that if the owner wishes to be heard on the matter the owner
shall make a written request for a hearing before the City Administrator no
later than seven days from the date of the notice.
   (C)   When any vehicle is removed, impounded, detained or immobilized
pursuant to division (A) above, or for any other reason authorized by law, and
it is found that outstanding fines or penalties for parking violations are
recorded against the vehicle, the release of the vehicle may be obtained by the
registered owner of the vehicle, or the owner’s agent, upon:
      (1)   Payment of all outstanding fines or penalties for parking
infractions recorded against the vehicle, plus any towing, storage,
immobilization or administrative fees; or
      (2)   Deposit of a cash surety bond in the amount of all outstanding
fines and penalties for parking infractions recorded against the vehicle, plus
any towing, storage, immobilization or administrative fees, to the City Clerk’s
office. If the decision of the court is that the owner is not responsible for
the fines and penalties, the full amount of the cash or surety bond will be
refunded.
   (D)   If the owner obtains the release of the vehicle by posting a bond, the
owner shall be entitled to a trial on the matter of the parking violations.
   (E)   When a motor vehicle is impounded under this section, a charge for
towing and storage shall be assessed and collected prior to the release of the
vehicle.
   (F)   The provisions of this section allowing the release of an impounded
vehicle shall not apply in circumstances in which the vehicle is being held for
evidentiary purposes in a judicial proceeding or as otherwise subject to civil
or criminal proceedings or forfeiture as provided by law.
(Prior Code, § 72.79) (Ord. 02-53, passed 10-7-2002) Penalty, see §
72.999
§ 72.090 ACCOUNT FOR FEES COLLECTED.
   It shall be the duty of the Chief of Police to account for any fees
collected under the provisions of this section to the City Clerk’s office. The
Chief of Police shall also keep a record of the name of the owner of each
vehicle impounded, the number of the registration plates thereon and the nature
and circumstances of each violation involved.
(Prior Code, § 72.80) (Ord. 02-53, passed 10-7-2002)
§ 72.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person who parks a motor vehicle in a properly posted restricted
or private lot without the consent of the owner or tenant authorized to give
permission shall be guilty of an infraction.
(Prior Code, § 72.37)
   (C)   If any vehicle is parked in excess of the period of legal parking time
as determined under this chapter and the vehicle remains continuously parked in
violation of this chapter, it shall be an additional and separate violation of
this chapter for each hour any vehicle is so parked, and the owner or operator
thereof shall be subject to an additional and separate charge as provided in
this chapter for each hour any vehicle is so parked.
(Prior Code, § 72.81)
(Ord. 98-27, passed 7-20-1998; Ord. 02-53, passed 10-7-2002)
CHAPTER 73: RECREATIONAL VEHICLES
Section
General Provisions
   
73.01   Skates or other toys as conveyances prohibited
Bicycles
   
73.15   Registration required; number
   
73.16   Application for registration; fee
   
73.17   Issuance of registration certificate
   
73.18   Registration numbers
   
73.19   Duty of Police Department
   
73.20   Rights and duties of operator
   
73.21   Adequate brakes and lights required
   
73.22   Right-of-way
   
73.23   Riding near curb
   
73.24   Riding in group
   
73.25   Number of persons on bicycle
   
73.26   Carrying articles
   
73.27   Parking
   
73.28   Rental agencies
   
73.29   Malicious destruction
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 73.01 SKATES OR OTHER TOYS AS CONVEYANCES PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to use skates, coasters, skateboards or
any other toy vehicle or conveyance upon the roads or streets except while
crossing the same at a crosswalk. This section shall not be construed to
prohibit the use of the toy vehicles or conveyances on the roads or streets
during a parade.
(Prior Code, § 73.01) (Ord. 98-27, passed 7-20-1998) Penalty, see §
70.999
Statutory reference:
   Toy vehicles; authority to regulate, see Neb. Rev. Stat. § 60-680
BICYCLES
§ 73.15 REGISTRATION REQUIRED; NUMBER.
   (A)   Bicycles shall be registered within 30 days of acquisition by the
owner thereof at which time the bicycle shall be presented for inspection for
fitness.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate a bicycle on any street
without first having registered the same as hereinafter provided. It shall be
unlawful for any person to operate a bicycle upon any street without having the
registration number issued therefor, under the direction of the Police
Department.
(Prior Code, § 73.15) (Ord. 98-27, passed 7-20-1998) Penalty, see §
70.999
§ 73.16 APPLICATION FOR REGISTRATION; FEE.
   Application for registration for any bicycle shall be made by the owner
thereof in writing to the Police Department upon blanks furnished by the city
and shall set forth the name of the applicant, the applicant’s address,
description of the bicycle and such other information as the Police Department
may require. Before the issuance of a registration certificate, the applicant
shall pay a fee as set by resolution.
(Prior Code, § 73.16) (Ord. 98-27, passed 7-20-1998)
§ 73.17 ISSUANCE OF REGISTRATION CERTIFICATE.
   The Police Department is hereby authorized and directed to issue
registration certificates for bicycles upon the bicycle satisfactorily
complying with the inspection tests provided for in §
73.15(A) of this code and upon payment of the required registration fee.
(Prior Code, § 73.17) (Ord. 98-27, passed 7-20-1998)
§ 73.18 REGISTRATION NUMBERS.
   The city shall provide a registration number corresponding to the number
appearing on the registration certificate, which registration shall be attached
to the frame of the bicycle and shall remain attached thereto during the
registration period.
(Prior Code, § 73.18) (Ord. 98-27, passed 7-20-1998) Penalty, see §
70.999
§ 73.19 DUTY OF POLICE DEPARTMENT.
   The Police Department shall keep a record of all fees collected for the
registration of bicycles, the owner of the bicycle, the date of registration,
the registration number, a description of the bicycle and the manufacturer’s
serial number of the bicycle frame.
(Prior Code, § 73.19) (Ord. 98-27, passed 7-20-1998)
§ 73.20 RIGHTS AND DUTIES OF OPERATOR.
   Any person who operates a bicycle upon any public or private road, street,
highway or alley shall have all of the rights and shall be subject to all of
the duties applicable to the driver of a vehicle under the provisions of this
code and shall be further subject to those special rules and duties provided
for operators of bicycles as set forth in this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 73.20) (Ord. 98-27, passed 7-20-1998) Penalty, see §
70.999
§ 73.21 ADEQUATE BRAKES AND LIGHTS REQUIRED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate a bicycle within the
city unless the bicycle is equipped with a brake adequate to control the
movement of and to stop the bicycle within reasonable limits.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate a bicycle within the
city between sunset and sunrise without having one light lighted on the front
thereof. Every bicycle shall have a red reflector tag not less than two inches
in diameter, placed so as to be plainly visible from the rear of the bicycle.
(Prior Code, § 73.21) (Ord. 98-27, passed 7-20-1998) Penalty, see §
70.999
§ 73.22 RIGHT-OF-WAY.
   (A)   The operator of a bicycle emerging from an alley, private road,
driveway or building shall, upon approaching a sidewalk or the sidewalk area
extending across any alley, yield the right-of-way to all pedestrians on the
sidewalk and to all vehicles approaching on the street.
   (B)   Any person operating a bicycle upon a sidewalk shall do so at that
person’s own risk and shall yield the right-of-way to any and all pedestrians
thereon.
   (C)   When any person operating a bicycle on a sidewalk is involved in a
collision with a pedestrian, the operator shall be presumed to have been
negligent.
   (D)   The presumption provided in division (C) above shall not apply to
police officers operating bicycles on the sidewalks or streets of the city in
the course and scope of their employment although the officers may be held
negligent for actions which were in fact negligent.
(Prior Code, § 73.22) (Ord. 98-27, passed 7-20-1998) Penalty, see §
70.999
§ 73.23 RIDING NEAR CURB.
   Any person operating a bicycle upon any road or street shall ride as near as
practicable to the right-hand edge of the road or the right-hand curb except in
the following circumstances:
   (A)   Overtaking or passing another bicycle or vehicle proceeding in the
same direction;
   (B)   Preparing to make a left turn at an intersection or onto a private
road or driveway;
   (C)   When reasonably necessary to avoid conditions that make it unsafe to
continue along the right-hand edge of the road or the right-hand curb; or
   (D)   Lawfully operating a bicycle on the paved shoulders of a highway as
follows.
      (1)   Whenever a person operating a bicycle leaves the road to ride on
the paved shoulder or leaves the paved shoulder to enter the road, the person
shall clearly signal that intention and yield the right-of-way to all other
vehicles.
      (2)   Any person who operates a bicycle upon a highway shall not ride
more than single file except on paths set apart for the exclusive use of
bicycles, not to include the paved shoulders thereof.
(Prior Code, § 73.23) (Ord. 98-27, passed 7-20-1998) Penalty, see §
70.999
§ 73.24 RIDING IN GROUP.
   Persons riding bicycles upon any road or street shall not ride more than two
abreast, except on paths or parts of roads or streets set aside for the
exclusive use of bicycles.
(Prior Code, § 73.24) (Ord. 98-27, passed 7-20-1998) Penalty, see §
70.999
§ 73.25 NUMBER OF PERSONS ON BICYCLE.
   It shall be unlawful for more than one person to ride on a bicycle unless
the bicycle is designed and intended to carry the number of persons being
conveyed.
(Prior Code, § 73.25) (Ord. 98-27, passed 7-20-1998) Penalty, see §
70.999
§ 73.26 CARRYING ARTICLES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person riding a bicycle to carry any package,
bundle or article which prevents the rider from keeping both hands upon the
handlebars.
(Prior Code, § 73.26) (Ord. 98-27, passed 7-20-1998) Penalty, see §
70.999
§ 73.27 PARKING.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to park a bicycle upon a road, street or
sidewalk in such a position as to interfere with the safety or movement of
vehicular or pedestrian traffic. When parked upon a sidewalk, the bicycle shall
be parked within four feet of the curb. It shall be unlawful for any person to
park a bicycle upon a road, street or sidewalk in areas where bicycle parking
stands are maintained by the city. In such areas, bicycles shall be parked in
the stands.
(Prior Code, § 73.27) (Ord. 98-27, passed 7-20-1998) Penalty, see §
70.999
§ 73.28 RENTAL AGENCIES.
   It shall be unlawful for any rental agency to offer any bicycle for rent
unless the bicycle shall first have been registered and the registration number
plate attached thereto as provided in §
73.18 of this code. Bicycles offered for rental shall be equipped by the agency
with lights and other safety equipment as is required by the provisions of this
chapter and shall be kept in good and safe working order.
(Prior Code, § 73.28) (Ord. 98-27, passed 7-20-1998) Penalty, see §
70.999
§ 73.29 MALICIOUS DESTRUCTION.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to intentionally, knowingly or
maliciously remove, destroy, mutilate or alter the manufacturer’s serial frame
number of any bicycle, city license or registration issued in accordance with §
73.17 of this code.
(Prior Code, § 73.29) (Ord. 98-27, passed 7-20-1998) Penalty, see §
70.999
CHAPTER 74: TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
Schedule
   
I.   Speed limits
   
II.   Truck routes
   
III.   One-way streets
   
IV.   Controlled access
   
V.   Snow emergency routes
SCHEDULE I. SPEED LIMITS.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/c898f04873aad83d2018fee9d1c91b72c99beaa9/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2454.png]Publisher's Note: This Section has been AMENDED by new
legislation (Ord. 25-07, passed 5-5-2025). The text of the amendment will be
incorporated below when the amending legislation is codified.
   (A)   General.
      (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate a vehicle on any
street at a rate of speed greater than is reasonable or prudent under the
conditions then existing. It shall be unlawful for any person to operate a
vehicle on the streets at any time or under any conditions at a rate of speed
greater than 30 mph on arterial streets and 25 mph on all other streets and
upon viaducts and the approaches thereto, unless otherwise posted.
      (2)   Except as hereinafter provided, it shall be unlawful for any person
to operate or cause to be operated any motor vehicle or other type of
conveyance on any state or federal highway within the corporate limits of the
city at a speed in excess of 35 mph or in excess of any other maximum speed
fixed by the City Council for the highways within the city, unless otherwise
posted.
      (3)   The maximum speed limit through any maintenance, repair or
construction zone shall be 25 mph.
   (B)   Specific. It shall be unlawful for any person or persons to operate,
or cause to be operated, any motor vehicle or other type of conveyance at a
rate of speed in excess of the maximum speeds hereinafter designated for the
following zones.
Street Location Speed Limit (mph)
Street             Location                                   Speed Limit (mph)
3rd Avenue         North line of 1st Street to the south line 35
                   of 23rd Street
                   East edge of the intersection of Howard
23rd Street        Boulevard to the east edge of the          35
                   intersection of 18th Avenue
23rd Street        East edge of the intersection of 3rd       50
                   Avenue to the east corporate limits
33rd Avenue        North edge of the intersection of 23rd     35
                   Street to 350 feet south of 6th Street
                   350 feet south of 6th Street to the south
33rd Avenue        corporate limits (north end of Loup River  45
                   Bridge)
East 6th Avenue    From 38th Street to 23rd Street (U.S.      50
                   Highway 30)
Howard Boulevard   Northwest corporate limits to the west     50
                   edge of the intersection of 50th Avenue
Howard Boulevard   West edge of 50th Avenue to the west edge  45
                   of the intersection of 48th Avenue
                   West edge of the intersection of 48th
Howard Boulevard   Avenue to the west edge of the             35
                   intersection of 33rd Avenue
Lost Creek Parkway From U.S. Highway 81 to 38th Street        50
 
(Prior Code, Ch. 74 Schd. I) (Ord. 98-27, passed 7-20-1998; Ord. 19-10, passed
4-1-2019) Penalty, see §
70.999
SCHEDULE II. TRUCK ROUTES.
   (A)   Definition. For the purpose of this schedule, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      BUS. Shall not mean a school bus or a bus owned, sponsored, sanctioned or
hired by the city for use in a public transportation system; and
      TRUCK. Shall not include authorized emergency vehicles when responding to
an emergency call or maintenance vehicles owned by the city or any utility
company.
   (B)   Trucks and buses prohibited. It shall be unlawful for any person to
drive, operate or be in actual physical control of a truck or bus upon any
portion of the roads, highways, alleys or streets of the city except in
designated truck routes.
   (C)   Exceptions. Trucks or buses not exempted under division (A) above may
be driven within the city only upon the following streets.
Street             Location
18th Avenue        From 23rd Street north to city limits
23rd Street        West city limits to east city limits
33rd Avenue        From the Loup River north to 23rd Street
48th Avenue        23rd Street to north city limits
63rd Avenue        Howard Boulevard to north city limits
East 6th Avenue    38th Street to 23rd Street (U.S. Highway 30)
Howard Boulevard   From 23rd Street to west city limits
Lost Creek Parkway U.S. Highway 81 to 38th Street
Shady Lake Road    23rd Street to west city limits
 
   (D)   Affirmative defense. It shall be an affirmative defense to this
schedule if the driver can show the driver is delivering or picking up people,
goods, wares, merchandise or materials within the corporate limits of the city
when the delivery or pickup is made by use of the shortest route from the
closest truck route where able.
(Prior Code, Ch. 74 Schd. II) (Ord. 98-27, passed 7-20-1998; Ord. 10-39, passed
1-3-2011) Penalty, see §
70.999
SCHEDULE III. ONE-WAY STREETS.
   It is hereby declared to be unlawful to operate any motor vehicle upon any
portion of the following streets in the direction opposite the one-way
direction established herein.
 
Street           Location                        Designation
13th Street      From 33rd Avenue to 23rd Avenue One-way eastbound traffic zone
14th Street      23rd Avenue to 35th Avenue      One-way westbound traffic zone
Howard Boulevard From 35th Avenue to 33rd Avenue One-way eastbound traffic zone
 
(Prior Code, Ch. 74 Schd. III) (Ord. 98-27, passed 7-20-1998) Penalty, see §
70.999
SCHEDULE IV. CONTROLLED ACCESS.
   It is hereby declared to be unlawful for real estate abutting the following
roadways to have ingress or egress access except at existing platted public
roadways or at half-mile section line locations upon obtaining pre-approval of
the City Engineer.
 
Street             Location
East 6th Avenue    38th Street to 23rd Street (U.S. Highway 30)
Lost Creek Parkway U.S. Highway 81 to 38th Street
 
SCHEDULE V. SNOW EMERGENCY ROUTES.
   The following streets are declared to be used as emergency routes in case of
snow emergencies.
 
Street      Location
15th Street East 23rd Avenue to 10th Avenue
17th Street East 23rd Avenue to 10th Avenue
 
CHAPTER 75: PARKING SCHEDULES
Schedule
      
I.   Prohibited parking
SCHEDULE I. PROHIBITED PARKING.
   It shall be unlawful, except in case of emergency or accident, to park any
vehicle on any portion of the following streets.
 
Street           Location
23rd Street      From the east city limits to the west city limits
33rd Avenue      From the intersection of 27th Street to the south city limits
Howard Boulevard From the west city limits to the intersection of Howard
                 Boulevard with 33rd Avenue
 
(Prior Code, Ch. 75 Schd. I) (Ord. 98-27, passed 7-20-1998; Ord. 02-53, passed
10-7-2002) Penalty, see §
70.999
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
90.   ANIMALS
      
91.   FIRE PREVENTION AND PROTECTION
      
92.   NUISANCES
      
93.   ALARM SYSTEMS
      
94.   STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
      
95.   SEXUAL PREDATOR RESIDENCY RESTRICTIONS
      
96.   TREES
      
97.   PARKS
      
98.   RAILROADS
CHAPTER 90: ANIMALS
Section
General Provisions
   
90.001   Definitions
   
90.002   Animal shelter
   
90.003   Agreement for service
Licenses
   
90.015   License required
   
90.016   Issuance of license
   
90.017   Fee
   
90.018   Exceptions to license
Regulations
   
90.030   Animal neglect
   
90.031   Rabies vaccination required; proof of vaccination
   
90.032   Running at large prohibited
   
90.033   Offensive animal activity
   
90.034   Dangerous dogs; administrative review
   
90.035   Destruction of property by animals
   
90.036   Cruelty to animals
   
90.037   Poisoning of animals
   
90.038   Dog and rooster fights
   
90.039   Accidents involving domestic animals or pets
   
90.040   Number of animals; limits; area requirements
   
90.041   Animal excrement; removal by owner
   
90.042   Commercial animal establishments
   
90.043   Miniature pigs banned within corporate limits
   
90.044   Hog pens, stockyards and animal enclosures
   
90.045   Service dogs
   
90.046   Roosters banned within corporate limits
Wild or Exotic Animals
   
90.060   Permit required
   
90.061   Permit application
   
90.062   Public hearing
   
90.063   Duration of permit; renewal
   
90.064   Permits nontransferable
   
90.065   Inspection of premises
   
90.066   Permit revocation; suspension
   
90.067   Impoundment of animals
Bees
   
90.080   Apiaries; permit required
   
90.081   Revocation
   
90.082   Application of provisions
Minimum Pet Shop Standards
   
90.095   Application of provisions
   
90.096   Definitions
   
90.097   Sanitation and safety regulations
   
90.098   Watering
   
90.099   Feeding
   
90.100   Facilities in general
   
90.101   Indoor facilities
   
90.102   Outdoor facilities
   
90.103   Primary enclosures
   
90.104   Classification and separation
   
90.105   Veterinary care
   
90.106   Reference
Minimum Groom Shop Standards
   
90.120   Application of provisions
   
90.121   Definitions
   
90.122   Sanitation and safety regulations
   
90.123   Watering
   
90.124   Feeding
   
90.125   Facilities in general
   
90.126   Indoor facilities
   
90.127   Mobile grooming facilities; special requirements
   
90.128   Primary enclosures
   
90.129   Classification and separation
   
90.130   Veterinary care
Administration and Enforcement
   
90.145   Animal control officer’s duties
   
90.146   Duty to place animals under observation
   
90.147   Impoundment
   
90.148   Time limit for impoundment; adoption
   
90.149   Shelter fees; release from shelter
   
90.150   Destruction of animals
   
90.151   Records and reports of animal control officer
   
90.152   Registration of persons delivering or receiving animals
   
90.153   Interference with capture of animals
   
90.154   Enforcement
   
90.155   Notice to owner
   
90.156   Sale proceeds
 
   
90.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 90.001 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ANIMAL. Any live, vertebrate creature other than human beings.
   ANIMAL CONTROL OFFICER. The duly employed or appointed and acting animal
control officer. The ANIMAL CONTROL OFFICERS shall have the power to issue
citations to enforce the city’s animal control ordinances.
   BIRD(S). Any feathered vertebrate, including, but not limited to pigeons,
but excluding poultry or fowl.
   CAT. Any male or female cat which is a member of the family Felis domestica,
which may include Bengal and Savannah breeds both being fourth generation or
later.
   COMMERCIAL ANIMAL ESTABLISHMENT. Any commercial business engaged in the
business of breeding, buying or selling of animals.
   DOG. Any male or female dog which is a member of the family Canis
familiaris, however, this definition shall not include any wolf or wolf-hybrid.
   DOMESTIC ANIMAL. Any of various animals domesticated by people so as to live
and breed in a tame condition and shall include, but not be limited to ferrets.
   ENCLOSURE. Any fence, cage, wall or other structure used to confine an
animal.
   FOWL. Any poultry, including, but not limited to chickens, geese, ducks,
turkeys, quail, pheasant, but not including pigeons.
   HOUSEHOLD MEMBER. Any person residing in the permit holder’s residence.
   INOCULATION; VACCINATION FOR RABIES. The inoculation of a dog or cat with a
vaccine approved by the state for use in the prevention of rabies.
   KENNEL. The house, buildings, store, yard, enclosure, pen or place where
four or more dogs over the age of six months are harbored or kept, or the
house, building, store, yard, enclosure, pen or place where four or more weaned
female cats are harbored or kept. However, this definition shall not apply to a
city animal shelter, animal hospital or boarding place operated by a licensed
veterinarian.
   LEASH. A thong, cord, rope or commercially sold restraint.
   LIVESTOCK. Any animal kept or raised for use or pleasure, including, but not
limited to cows, sheep, goats, donkeys, mules or horses.
   OWN. Unless otherwise indicated in the text, shall mean to possess, whether
by purchase, gift or finding, keep, harbor or have charge, custody or control
of an animal.
   OWNER. 
      (1)   Owner of record as recorded on the city animal license; and
      (2)   Owner of any animal, other than licensable animals, shall mean to
own, keep, harbor or have charge, custody or control of an animal or fowl.
   PET. Any animal kept for pleasure rather than utility.
   RESIDENCE. The structure used as a domicile by a person or a family.
   RESTRAINT. The securing of any animal by a leash or lead, the physical
control of any animal by a responsible person and obedient to that person’s
commands or the maintaining of any animal within the real property of its
owner.
   SHELTER. Any structure with a roof and walls designed and/or intended to
house one or more animals.
   VETERINARY MEDICAL CARE FACILITY. A facility which has the primary function
of providing medical care for animals and is operated by a currently licensed
veterinarian.
   WILD OR EXOTIC ANIMAL.
      (1)   Animals ferae naturae which are wild by nature and which, because
of habit, mode of life or natural instinct are incapable of being completely
domesticated and require the exercise of art, force or skill to keep them in
subjection.
      (2)   Examples of WILD OR EXOTIC ANIMALS include, but are not limited to
doves, hawks, owls, mink, monkeys, rats, snakes, deer, any cat not a member of
the family Felis domestica, including, but not limited to tigers, panthers and
lynxes and any dog not a member of the family Canis familiaris, including, but
not limited to wolves, foxes and coyotes.
(Prior Code, § 90.001) (Ord. 97-16, passed 8-4-1997; Ord. 05-11, passed 3-7-
2005; Ord. 06-36, passed 12-18-2006; Ord. 07-22, passed 11-19-2007; Ord. 14-07,
passed 8-4-2014)
§ 90.002 ANIMAL SHELTER.
   The city shall provide an animal shelter. It shall be unlawful for any
person, other than a person authorized to do so in this chapter, to take up,
detain, impound or confine any animal not the property of the person, except
where the person does so with the intent to deliver the animal forthwith to the
animal control officer or the officer’s assistants as provided in §
90.147 of this code.
(Prior Code, § 90.002) (Ord. 97-16, passed 8-4-1997) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.003 AGREEMENT FOR SERVICE.
   The city shall have the authority to enter into an agreement with any humane
society or any like institution for the purpose of carrying out the provisions
for an animal shelter. Should the city enter into such an agreement, the duties
of the animal control officer and the other party or parties shall be as
specified in the agreement.
(Prior Code, § 90.003) (Ord. 97-16, passed 8-4-1997)
LICENSES
§ 90.015 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person within the city to own a dog or cat over
six months of age without procuring a license for the dog or cat as provided
under §
90.016 of this code.
(Prior Code, § 90.015) (Ord. 98-24, passed 7-6-1998; Ord. 00-36, passed 11-6-
2000) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.016 ISSUANCE OF LICENSE.
   (A)   A license for a dog or cat over six months of age may be purchased
either on an annual basis or for the lifetime of the ownership of the animal
(LIFETIME OF THE OWNERSHIP OF THE ANIMAL means the length of time the animal is
alive or the length of time the individual owns the animal, whichever ceases
first). Should an individual elect to purchase a lifetime license, evidence of
the following must be submitted to the city’s animal control:
      (1)   That the animal is micro-chipped;
      (2)   That the animal is spayed or neutered; and
      (3)   That the animal is not on the potentially dangerous dog list or the
dangerous dog list.
   (B)   Upon payment of the license fees as herein required, the city’s animal
control, or its authorized agent, shall issue the following information:
      (1)   The name and address of the owner of the dog or cat;
      (2)   The license number of the tag issued for the dog or cat;
      (3)   The breed, age, color, sex and name of the dog or cat;
      (4)   Proof and date of rabies inoculation; and
      (5)   Such other information as the city may require for the purpose of
identification.
   (C)   At the same time, the city’s animal control, or its authorized agent,
shall deliver to the owner a metallic license tag, furnished by the city,
bearing a designated license number. The tag shall be of such design as shall
be adopted by the city, having die-stamped thereon the license number, the
words “Columbus Dog Tag” or “Columbus Cat Tag” and the license type described
in division (A) above for which the tag is issued. The metal tag so issued
shall be attached to and kept upon the collar, harness or chain of the dog or
cat so licensed, and the dog or cat shall wear the collar, harness or chain and
attached tag throughout the balance of the license type described in division
(A) above. All money received by the city under this chapter shall be promptly
deposited with the city.
   (D)   An annual license is transferable for balance of the year upon
notification to the city’s animal control. If no such notification is received,
the last known owner will be held responsible. A license for the lifetime of
the animal is non-transferable between owners and is non-transferable between
animals; upon transfer of ownership of the animal, the new owner would need to
apply for and purchase a new license as described in division (A) above.
(Prior Code, § 90.016) (Ord. 97-16, passed 8-4-1997; Ord. 00-36, passed 11-6-
2000; Ord. 17-01, passed 1-3-2017) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.017 FEE.
   The license fee for either license type described in §
90.016(A) of this code for each dog or cat over six months of age shall be as
set by resolution. All license fees shall be paid to the city’s animal control.
The license fee shall be for the license period, or any such fraction thereof,
and shall be due and payable on the expiration date as set forth herein. Annual
licenses shall be issued for a calendar year and shall be effective from
January 1 through December 31 and shall expire on December 31 of the calendar
year in which they were issued. Lifetime licenses shall be issued upon request
as set forth in §
90.016 of this code and shall expire either upon the death of the animal or
upon the transfer of ownership of the animal, whichever may occur first.
(Prior Code, § 90.017) (Ord. 97-16, passed 8-4-1997; Ord. 00-36, passed 11-6-
2000; Ord. 17-01, passed 1-3-2017)
§ 90.018 EXCEPTIONS TO LICENSE.
   The provisions of this chapter with respect to licensing shall not apply to
a dog or cat owned by any person temporarily residing and keeping within the
city the dog or cat for less than 30 days or any dog or cat brought into the
city for bench or show purposes, provided the dog or cat remains near its owner
or keeper or means of confinement. It shall be unlawful to bring any dog or cat
into the city except in compliance with the laws and statutes of the state
regarding the care, handling and treatment of dogs or cats.
(Prior Code, § 90.018) (Ord. 97-16, passed 8-4-1997) Penalty, see §
90.999
Statutory reference:
   Authority to impose license tax, see Neb. Rev. Stat. § 54-603
REGULATIONS
§ 90.030 ANIMAL NEGLECT.
   (A)   Animal neglect. It shall be unlawful for any person owning, keeping or
harboring any animal to fail, refuse or neglect to provide such animal with
adequate food, water, shade, shelter, living environment or veterinary care as
may be necessary for diseased or injured animals. Any animal habitually kept
outside or repeatedly left unattended outside shall be provided with a
structurally sound, moisture-proof and wind-proof shelter large enough to
accommodate and keep the animal reasonably clean, dry and comfortable. Adequate
food, water, shade, shelter, living environment and care shall mean the
following.
      (1)   Food. Each animal shall at suitable intervals, and at least once
every 24 hours, receive a quantity of wholesome foodstuff suitable for the
species’ physical condition and age, sufficient to maintain an adequate level
of nutrition for the animal.
      (2)   Water. Each animal shall at all times have access to an adequate
supply of clean, fresh, potable water for the species’ physical condition and
age, and such water shall be provided either free-flowing or in a receptacle.
Snow or ice is not an acceptable water source. If water pans or dishes are
used, such pans or dishes shall have weighted bottoms or be mounted or secured
in a manner that prevents tipping.
      (3)   Shelter. Each animal shall have convenient access to adequate
shelter throughout the year. Any artificial shelter shall be structurally sound
and maintained in good repair to protect the animal from injury and from the
elements. It shall be of sufficient size to permit the animal to enter, stand,
turn around and lie down in a natural manner. Any shelter which does not
protect the animal from temperature extremes or precipitation, or which does
not provide adequate ventilation or drainage, does not comply with this
section. The shelter and any other spaces accessible to the animal and all
bedding for the animal shall be maintained in a manner which minimizes the risk
of the animal contracting disease, being injured or becoming infested with
parasites.
      (4)   Medical care. Each animal shall receive care and medical treatment
for debilitating injuries, parasites and disease, sufficient to maintain the
animal in good health and to minimize suffering.
      (5)   Living environment. Any animal being confined in any sort of
shelter or restrained in any way shall be provided space to walk and lie down
in and said space shall have adequate drainage such that the animal shall be
free to walk and lie down without coming into contact with standing water.
      (6)   Tethering. If any animal is restrained by a chain, leash, wire
cable or similar restraint, such restraint shall be designed and placed to
prevent the choking or strangulation or entanglement with other objects. Any
tethering device must be attached to a properly fitting collar or harness.
Choke chain collars, prongs or pinch collars or any collar devised for training
so that it chokes or pinches the animal when pulled is prohibited for the
purposes of tethering an animal. The tethering device must be at least ten feet
in length but shall not allow the animal to leave the property on which it is
tethered.
      (7)   Enclosure.
         (a)   If any animal is kept in an enclosure, the enclosure shall be
constructed in a manner and of material designed to minimize the risk of injury
to the animal and shall encompass sufficient usable space to keep the animal in
good condition. When a dog is confined outside a residence, the following
minimum space requirements shall be used:
 
Size of Dog                Enclosure Size (sq. ft)
Extra-large (over 75 lbs.) 48
Large (not over 75 lbs.)   40
Medium (not over 50 lbs.)  32
Small (not over 20 lbs.)   24
 
         (b)   An additional 16 square feet shall be required for each dog
sharing a pen with another.
   (B)   Leaving animals in unattended vehicle. It shall be unlawful for any
person to place or confine an animal or allow an animal to be confined in a
motor vehicle or trailer in such a manner or under such conditions or for such
periods of time as to endanger the health or well-being of the animal
including, but not limited to, extremes of heat or cold, lack of food or water
or any other circumstances which may cause suffering, disability, injury or
death.
   (C)   Abandonment of animals. It shall be unlawful for any person to abandon
any animal within the city. Abandonment shall mean leaving an animal for a
period of time in excess of 24 hours without appropriate provisions having been
made for the feedings, watering and care of such animal or leaving an animal
unattended with the intent to discontinue care and maintenance of the animal.
   (D)   Authority to remove and impound. If the lead animal control officer
reasonably believes that a violation of this section exists, said officer is
hereby authorized and empowered to seek a warrant from the appropriate court to
enable the officer to enter private property in order to inspect, care for or
impound the animals which show signs of animal neglect or abuse.
   (E)   Owner’s cost. Any person or persons violating this section shall bear
full cost and expenses incurred by the city in the recovery, care, medical
treatment, impoundment cost and disposal of said animals, including removal
from a motor vehicle or trailer.
   (F)   Animal seizure. Whenever an animal has been seized pursuant to a
warrant issued by the court, the release or disposition of the animal shall be
within the sound discretion of the court. Upon conviction of the owner for a
violation of this section, the court may order that the animal be destroyed in
a humane fashion, and any such impoundment or disposal costs incurred by the
city shall be taxable to the person so convicted.
(Prior Code, § 90.030) (Ord. 97-16, passed 8-4-1997; Ord. 06-36, passed 12-18-
2006) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.031 RABIES VACCINATION REQUIRED; PROOF OF VACCINATION.
   (A)   Rabies vaccine. Any person owning or possessing a dog, cat or other
animal, including, but not limited to ferrets, within the corporate limits must
have the animal vaccinated with a federally licensed, three-year rabies vaccine
by a duly licensed veterinarian. The vaccination must be boosted in one year if
the animal is less than 12 months old and then every three years thereafter.
   (B)   Proof of vaccination. The owner of any animal must be ready, willing
and able at all times when called upon to do so by a police officer or animal
control officer to furnish proof that the animal has been vaccinated with a
rabies vaccine in accordance with division (A) above if it applies to the
animal. The proof which must be furnished shall be a certificate from a
licensed veterinarian, identifying the animal in detail and stating the date on
which it was vaccinated with anti-rabies vaccine.
(Prior Code, § 90.031) (Ord. 97-16, passed 8-4-1997; Ord. 98-24, passed 7-6-
1998) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.032 RUNNING AT LARGE PROHIBITED.
   (A)   Dog or cat. It shall be unlawful for the owner of any animal to allow
his or her dog or cat to run at large, whether licensed or not, or to go in and
upon the private premises of others within the city or upon the streets or
property of the city. It is further declared unlawful for any owner of any
female dog or cat, whether licensed or not, to allow the female animal, while
in heat, to run at large or be kept outside of a closed building, tightly
fenced yard or suitable means of confinement. Any dog or cat found to be
running at large shall be impounded by the animal control officer or police
officer as provided in §
90.145 of this code. The animal shall not be released until the shelter fees
provided for herein are paid.
   (B)   Livestock, fowl and exotic animals. The running at large or herding of
any horses, cattle or other such animals commonly known as livestock, the
picketing or tying out of any such animals upon or in any public street or
other public or private grounds in the city not owned by or under the lawful
control of the owner or person in charge of the livestock or the running at
large of any chicken, pigeon or other fowl or animal, whether domestic, wild or
exotic within the city is hereby declared to be a nuisance and is hereby
prohibited.
(Prior Code, § 90.032) (Ord. 98-24, passed 7-6-1998) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.033 OFFENSIVE ANIMAL ACTIVITY.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to own an animal which by continued or
frequent animal noise annoys any neighborhood or person or chases any person or
vehicle to the annoyance of the person or operator of the vehicle. The
provisions of this section shall not apply to any animal shelter owned or
operated by the city and animals kept therein.
(Prior Code, § 90.033) (Ord. 97-16, passed 8-4-1997; Ord. 06-36, passed 12-18-
2006) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.034 DANGEROUS DOGS; ADMINISTRATIVE REVIEW.
   (A)   No person shall own, keep, harbor, or allow to be in or upon any
premises occupied by that person or under that person's charge or control, any
dangerous dog without said dog being confined and subject to all restrictions
placed upon such dogs by the state as provided in Neb. Rev. Stat. §§ 54-617
through 54-624. Any city law enforcement officer or other authority designated
by the Mayor and City Council is authorized to kill such dog if found acting in
a threatening manner to the officer or the public.
   (B)   The owner of the dog declared to be a dangerous dog has the right to
appeal such determination. The owner must file a written request with the City
Clerk's office within 48 hours (Saturdays, Sundays, and legal holidays
excluded) of receiving actual notification of the declaration of the dog as
dangerous. At the time of the request, said owner shall pay a non-refundable
appeal fee as set by resolution. The appeal fee may be waived if the request is
made and accompanied by a sworn itemized declaration of the appellant dog owner
demonstrating indigence. The City Attorney will review such request within five
days of the receipt of the request to determine indigence (Saturdays, Sundays,
and legal holidays excluded) and report to the City Clerk prior to the
scheduling of the hearing. INDIGENCE is defined  as the inability to pay the
appeal cost without prejudicing the appellant's ability to provide economic
necessities for the appellant or the appellant's family. Failure to request
such a hearing within 48 hours or to appear at the appeal hearing as scheduled
will result in the determination remaining in full force and effect. The Erna
Badstieber Paws and Claws Adoption Center shall be entitled to request the
appeal hearing without the appeal fee.
   (C)   The Appeal Board shall consist of a three-person committee chosen by
the Chairperson of the Public Property, Safety, and Works Committee and to
consist of any three elected officials. The City Administrator shall serve as
an alternate member of the Appeal Board in the event that three elected
officials are not available. Once a hearing request for an appeal hearing is
received, a hearing before this Committee will be scheduled by the City Clerk
for a date and time no later than ten days from the receipt of the written
request from the dog owner (Saturdays, Sundays, and legal holidays excluded)
unless special accommodations are necessary. The hearing shall be limited to
the victim, if available, along with the reporting form from the investigating
law enforcement officer who has rendered a declaration of dangerous in
accordance with this section and the defense offered by the owner. The decision
of the Committee will be final. The owner may appeal the Committee's finding to
the District Court of Platte County, Nebraska.
(Prior Code, § 90.034) (Ord. 97-16, passed 8-4-1997; Ord. 13-12, passed 7-15-
2013; Ord. 14-08, passed 8-4-2014; Ord. 23-18, passed 11-20-2023) Penalty, see
§  
90.999
§ 90.035 DESTRUCTION OF PROPERTY BY ANIMALS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to own, or to allow to be upon any
premises occupied by that person or under that person’s charge or control any
animal that in any manner damages or destroys any real or personal property of
any description belonging to another or inflicts personal injury upon another.
If upon the trial of any offense mentioned in this chapter it shall appear to
the court that the person is guilty as charged in the complaint, the court may,
in addition to the usual judgment of conviction, order the person so offending
to make restitution to the party injured in an amount equal to the value of the
property so damaged or destroyed.
   (B)   Any owner of any animal which injures a party resulting in medical
treatment, examination or medications shall be responsible for the restitution
of any and all medical or physician’s bills incurred as a result of the
animal’s action.
(Prior Code, § 90.035) (Ord. 97-16, passed 8-4-1997; Ord. 13-01, passed 3-4-
2013; Ord. 17-14, passed 8-7-2017) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.036 CRUELTY TO ANIMALS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to torture, beat, starve, ill-treat,
abandon or kill any animal in that person’s care or charge, whether the animal
belongs to that person or to any other person or whether the animal belongs to
no one or is a stray. This section shall not apply to the killing of animals by
veterinarians and animal shelter technicians who use proper euthanasia
techniques.
(Prior Code, § 90.036) (Ord. 97-16, passed 8-4-1997) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.037 POISONING OF ANIMALS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to administer or cause to be
administered poison of any sort whatsoever to any animal, except for the lawful
performance of euthanasia administered by a duly licensed veterinarian.
   (B)   It shall also be unlawful to place any poison or poisoned food where
the same is accessible to any animal.
(Prior Code, § 90.037) (Ord. 97-16, passed 8-4-1997) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.038 DOG AND ROOSTER FIGHTS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to encourage, urge or in any way cause
any dog, fowl or other animal to fight in the city, for any person to promote
any such fight or permit any such fight to take place in or upon any premises
owned or controlled by that person or for any person to be present at or attend
any such fight promoted within the city.
(Prior Code, § 90.038) (Ord. 97-16, passed 8-4-1997) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.039 ACCIDENTS INVOLVING DOMESTIC ANIMALS OR PETS.
   Any person who, as the operator of a motor vehicle, strikes a domestic
animal or pet shall stop at once and render such assistance as may be possible
and shall immediately report the injury or death to the police or the animal
control officer for the city.
(Prior Code, § 90.039) (Ord. 97-16, passed 8-4-1997) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.040 NUMBER OF ANIMALS; LIMITS; AREA REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   No property, unless properly zoned and with City Council approval,
shall have more than four animals over four months of age, including, but not
limited to animals of the following species:
      (1)   Horses;
      (2)   Mules;
      (3)   Donkeys;
      (4)   Cows;
      (5)   Sheep; and
      (6)   Goats.
   (B)   The area requirements set forth in this section must be met. No owner
of any animal of one or more of the species set forth in division (A) above
shall fail to provide an enclosure that has, as a minimum, a width of 20 feet
and an area which meets the following requirements:
      (1)   For one animal: 1,000 square feet;
      (2)   For two animals: 2,500 square feet;
      (3)   For three animals: 5,000 square feet; or
      (4)   For four animals: 8,000 square feet.
   (C)   No residential property shall have more than five rabbits or fowl at
any one time.
   (D)   No residential property shall have more than 15 birds over six months
of age at any one time.
   (E)   No residential property shall have more than six total pets (i.e.,
dogs and cats) over four months of age; however, said allowance on the number
of pets is further limited to only allow and include up to a maximum of three
dogs or a maximum of four cats.
(Prior Code, § 90.040) (Ord. 97-16, passed 8-4-1997; Ord. 22-07, passed 4-18-
2022) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.041 ANIMAL EXCREMENT; REMOVAL BY OWNER.
   The owner of any animal which deposits excreta on public or private property
shall be responsible for its removal. It shall be a violation of this section
for the owner to fail to remove the excreta when notified of its existence and
location, either by the city or by the owner of the property on which the
excreta was deposited.
(Prior Code, § 90.041) (Ord. 97-16, passed 8-4-1997) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.042 COMMERCIAL ANIMAL ESTABLISHMENTS.
   (A)   All provisions of this chapter relating to the care and control of
animals shall apply to commercial animal establishments which do not keep
animals for sale or resale. In commercial animal establishments which keep
animals for sale or resale, all provisions shall apply except for the number of
animals requirements, enclosure distance requirements and the registration of
dogs.
   (B)   No person shall operate a commercial animal establishment within the
city without first obtaining a commercial permit. Upon application, the city or
its designated agent shall make an inspection of the proposed site of the
establishment to ensure that the site is sanitary and can be maintained in a
sanitary condition, and that the site will provide shelter from the elements
for the animals. The permit shall state the name of the person licensed to
operate the establishment and the location of the establishment. All dog
kennels shall contain a minimum of 100 square feet per dog.
   (C)   A commercial permit fee as set by resolution shall be paid by each
commercial animal establishment within the city.
   (D)   Each permit shall be effective for one year, beginning on August 1 of
each year and ending on July 31 of the following year, subject to annual
inspection and permit fee.
   (E)   Renewal applications shall be made no sooner than 30 days prior to,
nor later than 30 days after August 1.
   (F)   Permits may be transferred upon a change of ownership of a commercial
animal establishment upon payment of a fee set by resolution.
   (G)   It shall be a condition of the issuance of a permit for operating a
commercial animal establishment that the city shall be permitted to inspect the
premises and all animals thereon. Refusal to allow an inspection by an
authorized agent of the city shall be a ground for revocation of the permit.
   (H)   The City Council may, after notice and hearing as provided by law,
revoke or suspend any commercial permit for one or more of the following
causes:
      (1)   Refusal by the commercial permit holder to allow the city to
inspect the premises or examine the animals thereon;
      (2)   The conviction of the commercial permit holder or any of the permit
holder’s employees for the offense of cruelty to animals, whether or not the
conviction is based upon the treatment of animals on the premises of the
commercial animal establishment; or
      (3)   Three or more convictions of the commercial permit holder or any of
the permit holder’s employees for violations of any provision of this chapter
within any 12-month period whether the violations are based upon the care or
control of the animals on the premises of the establishment.
(Prior Code, § 90.042) (Ord. 97-16, passed 8-4-1997; Ord. 00-10, passed 4-3-
2000) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.043 MINIATURE PIGS BANNED WITHIN CORPORATE LIMITS.
   (A)   MINIATURE PIG is defined as any registered purebred miniature
Vietnamese potbelly pig or other similar registered purebred pig that does not
exceed 100 pounds.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to own, keep, harbor or maintain
any miniature pig(s) within the corporate limits of the city. The unlawful
owning, keeping, maintaining or harboring of miniature pig(s) is declared to be
a public nuisance.
(Prior Code, § 90.043) (Ord. 97-16, passed 8-4-1997; Ord. 19-27, passed 9-3-
2019) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.044 HOG PENS, STOCKYARDS AND ANIMAL ENCLOSURES.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to erect, keep or maintain any
stockyard or any other pen, enclosure or yard for the confinement of livestock
or fowl within the city within 150 feet of a residence or place of business of
any other person. Under no circumstances shall swine be maintained within the
city limits, other than miniature pigs as defined in §
90.043 of this code.
   (B)   All enclosures and restraints which are used to confine domesticated
animals, including, but not limited to horses, mules, donkeys, cows, sheep or
goats shall be no less than 150 feet from a residence, other than the residence
of the owner of the enclosure, unless a waiver or variance is obtained through
City Council.
   (C)   All enclosures and restraints which are used to confine rabbits, birds
or fowl shall be at least 15 feet from any privately-owned property abutting
the owner’s property.
   (D)   No owner shall fail to keep the shelters and enclosures on that
owner’s property in a sanitary condition. At minimum, owners shall not fail to
do the following:
      (1)   Remove or dispose of, in a sanitary manner, the bedding, offal,
manure and/or waste materials accumulating from the animals at least once every
seven days; and
      (2)   Clean and disinfect the shelters and enclosures so as to prevent
the breeding of flies and insects and the emission of deleterious and offensive
odors therefrom.
(Prior Code, § 90.044) (Ord. 97-16, passed 8-4-1997) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.045 SERVICE DOGS.
   (A)   A person commits the offense of violation on a service dog when the
person intentionally injures, harasses or threatens to injure or harass or
attempts to intentionally injure, harass or threaten a dog that the person
knows or has reason to believe is a guide dog for a blind or visually impaired
person, a hearing aid dog for a deaf or hearing-impaired person or a service
dog for a physically limited person.
   (B)   A person commits the offense of interference with a service dog when
the person intentionally impedes, interferes or threatens to impede or
interfere, or attempts to intentionally impede, interfere or threaten to impede
or interfere with a dog that the person knows or has reason to believe is a
guide dog for a blind or visually impaired person, a hearing aid dog for a deaf
or hearing-impaired person or a service dog for a physically limited person.
   (C)   Evidence that the defendant initiated or continued conduct toward a
dog as described in divisions (A) or (B) above after being requested to avoid
or discontinue the conduct by the blind, visually impaired, deaf, hearing-
impaired or physically limited person being served or assisted by the dog shall
create a rebuttable presumption that the conduct of the defendant was initiated
or continued intentionally.
   (D)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      BLIND PERSON. A person with totally impaired vision, with or without
correction, which is so severely impaired that the primary means of the
receiving information is through other sensory input, including, but not
limited to braille, mechanical reproduction, synthesized speech or readers.
      DEAF PERSON. A person with totally impaired hearing, or with hearing,
with or without amplification, which is so severely impaired that the primary
means of receiving spoken language is through other sensory input, including,
but not limited to, lip reading, sign language, finger spelling or reading.
      HEARING-IMPAIRED PERSON. A person who is unable to hear air conduction
thresholds at an average of 40 decibels or greater in the person’s better ear.
      PHYSICALLY LIMITED PERSON. A person having limited ambulatory abilities,
including, but not limited to having a permanent impairment or condition that
requires the person to use a wheelchair or to walk with difficulty or
insecurity to the extent that the person is insecure or exposed to danger.
      SERVICE ANIMAL. Any dog (or animal) that is individually trained to do
work or perform for the benefit of an individual with a disability, including a
physical, sensory, psychiatric, intellectual or other mental disability.
Emotional support animals, comfort animals, therapy dogs and other species of
animals (whether wild or domestic; trained or untrained) do not meet the
definition of SERVICE ANIMAL and therefore must follow City Code as it pertains
to such type species of animal.
      VISUALLY IMPAIRED PERSON. A person having a visual acuity of 20/20 or
less in the person’s better eye with correction or having a limitation to the
person’s field of vision so that the widest diameter of the visual field
subtends an angular distance not greater than 20 degrees.
   (E)   Every guide dog, hearing aid dog and service dog shall be licensed as
required by local ordinances or resolutions, but no license fee shall be
charged upon a showing by the owner that the dog is a graduate of a recognized
training school for guide dogs, hearing aid dogs or service dogs. Upon the
retirement or discontinuance of the dog as a guide dog, hearing aid dog or
service dog, the owner of the dog shall be liable for the payment of a license
fee as prescribed by local ordinances or resolutions.
(Prior Code, § 90.045) (Ord. 98-24, passed 7-6-1998) Penalty, see §
90.999
Statutory reference:
   Exemption from license tax, see Neb. Rev. Stat. § 54-603
§ 90.046 ROOSTERS BANNED WITHIN CORPORATE LIMITS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to own, keep, harbor or maintain
any rooster within the corporate limits of the city. The unlawful owning,
keeping, maintaining or harboring of roosters is declared to be a public
nuisance. This section specifically bans the owning, keeping, maintaining and/
or harboring of roosters only and not other fowl as elsewhere defined in this
chapter.
   (B)   The prohibition of owning, keeping, maintaining or harboring of
roosters shall not apply to those roosters owned, kept, harbored or maintained
by the following:
      (1)   Governmental entities, persons participating in a heath
surveillance conducted by a governmental entity, animal shelters and humane
societies, licensed veterinary clinics, non-profit educational facilities and
commercial establishments who offer live fowl or chickens for retail sale; and
      (2)   Registered participants in local youth 4-H and Future Farmers of
America (FFA) programs from April through August of each calendar year.
Evidence of registration with said organizations shall be provided to animal
control no later than April 30 of each calendar year. Said organizations will
compile a list to be given comprising of: The child’s name owning the rooster;
the address and contact information of the owner; and the address where the
rooster will be housed.
   (C)   Entities and individuals falling into the exceptions listed in
division (B) above shall still comply with all other city regulations
concerning fowl when dealing with roosters.
(Prior Code, § 90.046) (Ord. 18-53, passed 11-19-2018)
WILD OR EXOTIC ANIMALS
§ 90.060 PERMIT REQUIRED.
Publisher's Note: This Section has been REPEALED by new legislation (Ord. 24-
26, passed 10-7-2024. The text of the amendment will be incorporated below when
the amending legislation is codified.
 
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person within the corporate limits of the
city to own, to allow to be in or upon any premises occupied by that person or
under that person’s charge or control or otherwise keep, hold, maintain or
bring into the city any wild or exotic animal without first obtaining a permit
issued by the Exotic Animal Permit Review Committee. No household shall be
allowed to have more than two wild or exotic animals at any one time even with
a permit. This section shall not apply:
      (1)   To any city, state or federal zoo, park, refuge or wildlife area
which is open to the public;
      (2)   To any bona fide circus or traveling animal exhibit;
      (3)   To any animal hospitals operated by duly licensed veterinarians; or
      (4)   To any licensed educational institutions or licensed animal
research facilities.
   (B)   The Exotic Animal Permit Review Committee is hereby created and shall
consist of the City Administrator and the Chief of Police or designee.
(Prior Code, § 90.060) (Ord. 97-16, passed 8-4-1997; Ord. 01-42, passed 8-2-
2001; Ord. 04-03, passed 1-5-2004; Ord. 07-22, passed 11-19-2007; Ord. 13-02,
passed 3-4-2013) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.061 PERMIT APPLICATION.
Publisher's Note: This Section has been REPEALED by new legislation (Ord. 24-
26, passed 10-7-2024. The text of the amendment will be incorporated below when
the amending legislation is codified.
 
   The procedures for obtaining a wild or exotic animal permit are listed as
follows.
   (A)   The person desiring a permit must file an application with an animal
control officer and pay an application and administrative fee as set by
resolution.
   (B)   An administrative hearing before the Exotic Animal Permit Review
Committee is scheduled by the City Clerk’s office.
   (C)   (1)   Notice of administrative hearing on the application is published
at least one week prior to the meeting of the Exotic Animal Permit Review
Committee during which the application will be heard. The publication costs
will be paid by the applicant prior to receiving a permit.
      (2)   At least ten days prior to the date of the hearing, notice of the
application and the time and date of the administrative hearing shall be given
by the applicant to occupants of residences and managers of multi-family
dwellings within 300 feet of the location for which the permit is requested.
Prior to the administrative hearing, each applicant shall file in the City
Clerk’s office a written statement declaring that proper notices have been
given as required in this section.
   (D)   If it appears to a majority of the Exotic Animal Permit Review
Committee following an administrative hearing that the following conditions are
met, then in such event the Exotic Animal Permit Review Committee shall grant a
permit to the applicant:
      (1)   Granting of the permit would not create a nuisance or cause for
public safety or concern;
      (2)   The applicant is a fit and proper person or entity to maintain,
keep and hold the wild or exotic animal(s) which the applicant seeks to own or
possess; and
      (3)   The premises of the applicant are such as to safely maintain the
wild or exotic animal(s).
   (E)   Any applicant, or any person opposed to the granting of a permit, may
appeal the decision of the Exotic Animal Permit Review Committee to the City
Council. The City Council shall conduct a hearing on the permit and after such
hearing shall either confirm or reverse the decision of the Exotic Animal
Permit Review Committee. The hearing before the City Council shall not require
further publication or notice other than as a regular Council agenda item.
(Prior Code, § 90.061) (Ord. 97-16, passed 8-4-1997; Ord. 01-42, passed 8-2-
2001; Ord. 04-03, passed 1-5-2004; Ord. 05-10, passed 3-7-2005; Ord. 07-22,
passed 11-19-2007)
§ 90.062 PUBLIC HEARING.
Publisher's Note: This Section has been REPEALED by new legislation (Ord. 24-
26, passed 10-7-2024. The text of the amendment will be incorporated below when
the amending legislation is codified.
 
   During the public hearing, the following must occur.
   (A)   The applicant must, at minimum, explain the purpose for seeking the
application, declare the number of animals to be kept under the permit and
demonstrate how the wild or exotic animal(s) will be maintained, kept, held and
controlled.
   (B)   Members of the public shall be allowed to object and show cause why
the application should not be granted.
(Prior Code, § 90.062) (Ord. 97-16, passed 8-4-1997; Ord. 01-42, passed 8-2-
2001; Ord. 04-03, passed 1-5-2004)
§ 90.063 DURATION OF PERMIT; RENEWAL.
Publisher's Note: This Section has been REPEALED by new legislation (Ord. 24-
26, passed 10-7-2024. The text of the amendment will be incorporated below when
the amending legislation is codified.
 
   (A)   Permits may be granted for any duration not exceeding one year. To
obtain a renewal permit, a person must file an application for the renewal with
an animal control officer. The lead animal control officer shall determine,
without an administrative hearing, whether or not a renewal permit should be
granted.
   (B)   In the event a renewal application is denied, the applicant may appeal
that decision to the Exotic Animal Permit Review Committee which will utilize
the hearing procedures set forth in §
90.061 of this code.
(Prior Code, § 90.063) (Ord. 97-16, passed 8-4-1997; Ord. 01-42, passed 8-2-
2001; Ord. 04-03, passed 1-5-2004; Ord. 07-22, passed 11-19-2007)
§ 90.064 PERMITS NONTRANSFERABLE.
Publisher's Note: This Section has been REPEALED by new legislation (Ord. 24-
26, passed 10-7-2024. The text of the amendment will be incorporated below when
the amending legislation is codified.
 
   Permits may not be transferred under any circumstances.
(Prior Code, § 90.064) (Ord. 97-16, passed 8-4-1997; Ord. 01-42, passed 8-2-
2001; Ord. 04-03, passed 1-5-2004) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.065 INSPECTION OF PREMISES.
Publisher's Note: This Section has been REPEALED by new legislation (Ord. 24-
26, passed 10-7-2024. The text of the amendment will be incorporated below when
the amending legislation is codified.
 
   (A)   It shall be a condition of the issuance of a permit that the city or
any of its agents shall be permitted to inspect the premises and all animals
thereon which are kept under the permit, without notice between 7:00 a.m. and
9:00 p.m. on any day. Refusal to allow an inspection by an authorized agent of
the city shall be grounds for revocation or suspension of the permit.
   (B)   If, on inspection, it is found that the holder of the permit, or his,
her or its employees, have failed to adequately hold or control the animal(s)
held under the permit or to properly care for the animal(s) as set forth in
this chapter, the lead animal control officer or designee who has performed the
inspection shall report those findings to the Exotic Animal Permit Review
Committee.
(Prior Code, § 90.065) (Ord. 97-16, passed 8-4-1997; Ord. 01-42, passed 8-2-
2001; Ord. 04-03, passed 1-5-2004; Ord. 07-22, passed 11-19-2007)
§ 90.066 PERMIT REVOCATION; SUSPENSION.
Publisher's Note: This Section has been REPEALED by new legislation (Ord. 24-
26, passed 10-7-2024. The text of the amendment will be incorporated below when
the amending legislation is codified.
 
   (A)   The Exotic Animal Permit Review Committee may, after proper notice and
hearing, revoke or suspend such permit for one or more of the following causes:
      (1)   Refusal by the permit holder to allow the city to inspect the
premises or examine the animal(s) thereon which are kept under the permit;
      (2)   The conviction of the permit holder or any of the household members
for the offense of cruelty to animals as set forth in §
90.036 of this code, whether or not said conviction is based upon the treatment
of animals maintained, held or kept under the permit;
      (3)   The conviction of the permit holder or any of the household members
for the offense of running at large as set forth in §
90.032 of this code or owner’s duties as set forth in §
90.030 of this code, whether or not said conviction is based upon the treatment
of animals maintained, held or kept under the permit; or
      (4)   A reasonable showing that the health and safety of the public
(PUBLIC shall include the members of the household where the subject animal(s)
are maintained, held or kept under the permit) are endangered by the
maintaining, holding or keeping of any of the animal(s) under the permit.
   (B)   Any decision of the Exotic Animal Permit Review Committee made
pursuant to this section may be appealed to the City Council utilizing the
hearing procedures set forth in §
90.061 of this code.
(Prior Code, § 90.066) (Ord. 97-16, passed 8-4-1997; Ord. 01-42, passed 8-2-
2001; Ord. 04-03, passed 1-5-2004; Ord. 05-21, passed 3-21-2005; Ord. 07-22,
passed 11-19-2007)
§ 90.067 IMPOUNDMENT OF ANIMALS.
Publisher's Note: This Section has been REPEALED by new legislation (Ord. 24-
26, passed 10-7-2024. The text of the amendment will be incorporated below when
the amending legislation is codified.
 
   (A)   Following revocation or expiration of a permit, or if no permit has
ever been obtained, or if the owner fails to remove the animal(s) maintained,
held or kept under the permit from the corporate limits of the city within 48
hours of the revocation, the lead animal control officer, the officer’s
assistants or police officers shall be authorized to impound and hold the
animal(s) until such time as the owner is able to remove the animal(s) from the
corporate limits of the city, which shall under no circumstances be longer than
72 hours.
   (B)   (1)   The owner shall be responsible for payment of any shelter fees
as set by the City Council which are incurred as a result of the impoundment.
      (2)   If the owner fails to claim or redeem the impounded animal(s)
within 72 hours, the city shall have the right to destroy or sell the animals,
with the proceeds from the sale used to maintain the city shelter.
(Prior Code, § 90.067) (Ord. 97-16, passed 8-4-1997; Ord. 01-42, passed 8-2-
2001; Ord. 04-03, passed 1-5-2004)
BEES
§ 90.080 APIARIES; PERMIT REQUIRED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to keep, control, harbor or
maintain within the city limits any bees, hives or boxes containing hives,
except in an approved apiary in agriculturally zoned areas, without first
obtaining a hobby beekeeper permit for that purpose from the lead animal
control officer for the city or designee. No single permit shall be issued for
more than one parcel upon which bees are to be maintained.
   (B)   (1)   Application for each permit shall include: The name of the
individual responsible for the keeping of bees; the current address of that
individual, provided, that if at any time during the life of the permit the
individual relocates, such information shall be transmitted to the city ten
days prior to such relocation; the common address or legal description of the
parcel comprising the apiary and on which the bees will be kept; and the number
of hives or boxes containing hives the applicant intends to maintain on that
parcel.
      (2)   The application shall be accompanied by a non-refundable fee as set
by resolution. Following the receipt of the application and fee by the lead
animal control officer or designee, an inspection of the proposed apiary will
be conducted to ensure compliance with the conditions established herein and a
nontransferable revocable permit shall be issued to the applicant which, unless
revoked for noncompliance with the conditions, shall remain in effect until
such time as the applicant discontinues or alters, from the application, the
beekeeping activity. Seasonal adjustments for weather shall not be construed as
discontinuation or alteration of apiary activity, provided that failure to
actively engage in beekeeping activity on the parcel for a period in excess of
six calendar months, for any reason, shall be so construed.
   (C)   The hobby beekeeper permit is nontransferable to any other apiary
location or to any other person.
(Prior Code, § 90.070) (Ord. 14-07, passed 8-4-2014)
§ 90.081 REVOCATION.
   In addition to such other sanctions as may be imposed by law, violation of
this section shall be cause for revocation of any permit issued for beekeeping;
provided, however, that revocation shall be summarily made by the Chief of
Police or designee upon advice of the lead animal control officer or designee,
and provided that, following written notice confirming to the requirement of §§
90.080 through
90.082 of this code, inclusive. The Chief of Police or designee may allow the
permit holder 24 hours to correct or abate any offense or violation of the
conditions established herein, which, if not corrected or abated will be cause
for revocation. No person having any beekeeping permit revoked pursuant to this
section shall be granted a permit for beekeeping purposes for a period of two
years following revocation. Upon complaint of any owner or resident of any
property abutting the apiary on which bees are permitted to be kept, the lead
animal control officer or designee shall require an inspection of the parcel
for which the application had been made. If the inspection discloses violation
of any provisions hereof, the lead animal control officer or designee shall
cause notice to be issued to correct or abate the condition in the manner set
forth in this section.
(Prior Code, § 90.071) (Ord. 14-07, passed 8-4-2014)
§ 90.082 APPLICATION OF PROVISIONS.
   Bees shall be kept in such manner so as not to create a nuisance or threat
to health or otherwise interfere with the enjoyment of the property of adjacent
owners or residents. The following conditions shall exist as a precondition to
issuance of a permit for beekeeping.
   (A)   No person shall establish or maintain any apiary or hive or box where
bees are kept on any parcel where any public outdoor recreational area, school
or daycare or public park lies within 100 feet of the exterior boundaries of
the parcel. No person shall establish or maintain any hive of box where bees
are kept on any parcel or lot in excess of one hive or box per 1,500 square
feet.
   (B)   No hive or box where bees are kept shall be maintained within 50 feet
of any dwelling or building, except that of the applicant. No hive or box where
bees are kept shall be maintained within 25 feet of the lot line, sidewalk,
alley or other public right-of-way unless there is present a barrier of
sufficient height to deflect the flight of bees to a height not less than six
feet at all exterior boundaries of the parcel on which bees are being
maintained. No hive or box shall be maintained less than ten feet from the
barrier.
   (C)   Including the permit holder’s own hives or boxes in which bees are
kept, no more than four hives or boxes shall be within 100 feet of the exterior
boundaries of the apiary within the parcel on which bees are kept; provided,
however, that in the event the permit holder of any permit keeps bees on any
parcel in excess of one acre in area, no more than four hives or boxes shall be
maintained per one quarter acre, and in such cases all hives or boxes shall be
situated at least 100 feet from the exterior boundaries of the parcel. A source
of fresh water shall be maintained for bees at all times near the hives or
boxes in which the bees are kept.
   (D)   Prior to the issuance of a hobby beekeeper permit, the applicant shall
notify all residents and businesses within a 300 foot radius around the
proposed apiary on which the bees are to be kept, that the applicant is
applying for a hobby beekeeper permit and will provide contact information for
themselves as the hobby beekeeper so questions and concerns can be addressed
between the neighboring property owners and the beekeeper. There will be no
hearing prior to issuance of the permit provided notification has been made
either in person or by mail delivery to the residents or businesses within 300
feet.
   (E)   The forgoing conditions shall be continuously maintained by the holder
of any permit issued pursuant to this section.
(Prior Code, § 90.072) (Ord. 14-07, passed 8-4-2014)
MINIMUM PET SHOP STANDARDS
§ 90.095 APPLICATION OF PROVISIONS.
   All pet shops shall maintain at least minimum standards of sanitation and
care and shall provide adequate housing for all animals. The standards provided
in this subchapter shall be complied with under the pet shop permit.
(Prior Code, § 90.080) (Ord. 98-24, passed 7-6-1998) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.096 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   NONCONDITIONED ANIMALS. Those animals which have just been obtained or
brought into the facility and may or may not have been given a health check or
examination by a veterinarian.
   PRIMARY ENCLOSURES. Those animal enclosures in which the animal normally
rests or sleeps.
(Prior Code, § 90.081) (Ord. 98-24, passed 7-6-1998)
§ 90.097 SANITATION AND SAFETY REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Cleaning of primary enclosures. Excreta shall be removed from primary
enclosures as often as necessary to prevent contamination of the animals
contained therein and to reduce disease hazards and odors. When hosing or
flushing method is used for cleaning a primary enclosure, commonly known as a
cage, kennel, room, pen, compartment, hutch, aquarium or run, any animals
contained therein shall be removed from the enclosure during the cleaning
process and adequate measures shall be taken to protect the animals in other
such enclosures from being contaminated with water and other wastes.
   (B)   Sanitizing of primary enclosures.
      (1)   Prior to the introduction of nonconditioned animals into empty
primary enclosures previously occupied, the enclosures shall be sanitized in a
manner provided in division (B)(3) below.
      (2)   Primary enclosures for animals shall be sanitized often enough to
prevent an accumulation of debris, excreta or disease hazard. However, the
enclosures shall be sanitized at least once every week in the manner provided
in division (B)(3) below.
      (3)   Cages, rooms and hard-surfaced pens or runs shall be sanitized by
washing them with hot water or with soap or detergent, followed by a safe and
effective disinfectant or by cleaning all soiled surfaces with live steam. Pens
or runs using gravel, sand or dirt shall be sanitized by removing the soiled
gravel, sand or dirt and replacing it as necessary.
   (C)   Premises. Premises, buildings and grounds shall be kept clean and in
good repair, and premises shall remain free of any accumulation of trash.
   (D)   Pest control. An effective program for the control of insects,
ectoparasite and avian and mammalian pests shall be established and maintained.
   (E)   Animal attendant. At all times during the hours the business is open,
there shall be an employee on duty whose responsibility shall be the care and
welfare of the animals which are held for sale or display or boarded.
   (F)   Non-business hours. An employee or owner shall come in to feed, water
and do the necessary cleaning of animals on days the business is closed.
   (G)   Sick or injured animals. No person shall knowingly sell a sick or
injured animal or bird and shall take reasonable care to release for sale,
trade or adoption only those animals which are free of disease or injuries. Nor
shall any person sell or offer for sale any animal that exhibits the following:
      (1)   Obvious signs of infectious disease;
      (2)   Obvious signs of nutritional deficiencies;
      (3)   Obvious signs of severe parasitism sufficient to influence the
general health of the animal; or
      (4)   Obvious fractures or congenital deformities affecting the general
health of the animal.
   (H)   Misrepresentation. No person shall knowingly misrepresent an animal or
bird to a consumer in any way.
   (I)   Care instructions. Care and feeding instructions and appropriate
medical history must be made available, in writing, to each purchaser of an
animal.
(Prior Code, § 90.082) (Ord. 98-24, passed 7-6-1998) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.098 WATERING.
   (A)   Potable water should be accessible to the animal at all times. Potable
liquids shall be offered to the animals at least twice daily for periods long
enough to provide adequate time for drinking.
   (B)   Watering receptacles shall be kept clean and shall be sanitized as
needed.
(Prior Code, § 90.083) (Ord. 98-24, passed 7-6-1998) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.099 FEEDING.
   (A)   Animals shall be fed at least once each day, less or more often if
required to provide adequate veterinary care. The food shall be free from
contamination, wholesome, palatable and of sufficient quantity and nutritive
value to meet the normal daily requirements for the condition, size and species
of animal.
   (B)   Food receptacles shall be accessible to all animals and shall be
located so as to minimize contamination by excreta. Feeding pans shall be
durable and kept clean. The food receptacles shall be sanitized daily.
Disposable food receptacles may be used but must be discarded after each
feeding. Self-feeders may be used for the feeding of dry food, and they shall
be sanitized regularly to prevent molding, deterioration or caking of feed.
(Prior Code, § 90.084) (Ord. 98-24, passed 7-6-1998) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.100 FACILITIES IN GENERAL.
   (A)   Structural strength. Housing facilities for animals shall be
structurally sound and shall be maintained in good repair at all times to
protect the animals from injury, to contain the animals and to prevent the
entrance of other animals.
   (B)   Power and water requirements. Reliable and adequate power shall be
supplied to conform with city, county and state electrical codes, adequate to
supply lighting, ventilation and heating as may be required by this chapter.
Hot and cold water shall be supplied at sufficient pressure and quantity to
clean indoor housing facilities and primary enclosures of debris and excreta
and to provide adequate drinking water for the animals. Backflow preventers
shall be installed on any threaded faucet and any faucet having a hose of any
type attached.
   (C)   Food and bedding. Suitable food and bedding shall be provided and
stored in facilities adequate to provide protection against infestation or
contamination by insects or rodents. Refrigeration shall be provided for the
protection of perishable foods.
   (D)   Waste disposal. Provisions shall be made for the removal and disposal
of animal and food wastes, bedding, dead animals and debris. Disposal
facilities shall be maintained in a sanitary condition, free from the
infestation or contamination of insects or rodents or disease and from noxious
or foul odors.
(Prior Code, § 90.085) (Ord. 98-24, passed 7-6-1998) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.101 INDOOR FACILITIES.
   (A)   Generally. All indoor housing facilities for animals, fish, birds,
reptiles or other animals shall be maintained in a clean and sanitary
condition, and a safe and effective disinfectant shall be used in the cleaning
of the facilities.
   (B)   Heating. Indoor housing facilities for dogs, cats, birds, fish,
reptiles or other animals shall be sufficiently heated when necessary to
protect the dogs, cats and the like from cold and to provide for their health
and comfort. The ambient temperature shall not be allowed to fall below 50°F
for any animal not acclimated to lower temperatures.
   (C)   Ventilation.
      (1)   Indoor housing facilities for dogs, cats, birds, fish, reptiles or
other animals shall be adequately ventilated to provide for the health and
comfort of the animals at all times. The facilities shall be provided with
fresh air, either by means of windows, doors, vents or air conditioning and
shall be ventilated so as to minimize drafts, odors and moisture condensation.
      (2)   Auxiliary ventilation, such as exhaust fans, vents or air
conditioning shall be provided to maintain the ambient temperature at 85°F or
lower unless the animal is acclimated to a higher temperature.
   (D)   Lighting. Indoor housing facilities for dogs, cats, birds and other
animals shall have ample lights, by natural or artificial means, or both, of
good quality and well distributed. The lighting shall provide uniformly
distributed illumination of sufficient light intensity to permit routine
inspection and cleaning during the entire working period. Primary enclosures
shall be so placed as to protect the animals from excessive illumination.
   (E)   Construction of facilities. Indoor housing facilities shall have
interior wall, ceiling and floor surfaces constructed of materials which are
resistant to the absorption of moisture and odors, or the surfaces shall be
treated with a sealant or with paint when the materials are not originally
resistant to moisture or odors. Floor surfaces shall not be made of unsealed
wood. In addition, where interior walls join the floor, a sanitary cove base
shall be provided so that the surfaces are sealed from the flow or accumulation
of moisture or debris.
   (F)   Drainage. Indoor housing facilities shall contain a drainage system
which shall be connected to a sanitary sewer system which conforms to the
standards of building codes in force within the city and shall be designed to
rapidly remove water and excreta in the cleaning of the indoor housing facility
under any condition of weather or temperature.
(Prior Code, § 90.086) (Ord. 98-24, passed 7-6-1998) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.102 OUTDOOR FACILITIES.
   (A)   Shelter from sunlight. When sunlight is likely to cause overheating or
discomfort, sufficient shade shall be provided to allow all dogs, cats, birds
and other animals kept outdoors to protect themselves from the direct rays of
the sun.
   (B)   Shelter from rain or snow. Dogs, cats, birds and other animals kept
outdoors shall be provided with access to shelter to allow them to remain dry
during rain or snow.
   (C)   Shelter from cold weather. Shelter which allows dogs, cats, birds and
other animals to remain warm shall be provided for all such animals kept
outdoors when the atmospheric temperature falls below 50°F. Sufficient clean
bedding material or other means of protection from the weather elements shall
be provided when the ambient temperature falls below that temperature to which
the animal is acclimated.
   (D)   Drainage and waste removal. Shelter shall be constructed to provide
drainage to prevent the accumulation of water, mud, debris, excreta or other
materials and shall be designed to facilitate the removal of animal and feed
wastes.
   (E)   Fencing. Shelter shall be constructed with adequate walls or fences to
safely contain the animals kept therein and to prevent entrance of other
animals.
(Prior Code, § 90.087) (Ord. 98-24, passed 7-6-1998) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.103 PRIMARY ENCLOSURES.
   All primary enclosures for animals shall conform to the following
requirements.
   (A)   Primary enclosures shall be constructed and maintained in good repair
to protect the animals from injury, to contain them and to keep out predators.
   (B)   Primary enclosures shall be constructed and maintained so as to enable
the animals to remain dry and clean.
      (1)   When constructed for animals other than birds, primary enclosures
shall have floors of either solid construction with an impermeable surface or
wire mesh with spaces between the wire mesh smaller than the pads of the
animals confined therein and of a sufficient thickness to support the weight of
each animal without bending.
      (2)   At all times, litter pans containing litter must be provided for
kittens and cats.
      (3)   Birds must be kept in cages having removable metal or impermeable
bottoms of adequate size.
   (C)   Primary enclosures shall be constructed and maintained so as to
provide sufficient space to allow each species of animal to turn about freely
and to stand, sit and lie in a normal position.
   (D)   Each animal, except fish and birds, housed in a primary enclosure
shall be provided a minimum square footage of floor space equal to the
mathematical square of the sum of the length of the animal in inches as
measured from the tip of its nose to the base of its tail, plus six inches,
expressed in square feet (for example, a dog 30 inches long, plus six inches
equals 36 inches; square equals 36 inches by 36 inches, or three feet by three
feet equals nine square feet).
      (1)   Bird density must be decreased depending on the number of birds
housed in cages, provided that each cage shall be of sufficient size and
dimensions to enable each bird confined therein an amount of perch space as
follows.
 
Bird Type            Minimum Perch Length Per Bird
Cockatiels           5 inches
Finches              3 inches
Macaws and cockatoos 10 inches
Parakeets            4 inches
Parrots              9 inches
 
      (2)   Consideration of space shall also be dependent on size and species
of animal as to what the minimum space requirements are for proper health and
husbandry based on American Humane Association standards or recommendations.
   (E)   Primary enclosures and parts thereof shall be constructed of durable
materials capable of being easily and properly cleaned and disinfected.
   (F)   Primary enclosures in the pet shop must be located in such a way as to
meet the following conditions:
      (1)   Provide for maximum comfort and to satisfy known and established
needs;
      (2)   Provide protection from extreme environmental changes;
      (3)   Prevent undue direct or disturbing physical contact with the
general public;
      (4)   Protect from excessive heat caused by exposure to the sun; and
      (5)   Be out of drafts.
   (G)   Display of any animal in its primary enclosure, whether in a shop or
in an outside exterior display window may occur only at the rear of the
windowed space, out of drafts and if protected from excessive heat caused by
exposure to sun.
(Prior Code, § 90.088) (Ord. 98-24, passed 7-6-1998) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.104 CLASSIFICATION AND SEPARATION.
   Animals housed in the same primary enclosure shall be maintained in
compatible groups, with the following additional restrictions.
   (A)   Any animal exhibiting a vicious disposition or propensity shall be
adequately housed in a separate and secure enclosure sufficient to protect
other animals, the general public and employees of animal facilities.
   (B)   Dogs shall not be housed in the same enclosure with cats, nor shall
dogs or cats be housed in the same primary enclosure with any other species of
animals.
   (C)   Animals under quarantine or treatment for a communicable disease shall
be separated from other animals in such a manner as to minimize dissemination
of the disease.
(Prior Code, § 90.089) (Ord. 98-24, passed 7-6-1998) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.105 VETERINARY CARE.
   (A)   Each animal shall be observed daily by the animal caretaker in charge
or the caretaker’s representative. Sick, diseased, injured, lame or blind
animals shall be provided with proper veterinary care or humanely disposed of.
   (B)   Any person operating or employed at a pet shop who observes an animal
which the person suspects of being rabid, or which has bitten someone, shall
immediately notify the city’s animal control and isolate the animal(s) from
contact with other animals and pet shop customers for a period of ten days,
unless examined and released by written statement of a licensed veterinarian,
and then only at the discretion of the Director of the division.
   (C)   Programs of disease prevention and control shall be established and
maintained, including the following:
      (1)   Appointment of a consulting licensed veterinarian whose name and
telephone number shall be posted in a conspicuous place easily accessible to
all personnel;
      (2)   Prompt examination and treatment of any animals suspected of being
sick or injured by a veterinarian or other person qualified and experienced in
the care and treatment of the species concerned;
      (3)   Segregation of any apparently sick or injured animal to a separate
area as provided for by §
90.104(C) of this code; and
      (4)   Disposal of sick or injured animals by humane euthanasia when
appropriate.
   (D)   The establishment shall have a sign or signs posted, clearly and
prominently visible, which inform citizens of sanitation provisions to be
utilized prior to and after handling animals to prevent the spread of
communicable diseases between animals. The recommended wording shall be “to
prevent the spreading of disease to animals, sanitation provisions are
available. Please ask before handling animals.” Sign size should be eight and
one-half inches by 11 inches with at least three-eighths inch high lettering.
(Prior Code, § 90.090) (Ord. 98-24, passed 7-6-1998) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.106 REFERENCE.
   All pet shops are held to regulations set forth as well as material that can
be provided by the state’s Bureau of Animal Industry, Agricultural Department.
(Prior Code, § 90.091) (Ord. 98-24, passed 7-6-1998)
MINIMUM GROOM SHOP STANDARDS
§ 90.120 APPLICATION OF PROVISIONS.
   All groom shops shall maintain at least minimum standards of sanitation,
care and provide adequate housing for all animals. The standards provided in
this subchapter shall be complied with under the groom shop permit.
(Prior Code, § 90.105) (Ord. 98-24, passed 7-6-1998) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.121 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   NONCONDITIONED ANIMALS. The animals which have just been obtained or brought
into the facility and may or may not have been given a health check and
examination by a veterinarian.
   PRIMARY ENCLOSURES. The animal enclosures in which the animal normally rests
or sleeps.
(Prior Code, § 90.106) (Ord. 98-24, passed 7-6-1998)
§ 90.122 SANITATION AND SAFETY REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Sanitizing of primary enclosures. Primary enclosures for animals shall
be sanitized often enough to prevent an accumulation of debris, excreta or
disease hazard. However, the enclosures shall be sanitized at least once a
week.
   (B)   Sanitizing of other enclosures. Cages, rooms and hard-surfaced pens or
runs shall be sanitized by washing them with hot water or with soap or
detergent, followed by a safe and effective disinfectant or by cleaning all
soiled surfaces with live steam.
   (C)   Maintenance of premises. Premises, buildings and grounds shall be kept
clean and in good repair, and premises shall remain free of accumulations of
trash.
   (D)   Control of pests. An effective program for the control of insects,
ectoparasite and mammalian pests shall be established and maintained.
   (E)   Animal attendant. At all times during the hours the business is open,
there shall be an employee on duty whose responsibility shall be the care and
welfare of the animals which are held in that shop or business for grooming.
   (F)   Time limit.
      (1)   No animal shall be held for a period of more than 12 hours or
overnight, unless permission is granted by the city’s animal control.
      (2)   No additional boarding, dog sitting or kenneling is permitted.
   (G)   Infectious disease and deformities. No person shall groom any animal
that exhibits the following:
      (1)   Obvious signs of infectious disease;
      (2)   Obvious signs of severe infectious disease and debilitation
sufficient to influence the general health of the animal and to be contagious
to other animals or humans; or
      (3)   Obvious fractures or congenital deformities affecting the general
health of the animal such that grooming would cause pain.
   (H)   Grooming services; additional sanitation and safety regulations.
Grooming shops shall:
      (1)   Not board animals, but keep animals only for a reasonable time in
order to perform the business of grooming;
      (2)   Provide adequate care and supervision over an animal which is being
groomed to prevent it from falling, being injured or being hanged;
      (3)   Clean and disinfect equipment as necessary;
      (4)   Not leave animals unattended at a dryer or on a grooming table;
      (5)   Not prescribe treatment or medicine that is the province of a
licensed veterinarian;
      (6)   Not put more than one animal in each cage unless required by the
owner; and
      (7)   Floors should be swept and waste materials cleaned up after
grooming any animal. Floors shall be cleaned at least four times daily.
(Prior Code, § 90.107) (Ord. 98-24, passed 7-6-1998) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.123 WATERING.
   Potable water should be accessible to the animal at all times. Potable
liquids shall be offered to the animals at least twice daily for periods long
enough to provide adequate time for drinking. Water receptacles shall be kept
clean and shall be sanitized as needed.
(Prior Code, § 90.108) (Ord. 98-24, passed 7-6-1998) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.124 FEEDING.
   (A)   Normally, animals held for grooming purposes need not be fed. However,
if they are, the food shall be free from contamination and wholesome for the
species of animal. The food receptacles shall be sanitized daily, be durable
and kept clean. Disposable food receptacles may be used once only and then must
be discarded.
(Prior Code, § 90.109) (Ord. 98-24, passed 7-6-1998) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.125 FACILITIES IN GENERAL.
   (A)   Structural strength. Housing facilities for animals shall be
structurally sound and shall be maintained in good repair at all times to
protect the animals from injury, to contain the animals and to prevent the
entrance of other animals.
   (B)   Power and water requirements. Reliable and adequate power shall be
supplied to conform with city, county and state electrical codes, adequate to
supply lighting, ventilation and heating as may be required by this subchapter.
Hot and cold water shall be supplied at sufficient pressure and quantity to
clean indoor housing facilities and primary enclosures of debris and excreta
and to provide adequate drinking water for the animals. Backflow preventers
shall be installed on any threaded faucet and any faucet having a hose of any
type attached.
   (C)   Waste disposal. Provision shall be made for the removal and disposal
of animal wastes, bedding and debris. Disposal facilities shall be maintained
in a sanitary condition, free from the infestation or contamination of insects,
rodents or disease and from obnoxious or foul odors.
(Prior Code, § 90.110) (Ord. 98-24, passed 7-6-1998) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.126 INDOOR FACILITIES.
   (A)   Heating. Indoor housing facilities for animals shall be sufficiently
heated when necessary to protect the animals from cold and to provide for their
health and comfort. The ambient temperature shall not be allowed to fall below
50°F for any animal not acclimated to lower temperatures.
   (B)   Ventilation. Indoor housing facilities for animals shall be adequately
ventilated to provide for the health and comfort of the animals at all times.
The facilities shall be provided with fresh air, either by means of windows,
doors, vents or air conditioning and shall be ventilated so as to minimize
drafts, odors and moisture condensation. Auxiliary ventilation, such as exhaust
fans, vents or air conditioning shall be provided to maintain the ambient
temperature at 85°F or lower unless the animal is acclimated to a higher
temperature.
   (C)   Lighting. Indoor housing facilities for animals shall have ample
lights, by natural or artificial means, or both, of good quality and well
distributed. The lighting shall provide uniformly distributed illumination of
sufficient light intensity to permit routine inspection and cleaning during the
entire working period. Primary enclosures shall be so placed as to protect the
animals from excessive illumination.
   (D)   Construction of facilities. Indoor housing facilities must have
interior wall, ceiling and floor surfaces constructed of materials which are
resistant to the absorption of moisture and odors, or the surfaces shall be
treated with a sealant or with paint when the materials are not originally
resistant to moisture or odors. Floor surfaces shall not be made of unsealed
wood. In addition, where interior walls join the floor, a sanitary cove base
shall be provided so that the surfaces are sealed from the flow or accumulation
of moisture or debris.
   (E)   Drainage. Indoor housing facilities must contain a drainage system
which shall be connected to a sanitary sewer system which conforms to the
standards of building codes in force within the city and shall be designed to
rapidly remove water and excreta in the cleaning of the indoor housing facility
under any condition of weather or temperature. All indoor housing facilities
for animals shall be maintained in a clean and sanitary condition, and a safe
and effective disinfectant shall be used in the cleaning of the facilities.
(Prior Code, § 90.111) (Ord. 98-24, passed 7-6-1998) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.127 MOBILE GROOMING FACILITIES; SPECIAL REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Mobile facilities shall have a collection and holding system to hold
water and waste material until disposed of as required by §
90.126(E) of this code.
   (B)   Solid waste shall be placed in waste containers and held until it can
be properly disposed of in a garbage or refuse container, with eventual
disposal at the city landfill.
   (C)   Floors of the mobile facility shall be swept and the facility cleaned
prior to each relocation of the mobile unit.
   (D)   Mobile facilities must be designed to be easily cleanable and
impervious to moisture.
   (E)   Mobile facilities, or any part thereof, or any cage, container or
receptacle shall be maintained as follows:
      (1)   In a state of good repair;
      (2)   In a sanitary condition;
      (3)   In a well-ventilated condition;
      (4)   In a clean condition;
      (5)   Free from offensive odors; and
      (6)   Free from trash, dirt, filth, manure, excrement or other offensive
matter.
   (F)   Animals shall not be transported in a mobile facility.
(Prior Code, § 90.112) (Ord. 98-24, passed 7-6-1998) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.128 PRIMARY ENCLOSURES.
   All primary enclosures for animals shall conform to the following
requirements.
   (A)   Primary enclosures shall be constructed and maintained in good repair
to protect the animals from injury and to contain them.
   (B)   Primary enclosures shall be constructed and maintained so as to enable
the animals to remain dry and clean.
      (1)   Primary enclosures shall have floors of either solid construction
with an impermeable surface or wire mesh with spaces between the wire mesh
smaller than the pads of the animals confined therein and of a sufficient
thickness to support the weight of each animal without bending.
      (2)   Primary enclosures must, at all times, provide litter pans,
containing litter, for kittens and cats.
   (C)   Primary enclosures shall be constructed and maintained so as to
provide sufficient space to allow each species of animal to turn about freely
and to stand, sit and lie in a normal position.
   (D)   Each animal housed in a primary enclosure shall be provided a minimum
square footage of floor space equal to the mathematical square of the sum of
the length of the animal in inches as measured from the tip of its nose to the
base of its tail, plus six inches, expressed in square feet (for example, a dog
30 inches long, plus six inches equals 36 inches, square equals 36 inches by 36
inches, or three feet by three feet equals nine square feet).
   (E)   Primary enclosures and parts thereof shall be constructed of durable
materials capable of being easily and properly cleaned and disinfected.
   (F)   Primary enclosures in the groom shop must be located in such a way as
to:
      (1)   Provide for maximum comfort and to satisfy known and established
needs;
      (2)   Provide protection from extreme environmental changes;
      (3)   Prevent undue direct or disturbing physical contact with the
general public;
      (4)   Protect from excessive heat caused by exposure to the sun; and
      (5)   Be out of drafts.
(Prior Code, § 90.113) (Ord. 98-24, passed 7-6-1998) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.129 CLASSIFICATION AND SEPARATION.
   Animals housed in the same primary enclosure shall be maintained in
compatible groups with the following additional restrictions.
   (A)   Any animal exhibiting a vicious disposition or propensity shall be
adequately housed in a separate and secure enclosure sufficient to protect
other animals, the general public and employees of the groom shop.
   (B)   Dogs shall not be housed in the same enclosure with cats, nor shall
dogs or cats be housed in the same primary enclosure with any other species of
animals.
(Prior Code, § 90.114) (Ord. 98-24, passed 7-6-1998) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.130 VETERINARY CARE.
   Each animal shall be observed daily by the animal caretaker in charge, or
the caretaker’s representative. Any animal becoming sick or injured shall be
provided with proper veterinary care, or the pet owner shall be contacted
immediately. Any person operating or employed at a groom shop who observes an
animal which the person suspects of being rabid or which has bitten someone
shall at once notify the city’s animal control and isolate the animal(s) from
contact with other animals or groom shop customers for a period of ten days
unless examined and released by written statement of a licensed veterinarian
and then only at the discretion of the Director of the animal control. Programs
of disease prevention and control shall be established and maintained.
(Prior Code, § 90.115) (Ord. 98-24, passed 7-6-1998) Penalty, see §
90.999
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
§ 90.145 ANIMAL CONTROL OFFICER’S DUTIES.
   It shall be the duty of the animal control officer or the officer’s
assistants to do the following:
   (A)   To carry out and enforce all the provisions of this chapter and any
amendments thereto, or any ordinance later enacted and relating to animals
which are duties of the animal control officer or the officer’s assistants;
   (B)   At times when the city owns and operates its own animal shelter:
      (1)   To maintain an animal shelter at some convenient and suitable
location, which shelter shall be kept sanitary, properly heated, ventilated and
lighted; and
      (2)   To properly house, feed, water and care for all animals confined in
the animal shelter.
   (C)   At times when the city contracts with a separate entity for animal
sheltering services:
      (1)   To act as liaison between such entity and the city; and
      (2)   To carry out specific duties as may be laid out in the animal
sheltering services contract.
   (D)   To enforce the licensing of all dogs and cats in the city as herein
provided;
   (E)   To file a complaint against any person violating any provision of this
chapter; and
   (F)   To capture and secure all animals found to be in violation of the
provisions of this chapter, and to remove the animals in a humane manner to the
animal shelter.
(Prior Code, § 90.125) (Ord. 97-16, passed 8-4-1997; Ord. 02-57, passed 10-21-
2002) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.146 DUTY TO PLACE ANIMALS UNDER OBSERVATION.
   (A)   When an owner of an animal has been notified by any person injured or
by someone on the injured person’s behalf that the owner’s animal has injured
that person or otherwise has knowledge of the injury, or when any person owning
an animal has been notified by an owner of any another animal which has been
bitten or attacked by the animal, the owner shall immediately place the
attacking animal under the care and observation of the animal control officer
or a licensed veterinarian within the city for a period of not less than ten
days, with the expense thereof to be borne by the owner of the attacking
animal. The failure of the owner to submit the animal within 24 hours after
notice of the injury, bite or attack to the animal control officer or a
veterinarian within the city constitutes a violation of this section. At the
expiration of the period of required observation, it shall be lawful for the
animal control officer to destroy any animal whose owner fails to pay all such
expenses incident to the impounding for observation and any required treatment.
   (B)   The animal control officer may also take into custody and impound for
observation any animal that has injured, bitten or attacked any person, any
animal of a vicious, dangerous, cross or ferocious disposition or any animal
that habitually manifests a disposition to bite or endanger the public or other
animals. Should any animal so held for observation be examined by a licensed
veterinarian and be found by the veterinarian to be suffering from an injury or
other infectious disease from which, in the judgment of the veterinarian,
recovery is doubtful, or be found to be of such a nature as to endanger the
public or other animals generally, the animal control officer shall cause the
animal to be destroyed in a humane manner.
(Prior Code, § 90.126) (Ord. 97-16, passed 8-4-1997) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.147 IMPOUNDMENT.
   It shall be the duty of the animal control officer or the officer’s
assistants to take up and impound any dog, cat or livestock animal running at
large within the city, contrary to the provisions of this chapter. Any other
person may take up and deliver forthwith to the animal control officer or the
officer’s assistants any such animal running at large in such a manner, but the
person shall be paid no compensation directly or indirectly for such taking and
delivery.
(Prior Code, § 90.127) (Ord. 97-16, passed 8-4-1997)
§ 90.148 TIME LIMIT FOR IMPOUNDMENT; ADOPTION.
   (A)   Any animal impounded because of a violation of this chapter, except
animals impounded for observation as set forth in §
90.126 of this code, shall be held by the animal control officer, or the entity
with whom the city has contracted with for animal sheltering services, for not
more than 72 hours, unless sooner redeemed or released as herein provided. The
animal control officer, or the entity with whom the city has contracted with
for animal sheltering services, shall notify the owner of the animal impounded,
regardless of the reason for impounding, if the owner’s identity and address
are known or can be ascertained upon reasonable investigation within 24 hours
after the animal is impounded under any of the provisions of this chapter. The
notice shall inform the owner that the animal has been impounded, the purpose
or reason for the impounding and that the owner may reclaim or redeem the
animal within 72 hours.
   (B)   All animals in the shelter, unclaimed or not redeemed at the
expiration of the time limit of 72 hours, may be destroyed in a humane manner
approved by the City Council, unless, in the judgment of the animal control
officer, a suitable home may be found for the animal.
(Prior Code, § 90.128) (Ord. 97-16, passed 8-4-1997)
§ 90.149 SHELTER FEES; RELEASE FROM SHELTER.
   Any animal held or impounded in the animal shelter because of a violation of
any of the provisions of this chapter by its owner, except an animal impounded
for observation as set forth in §
90.146 of this code, or following revocation of the permit under §§
90.060 through
90.067 of this code, shall be released to the owner thereof by the animal
control officer, or the entity with whom the city has contracted with for
animal sheltering services, upon proof of ownership of the animal, payment of a
shelter fee as set by resolution and, if the animal is unlicensed or has not
been immunized for rabies, proof of a license and/or immunization must be
obtained within five business days and verified by the animal control officer.
(Prior Code, § 90.129) (Ord. 97-16, passed 8-4-1997; Ord. 05-11, passed 3-7-
2005)
§ 90.150 DESTRUCTION OF ANIMALS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the animal control officer, the officer’s
assistants or the entity with whom the city has contracted with for animal
sheltering services, to destroy, or cause or permit to be destroyed, any animal
until the expiration of the impounding time limit of 72 hours, except that the
officer may, when an animal so impounded has been examined by a duly licensed
veterinarian and found by the veterinarian to be suffering from an injury or
disease from which, in the veterinarian’s judgment, recovery is doubtful,
destroy the animal in a humane manner, provided that the observation
requirements of this chapter have been complied with.
   (B)   It shall further be unlawful for any person to destroy or kill, or
cause or permit to be destroyed or killed, any animal which has bitten any
human or animal until the animal can be examined by a duly licensed
veterinarian for the purpose of determining whether or not the animal has an
infectious disease and until observation requirements as set forth in §
90.146 of this code have been complied with.
   (C)   If any animal within the city has been bitten by a known rabid animal,
then the animal that has been bitten shall be immediately destroyed in a humane
manner by the owner thereof or the animal control officer, the officer’s
assistants, or the entity with whom the city has contracted with for animal
sheltering services, unless the owner causes the animal to be placed in strict
isolation in a place prescribed by a licensed veterinarian and causes the
animal to be treated as recommended by the licensed veterinarian, or unless the
animal has been properly inoculated for rabies as provided in this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 90.130) (Ord. 97-16, passed 8-4-1997) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.151 RECORDS AND REPORTS OF ANIMAL CONTROL OFFICER.
   The animal control officer shall keep an accurate account of all dogs and
cats received by the officer at the shelter and released by the officer to the
owner or purchaser showing the date and from whom received, the description of
the animal and the name and address of the person or persons who claimed,
redeemed or purchased the animal. The officer shall keep a like and accurate
account and description of all animals destroyed by the officer.
(Prior Code, § 90.131) (Ord. 97-16, passed 8-4-1997)
§ 90.152 REGISTRATION OF PERSONS DELIVERING OR RECEIVING ANIMALS.
   The animal control officer shall not receive an animal into the shelter from
any person or release any animal to any person unless the person shall give the
person’s full name and place of residence which shall be registered in a proper
book kept by the officer. It shall be unlawful for any person delivering to or
receiving any animal from the shelter to give false information concerning the
same. The disposition of animals received in this manner shall be at the
discretion of the animal control officer.
(Prior Code, § 90.132) (Ord. 97-16, passed 8-4-1997) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.153 INTERFERENCE WITH CAPTURE OF ANIMALS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to hinder, delay, interfere with or
obstruct the animal control officer, or any of the officer’s assistants, while
engaged in capturing, securing or taking to the animal shelter any animal to be
impounded. It shall also be unlawful for any person to illegally enter in any
manner or to directly or indirectly aid, counsel or advise the illegal entry
into any animal shelter or any vehicle used for the collecting or conveying of
animals to the shelter.
(Prior Code, § 90.133) (Ord. 97-16, passed 8-4-1997) Penalty, see §
90.999
Statutory reference:
   Obstructing a police officer, see Neb. Rev. Stat. § 28-906
§ 90.154 ENFORCEMENT.
   The enforcement of the provisions of this chapter shall be under the
direction of the animal control officer, the officer’s assistants and the
city’s animal control. For the purpose of enforcing this chapter or abating any
nuisance existing hereunder, the animal control officer or any of the officer’s
assistants may enter and go upon premises, public or private.
(Prior Code, § 90.134) (Ord. 97-16, passed 8-4-1997)
§ 90.155 NOTICE TO OWNER.
   When an animal which is considered “livestock,” as set forth in §
90.001 of this code, or designated as such by the city’s animal control, is
impounded as herein provided, the officer in charge of the animal shall, within
24 hours, notify the owner thereof, if the owner is known and resides within
the city. If the owner is unknown or resides out of the city, the officer shall
cause to be printed in the official newspaper of the city once within 48 hours
after the impounding of the animal, a notice describing the animal impounded,
stating the time and place at which the animal was taken up and giving warning
that unless the animal is claimed and the expenses of taking up, keeping and
advertising the same is paid within five days from date of publication of the
notice, the animal will be sold at a designated time and place for the payment
of the expenses. The notice shall bear the signature of the officer.
(Prior Code, § 90.135) (Ord. 97-16, passed 8-4-1997)
§ 90.156 SALE PROCEEDS.
   If the owner of any impounded animal which is considered livestock, after
being notified as provided in §
90.155 of this code, shall fail to claim the animal and pay all expenses of
impounding and advertising the same, together with any fine and costs that may
have been levied against the owner for suffering the animal to run at large,
the officer taking up the animal shall, at the time and place designated in the
notice, offer for sale and sell the animal at public auction to the highest
bidder. The time of holding the sale shall be at least five days subsequent to
the date of publication of the notice and between the hours of 9:00 a.m. and 4:
00 p.m., and the place of the sale shall be some public place in the city. The
proceeds of the sale, after paying all expenses as aforesaid, may be claimed by
the owner within 90 days and thereafter credited to the General Fund.
(Prior Code, § 90.136) (Ord. 97-16, passed 8-4-1997)
§ 90.999 PENALTY.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/c898f04873aad83d2018fee9d1c91b72c99beaa9/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2454.png]Publisher's Note: This Section has been AMENDED by new
legislation (Ord. 25-03, passed 3-3-2025). The text of the amendment will be
incorporated below when the amending legislation is codified.
   (A)   Whoever violates any provision of this chapter for which no specific
penalty is provided shall be punished as set forth in §
10.99.
   (B)   Violence on a service dog and interference with a service dog are
crimes punishable by a fine of up to $500.
(Prior Code, § 90.045)
   (C)   Any owner of any animal regulated by this chapter who fails repeatedly
to care for or control the animal and has been issued warnings or citations for
violating one or more provisions of this chapter on four or more occasions
within any 12-month period, shall be deemed to be maintaining a nuisance, the
abatement of which shall be the forfeiture of the animal or animals in
violation.
(Prior Code, § 90.137)
   (D)   Any person, upon violation of the provisions of §§
90.015,
90.031,
90.032 or
90.033, who shall fail, neglect or refuse to comply with any of the provisions
of these sections shall be in violation of this chapter, and upon conviction
thereof, shall be fined as follows:
      (1)   First violation: $25 fine;
      (2)   Second violation: $50 fine;
      (3)   Third violation: $75 fine; and
      (4)   Fourth violation: Forfeiture of animal, as per division (B) above.
(Prior Code, § 90.999)
(Ord. 97-16, passed 8-4-1997; Ord. 98-24, passed 7-6-1998; Ord. 00-36, passed
11-6-2000; Ord. 06-36, passed 12-18-2006)
CHAPTER 91: FIRE PREVENTION AND PROTECTION
Section
General Provisions
   
91.01   Adoption of 2018 International Fire Code
Fire Prevention Regulations
   
91.15   Outside fires
   
91.16   Stoves, fireplaces and chimneys
   
91.17   Rubbish and material
   
91.18   Burning regulations
Transportation and Handling of Explosives
   
91.30   Definition
   
91.31   Unlawful transfer of explosives
   
91.32   Vehicle to be attended at all times
   
91.33   Parking of vehicles
   
91.34   Markers to be placed
   
91.35   Unlawful to drive near fire
   
91.36   Smoking prohibited
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 91.01 ADOPTION OF 2018 INTERNATIONAL FIRE CODE.
   (A)   Fire prevention codes. There are hereby adopted for the purpose of
regulating and governing conditions hazardous to life and property and
establishing standards, rules and regulations to protect life and property from
fire within the city, certain fire prevention codes known as the International
Fire Code, 2018 Edition, as recommended by the International Code Council, and
Regulations Promulgated by State Fire Marshal Governing Safety to Life from
Fire and Like Emergencies in Buildings and Structures; and General Fire
Prevention, one printed copy of which, in book form, has been and is now filed
in the office of the City Clerk and the same is hereby adopted and incorporated
by reference herein and made a part hereof as if fully set out and spread forth
at length herein and from the date in which this chapter shall take effect, the
provisions thereof shall control, regulate and govern conditions hazardous to
life and property from fire within the city.
   (B)   Amendments. All the provisions of the 2018 International Fire Code are
hereby deleted except the following sections:
      (1)   Section 503: Fire apparatus access roads applies, only where such
access roads are not covered by the State Fire Marshal’s office; and
      (2)   Section 506: Key boxes.
(Prior Code, § 91.01) (Ord. 3057, passed 10-7-1985; Ord. 04-12, passed 6-7-
2004; Ord. 15-29, passed 1-18-2016; Ord. 20-27, passed 1-4-2021)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. Rev. Stat. §§ 18-132, 19-902, 19-922, 81-502
FIRE PREVENTION REGULATIONS
§ 91.15 OUTSIDE FIRES.
   (A)   Restrictions. Except for barbecue grills that use propane or charcoal
as fuel and are used primarily for outdoor cooking; decorative lanterns or
lamps; and/or outdoor fireplaces as defined in division (B) below, it shall be
unlawful to start or maintain a fire within the city outside of a building.
   (B)   Outdoor fireplaces. OUTDOOR FIREPLACES shall include portable fire
pits, chimineas and fire rings. These outdoor fireplaces use wood as a fuel and
are used for contained recreational fires for the purpose of outdoor cooking
and personal enjoyment. PORTABLE FIRE PITS are defined as being commercially
designed and intended to confine and control outdoor wood fires. CHIMINEAS are
further defined as an outdoor patio fireplace, usually made from clay, intended
to confine and control outdoor wood fires. All outdoor fireplaces shall meet
the following requirements.
      (1)   The fire fuel area and openings shall be completely enclosed by
steel screening or an approved non-combustible screening material with openings
in screening to be not larger than one-half inch square. Vent stacks and
chimneys shall have a steel screen cover made of heavy wire mesh or other non-
combustible material with openings not larger than one-half-inch square. Not
permitted are barrels, half-barrels, drums or similarly constructed devices.
      (2)   The fuel area for a fire pit shall not be larger than three feet in
diameter and a height of more than two feet.
      (3)   All outdoor fireplaces will be placed on a firm, non-combustible
surface while in use and shall be at least 15 feet from the property line and
ten feet from the nearest building structure or combustible fence. Outdoor
fireplaces shall not be located on balconies or decks. Outdoor fireplaces shall
not be located under any combustible balcony or any overhanging part of a
structure.
      (4)   Outdoor fireplaces shall only burn propane, commercial logs,
untreated wood or natural sawed dry wood. Petroleum products, rubbish, grass,
leaves, cardboard, plastics, rubber or any material that causes excessive heat,
smoke or offensive smell shall not be permitted.
      (5)   The amount of material being burned shall be limited to ensure the
flames are confined inside the fuel area of the outdoor fireplace and shall
provide the flames do not extend into the chimney or above the pit. The
manufacturer’s recommendation on the maximum amount of fuel to be used at one
time shall be followed.
      (6)   Outdoor fireplaces shall be under constant supervision by at least
one responsible person of age 18 or older from the ignition of the fire until
the fire is completely extinguished and embers are cool and the fire will not
rekindle.
      (7)   A garden hose connected to a water supply or other approved fire
extinguishing equipment shall be readily available for use.
      (8)   Outdoor fireplaces shall not be operated when winds will cause
embers or other burning materials to be carried to any building or other
combustible materials. Outdoor fireplaces shall not be operated when weather
conditions are extremely dry.
      (9)   The owner is responsible to ensure proper maintenance and care in
accordance with manufacturer’s instructions. The outdoor fireplace should be
checked regularly for the appearance of cracks and other physical deterioration
or loose parts.
      (10)   Smoke from any outdoor fireplace shall not create a nuisance for
neighboring property owners. The fire shall be extinguished immediately if
declared to be a nuisance as determined by responding fire personnel or law
enforcement officers.
(Prior Code, § 91.20) (Ord. 11-31, passed 10-3-2011) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 91.16 STOVES, FIREPLACES AND CHIMNEYS.
   (A)   All stoves and other heating devices shall be installed at a proper
distance from combustible materials and portions of the building. Any
combustible materials or portions of the building that are dangerously close to
the heating devices shall be protected by noncombustible material.
   (B)   All chimneys, flues and fireplaces shall be kept clean and free from
excessive accumulation of ashes, soot or cinders and shall be kept in good and
proper repair.
   (C)   This section shall apply both to existing structures and those which
may hereafter be erected.
(Neb. Rev. Stat. § 16-222) (Prior Code, § 91.21) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 91.17 RUBBISH AND MATERIAL.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to leave or deposit any combustible or
inflammable rubbish or material in any building, lot or street within the city
and leave it exposed.
(Prior Code, § 91.22) (Ord. 720, passed 7-6-1951) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar state law, see Neb. Rev. Stat. §§ 16-222, 16-227
§ 91.18 BURNING REGULATIONS.
   (A)   It shall be lawful to build or set out certain fires, provided that
the person building the fires shall have the substance to be burned in a
fireproof trash burner or incinerator with a metal fireproof screen of not more
than one-half inch mesh and located at least 20 feet from any building. The
incinerator shall be built in such a way as to not permit the escape of burning
substances. If any person shall require a fire in the course of that person’s
trade such as a contractor, the fire shall be built and maintained in the
manner prescribed by the Fire Chief. All fires shall be built after 7:00 a.m.
and completely extinguished by 8:00 p.m., except the aforesaid fires used in
the course of a trade which shall be allowed during such hours as the Fire
Chief shall prescribe.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to set fire to, burn or cause to
be burned any garbage, animal matter, vegetable matter, straw, hay, leaves or
brush. There may be exceptions, but the Fire Chief will have to address them on
a case by case issue. There shall be no burning inside the city limits.
(Prior Code, § 91.23) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Burning regulations, authority, see Neb. Rev. Stat. §§ 16-222 and 16-227
   Statewide burning ban; local exceptions, see Neb. Rev. Stat. § 85-520.01
TRANSPORTATION AND HANDLING OF EXPLOSIVES
§ 91.30 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   VEHICLE. Any conveyance of any type whatsoever operated upon the streets or
highways within the city limits which is marked or which is required to be
marked with any of the following markings:
      (1)   Explosives;
      (2)   Dangerous;
      (3)   Compressed gas;
      (4)   Dangerous, radioactive material; or
      (5)   Poison gas.
(Prior Code, § 91.40)
§ 91.31 UNLAWFUL TRANSFER OF EXPLOSIVES.
   No explosives, poisons, acids or gases, of which the vehicle transporting
the same is required to bear the markings mentioned in §
91.30 of this code, may be transferred from one vehicle to another except in
case of breakdown or collision, and then only after notifying and under the
supervision of the Police and Fire Departments. However, this section shall not
be so construed so as to prohibit the transfer, pickup or delivery of articles
or materials, the storage of which is permitted.
(Prior Code, § 91.41) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 91.32 VEHICLE TO BE ATTENDED AT ALL TIMES.
   No loaded vehicle, except vehicles operated in delivery service under the
provisions of §
91.31 of this code, shall be left unattended at any time within the city
limits.
(Prior Code, § 91.42) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 91.33 PARKING OF VEHICLES.
   No vehicle shall be parked or left standing upon the traveled portion of any
street or highway. In the event conditions make it impracticable to move the
vehicle from the traveled portion of the street or highway, the vehicle shall
be parked so as to leave all possible width of the street or highway opposite
the vehicle for free passage of other conveyances and so as to provide a clear
view of the standing vehicle for as far as possible to the front and the rear.
(Prior Code, § 91.43) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 91.34 MARKERS TO BE PLACED.
   (A)   Whenever any motor vehicle is disabled upon any street or highway, the
driver or other person in attendance of the vehicle, or both, shall immediately
place on the traffic side of the disabled vehicle, so as to give warning of
danger, a lighted red electric lantern, a red emergency reflector or, during
the time of day when lights are not required, red flags.
   (B)   If the vehicle contains explosives, combustible liquid or gas, no
signal producing a flame or arc shall be used.
(Prior Code, § 91.44) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 91.35 UNLAWFUL TO DRIVE NEAR FIRE.
   No vehicle shall be driven past any open fire burning at or near any street
or highway.
(Prior Code, § 91.45) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 91.36 SMOKING PROHIBITED.
   No person shall smoke in, on or around any vehicle.
(Prior Code, § 91.46) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 92: NUISANCES
Section
General Provisions
   
92.01   Findings; intent; purpose
   
92.02   Definitions
   
92.03   Illustrative enumeration
   
92.04   Unenumerated nuisances
   
92.05   Nuisance prohibited
   
92.06   Inspections
   
92.07   Violations notice
   
92.08   Designation of hearing officer; procedures
   
92.09   Abatement
   
92.10   Affirmative defense
   
92.11   Assessment of costs
   
92.12   Jurisdiction
Health and Sanitation
   
92.25   Offensive buildings
   
92.26   Unsafe buildings
   
92.27   Slaughterhouses
   
92.28   Dumping of waste
   
92.29   Refuse in buildings; stagnant water; time limit
   
92.30   Removal of snow and ice required
Weeds, Grasses and Worthless Vegetation
   
92.45   Definition
   
92.46   Declaration of nuisance
   
92.47   Notice to remove
   
92.48   Assessment of costs
   
92.49   Empty lots; agriculture
   
92.50   Weed removal; noxious weeds
 
   
92.99   Penalty
Statutory reference:
   Nuisances; abatement, authority, see Neb. Rev. Stat. § 18-1720
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 92.01 FINDINGS; INTENT; PURPOSE.
   The City Council finds that certain conditions as hereinafter defined cause
annoyance, inconvenience or damage to the public with respect to the public’s
comfort, health, safety, welfare and enjoyment of property. It is the purpose
and intent of the City Council to define and describe those conditions which
are injurious to the public and which constitute a public nuisance. It is
further the purpose and intent of the City Council to set forth and delegate
responsibility for procedures regarding notice, abatement and prosecution of
those individuals who allow nuisance conditions to exist or maintain nuisance
conditions, which procedures are necessary to carry out the provisions of this
subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 92.01) (Ord. 01-24, passed 4-2-2001; Ord. 09-12, passed 4-20-
2009; Ord. 22-02, passed 3-7-2022)
§ 92.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CODE ENFORCEMENT OFFICIAL. As used in this subchapter shall be the city’s
Chief Building and Code Official and/or his or her designated representative.
   EXCAVATION. Any activity in which earth, rock or other material in or on the
ground is moved or otherwise displaced by means of tools, equipment or
explosives and shall include grading, trenching, digging, ditching, drilling,
augering, tunneling, scraping and cable or pipe plowing or driving but shall
not include:
      (1)   Normal maintenance of roads if the maintenance does not change the
original road grade and does not involve the road ditch;
      (2)   Tilling of soil and gardening for seeding and other agricultural
purposes;
      (3)   Digging of graves or in landfills in planned locations;
      (4)   Maintenance or rebuilding of railroad track or facilities located
on a railroad right-of-way by the railroad company or its contractors when such
maintenance or rebuilding does not change the track grade; or
      (5)   Hand digging around the base of a pole for pole inspection as part
of suitable barriers, and which are not marked by warning lights during the
hours of darkness.
   NUISANCE. Any condition which:
      (1)   Injures or endangers the health, safety or welfare of the public;
      (2)   Unlawfully interferes with, obstructs or tends to obstruct, or
renders dangerous for passage, any public or private street, highway, sidewalk,
stream, ditch or drainage way;
      (3)   By reason of lack of sufficient or adequate maintenance of the
property, and/or being vacant, any of which depreciates the enjoyment and use
of the property in the immediate vicinity to such an extent that it is harmful
to the community in which the property is situated or such condition exists;
      (4)   By reason of being a fire hazard, as determined by the State Fire
Marshal or the designated representative;
      (5)   By reason of being unsafe for occupancy, for use on, in, upon,
about or around the aforesaid property, as determined by the City Building
Inspector or City Engineer;
      (6)   By reason of deterioration or decay becomes rodent infested, or
which becomes a place frequented by trespassers and transients seeking a
temporary shelter or hideout;
      (7)   Maintaining a NUISANCE by act or by failure to perform a legal
duty, intentionally causing or permitting a NUISANCE to exist;
      (8)   Permitting a NUISANCE to exist is knowingly permitting lots,
parcels or pieces of real property under the control of the offender, including
the streets and alleys in front of and abutting such lots and pieces of land to
be used or allowed to remain in such condition as to allow a NUISANCE condition
to exist; or
      (9)   No person shall permit land to be covered with or contain refuse or
debris resulting from the construction activities or the demolishing of a
building, which refuse or debris has remained on the land for more than:
         (a)   Thirty days after the completion of the construction activities
or demolition work; or
         (b)   Six months after the permit for such activity or work was
granted, whichever is soonest.
   PERSON IN CHARGE OF PROPERTY. An agent, occupant, lessee, contract purchaser
or other person having possession or control of property or the supervision of
any construction project.
   PERSON RESPONSIBLE FOR ABATING NUISANCE.
      (1)   The owner;
      (2)   The person in charge of the property; or
      (3)   The person who caused to come into or continue in existence a
nuisance, as defined in this section, or another ordinance of this city.
   PUBLIC PLACE. A building, way, place or accommodation, whether publicly- or
privately-owned, open and available to the general public.
   SCRAPPING. Continuous receiving, collecting, reprocessing and/ or storing
old, broken, damaged, discarded or scrap copper, brass dismantled or wrecked
automobiles, or parts thereof, iron, steel or other old scrap, ferrous or
nonferrous material and metal scraps, including aluminum scraps, metals, used
bicycles or household appliances, for the purpose of storing, selling, trading
or dealing in scrap.
(Prior Code, § 92.02) (Ord. 01-24, passed 4-2-2001; Ord. 09-12, passed 4-20-
2009; Ord. 22-02, passed 3-7-2022; Ord. 23-04, passed 6-19-2023)
§ 92.03 ILLUSTRATIVE ENUMERATION.
   The maintaining or permitting to be or remain on any public or private
property of any of the following conditions is hereby declared to be and
constitute a nuisance; provided, however, this enumeration shall not be deemed
or construed to be conclusive, limiting or restrictive:
   (A)   Weeds and noxious vegetation when such growth reaches 12 inches in
height;
   (B)   Placement, storage or accumulation of garbage, rubbish, trash, refuse,
junk and other materials, metals, plumbing fixtures, appliances, auto parts,
junked, wrecked or inoperative vehicles, lumber or other litter and furniture,
stuffed furniture, clothing or other household items which creates an unsightly
appearance. This section applies without limitation to all areas of land within
the corporate city limits zoned for residential purposes and whether or not the
building, land or property is occupied by human beings;
   (C)   Any condition which provides harborage for rats, mice and other
vermin;
   (D)   All disagreeable or noxious odors and stenches, as well as the
conditions, substances or other causes which give rise to the emission or
generation of such odors and stenches, to include, but not be limited to,
unwholesome grain, meat, hides, skins, feathers, vegetable matter or the whole
or any part of any dead animal, fowl or fish;
   (E)   Privies, vaults, cesspools, dumps, pits or like places which are not
securely protected from flies or rats, or which are foul or malodorous;
   (F)   The pollution of any public well or cistern, stream, lake, canal or
body of water by sewage, dead animals, industrial wastes or other substances
which are injurious to overland flow or groundwater;
   (G)   Any activity, operation or condition which, after being ordered
abated, corrected or discontinued by a lawful order of any agency or officer of
the city, continues to be conducted or continues to exist in violation of any
title of this code, any regulation enacted pursuant to this code, any statute
of the state or any violation of federal law;
   (H)   Any accumulation of stagnant water permitted or maintained on any lot
or piece of ground;
   (I)   Any vacant or unoccupied structure, which is not secured or is in a
condition which allows access by any person;
   (J)   Attractive nuisances, which include:
      (1)   Unguarded machinery, equipment or other devices which are
attractive, dangerous and accessible to children;
      (2)   Lumber, logs or pilings placed or stored in a manner so as to be
attractive, dangerous and accessible to children;
      (3)   Open pit, quarry, cistern or other excavation without safeguards or
barriers to prevent such places from being used by children;
      (4)   Construction projects will have appropriate safeguards in place to
prevent injury or death to playing children; and
      (5)   It shall be unlawful for any owner, agent or contractor in charge
of a construction or demolition site to permit the accumulation of litter or
the growth of grass or weeds in excess of 12 inches before, during or
immediately following completion of any construction or demolition project. It
shall be the duty of the owner, agent or contractor in charge of a construction
site to furnish containers adequate to accommodate flyable or non-flyable
debris or trash at areas convenient to construction areas and to maintain and
empty the receptacles in such a manner and with such a frequency as to prevent
spillage.
   (K)   Dangerous excavations, which are not guarded by suitable barriers and
which are not marked during the hours of darkness;
   (L)   Graffiti, which shall mean any unauthorized writing, inscription,
word, figure or design which is marked, etched, scratched, drawn or painted on
any structural component of any building, structure or other facility,
regardless of the nature of the material used in its application or upon which
it is applied; and
   (M)   Stockyards, granaries, mills, pig pens, cattle pens, chicken pens or
any other place, building or enclosure, in which animals or fowl of any kind
are confined or on which are stored tankage or any other animal or vegetable
matter or on which any animal or vegetable matter, including grain, is being
processed, when the places in which animals are confined, or said premises on
which the vegetable or animal matter is located, are maintained and kept in
such a manner that foul and noxious odors are permitted to emanate therefrom,
to the annoyance of inhabitants of the city, or are maintained and kept in such
a manner as to be injurious to the public health.
   (N)   The practice of scrapping by the continuous receiving, storing,
reprocessing and/ or collecting of old, broken, damaged, discarded or scrap
copper, brass, dismantled or wrecked automobiles, or parts thereof, iron, steel
or other old scrap, ferrous or nonferrous material and metal scraps, including
aluminum scraps, metals, used bicycles or household appliances in any
Residential Zoning District is unsightly, unhealthy and constitutes a nuisance
to the citizens and residents of the city.
(Prior Code, § 92.03) (Ord. 01-24, passed 4-2-2001; Ord. 09-12, passed 4-20-
2009; Ord. 22-02, passed 3-7-2022; Ord. 23-04, passed 6-19-2023)
§ 92.04 UNENUMERATED NUISANCES.
   In addition to the acts and conditions specifically enumerated in this
subchapter, any condition, thing, substance or activity which is detrimental
to, injurious to or constitutes a danger to the public health, safety or
welfare is declared to be a nuisance and is subject to the abatement procedures
set forth in this subchapter. A condition, thing, substance or activity
declared to be a nuisance by another ordinance of this city is subject to the
abatement procedures of this subchapter, if no abatement procedures are
provided by such ordinance.
(Prior Code, § 92.04) (Ord. 01-24, passed 4-2-2001; Ord. 09-12, passed 4-20-
2009; Ord. 22-02, passed 3-7-2022)
§ 92.05 NUISANCE PROHIBITED.
   No person, firm, corporation, partnership or other business entity shall
knowingly or unknowingly maintain or permit a nuisance to exist.
(Prior Code, § 92.05) (Ord. 01-24, passed 4-2-2001; Ord. 09-12, passed 4-20-
2009; Ord. 22-02, passed 3-7-2022) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.06 INSPECTIONS.
   The Chief of Police, a sworn police officer, the Chief Building and Code
Inspector or a Code Enforcement Official shall have the authority and power to
enforce all provisions of this chapter; and, it shall be his, her or their duty
to inspect and examine at any and all times all buildings, lots, parcels or
pieces of real property within the city for the purposes of determining the
conditions which may affect the public health, safety and welfare as a
nuisance.
(Prior Code, § 92.06) (Ord. 01-24, passed 4-2-2001; Ord. 09-12, passed 4-20-
2009; Ord. 22-02, passed 3-7-2022)
§ 92.07 VIOLATIONS NOTICE.
   (A)   Contents. The violation notice shall contain:
      (1)   An order to abate the nuisance within ten calendar days of the date
of delivery, or attempted delivery, of the violation notice or request a
hearing within ten calendar days of the date of the violation notice. A list of
persons to contact shall be included;
      (2)   The location of the nuisance, if such nuisance is stationary;
      (3)   A description of what constitutes the nuisance;
      (4)   A statement of acts necessary to abate the nuisance;
      (5)   A statement that if the nuisance is not abated as directed and no
request for hearing is made within ten calendar days of the date of the
violation notice, the person to whom such notice was made shall be deemed
guilty of a misdemeanor and every 24 hours thereafter will be considered a
separate offense;
      (6)   A statement that if the nuisance is not abated as directed and no
request for hearing is made within ten calendar days of the date of the
violation notice, the city shall seek the remedy of an administrative penalty
of $50 per day;
      (7)   A statement that the administrative penalty will continue to accrue
for each day the nuisance continues to exist for a period not to exceed ten
calendar days;
      (8)   A statement that the owner, occupant or agent may stop the accrual
of the administrative penalty by abating the nuisance and advising the Chief
Building and Code Inspector, or his or her designated representative, of the
abatement. A list of persons to contact shall be included;
      (9)   A statement that if the nuisance is not abated following the
administrative penalty period, the city will seek the remedy of prosecution and
enforcement for failure to comply with the administrative order and for
maintaining a nuisance under this subchapter and will abate such nuisance and
assess the cost thereof against the property and pursue any other remedies
available. The fee will be as set by resolution;
      (10)   Service on nonresidents or absentee owners shall be made by
posting a copy of the notice of abatement letter on the property involved and
publishing a legal notice in the local newspaper no longer than ten days nor
less than one day prior to the proposed date of abatement; and
      (11)   Absentee landowners, to include firms, corporations or businesses,
are required to designate to the Chief Building and Code Inspector, or his or
her designated representative(s), a curator to facilitate enforcement of
nuisance violations.
   (B)   Service. The violation notice may be served personally on the owner,
occupant or agent of the real property or may be served by certified mail upon
the owner, occupant or the owner or occupant’s designee. If notice by personal
service or certified mail is unsuccessful, notice shall be given by either
publication in a newspaper of general circulation in the city or by posting the
notice on the lot or ground upon which the nuisance is to be abated and
removed. Further, when the nuisance violation relates to improvements such as
buildings or structures, the notice shall also be posted on the building or
structure. When service is accomplished by posting, the Chief Building and Code
Inspector may complete said service himself or herself or may have a city
police officer do so.
(Prior Code, § 92.07) (Ord. 01-24, passed 4-2-2001; Ord. 09-12, passed 4-20-
2009; Ord. 22-02, passed 3-7-2022)
§ 92.08 DESIGNATION OF HEARING OFFICER; PROCEDURES.
   (A)   For purposes of this subchapter, the city shall designate an
administrative hearing officer who shall have the duty and authority to enter
such administrative orders as are necessary to the enforcement of this
subchapter. The City Administrator is designated as the administrative hearing
officer.
   (B)   The administrative hearing officer, upon the request of the Chief of
Police, Chief Building and Code Inspector, or his or her designated
representative, shall review the violation notice and all relevant information.
If the hearing officer determines after such review that a nuisance condition
exists and no request for a hearing has been made by the owner, occupant or
agent, and the nuisance condition remains unabated, then the hearing officer
may enter an administrative order. The administrative order shall contain: A
finding of whether the city properly sent notice to the owner, occupant or
agent in accordance with provisions herein; a finding of the nuisance
conditions which exist; and the failure of the owner, occupant or agent to
abate or otherwise remove the nuisance conditions.
   (C)   (1)   If the owner, occupant or agent requests a hearing within ten
calendar days of the date of the violation notice, the administrative hearing
officer shall schedule a hearing within three working days of receipt of the
hearing request. Written notice of the hearing date and time shall be provided
to the owner. At the hearing, the owner, occupant or agent shall be given the
opportunity to present information relevant to the violation notice.
      (2)   The Chief Building and Code Inspector, or his or her designated
representative, also shall be given the opportunity to present information
relevant to the violation notice. The hearing may be continued to a later time
in exceptional cases where additional information is needed, as determined by
the hearing officer. After all information has been offered, the hearing
officer shall render a written decision within five calendar days.
   (D)   The administrative hearing officer may modify an order, including the
administrative penalty in cases of undue hardship or in cases presenting
extenuating or mitigating circumstances.
   (E)   It shall be unlawful for any person to whom an administrative order is
issued to fail to comply with the provisions of the administrative order.
   (F)   The administrative hearing officer shall provide the option of daytime
or evening administrative hearing times.
(Prior Code, § 92.08) (Ord. 01-24, passed 4-2-2001; Ord. 09-12, passed 4-20-
2009; Ord. 22-02, passed 3-7-2022) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.09 ABATEMENT.
   (A)   (1)   If the person on whom notice to abate a nuisance was served
pursuant to the provisions of this subchapter fails to abate the nuisance, the
Chief of Police, Chief Building and Code Inspector, or his or her designated
representative, shall proceed to abate such nuisance and shall prepare a
statement of costs incurred in the abatement thereof to the City Council.
Thereafter, the costs of abatement, including the cost of providing notice
thereof shall be added to the property tax as a special assessment or shall be
filed with the Register of Deeds as a lien against the property as provided by
law.
      (2)   In addition, the Chief of Police, or designee, may seek the remedy
of enforcement and prosecution as provided for in this subchapter. Each day the
property remains in violation of this subchapter shall be deemed a separate
offense and multiple offenses may be charged in the same complaint.
   (B)   The abatement of a nuisance under the direction of the Chief Building
and Code Inspector shall not be a defense or excuse to the owner, occupant or
agent of property for not conforming with this subchapter.
   (C)   The procedure provided by this section is not exclusive, but is in
addition to procedures provided by other ordinances, and the Chief Building and
Code Inspector, or his or her designated representative, may proceed summarily
and without following the procedure set forth in this section, to abate a
health, safety or other condition that constitutes, in the opinion of the Chief
Building and Code Inspector, or his or her designated representative, an
immediate and grave hazard to public health and safety requiring immediate
action.
(Prior Code, § 92.09) (Ord. 01-24, passed 4-2-2001; Ord. 09-12, passed 4-20-
2009; Ord. 22-02, passed 3-7-2022) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.10 AFFIRMATIVE DEFENSE.
   Charges filed under this subchapter may be dismissed by the court if at
trial the defendant proves by a preponderance of the evidence that the nuisance
then existing had been satisfactorily abated no more than ten calendar days
after the defendant received the citation of the nuisance.
(Prior Code, § 92.10) (Ord. 01-24, passed 4-2-2001; Ord. 09-12, passed 4-20-
2009; Ord. 22-02, passed 3-7-2022)
§ 92.11 ASSESSMENT OF COSTS.
   Any and all costs incurred by the city in the abatement of a nuisance under
the provisions of this subchapter shall be assessed against each lot or piece
of ground chargeable therewith, as a special assessment or lien as provided by
law.
(Prior Code, § 92.11) (Ord. 01-24, passed 4-2-2001; Ord. 09-12, passed 4-20-
2009; Ord. 22-02, passed 3-7-2022)
§ 92.12 JURISDICTION.
   (A)   The Mayor, Chief of Police, Chief Building and Code Inspector, or his
or her designated representative, are directed to enforce this code against all
nuisances. The jurisdiction of the Mayor, Chief of Police or Chief Building and
Code Inspector and court shall extend to, and the territorial application of
this subchapter shall include, all territory adjacent to the limits of the city
within two miles thereof and all territory within the corporate limits.
   (B)   This jurisdiction shall also extend to all additional areas that are
subject to, and in accordance with, any relevant interlocal agreement which has
been or may be entered into by the city from time to time.
(Prior Code, § 92.12) (Ord. 01-24, passed 4-2-2001; Ord. 09-12, passed 4-20-
2009; Ord. 17-15, passed 8-7-2017; Ord. 22-02, passed 3-7-2022)
HEALTH AND SANITATION
§ 92.25 OFFENSIVE BUILDINGS.
   It shall be unlawful to erect, use, keep or maintain any stable for the
boarding or lodging of any animal, either privately or for hire, or to erect,
use, keep or maintain any other building, structure or other place for the
exercise of any trade, employment, manufacture or other business, which, by
occasioning noxious exhalations or offensive smells, becomes injurious and
dangerous to the health, comfort or property of individuals or the public.
(Prior Code, § 92.25) (Ord. 93-11, passed 4-5-1993; Ord. 09-12, passed 4-20-
2009; Ord. 22-02, passed 3-7-2022) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.26 UNSAFE BUILDINGS.
   (A)   The term UNSAFE BUILDING, as used in this section, is hereby defined
to mean and include any building, shed, fence or other human-made structure
which, after inspection by the Chief Building and Code Inspector or City
Engineer, meets the following conditions:
      (1)   Is dangerous to the public health because of its condition and
which may cause or aid in the spread of disease or injury to the health of the
occupants of it or neighboring structures;
      (2)   Because of faulty construction, age, lack of proper repair or any
other cause is especially liable to fire and constitutes or creates a fire
hazard; or
      (3)   By reason of faulty construction or any other cause is liable to
cause injury or damage by the collapse or fall of all or any part of the
structure. Any such unsafe building in the city, as determined by the Chief
Building and Code Inspector or City Engineer, is hereby declared to be a
nuisance.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to maintain or permit the existence of any unsafe
building in the city and it shall be unlawful for the owner, occupant, tenant,
lessee, agent or person in custody of the building to permit the same to remain
in an unsafe condition or to occupy the building or permit it to be occupied,
while it is in an unsafe condition.
   (C)   In case the owner of any building or structure shall fail, neglect or
refuse to comply with the notice given by the Chief Building and Code
Inspector, or his or her designated representative to repair, rehabilitate or
demolish and remove a building or structure which is unsafe and a public
nuisance, the Chief Building and Code Inspector, or his or her designated
representative shall follow the abatement process as described in §
92.09 of this code.
(Prior Code, § 92.26) (Ord. 93-11, passed 4-5-1993; Ord. 09-12, passed 4-20-
2009; Ord. 22-02, passed 3-7-2022) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.27 SLAUGHTERHOUSES.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to erect, use, keep or maintain
any slaughterhouse, slaughter yard or other place for the killing of animals
within the corporate limits in such manner as to render it offensive or
injurious to the health or property of any individual.
   (B)   (1)   Any person erecting, using, keeping or maintaining the
slaughterhouse, yard or other place of killing of animals or who neglects or
refuses to abate the nuisance thereof within a 24-hour period after being
notified to do so by the Chief Building and Code Inspector, or his or her
designated representative, shall be deemed guilty of maintaining a nuisance.
      (2)   Each 24-hour period the person continues to maintain the nuisance
after being notified by the Chief Building and Code Inspector, or his or her
designated representative, to abate the nuisance shall be and constitute an
additional offense.
(Prior Code, § 92.27) (Ord. 93-11, passed 4-5-1993; Ord. 09-12, passed 4-20-
2009; Ord. 22-02, passed 3-7-2022) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.28 DUMPING OF WASTE.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to intentionally, knowingly or recklessly dump,
place, pour or otherwise dispose of oil directly into or upon the ground, dirt,
streets or sewers within the corporate limits of the city.
   (B)   Violators shall be subject to the penalties and provisions as
contained in the balance of this chapter including, but not limited to §
92.09 of this code regarding abatement procedure.
(Prior Code, § 92.28) (Ord. 90-49, passed 9-4-1990; Ord. 09-12, passed 4-20-
2009; Ord. 22-02, passed 3-7-2022) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.29 REFUSE IN BUILDINGS; STAGNANT WATER; TIME LIMIT.
   (A)   No person shall permit or suffer to be in or accumulate in or upon any
yard, lot, place or premises, upon any street or sidewalk adjacent to or
abutting upon any lot, block, place or premises or in any building or shed
owned or occupied by that person within the city limits any stagnant water or
impure water, refuse, vegetable decay or decaying substance, garbage or filth
of any kind, nor suffer the yard, lot, place, building or premises to be or to
remain in such condition as to cause or create a nuisance or offensive smell or
to pollute or render unhealthful the atmosphere or the premises or thereby to
be, become, cause or create a public nuisance.
   (B)   Any person as described in division (A) above, shall clean up the
premises and abate the nuisance within 48 hours after having received notice of
the condition from the Chief Building and Code Inspector, or his or her
designated representative.
(Prior Code, § 92.29) (Ord. 93-32, passed 8-16-1993; Ord. 09-12, passed 4-20-
2009; Ord. 22-02, passed 3-7-2022) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.30 REMOVAL OF SNOW AND ICE REQUIRED.
   (A)   (1)   It shall be unlawful for the owner or occupant of any lot to
permit snow, ice or hard-packed snow to accumulate or remain on the sidewalk
contiguous thereto. The sidewalks shall be cleaned within 24 hours after the
cessation of any storm or fall of snow.
      (2)   It is hereby declared to be the duty of the Chief Building and Code
Inspector, or his or her designated representative whenever any violation of
this section shall come to its knowledge, to forthwith notify the person
committing or permitting such acts or conditions prohibited by this section to
at once abate the violation, and if the person does not immediately abate the
violation and remove the snow, ice or hard-packed snow within three hours of
the notice, the Chief Building and Code Inspector, or his or her designated
representative, may issue a code violation notice, and if later prosecuted and
convicted, the violators shall be fined as provided in §
92.99 of this code. In addition thereto, if the owner or occupant fails to
remove the snow, ice or hard-packed snow within 24 hours of the notice of
violation, the Chief Building and Code Inspector or his or her designated
representative shall cause the removal of the snow, ice or hard-packed snow and
shall prepare a statement of costs incurred in the removal thereof, and will
assess the cost thereof against the property and pursue any other remedies
available. The city will charge a removal fee as set by resolution.
   (B)   No person shall deposit, throw, blow or otherwise dispose of any snow,
ice or hard-packed snow on any public property, street, alley or other public
way, except for the sidewalks in the downtown area, as defined in the snow and
ice control policy, which snow shall be returned to the curb line dividing the
streets and sidewalks in the designated area.
(Prior Code, § 92.30) (Ord. 94-09, passed 2-7-1994; Ord. 09-12, passed 4-20-
2009; Ord. 22-02, passed 3-7-2022) Penalty, see §
92.99
WEEDS, GRASSES AND WORTHLESS VEGETATION
§ 92.45 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   WEEDS. Includes, but not limited to the following: Canada thistle (Cirsium
arvense), leafy spurge (Euphorbia esula), nodding or musk thistle (Carduus
nutans), plumeless thistle (Carduus acanthoides), spotted knapweed (Centaurea
maculosa), diffuse knapweed (Centaurea diffusa), bindweed (Convolvulus
arvensis), hoary cress (Cardaria draba), Russian knapweed (Centaurea repens),
Johnson grass (Sorghum halepense), Scotch thistle (Onopordum acanthium),
morning glory (Ipomoea purpurea) when found in field crop seeds, skeletonleaf
bursage (Ambrosia discolor), woolyleaf bursage (Ambrosia tomentosa), serrated
tussock (Nassella trichotoma), puncturevine (Tribulus terrestris), perennial
peppergrass (Lepidium draba), quack grass (Agropyron repens), perennial sow
thistle (Sonchus arvensis), horse nettle (Solanum carolinense), bull thistle
(Cirsium lanceolatum), buckthorn (Rhamnus sp.) thorn, hemp plant (Cannabis
sativa) and ragweed (Ambrosia).
(Prior Code, § 92.40) (Ord. 91-39, passed 8-5-1991; Ord. 01-22, passed 4-2-
2001; Ord. 09-12, passed 4-20-2009; Ord. 22-02, passed 3-7-2022)
§ 92.46 DECLARATION OF NUISANCE.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any owner, agent, lessee, tenant or other
person occupying or having charge or control of any premises to permit weeds,
grasses and/or worthless vegetation to remain upon the premises and upon any
area between the property lines of the premises and the center line of any
adjacent street, alley, sidewalk, easement, right-of-way and all other areas,
public or private.
   (B)   All weeds, grasses and worthless vegetation are subject to abatement
and the owner or occupant of any lot or piece of ground subject to the city’s
jurisdiction is hereby required to keep the lots and pieces of ground and the
adjoining streets and alleys free of any:
      (1)   Weeds (including but not limited to noxious weeds), indigenous
grasses and/or worthless vegetation on or about residential property which,
because of their height, have a blighting influence on the neighborhood. Any
such weeds and indigenous grasses shall be presumed to be blighting if they
exceed 12 inches in height;
      (2)   Weeds (including but not limited to noxious weeds), indigenous
grasses and/or worthless vegetation which may attain such large growth as to
become, when dry, a fire menace to adjacent improved property; or
      (3)   Weeds (including but not limited to noxious weeds), indigenous
grasses and/or worthless vegetation which are located in an area which harbors
rats, insects, animals, reptiles or any other creature which either may or does
constitute a menace to health, public safety or welfare.
(Prior Code, § 92.41) (Ord. 90-2, passed 5-7-1990; Ord. 01-22, passed 4-2-2001;
Ord. 09-12, passed 4-20-2009; Ord. 22-02, passed 3-7-2022) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.47 NOTICE TO REMOVE.
   (A)   (1)   The Chief of Police or his or her designated representative,
shall be charged with the administration and enforcement of this subchapter.
The Chief of Police, or his or her designated representative, shall notify, in
writing, the owner, occupant or agent in charge of any premises in the city
upon which weeds exist in violation of this subchapter, by certified, return
receipt requested mail or by personal service, once per calendar year.
      (2)   Whenever there is personal service of the notice, a copy of the
notice shall also be mailed by certified, return receipt requested mail to the
owner. If notice by personal service or certified mail is unsuccessful, notice
shall be given by either publication in a newspaper of general circulation in
the city or by posting the notice on the lot or ground upon which the nuisance
is to be abated and removed.
   (B)   The notice shall include the following:
      (1)   The owner, occupant or agent in charge of the property is in
violation of this subchapter;
      (2)   The owner, occupant or agent in charge of the property is ordered
to cut the weeds within ten days from mailing or personal service of notice;
      (3)   The owner, occupant or agent in charge of the property may in
writing file a request with the office of the City Clerk for a hearing before
the City Administrator within five days after receipt of the notice. If a
hearing is properly requested, then:
         (a)   The hearing on the appeal shall be held within 14 days after the
filing of the appeal; and
         (b)   Within five business days after conclusion of the hearing, the
City Administrator shall render his or her decision.
      (4)   If within five days after receipt of the notice the owner, occupant
or agent in charge of the property does not request a hearing or does not cut
the weeds, the city or its authorized agent will cut the weeds and assess the
cost of the cutting, including a reasonable administrative fee, against the
owner, occupant or agent, in charge of the property. Charges for weed cutting
when done by the city are set by resolution;
      (5)   The owner, occupant or agent in charge of the property will be
given an opportunity to pay the charges as described above and, if not paid,
the charges will be added to the property tax as a special assessment or shall
be filed with the Register of Deeds office as a lien against the property;
      (6)   Only one notice of violation needs to be given as described above
during the calendar year; and
      (7)   The Chief Building and Code Inspector or his or her designated
representative(s) should be contacted if there are any questions regarding the
order.
   (C)   Service on nonresidents or absentee owners shall be made by posting a
copy of the notice of abatement letter on the property involved.
   (D)   Absentee landowners, to include firms, corporations or businesses, are
required to designate to the Chief Building and Code Inspector, or his or her
designated representative(s), a curator to facilitate enforcement of nuisance
violations.
(Prior Code, § 92.42) (Ord. 90-2, passed 5-7-1990; Ord. 01-22, passed 4-2-2001;
Ord. 09-12, passed 4-20-2009; Ord. 22-02, passed 3-7-2022)
§ 92.48 ASSESSMENT OF COSTS.
   (A)   Upon expiration of the time frames required by §
92.47 of this code, and in the event that the owner, occupant or agent in
charge of the premises shall neglect or fail to comply with requirements of
this subchapter, Chief Building and Code Inspector, or his or her designated
representative(s), shall cause to be cut, destroyed and/or removed, all such
weeds and abate the nuisance created thereby at any time during the current
calendar year.
   (B)   The Chief Building and Code Inspector, or his or her designated
representative(s), shall give notice to the owner, occupant or agent in charge
of the premises by certified, return receipt requested mail or personal service
of the cost of abatement of the nuisance. The notice shall state that payment
of the costs is due and payable within two months upon completion of the work
done or 30 days after receipt of the notice, whichever is longer.
   (C)   (1)   If the costs of removal or abatement remain unpaid after within
the timeframe set forth in division (B) above, then a record of the costs of
cutting and destruction and/or removal shall be certified to the city.
      (2)   Any and all costs incurred by the city in the abatement of a weed
violation under the provisions of this section shall be assessed against each
lot or piece of ground chargeable therewith, as a special assessment or lien as
provided by law.
(Prior Code, § 92.43) (Ord. 94-24, passed 4-18-1994; Ord. 01-22, passed 4-2-
2001; Ord. 09-12, passed 4-20-2009; Ord. 22-02, passed 3-7-2022)
§ 92.49 EMPTY LOTS; AGRICULTURE.
   Any owner or occupant of an empty lot within the city limits wishing to grow
vegetables or planted alfalfa or any owner or occupant of any empty lot being
leased out for the purpose of growing vegetables or planted alfalfa must keep
all weeds from the lot in accordance with this subchapter. The growth of
agricultural products upon the empty lots does not exempt the owner/occupant
from removal of the noxious weeds listed within §
92.45 of this code. Empty lots within the city limits may not be used for the
growing of hay.
(Prior Code, § 92.44) (Ord. 91-39, passed 8-5-1991; Ord. 01-22, passed 4-2-
2001; Ord. 09-12, passed 4-20-2009; Ord. 22-02, passed 3-7-2022) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.50 WEED REMOVAL; NOXIOUS WEEDS.
   (A)   In accordance with state statutes, as amended, the Chief Building and
Code Inspector or his or her designated representatives, employees, contracting
agents or other representatives are hereby authorized to cut, destroy and/or
remove such weeds in a manner not inconsistent with this subchapter. If a
locked fence gate prevents access, an administrative search warrant shall be
obtained from the county court.
(Prior Code, § 92.45)
   (B)   Nothing in this subchapter shall affect or impair the rights of the
city under the provisions of the state’s Seed Law (as found in Neb. Rev. Stat.
§§ 81-2,147 et seq., and may be amended), relative to the control and
eradication of certain noxious weeds.
(Prior Code, § 92.46)
(Ord. 01-22, passed 4-2-2001; Ord. 09-12, passed 4-20-2009; Ord. 22-02, passed
3-7-2022)
§ 92.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Whoever violates any provision of this chapter for which no specific
penalty is provided shall be punished as set forth in §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person maintaining a nuisance or permitting it to exist upon
property owned or controlled by that person and failing or refusing to abate it
within 24 hours after being notified to do so by the Chief Building and Code
Inspector, or his or her designated representative, shall be deemed guilty of a
misdemeanor. Each 24-hour period thereafter during which the nuisance remains
unabated shall be deemed an additional offense.
(Prior Code, § 92.25)
   (C)   Violation of §
92.05 of this code shall be a misdemeanor.
(Prior Code, § 92.05)
   (D)   Any person violating the provisions of §
92.08 of this code may receive an administrative penalty not to exceed $50 per
day for each day the nuisance condition exists, not to exceed a total of ten
calendar days.
(Prior Code, § 92.08)
   (E)   There shall be an administrative penalty assessed for each day a
nuisance condition continues to exist pursuant to §§
92.01 through
92.12 and 92.25 through 92.49 after expiration of the ten calendar days allowed
for abatement of the nuisance. The administrative penalty shall be in the
amount of $50 per day and shall in no event exceed ten days. The calendar days
shall be calculated based upon the date of the violation notice.
(Prior Code, § 92.99)
   (F)   Any person slaughtering any animal within the corporate limits in
violation of the terms of §
92.27 of this code shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor, and the
slaughtering of each animal within the corporate limits in violation of the
terms of §
92.27 of this code, shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor. The slaughtering
of each animal shall be and constitute a separate offense.
(Prior Code, § 92.27)
   (G)   Any person violating the terms of §
92.30 of this code may be subject and liable to any harm caused by any
individual using the public ways and slipping and falling on the ice, snow or
hard-packed snow.
(Prior Code, § 92.30)
(Ord. 01-24, passed 4-2-2001; Ord. 09-12, passed 4-20-2009; Ord. 22-02, passed
3-7-2022)
CHAPTER 93: ALARM SYSTEMS
Section
   
93.01   Definitions
   
93.02   Permit required
   
93.03   Permits nontransferable; registration fee; exceptions
   
93.04   Regulations; duties; unlawful acts
   
93.05   False alarms; fees required; grace period
   
93.06   Automatic dialing devices
   
93.07   Confidentiality; statistics
 
   
93.99   Penalty
§ 93.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ALARM BUSINESS. The business by any individual, partnership, corporation or
other entity of selling, leasing, maintaining, servicing, repairing, altering,
replacing, moving or installing any alarm system or causing to be sold, leased,
maintained, serviced, repaired, altered, replaced, moved or installed any alarm
system in or on any building, structure or facility.
   ALARM SYSTEM. Any assembly of equipment, mechanical, electrical, electronic
audio or visual that can arrange to signal the occurrence of any activity
requiring urgent attention and to which the Police or Fire Department would be
expected to respond.
   ALARM USER. The person, firm, partnership, association, corporation, company
or organization of any kind in control of any building, structure or facility
who purchases, leases, contracts for or otherwise obtains an alarm system or
for the servicing or maintenance of an alarm system and thereafter contracts
with or hires an alarm business to monitor and/or service the alarm device.
   ANSWERING SERVICE. A telephone answering business providing among its
services the service of receiving on a continuous basis, through trained
employees, emergency signals from alarm systems and thereafter immediately
relaying the message by live voice to the communication center of the city’s
Police Department.
   AUTOMATIC DIAL PROTECTION DEVICE. An electrically operated instrument
composed of sensory apparatus and related hardware which automatically sends
over regular telephone lines a prerecorded voice alarm upon receipt of a
stimulus from the sensory apparatus that has detected a force or condition
characteristic of an unauthorized intrusion or an emergency message indicating
a need for emergency response by the Police or Fire Departments.
   BURGLARY ALARM SYSTEM. An alarm system signaling an entry or attempted entry
into an area protected by the system.
   CENTRAL STATION PROTECTIVE SYSTEM. A system or group of systems operated by
a person, firm or corporation which the operations of electrical protection
circuits and devices are transmitted to, recorded in and maintained and
supervised from a central station having operators in attendance at all times.
   COORDINATOR. The Chief of Police or the individual(s) designated by the
Chief of Police to enforce the provisions of this chapter.
   FALSE ALARM. An alarm signal eliciting an urgent response by the Police or
Fire Department when a situation requiring an urgent response does not, in
fact, exist, but does not include an alarm signal caused by violent conditions
of nature or other extraordinary circumstances not reasonably subject to
control by the alarm business or alarm user. The burden of proving that the
alarm was not a FALSE ALARM shall be on the alarm business or alarm user.
   LOCAL ALARM SYSTEM. An alarm system which when activated causes an audible
and/or visual signaling device to be activated and is intended to be seen and/
or heard by others outside of the protected premises.
   NOTICE. Written notice given by personal service upon the addressee or given
by U.S. mail, postage prepaid, addressed to the person to be notified at the
person’s last known address. Service of the notice shall be effective upon
completion of personal service or upon placing of the same in the custody of
the United States Postal Service.
   PERMIT YEAR. A 12-month period from October 1 through September 30.
   POLICE CHIEF. The Chief of Police of the city or the Chief’s designee.
   PRIMARY TRUNK LINE. The “911” telephone line leading into the communications
center of the city Police Department, used for the purpose of handling
emergency calls on a person-to-person basis and which line is identified as the
emergency number listed in the telephone directory issued by the telephone
company serving the city.
   PROPRIETARY SYSTEM. An alarm system sounding and/or recording alarm and
supervisory signals to a control center located within the protected premises,
the control center being under the supervision of the proprietor of the
premises. If a PROPRIETARY SYSTEM includes a signal line connected directly or
by means of an automatic dialing device to the police communications system, a
central station protective system or answering service, it thereby becomes an
alarm system, as defined in this section.
   RESIDENTIAL EMERGENCY ALARM or PANIC ALARMS. An alarm system installed or
maintained in a residence for the purpose of summoning police assistance to an
actual or attempted burglary, robbery or medical emergency requiring an urgent
or emergency response by fire, medical or police personnel and equipment.
   ROBBERY ALARM SYSTEM SECONDARY. An alarm system signaling a robbery or
attempted robbery.
   SECONDARY TRUNK LINE. The (402) 564-3201 and (402) 564-3202 rotary telephone
line leading into the city’s Police Department that is identified by a specific
listing in the telephone directory for the handling of administrative and other
calls on a person-to-person basis.
(Prior Code, § 93.01) (Ord. 98-07, passed 3-16-1998; Ord. 10-40, passed 1-4-
2011)
§ 93.02 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   No person, either as principal, officer, agent, servant or employee shall
possess or operate an alarm system designed with the intent of soliciting a
police or fire response when the designed system is intended to terminate with
the city’s Police Department Center without first obtaining a permit for the
alarm system from the city. However, the provisions of this section are not
applicable to local alarm systems affixed to motor vehicles. Alarm users whose
alarm systems use an outside vendor to monitor and respond to their alarm(s) do
not have to seek or obtain the aforementioned permit.
(Prior Code, § 93.02) (Ord. 98-07, passed 3-16-1998; Ord. 10-40, passed 1-3-
2011; Ord. 18-44, passed 9-4-2018) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.03 PERMITS NONTRANSFERABLE; REGISTRATION FEE; EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   (1)   Every alarm user, whose alarm system is designed and intended to
terminate with the city’s Police Department Center, shall obtain an alarm
user’s permit. Alarm permits are nontransferable. Each building, structure or
facility maintaining one or more alarm systems must obtain an alarm user’s
permit for each alarm.
      (2)   Each permit shall bear the signature of the Chief of Police or
designee and shall be physically on the premises using the alarm system. An
annual registration fee for alarm systems shall be paid, commencing October 1
of each year. The fee shall be as set by resolution.
   (B)   The issuance date of alarm permits shall be the actual date of
issuance of the permit unless the alarm system has recorded a false alarm prior
to obtaining a permit, then the date of issuance shall be the date of the first
alarm received. However, all permits shall expire on September 30 of each year
and shall be subject to renewal at the City Clerk’s office.
   (C)   If the city is an alarm user, it shall not be subject to the
provisions of this chapter providing for the payment of any fees or imposition
of any penalties as provided herein. However, the city shall be subject to the
provisions regarding applications and all other terms and conditions relating
hereto. All nonprofit schools as designated by the City Administrator or Chief
of Police are also exempt from the alarm user’s fee.
(Prior Code, § 93.03) (Ord. 98-07, passed 3-16-1998; Ord. 18-44, passed 9-4-
2018) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.04 REGULATIONS; DUTIES; UNLAWFUL ACTS.
   (A)   The Chief of Police, Fire Chief or their designee may require the
inspection of any or all alarm systems installed within the city.
   (B)   Local alarm systems installed after April 16, 1998 shall not emit a
sound similar to that of an emergency vehicle siren or a civil defense warning
siren.
   (C)   Local alarm systems shall be equipped to automatically discontinue
emitting an audible sound within 15 minutes of activation.
   (D)   Alarm users shall notify the Police Communications Center prior to any
service, test, repair, maintenance, adjustment, alteration or installation, and
the alarm user shall notify the Police Communications Center of the completion.
The Police Dispatcher shall forward this information to the Alarm Coordinator,
as requested.
   (E)   Alarm users shall submit with their permit application to the City
Clerk, a release of liability releasing the city, any police officer or
firefighter and any other city employee from damages caused either personally
or to any property when in response to the activation of the alarm system.
   (F)   (1)   An alarm business, alarm user, employee of a central station
protective system or employee of an answering service charged with the
responsibility of relaying a live voice request for police response, upon the
activation of an alarm system, shall give the following information to the
Police Communications Center at the time of the request: Address of alarmed
location; type of alarm system that has been activated; name of commercial
business or resident; specific location of the building; structure or facility
protected by the activated alarm; name of the alarm business making request if
applicable; name of person making the request; and a phone number where the
requesting party can be contacted.
      (2)   Unless specifically requested, it is the sole responsibility of the
person making the request to notify authorized persons in control of the
alarmed building, structure or facility that the alarm has been activated.
   (G)   The Alarm Coordinator shall be responsible for determining which
alarms constitute false alarms, as defined by §
93.01 of this code. A record of all false alarms shall be maintained by the
Alarm Coordinator.
   (H)   At the time of the second false alarm for any permit, except fire,
within any permit year, the Alarm Coordinator should notify the alarm user and
alarm business providing service or inspection to the user by first class mail
of the occurrence. At the time of the fourth false alarm for any permit, except
fire, within any permit year, the Alarm Coordinator shall notify the alarm user
and alarm business providing service or inspection to the user, by service from
the city’s Police Department upon the holder of the application, of the
occurrence and that additional false alarms during the permit year will require
the payment of fees as per §
93.05 of this code. Failure to receive either of these notices shall not be
deemed to extend the term or conditions of the permit.
   (I)   It is unlawful for any person to activate any burglary, robbery, fire
or residential emergency alarm for the purpose of summoning police or fire,
except in the event of any actual or attempted burglary, robbery, fire or
medical emergency, or for the person notifying the police of an activated alarm
and having knowledge that the activation was apparently caused by an electrical
or other malfunction of the alarm system to fail to notify the Police
Communications Center of the malfunction.
   (J)   It shall be unlawful to have or maintain an alarm system on any
premises without providing address numbers which are clearly visible from a
distance of 100 feet or more. The address numbers shall be posted to the left,
right or overhead to the main entrance of the building, structure or facility,
and if the building, structure or facility is on a corner lot, the address
number shall face the street named in the official address, as designated by
the United States Postal Service.
   (K)   The Chief of Police or Fire Chief shall establish, distribute and
cause the enforcement of rules and regulations, subject to the provisions of
this chapter, as from time to time the Chief deems it necessary for the
implementation of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 93.04) (Ord. 98-07, passed 3-16-1998) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.05 FALSE ALARMS; FEES REQUIRED; GRACE PERIOD.
   (A)   Any alarm system, other than fire alarm systems, which has recorded
more than four false alarms within a permit year shall be subject to a false
alarm fee as set by resolution.
   (B)   The payment of the fee provided for in division (A) above shall be
submitted to the City Clerk’s office within ten days of receiving notice that
the fee is due.
   (C)   Should a false fire alarm call be caused by defective or
malfunctioning fire alarm systems, one call per location would be responded to
at no charge every six months. Any subsequent calls received within any six-
month period caused by a malfunctioning or defective fire alarm system, the
party initiating the call would be billed a fee as set by resolution for each
subsequent call, and the bill shall be paid immediately to the City Clerk’s
office.
   (D)   A fee for each false alarm from a non-registered alarm system shall be
paid in addition to those fees as established in division (A) above.
(Prior Code, § 93.05) (Ord. 98-07, passed 3-16-1998) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.06 AUTOMATIC DIALING DEVICES.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any person to program an automatic dialing device
to select a primary trunk line, and it is unlawful for an alarm user to fail to
disconnect or reprogram an automatic dialing device within 12 hours of receipt
of written notice from the Alarm Coordinator that it is so programmed.
   (B)   It is unlawful for any person to program an automatic dialing device
to select a secondary trunk line, and it is unlawful for an alarm user to fail
to disconnect or reprogram the device within 12 hours of receipt of written
notice from the Alarm Coordinator that an automatic dialing device is so
programmed.
(Prior Code, § 93.06) (Ord. 98-07, passed 3-16-1998) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.07 CONFIDENTIALITY; STATISTICS.
   (A)   All information submitted in compliance with this chapter shall be
held in strictest confidence, shall be deemed a public record exempt from
disclosure and shall be kept so that the contents thereof shall not be known
except to persons authorized to carry out the administration and enforcement of
this chapter. The Alarm Coordinator shall be charged with the sole
responsibility for the maintenance of all records of any kind whatsoever under
this chapter.
   (B)   Subject to the requirements of confidentiality, the Alarm Coordinator
shall develop and maintain statistics having the purpose of assisting alarm
system evaluation, for use by members of the public and governing body.
(Prior Code, § 93.07) (Ord. 98-07, passed 3-16-1998) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.99 PENALTY.
   Any person convicted of a violation of any of the provisions of this
chapter, or failing to comply with any of the mandatory requirements of this
chapter shall be guilty of an offense and punished by a fine of not more than
$300. Each person shall be guilty of a separate offense for each and every day
during any portion of which any violation of any provision of this chapter is
committed, continued or permitted by any such person.
(Prior Code, § 93.99) (Ord. 98-07, passed 3-16-1998)
CHAPTER 94: STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
Section
Obstructions
   
94.001   Definitions
   
94.002   Obstructions prohibited
   
94.003   Removal of obstruction
   
94.004   Occupation of street; permits
   
94.005   Permit required for shows
   
94.006   Permits required for stands
Sidewalks and Curbs
   
94.020   Construction, repair, replacement and reconstruction of sidewalk
required
   
94.021   Notice of construction
   
94.022   Construction permits required
   
94.023   Survey
   
94.024   Unlawful construction; removal
   
94.025   Grade and location
   
94.026   Material
   
94.027   City Engineer to keep record
   
94.028   Special assessments
   
94.029   Duty and liability of property owners
   
94.030   Duty of City Engineer
   
94.031   Sidewalks and trails, conditional requirements for building permit
Excavations
   
94.045   Permit required
   
94.046   Barricades and guards
   
94.047   Cutting and refilling
   
94.048   Failure to make application
   
94.049   Supervision
   
94.050   Excavations on private property
House Numbering
   
94.065   Definitions
   
94.066   Directions
   
94.067   Duty of owners
Public Address System
   
94.080   Permit required
   
94.081   Time limit
   
94.082   Stationary address system
 
   
94.999   Penalty
OBSTRUCTIONS
§ 94.001 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   STREET and AVENUE. All the ground between lot boundaries, including
sidewalks, trails and curbing grounds up to the lot line on each side of any
street, avenue or alley, and either of the two words shall be construed as
inclusive of the other.
(Prior Code, § 94.001)
§ 94.002 OBSTRUCTIONS PROHIBITED.
   Trees and shrubs growing upon or near the lot line or upon public ground and
interfering with the use or construction of any public improvements shall be
deemed an obstruction under this subchapter. The trees, shrubs and their roots
may be removed by the city at the expense of the owner of the property upon
which the tree or shrub is located should the owner fail or neglect after
notice, to do so. It shall be unlawful for any person, persons, firm or
corporation to obstruct or encumber, by fences, gates, buildings, structures or
otherwise, any of the streets, alleys or sidewalks.
Penalty, see §
94.999
§ 94.003 REMOVAL OF OBSTRUCTION.
   (A)   When any obstruction hereinbefore prohibited shall exist, the City
Engineer shall order removal of the same at once or the City Engineer may, and
if it be a building or other structure erected or maintained in part upon an
adjacent lot, the Engineer must notify the owner of the adjacent lot to remove
the obstruction. The notice shall be served:
      (1)   Personally, or by certified mail, or by posting a written copy
thereof on the premises; or
      (2)   If the lot be unoccupied and the owner be a nonresident of the
city, then either by certified mail or by one publication in the official
newspaper of the city.
   (B)   If the owner fails to remove the obstruction within three days from
date of notice, the City Engineer shall order removal of the obstruction, and
if the obstruction be a building, fence or other structure, the material
thereof shall be placed on the premises owned or occupied by the party
responsible hereunder for maintaining the obstruction. The City Engineer shall
immediately report to the City Council whatever expense is incurred in the name
of the city by any such removal, and the person maintaining or charged with the
duty of removing the obstruction shall be held liable to the city for the
amount so expended. The amount shall be recovered by action in court or the
City Council may, at its discretion, assess the sum as a special tax against
the lot or parcel of ground in the manner as provided for by law for special
taxes. The notice in this section provided for is only necessary before removal
of a building, fence or other structure by the City Engineer, but not necessary
as a basis for prosecution and conviction under the provisions of this
subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 94.003) (Ord. 3165, passed 6-1-1987)
Statutory reference:
   Authorization, see Neb. Rev. Stat. § 16-207
§ 94.004 OCCUPATION OF STREET; PERMITS.
   (A)   A permit to use a portion of a street for temporary storage of
materials or for a builder’s shed to house tools while a building is being
erected or repaired on an adjacent lot or for any other use in connection with
the erection or repair may be secured by the owner of the lot as hereinafter
provided.
   (B)   The owner shall file an application in writing for the permit with the
Clerk, setting forth the portion of the street to be occupied, the time the
occupancy is to continue and the nature of the materials to be there placed.
The Clerk shall forthwith refer the application to the City Administrator which
may grant or refuse the permit in the City Administrator’s discretion.
   (C)   No permit shall be issued until the applicant, in form approved by the
City Administrator, shall have signed and delivered to the city a signed
indemnification agreement which shall hold the city free and harmless from any
claims, costs, judgments or expenses accruing by reason of any injuries
whatever sustained as a result of the occupation and use.
   (D)   The applicant may be required to place storm water run-off best
management practices, inlet protection or other devices. The applicant will
replace or repair any sidewalk, pavement, parking meter or other city property
removed, damaged or destroyed.
(Prior Code, § 94.004) (Ord. 748, passed 11-19-1952) Penalty, see §
94.999
§ 94.005 PERMIT REQUIRED FOR SHOWS.
   No itinerant carnival company, show troupe or other itinerant entertainment
or commercial entertainment of any nature shall be permitted to occupy any
portion of any street for erection of any tent, stand, booth or other structure
or for the parking of any vehicle to be used in lieu of such. Nor shall any
traveling aggregation of the type commonly known and designated as a carnival
show be permitted, upon any public grounds within the city without first having
obtained a specific permit therefor from the City Council and paying such fee
as set by resolution. The applicant may be required to place stormwater run-off
best management practices, inlet protection or other devices. The City
Administrator may, in the City Administrator’s discretion, issue the permit
without submitting the request to the City Council.
(Prior Code, § 94.005) Penalty, see §
94.999
§ 94.006 PERMITS REQUIRED FOR STANDS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to erect, construct or maintain any
booth, stand, tent or other structure for any purpose in any street. A permit
for temporary erection, construction or maintenance of the booth, stand, tent
or other structure may be issued by the City Council when circumstances shall
be deemed to make it advisable, upon applicant complying with all rules,
regulations and conditions prescribed by the City Council, unless a solicitor’s
permit has been granted pursuant to §
110.21 of this code.
(Prior Code, § 94.006) Penalty, see §  
94.999
SIDEWALKS AND CURBS
§ 94.020 CONSTRUCTION, REPAIR, REPLACEMENT AND RECONSTRUCTION OF SIDEWALK
REQUIRED.
   Whenever the City Council shall deem it necessary that a sidewalk be
constructed, replaced, repaired or reconstructed along any lot or piece of land
in the city in which there is either no sidewalk or an existing sidewalk that
needs to be repaired, replaced or reconstructed, the City Council may so order
by a vote of the majority of its members.
(Prior Code, § 94.020) (Ord. 03-15, passed 5-19-2003; Ord. 08-05, passed 3-17-
2008)
Statutory reference:
   Failure to construct or repair; power of city, see Neb. Rev. Stat. § 16-662
§ 94.021 NOTICE OF CONSTRUCTION.
   Whenever the City Council shall order any sidewalk to be constructed,
replaced, repaired or reconstructed, the City Engineer shall thereupon cause
the owner of record of the lot or piece of land to be notified of the order.
The notice served upon the property owner shall specify the time in which the
owner shall perform, or cause to be performed, the work and shall further
inform the owner that if the owner fails to cause the improvement(s) to be made
as directed within the time specified in the notice of construction, then and
in that event, the city will cause the improvement(s) to be made and the costs
thereof to be levied and assessed thereafter as a special tax against the
property. The notice provided herein shall be given by first class mail. The
City Engineer shall determine the length of time the owner shall have to
complete the construction, repair, replacement or reconstruction based upon the
City Engineer’s determination of the severity of the problem, the time of year
and the danger to pedestrians. In no event shall the notice of construction
provide for a term less than 30 days or longer than 12 months from the date of
notification. The City Engineer’s specified time to be allowed for
construction, repair, replacement or reconstruction shall be included with the
recommendation to the City Council when it considers the order to construct,
repair, replace or reconstruct and may be modified by the City Council.
(Prior Code, § 94.021) (Ord. 03-15, passed 5-19-2003; Ord. 03-27, passed 8-4-
2003; Ord. 08-05, passed 3-17-2008)
Statutory reference:
   Improvements; requirements, see Neb. Rev. Stat. § 16-649
§ 94.022 CONSTRUCTION PERMITS REQUIRED.
   Any person desiring to construct, reconstruct or cause to be constructed,
any sidewalk on any street abutting the person’s property shall obtain a permit
and survey as herein provided. It shall be unlawful for any person to construct
or reconstruct any sidewalk without first having obtained a permit and survey.
Application for the permit shall be made in writing, filed in the office of the
City Engineer and shall give a description of the lot or piece of land along
which it is desired to construct the sidewalk. The City Engineer shall grant
the permit unless good cause shall appear why the permit should be denied;
provided, that if it is desired to construct the sidewalk at other than the
regularly prescribed location, grade or elevation or of other than the
regularly prescribed type of construction, the City Engineer and the City
Administrator shall then determine whether or not to allow the variance.
(Prior Code, § 94.022) (Ord. 03-15, passed 5-19-2003) Penalty, see §
94.999
Statutory reference:
   Authority, see Neb. Rev. Stat. § 16-661
§ 94.023 SURVEY.
   (A)   When a permit is granted for construction of a sidewalk, the City
Engineer shall make or cause to be made a site visit survey indicating the
location, grade and elevation of the sidewalk. It shall be unlawful for any
person to construct or cause to be constructed the sidewalk, including
intersection ramp if applicable, at any other location, grade or elevation than
so designated. In determining the location, grade and elevation, the City
Engineer shall conform to such specifications, rules or regulations as the City
Council may prescribe.
   (B)   The site visit survey (one) shall be made by the City Surveyor within
ten days after the application being filed for the sidewalk permit. The fees of
the City Surveyor and City Engineer shall be paid by the city, but if the
person obtaining the permit and survey fails or neglects to construct the
curbing or sidewalk within 60 days thereafter or requests a second survey, the
fee shall be assessed to the permit obtaining the permit and the applicant
shall be liable to the city for the fee paid for the survey.
(Prior Code, § 94.023) (Ord. 3041, passed 5-6-1985; Ord. 03-15, passed 5-19-
2003)
§ 94.024 UNLAWFUL CONSTRUCTION; REMOVAL.
   (A)   In case any person, under order given or permit granted constructs a
sidewalk, including any curb cuts and ramps, in violation of the terms of this
chapter or of the rules, regulations and specifications prescribed by the City
Council, the City Engineer may stop the construction and order the same to be
made in accordance with the chapter, rules, regulations and specifications. In
the event any sidewalk shall be found to have been constructed in violation of
the chapter, rules, regulations or specifications, the City Council may order
the same to be rebuilt or relocated in a manner provided for construction of
new sidewalks. Notification to the person shall be made in accordance with §
94.021 of this code.
   (B)   If the owner of the adjoining lot or piece of land fails to comply
with the notice, the City Council may proceed to have the construction done in
the manner provided herein for the construction of a new sidewalk. In such
case, the cost thereof shall be assessed as a special tax against the adjoining
lot or piece of land in manner as provided by law.
(Prior Code, § 94.024) (Ord. 3041, passed 5-6-1985; Ord. 03-15, passed 5-19-
2003; Ord. 08-05, passed 3-17-2008) Penalty, see §
94.999
§ 94.025 GRADE AND LOCATION.
   (A)   All sidewalks must be laid to such grade as the City Council has now
established or may hereafter establish. All sidewalks in the Business District,
where curbing is set or about to be set, shall be constructed not less than the
width of the space from lot line to curb line.
   (B)   All other sidewalks in the city shall be laid four feet from the
property line and adjacent and parallel to the lot line and shall not be less
than four feet wide. However, the City Engineer or City Administrator may
suspend the operation of any portion of this section and direct otherwise where
good cause is found so to do.
(Prior Code, § 94.025) (Ord. 03-15, passed 5-19-2003) Penalty, see §
94.999
§ 94.026 MATERIAL.
   All sidewalks on either side of the streets and avenues of the city in front
of or along any lot or land abutting the same, which shall be hereafter
constructed, reconstructed or replaced shall be of concrete with mix design and
strength pre-approved by the City Engineer unless an alternate material is
approved prior to the construction by resolution of the City Council.
(Prior Code, § 94.026) (Ord. 3042, passed 5-6-1985; Ord. 03-15, passed 5-19-
2003)
§ 94.027 CITY ENGINEER TO KEEP RECORD.
   The City Engineer shall keep all applications, petitions, permits and orders
filed, granted or issued in accordance with this chapter in the City Engineer’s
office and in accordance with the state records retention schedule.
(Prior Code, § 94.027) (Ord. 03-15, passed 5-19-2003)
§ 94.028 SPECIAL ASSESSMENTS.
   All special assessments made and levied as provided in this chapter shall be
made by the City Council as provided by law.
(Prior Code, § 94.029)
Statutory reference:
   Assessments, see Neb. Rev. Stat. §§ 16-664, 16-666
§ 94.029 DUTY AND LIABILITY OF PROPERTY OWNERS.
   (A)   Maintenance of sidewalks.
      (1)   Every owner of any lot or piece of land within the city shall at
all times keep and maintain the sidewalk along and contiguous to the lot or
piece of land in good and proper repair and in a reasonably safe condition for
travel for all travelers thereon in accordance with American’s with Disablities
Act regulations.
      (2)   In case the owner of any lot or pieces of lands abutting on any
sidewalk in front of or along that owner’s lot or piece of land within the time
and in the manner as directed and required by this chapter after having
received due notice to do so, they shall be liable for all damages or injury
occasioned by reason of the defective or dangerous condition thereon and the
Mayor and City Council shall cause the sidewalk to be constructed or repaired
as authorized by law and assess the cost thereof against the property as a
special tax.
   (B)   Curbing. The city shall at all times keep and maintain the curbing
along and contiguous to any publicly dedicated streets located within the
corporate limits of the city in good repair. The city shall repair the first
four feet of any sidewalk or American’s with Disabilities Act handicapped ramp
located directly adjacent to a curb which has been damaged as a result of curb
repair performed by the city with the exception of curbside sidewalks.
   (C)   Clearance over streets and walkways.
      (1)   (a)   Clearance over walkways shall be the responsibility of the
abutting property owner. A clearance of eight feet will be maintained over
walkways and a clearance of 14 feet shall be maintained over streets and
alleys.
         (b)   Property owners are responsible for trees on their own property.
Property owners will report any infractions of street trees that abut their
property to the Public Works Department who will evaluate the situation and
take appropriate action at city expense.
      (2)   It shall be the duty of the city to trim any trees to the 14 feet
above the streets height so that they will not inhibit the passage of vehicles.
      (3)   It shall be the duty of the utility company to trim any trees
within or in close approximation to utility lines.
      (4)   (a)   If any trees are permitted by the owner of the adjacent
premises to grow untrimmed in violation of the provisions of this section, it
shall be the duty of the Public Works Department to notify the owner in writing
to trim the trees within the time and manner to be specified in the notice.
         (b)   If any person so notified shall neglect or refuse to comply with
the notice, the Public Works Department shall forthwith cause the trees to be
trimmed at the expense of the city and the costs thereof assessed against the
property.
(Prior Code, § 94.030) (Ord. 94-71, passed 11-21-1994; Ord. 03-15, passed 5-19-
2003) Penalty, see §
94.999
§ 94.030 DUTY OF CITY ENGINEER.
   The construction and repair of all trails and sidewalks hereafter built,
reconstructed or repaired within the city shall, unless otherwise specifically
directed by the City Council, be done under the direction and supervision of
the City Engineer and under such specifications, rules and regulations as are
now in force or which may hereafter be adopted by the City Council.
(Prior Code, § 94.031) (Ord. 3165, passed 6-1-1987; Ord. 03-15, passed 5-19-
2003)
§ 94.031 SIDEWALKS AND TRAILS, CONDITIONAL REQUIREMENTS FOR BUILDING PERMIT.
   (A)   As a condition of obtaining a building permit for the construction of
any structure on any property, excluding alteration or remodeling of existing
structures and the construction of accessory buildings including, but not
limited to garages and storage buildings, the applicant for the building permit
shall agree to construct a trail, sidewalk or sidewalks on the property to be
improved by the structure except when the sidewalk or sidewalks will be
adjacent or parallel to a public road or roads for which the grade has not been
established.
   (B)   Trails shall be constructed at locations shown on the City Master
Trail Map. The trail, sidewalk or sidewalks shall be located and constructed
according to plans, specifications and grades established by the City Council
and the City Engineer.
(Prior Code, § 94.032) (Ord. 2430, passed 4-21-1976; Ord. 03-15, passed 5-19-
2003)
EXCAVATIONS
§ 94.045 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to make an excavation in any street or
streets for any purpose whatsoever unless a written permit is issued by the
Director of Public Works or the City Engineer authorizing the excavations.
Penalty, see §
94.999
§ 94.046 BARRICADES AND GUARDS.
   Any person to whom a permit is granted shall maintain good and sufficient
barricades, guards, lights and signals, in accordance with the current version
of the Manual of Uniform Traffic Control Devices, so as to fully protect the
public from injury or damage by reason of any excavation or opening made and
shall, before commencing any such excavation, file with the Clerk a signed
indemnification agreement which shall hold the city free and harmless from any
and all liability, claims, damages, judgments, costs and expenses of every
nature and description caused by or growing out of: The making of any
excavation, opening, hole or trench in an street, alley or sidewalk; the
placing of an obstruction, barricade, material, equipment or apparatus in any
street, alley or sidewalk; the failure to properly protect any excavation,
opening, hole or trench in any street, alley or sidewalk; or any and all
negligence on the part of the applicant in the use and occupancy of any street,
alley or sidewalk in any manner or nature whatsoever. In addition to the
indemnification agreement, the permitee shall furnish satisfactory evidence of
insurance in an amount as set by resolution.
(Prior Code, § 94.046) (Ord. 854, passed 11-20-1957) Penalty, see §
94.999
§ 94.047 CUTTING AND REFILLING.
   (A)   (1)   If any excavation or opening is made in any street, paving,
gravel or crushed stone or any sidewalk is removed from any street, alley or
sidewalk space under any permit hereunder, the applicant shall submit an
electronic application for a permit through the city’s website application
submittal platform and pay a fee as set by resolution. The applicant shall have
on file a certificate of liability insurance naming the city as an additional
insured. All cuts in paving and sidewalks shall be a minimum of 36 inches wide
and be made rectangular with a saw or other tool approved by the Public Works
Director so as to leave edges straight, smooth and perpendicular, or in lieu
thereof, the applicant shall remove an entire slab or section of concrete.
      (2)   It is hereby made the duty of the Public Works Director or designee
to cause the refilling of the excavation or opening to be made in the pavement
or sidewalk of gravel or stone surfacing in the street or alley to be replaced
and to pay the cost and expense incident thereto from the deposit. After the
inspection and approval, as set forth above, of the replacement, the city shall
be responsible for the cost of continued maintenance and repairs thereof.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any officer or employee of the city to either
give away or to receive any excavated material removed from any street, alley
or other public place within the city, and it shall be unlawful for any officer
or employee of the city or for any other person to sell or purchase any
excavated material from any street, alley or other public place within the
city, except by the direction of the Public Works Director.
   (C)   (1)   Persons making excavations for underground water, telephone,
electrical, cable television, sewer, chemical or any other liquid lines across
paved or asphalt streets, alleys or sidewalks are responsible for replacing the
concrete or asphalt to the original thickness and quality.
      (2)   All replacing of concrete and asphalt shall be done by the city,
its employees or designated representatives, and the applicant shall pay the
costs thereof.
   (D)   In preparation for pouring new concrete, the contractor shall drill
holes at a mid-way point of the thickness of the paving being cut, thence space
five-eighths (5/8) inch diameter by 18 inches long cold rolled steel rods every
30 inches the entire perimeter of the excavation. Holes shall be drilled eight
inches deep into existing concrete. Drilling into loose or broken concrete will
not be permitted. Applicants shall pay for all costs incurred.
   (E)   Persons making the excavations and replacement of the materials shall
compact filled excavated material by mechanical means to 95% of the maximum
density in accordance with the standard proctor.
(Prior Code, § 94.047) (Ord. 88-17, passed 4-18-1988) Penalty, see §
94.999
§ 94.048 FAILURE TO MAKE APPLICATION.
   Any person who fails to make application for any necessary permit before
starting work for which a permit is required shall, upon being granted a permit
for the work, be required to pay double the amount of the regular charges
herein provided for.
(Prior Code, § 94.048) (Ord. 854, passed 11-20-1957)
§ 94.049 SUPERVISION.
   All such cuts and excavations in paved streets, avenues or alleys shall be
made under the supervision of the Public Works Director or City Engineer or
other qualified person.
(Prior Code, § 94.049)
§ 94.050 EXCAVATIONS ON PRIVATE PROPERTY.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to make or maintain any hole,
depression or excavation on private property which is a hazard to life and
limb, endangers property or adversely affects the safety, use or stability of a
public way or drainage channel.
   (B)   The Chief Building and Code Inspector, or designee, upon making a
determination that such a hole, depression or excavation exists, shall give
notice in writing, either by mail or personal service, to the owner of the
property upon which the hole, depression or excavation is located, or other
person or agent in control of the property, requesting the person to repair or
eliminate the hole, depression or excavation so as to eliminate the hazard
within seven days after receipt of the notice.
   (C)   If the owner or other person in control of the property fails to
repair or eliminate the hole, depression or excavation so as to eliminate the
hazard within 24 hours, the city shall cause the repair or elimination, and the
costs thereof, paid by the city, shall be recovered from the owner of the
property or the person in control of the property.
(Prior Code, § 94.050) (Ord. 2708, passed 5-19-1980) Penalty, see §
94.999
HOUSE NUMBERING
§ 94.065 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BUILDING. Any building used or designated as a place for the conduct of any
business.
   HOUSE. Residence.
(Prior Code, § 94.065)
§ 94.066 DIRECTIONS.
   All houses and buildings fronting on the public streets shall be numbered as
herein provided and as designated by the City Engineer. Every 22 feet front of
all lots shall constitute a numbering space, and the numbers shall be placed on
the houses or buildings in accordance therewith and this shall also apply to
residence as well as business property. The numbers of houses or buildings
between avenues and fronting on streets shall be from 1 to 50, with the avenue
to the east of the house or building prefixed, as 2401, 2402 and so forth, for
those between 24th and 25th Avenues, and so forth, odd numbers on the south
side and even numbers on the north side of the streets. The numbers for houses
or buildings between streets and fronting on avenues shall be from 51 to 99
with the street to the south prefixed, as 1351, 1352 and so forth, for the
houses and buildings between 13th and 14th Streets, and so forth, odd numbers
on the east side and even numbers on the west side of the avenues. In the event
that curvilinear or other special street design required special consideration
for logical and convenient numbering, variances in the above schedule will be
made. This special numbering shall, however, have as much relation to the above
numbering as possible. All numbering of new additions shall be on file in the
office of the City Engineer.
(Prior Code, § 94.066)
§ 94.067 DUTY OF OWNERS.
   It shall be the duty of the owner of every house or building fronting on any
street, avenue or way regularly used for vehicular traffic within the corporate
limits of the city to number the house or building as provided in §
94.066 of this code, the figure to be displayed in figures not less than three
inches in height and fashioned from a substantial material and placed in a
conspicuous location, the numbers being visible throughout the entire year from
the street, avenue or way used by the public for vehicular traffic, the numbers
being placed in front of, or attached to the house or building.
(Prior Code, § 94.067) (Ord. 2930, passed 9-19-1983)
PUBLIC ADDRESS SYSTEM
§ 94.080 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate or cause to be operated on
the streets or in the parks of the city a public address system without first
having obtained permission to do so from the City Administrator.
(Prior Code, § 94.080) (Ord. 97-16, passed 8-4-1997) Penalty, see §
94.999
§ 94.081 TIME LIMIT.
   No permission shall be granted to any organization authorizing the use of a
public address system on the streets, alleys and parks for a period of time in
excess of one-hour duration, which period of time must be between the hours of
10:00 a.m. and 8:00 p.m.
(Prior Code, § 94.081) (Ord. 97-16, passed 8-4-1997)
§ 94.082 STATIONARY ADDRESS SYSTEM.
   The City Administrator may permit the use of stationary public address
systems. There shall be no charge or fee, but the applicant must make
application, in writing, setting out the type of program or announcements to be
made, the area in which the program is or announcements are to be made and the
hours to be covered in the permit.
(Prior Code, § 94.082) (Ord. 97-16, passed 8-4-1997)
§ 94.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person violating the provisions of §
94.004 of this code shall pay to the city a penalty of $50 per day for each day
any portion of the street, avenue or alley is occupied after expiration of the
time for which the permit was granted and in addition to the indemnification
agreement shall furnish satisfactory evidence of insurance in an amount as set
by resolution.
(Prior Code, § 94.004)
   (C)   If the owner of any house or building shall fail to comply with the
provisions of §§
94.065 through
94.067 of this code, the owner shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor, and the
City Council may cause the owner’s house or building to be numbered in
accordance with the provisions of this chapter. The expense of numbering shall
be assessed against the property as a special tax in manner as provided by law
for the levying of special taxes.
(Prior Code, § 94.068)
CHAPTER 95: SEXUAL PREDATOR RESIDENCY RESTRICTIONS
Section
   
95.01   Definitions
   
95.02   Prohibitions; exceptions
 
   
95.99   Penalty
§ 95.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CHILDCARE FACILITY. A facility licensed pursuant to the state’s Childcare
Licensing Act, being Neb. Rev. Stat. §§ 29-4001 et seq.
   RESIDE. To sleep, live or dwell at a place, which may include one or more
locations, and may be mobile or transitory.
   RESIDENCE. A place where an individual sleeps, lives or dwells, which may
include more than one location, and may be mobile or transitory. RESIDENCY may
be shown by, among other evidence, receipt of mail at the premises or
identification of the premises as a residence on a driver’s license, vehicle
registration or another document.
   SCHOOL. A public, private, denominational or parochial school which meets
the requirements for state accreditation or approval.
   SEX OFFENDER. An individual who has been convicted of a crime listed in Neb.
Rev. Stat. § 29-4003 and who is required to register as a sex offender pursuant
to the Sex Offender Registration Act or any person convicted under the law of
another state if, at the time of the conviction under the law of such other
state, the offense for which the person was convicted would have required
registration in accordance with the state’s Sex Offender Registration Act, had
the conviction occurred in the state.
   SEXUAL PREDATOR. An individual who is required to register in accordance
with the Sex Offender Registration Act, who has committed an aggravated offense
as defined in Neb. Rev. Stat. § 29-4001.01 and who has victimized a person 18
years of age or younger.
(Prior Code, § 98.01) (Ord. 06-33, passed 11-6-2006; Ord. 10-16, passed 6-21-
2010)
§ 95.02 PROHIBITIONS; EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   Prohibited location of residence. It is unlawful for any sexual
predator to reside within 500 feet from a school or childcare facility.
   (B)   Measure of distance. For purposes of determining the minimum distance
separation, the distance shall be measured by following a straight line from
the outer property line of the residence to the nearest outer boundary line of
the school or childcare facility.
   (C)   Exceptions. This chapter shall not apply to a sexual predator who:
      (1)   Resides within a prison or correctional or treatment facility
operated by the state or a political subdivision;
      (2)   Established the residence before July 1, 2006 and has not moved
from that residence; or
      (3)   Established a residence after July 1, 2006, and the school or
childcare facility triggering the restriction was established after the initial
date of the sexual predator’s residence at that location.
(Prior Code, § 98.02) (Ord. 06-33, passed 11-6-2006) Penalty, see §
95.99 
§ 95.99 PENALTY.
   A person who violates §
95.02 of this code shall be punished as provided generally in this code.
(Prior Code, § 98.02) (Ord. 06-33, passed 11-6-2006)
CHAPTER 96: TREES
Section
   
96.01   Definitions
   
96.02   Tree species to be planted
   
96.03   Distances and clearance for planting
   
96.04   Public tree care
   
96.05   Permit required to plant, remove a street tree
   
96.06   Compensatory payments
   
96.07   Tree topping and trimming
   
96.08   Tree trimming compliance
   
96.09   Clearance over streets and walkways
   
96.10   Diseased tree removal on public land
   
96.11   Registration and insurance requirements
   
96.12   Family dwelling tree requirements
   
96.13   Enforcement official; rights and duties
   
96.14   Violations
§ 96.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BOULEVARD. City property between street, curb, sidewalk and island areas
within city streets and cul-de-sacs.
   COMMUNITY ARBORIST. A person designated by the Parks Department with input
of the Tree Board.
   PARK TREES. Trees, shrubs, bushes and all other woody vegetation in public
parks.
   PRIVATE COMMUNITY FOREST. All trees within city boundaries but not owned by
the city.
   PUBLIC COMMUNITY FOREST. All street and park trees and other trees owned by
the city as a total resource.
   PARKS DEPARTMENT. The official (public employee) city representative and, as
such, is responsible for the administration of the community forestry program.
   STREET TREES. Trees, shrubs, bushes and all other woody vegetation on land
lying between the private property lines on either side of all streets and
avenues, as well as island areas within city streets or cul-de-sacs within the
city.
(Prior Code, § 96.01) (Ord. 99-03, passed 2-1-1999; Ord. 01-25, passed 4-2-
2001)
§ 96.02 TREE SPECIES TO BE PLANTED.
   (A)   The city shall maintain an extensive list of desirable shade or
overstory trees, desirable ornamental or understory trees and desirable
evergreen trees for planting in public areas. Each list will provide four
recommended classes of trees, with Class I being the most desirable and Class
IV the least desirable. The purpose of this listing will be to maintain
diversity in the total tree population. The lists shall be available to
residents of the city upon request to aid in the selection of trees for private
and public properties. The list of recommended and desirable trees shall be
updated periodically to reflect new developments or species that will affect
the population of the community forest. This list shall be set by resolution.
   (B)   Subsequent to the enactment of this chapter, it shall be unlawful for
any person to plant on city right-of-way any Cottonwood (except seedless), Pin
Oak, Silver Maple, Siberian Elm, Black Locust, Hawthorn or White Poplar. Tree
inventories show an overabundance of these tree species. Silver Maple and
Siberian Elm are weak wooded and subject to wind and ice damage. Siberian Elm
attract elm leaf beetles. Pin Oak is not adapted to the city’s soil type and
tends to be chlorotic and weak. Black Locust propagates suckers and is thorny.
Seeded Cottonwood are a nuisance because of the litter. White Poplar attract
bores and become weak and are short lived. Due to the reasons stated above, it
is suggested that these trees not be planted on private property. An exemption
can be made for Quail Run and Van Berg Golf Courses and some areas of the
entire park system as determined by the Park Superintendent.
   (C)   Trees existing on public or private property prior to enactment of
this chapter shall not be subject to removal under the provisions of this
section.
(Prior Code, § 96.02) (Ord. 99-03, passed 2-1-1999; Ord. 01-25, passed 4-2-
2001) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 96.03 DISTANCES AND CLEARANCE FOR PLANTING.
   (A)   Street trees may be planted in the boulevard where there is eight feet
or more between the edge of the sidewalk and the curb or the street. Street
trees shall be planted no closer than four feet from a sidewalk, driveway or
street. It is suggested that private trees not be planted any closer than four
feet from a private drive or sidewalk. As the tree grows, its roots may push up
the sidewalk or drive.
   (B)   No street tree shall be planted closer than 30 feet from any street
corner, measured from the point of the nearest intersection of curbs or curb
lines.
   (C)   No street tree shall be planted closer than 25 feet from another
street tree.
   (D)   No street tree shall be planted closer than ten feet from any fire
hydrant.
   (E)   Special permission must be obtained from the holder of the easement
when planting street trees within ten feet of any point on a line on the ground
immediately below any overhead utility wire or above any underground cable.
(Prior Code, § 96.03) (Ord. 99-03, passed 2-1-1999; Ord. 01-25, passed 4-2-
2001) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 96.04 PUBLIC TREE CARE.
   (A)   The city shall have the right to plant, prune, maintain and remove
trees, plants and shrubs within the right-of-way or bounds of all streets,
alleys, lanes, squares and public grounds as may be necessary to ensure the
public safety.
   (B)   The city may remove, or cause or order to be removed, any tree on
public property, or part thereof, which is in an unsafe condition or which by
reason of its nature is injurious to electric power lines or other public
improvements or is seriously affected with any fatal disease.
   (C)   The adjoining property owners shall have the right to perform normal
tree care on all street trees.
   (D)   Infected or diseased trees, or parts thereof, in a dead or dying
condition on public lands shall be removed as warranted by the State Forester
or the Forester’s designee and disposed of by the Public Works Department
within a reasonable amount of time of the discovery that the conditions exist.
The cost thereof shall be borne by the city without being assessed to the
adjoining property owner.
(Prior Code, § 96.04) (Ord. 99-03, passed 2-1-1999; Ord. 01-25, passed 4-2-
2001)
§ 96.05 PERMIT REQUIRED TO PLANT, REMOVE A STREET TREE.
   (A)   No person shall plant or remove a street tree without first obtaining
a permit from the Public Works Department and paying the required fee. The
owner of the property shall be responsible to obtain the necessary permit
required for each occurrence at a specific property. Permits shall be valid for
six months from the date of issuance. In case of a house moving, the tree
service shall be responsible to obtain a permit to prune street trees along the
route on which the house is to be moved. Tree trimming or pruning must be done
in accordance with Nebraska Guide #G91-1035.
   (B)   For the purpose of house moving, the tree service must trim or prune
just ahead as the building is being moved. If the work is not satisfactory in
the opinion of the city, the city may make necessary corrections and assess the
cost to the tree service. The tree service may then also be suspended from
doing work on street trees for any given length of time. The tree service shall
also be responsible for obtaining permission from the property owner if a tree
on private property needs to be pruned because of the moving.
   (C)   Tree services are responsible to check with and verify that the owner
has the required permits for planting or removal of street trees, whichever may
be the case before work begins. Fees required for any permits will be set by
resolution.
(Prior Code, § 96.05) (Ord. 99-03, passed 2-1-1999; Ord. 01-25, passed 4-2-
2001) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 96.06 COMPENSATORY PAYMENTS.
   No person shall remove any street tree without replacing the tree with a
tree or trees listed as Class I or II in the vicinity of the removed tree,
which may include private property, or in another location in the city if no
suitable location exists in the vicinity. Replacement tree size must be of one
and one-half inch caliper or greater and must be replaced in the following time
frame. If a tree is removed after November 15, it must be replaced by May 15 of
the following year. If the tree is removed after May 15, it must be replaced by
November 15 of the same year. Waivers for tree size or species are obtainable
from the Public Works Department. If a person does not wish to plant back or in
another location, he or she shall make compensatory payment to the city. The
compensatory payments shall be paid to the City Clerk’s office and used solely
for the purpose of enhancing the community forest. The compensatory payment
amount shall be set by resolution. A tree can be planted in a private yard if
planting on the city right-of-way or making a compensatory payment is not
desired.
(Prior Code, § 96.06) (Ord. 99-03, passed 2-1-1999; Ord. 01-25, passed 4-2-
2001) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 96.07 TREE TOPPING AND TRIMMING.
   It shall be unlawful as a normal practice for any person or city department
to top any street, park or other tree on public property. TOPPING, ROUNDING OFF
or POLLARDING is defined as the systematic cutting back of limbs within the
tree’s crown to such a degree as to remove the normal canopy and disfigure the
tree. Trees severely damaged by storms or other causes, certain trees under
utility wires or other obstructions where other pruning practices are
impractical may be exempted from this section at the determination of the
Public Works Department.
(Prior Code, § 96.07) (Ord. 99-03, passed 2-1-1999; Ord. 01-25, passed 4-2-
2001) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 96.08 TREE TRIMMING COMPLIANCE.
   All trimming or pruning of street trees must be done in accordance with
Nebraska Guide #G91-1035. If work on street trees is not satisfactory in the
opinion of the city, the city may make necessary corrections and assess the
cost to the tree service or individual. A suspension from doing work on street
trees may also apply for any given length of time.
(Prior Code, § 96.08) (Ord. 99-03, passed 2-1-1999; Ord. 01-25, passed 4-2-
2001) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 96.09 CLEARANCE OVER STREETS AND WALKWAYS.
   (A)   Clearance over walkways shall be the responsibility of the abutting
property owners. A clearance of no less than eight feet shall be maintained
over walkways, and a clearance of no less than 14 feet shall be maintained over
streets and alleys. Property owners are responsible to maintain the eight-foot
height on street and private trees over walkways so that they will not inhibit
the passage of pedestrians. This is to ensure safety of persons using the
sidewalks. Property owners should report any infractions of street trees that
abut their property to the Director of Public Works who will evaluate the
situation and take appropriate action at city expense. It shall be the duty of
the city to trim any trees to the 13 feet above the streets height so that they
will not inhibit the passage of vehicles.
   (B)   It shall be the duty of the utility company to trim any trees within
or in close proximity to utility lines.
   (C)   If any trees are permitted by the owners of the adjacent premises to
grow untrimmed in violation of the provisions of this section, it shall be the
duty of the Public Works Department to notify the owner in writing to trim the
trees within the time and manner to be specified in the notice. If any person
so notified shall neglect or refuse to comply with the notice, the Public Works
Department shall forthwith cause the trees to be trimmed at the expense of the
city and the costs thereof assessed against the property.
(Prior Code, § 96.09) (Ord. 99-03, passed 2-1-1999; Ord. 01-25, passed 4-2-
2001) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 96.10 DISEASED TREE REMOVAL ON PUBLIC LAND.
   The city shall have the right and responsibility to cause to be removed any
tree within the city limits that is diseased or dead on public land. All trees
that have been designated for removal due to disease or infestation shall be
properly disposed of at a site determined by the city. All trees which require
burning as prescribed by the State Forester as a proper means of disposal shall
be burned by the city in accordance with relevant state law.
(Prior Code, § 96.10) (Ord. 99-03, passed 2-1-1999; Ord. 01-25, passed 4-2-
2001)
§ 96.11 REGISTRATION AND INSURANCE REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Persons engaged in the business or occupation of pruning, treating or
removing any tree or trees inside the city limits must be registered with the
City Clerk’s office by April 1 of each year. Registration may be obtained at
any time during the year upon meeting application requirements. Each person in
the business of tree work must show evidence of minimum liability insurance as
set by resolution and the city be named as an additional insured. A copy of the
certificate of liability insurance must be on file with the City Clerk’s office
and kept current. No registration is required by any public employee(s) doing
such work in the pursuit of his, her or their public service endeavors.
Whenever an individual plans to fell a tree onto the street or block the street
for any tree work, the individual shall make a request to the City
Administrator and shall notify the Fire, Public Works and Police Departments 24
hours prior to breaking any street and as to how long the street will be
blocked and shall notify the Fire and Police Departments as to when the street
is open. Traffic cones, which shall be fluorescent in nature regardless of
color, or proper visible barricades are required for public safety.
   (B)   Prior to doing work within the city limits, persons in the tree
business must be registered with the City Clerk’s office. Evidence of liability
insurance and certification of attendance at a city-approved tree care workshop
or seminar by a representative of the tree service company must be provided to
the City Clerk’s office prior to April 1 of each year.
   (C)   Fees for the registrations will be as set by resolution.
(Prior Code, § 96.11) (Ord. 99-03, passed 2-1-1999; Ord. 01-25, passed 4-2-
2001) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 96.12 FAMILY DWELLING TREE REQUIREMENTS.
   In construction of new single-family dwellings, it is suggested to plant at
least one one and one-half inch caliper Class I or Class II tree per residence.
In construction of multiple-family dwellings, it is suggested to plant at least
two one and one-half inch caliper Class I or II trees per lot. Trees cannot be
planted in public right-of-way of any street type less than eight feet in width
as measured from the back of curb to the property line. Trees on public
property cannot be planted within four feet of the back of curb, street edge,
sidewalk or trail or within any visual clearance zone. Trees on private
property shall be planted a distance of not less than four feet from public
sidewalks or trails and shall be in compliance with all other provisions of
this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 96.12) (Ord. 99-03, passed 2-1-1999; Ord. 01-25, passed 4-2-
2001) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 96.13 ENFORCEMENT OFFICIAL; RIGHTS AND DUTIES.
   The Public Works Department is charged with enforcement of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 96.13) (Ord. 99-03, passed 2-1-1999; Ord. 01-25, passed 4-2-
2001)
§ 96.14 VIOLATIONS.
   Imposition of any penalty for a violation of this chapter shall not be
construed as a waiver of the right of the city to collect the costs of removal
of the tree in accordance with the provisions of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 96.14) (Ord. 99-03, passed 2-1-1999; Ord. 01-25, passed 4-2-
2001)
CHAPTER 97: PARKS
Section
   
97.01   Rules and regulations
   
97.02   Prohibited and permitted uses of Pawnee Park Lake, Pawnee Park Lagoon,
Sock Pond and Lake Esther
§ 97.01 RULES AND REGULATIONS.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/c898f04873aad83d2018fee9d1c91b72c99beaa9/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2454.png]Publisher's Note: This Section has been AMENDED by new
legislation (Ord. 24-02, passed 3-4-2024). The text of the amendment will be
incorporated below when the amending legislation is codified.
   The following rules to regulate the use, occupancy and the conduct of
persons in or upon all parks and park properties of the city are hereby
established.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to drive or propel any motor
vehicle or drive any horse or other animal in, over or through any park, except
along and upon the park roads or parkways, or to drive or propel along or over
any park roads or parkways, any heavily laden motor vehicle or any motor
vehicle carrying or ordinarily used in carrying merchandise, goods, tools,
material or rubbish or any moving van or truck except during construction of
anything in any city park or for regular maintenance.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to drive, operate or propel over
or along any park road any vehicle, motor vehicle, motorcycle or to drive or
ride any horse or other animal, at a greater speed than 20 mph.
   (C)   Except as provided below in this division (C), it shall be unlawful
for any person to place or erect any structure, sign, bulletin board, post,
pole or advertising device of any kind whatsoever in any park or to attach any
notice, bill, poster, sign, wire, rod or cord to any tree, shrub, fence,
railing, post or other structure within any park except as follows.
      (1)   An organization or individual may make written application to the
Board of Parks Commissioners for permission to sell advertising space by a
permanent or seasonal display in any park. A list of the advertisers will be
provided to the Board of Parks Commissioners before any signs are placed in any
park. The Board of Parks Commissioners has the discretion to authorize such
signage in park facilities.
      (2)   Any revenues received from such approved signage will need to be
reported to the Board of Parks Commissioners in an annual financial report with
separate itemizations for each advertiser. In addition, the applicant needs to
report the intended uses of the revenue.
      (3)   The Board of Parks Commissioners reserve the right to order the
removal of any permitted signs which are causing damage to the park facilities
or when the sign has been vandalized or damaged. The city will not be
responsible for the construction, repair, maintenance or installation of any
signs. The city will not be responsible for storage of signs and will require
signs to be removed in a timely manner at the end of the season.
      (4)   Particular signs which are signs for a one time weekly or monthly
event may be approved by the Public Property Director or the Park
Superintendent.
   (D)   It shall be unlawful for any person to remove, destroy, mutilate or
deface any structure, monument, statue, vase, fountain, wall, fence, railing,
vehicle, bench, tree, shrub, fern, plant, flower or other property in any park.
   (E)   It shall be unlawful for any person to allow or permit any dog to be
in the following fields or stadiums of the city park system: Pawnee Park
football stadium, field and track; Pawnee Park baseball field; Wilderness Park;
Bradshaw Park; Berne Square; Centennial Park ballfield area; Gerrard Park
softball field area; and Glur Park football field area; provided, however, that
those individuals that have service dogs shall be exempt from this division
(E).
   (F)   It shall be unlawful for any person to shoot, fire or explode any
firearms or high explosives (to include fireworks) or to carry any firearm in
any park.
   (G)   It shall be unlawful for any person to walk, stand, sit or climb on
any border, flower bed, monument, vase, fountain, railing or fence in any park.
   (H)   It shall be unlawful for any person to in any manner tease, annoy,
disturb, molest, catch, injure or kill, or throw any stones or missile of any
kind at, or strike with any stick or weapon any bird, fowl or animal in any
park.
   (I)   It shall be unlawful for any person to engage in or ply the vocation
of a solicitor, agent, vagrant, peddler, beggar, strolling musician, organ
grinder or showman in any park, except such persons as are authorized by the
Board of Parks Commissioners.
   (J)   It shall be unlawful for any person to sell or distribute fruits,
candies, popcorn, peanuts, ice cream and the like in any park, except such
persons as are authorized by the Board of Parks Commissioners.
   (K)   It shall be unlawful for any person to distribute any type of flyer,
either advertising, promotional or political reasons, or to make political
speeches of any kind unless authorized by the Board of Parks Commissioners.
   (L)   It shall be unlawful for any person to conduct or carry on any game of
chance in any park.
   (M)   It shall be unlawful for any person to conduct or carry on any
boisterous or insulting language, or to be guilty of any disorderly, lewd or
lascivious conduct of any kind in any park.
   (N)   It shall be unlawful for any intoxicated person to enter or remain
within any park.
   (O)   It shall be unlawful for any person to make a camp adjacent to or
within any park unless authorized by the Board of Parks Commissioners, the Fire
Chief or the Park Superintendent. It shall also be unlawful to kindle a fire or
to kindle any type of fire for purposes of cooking, except in grills located
throughout the parks or in safe privately-owned barbecue grills. All such
cooking fires may be temporarily banned by the Fire Chief, the Police Chief or
the Park Superintendent if climate conditions are deemed to create a high risk
of uncontrolled fire.
   (P)   It shall be unlawful for anyone to be in any city park designated in §
32.019 of this code between the hours of 12:00 a.m. and 5:00 a.m., except upon
the authority of the City Council granted by resolution.
   (Q)   It shall be unlawful to propel or have any wheeled vehicle except for
wheelchairs and maintenance vehicles upon sidewalks at Wilderness Park.
   (R)   It shall be unlawful to conduct any activities, recreational or not,
on the tennis courts of Pawnee Park other than tennis and pickleball. It shall
be unlawful to conduct any activities on the tennis courts of Centennial Park
and Gerrard Park, recreational or not, other than tennis, pickleball and
basketball.
   (S)   It shall be unlawful for any person to loiter in the parking lot of
any city park. For the purposes of this section LOITER shall mean:
      (1)   The remaining at or being in the park’s parking lot for more than
ten minutes when not using said park’s other recreational amenities for their
approved and intended purposes (unless authorized to do so by permit);
      (2)   The remaining at or being in the park’s parking lot for more than
ten minutes at a time without going to or coming from said park’s other
recreational amenities (unless authorized to do so by permit); or
      (3)   The unreasonable obstructing of or interfering with the free
passage of any person or vehicle in said parking lot.
(Prior Code, § 97.01) (Ord. 02-50, passed 9-16-2002; Ord. 10-37, passed 12-20-
2010; Ord. 11-26, passed 9-6-2011; Ord. 12-03, passed 4-16-2012; Ord. 15-11,
passed 7-6-2015; Ord. 21-41, passed 1-3-2022) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 97.02 PROHIBITED AND PERMITTED USES OF PAWNEE PARK LAKE, PAWNEE PARK LAGOON,
SOCK POND AND LAKE ESTHER.
   The following constitutes additional rules and regulations, which relate to
the lakes, commonly termed as Pawnee Park Lake, Pawnee Park Lagoon, Sock Pond
and Lake Esther.
   (A)   Swimming shall not be permitted in any part of Pawnee Park Lake,
Pawnee Park Lagoon, Sock Pond and Lake Esther.
   (B)   Rowboats, canoes, sail boats, paddle boats and kayaks are permitted
within the Pawnee Park Lake, Pawnee Park Lagoon, Sock Pond and Lake Esther.
Electric trolling motors are permitted, gas-powered motors are prohibited.
   (C)   Air mattresses and rubber life rafts are prohibited on Pawnee Park
Lake, Pawnee Park Lagoon, Sock Pond and Lake Esther.
   (D)   Use or possession of alcoholic beverages is prohibited in or on Pawnee
Park Lake, Pawnee Park Lagoon, Sock Pond and Lake Esther.
   (E)   All persons using Pawnee Park Lake, Pawnee Park Lagoon, Sock Pond and
Lake Esther will conform to all fishing and boating regulations of the state’s
Game and Parks Commission and shall be entitled to fish and catch fish pursuant
to said fishing and boating regulations of the state’s Game and Parks
Commission.
(Prior Code, § 97.02) (Ord. 10-22, passed 8-16-2010; Ord. 15-11, passed 7-6-
2015) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 98: RAILROADS
Section
   
98.01   Trespassing; climbing
   
98.02   Obedience to signal indicating approach of trains; prohibited acts
§ 98.01 TRESPASSING; CLIMBING.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to climb, jump, step, stand upon, cling
to or in any way attach that person’s self to any locomotive engine, car or
truck, either stationary or in motion, upon any railroad track in the city,
unless in so doing the person shall be acting pursuant to some lawful business
requiring that person’s presence there, or in compliance with the rules and
regulations or by permission of the railroad company or its lawful agent.
(Prior Code, § 95.01) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 98.02 OBEDIENCE TO SIGNAL INDICATING APPROACH OF TRAINS; PROHIBITED ACTS.
   (A)   Stop at railroad crossings. Whenever any person driving a vehicle
approaches a railroad grade crossing under any of the circumstances set forth
in this section, the driver of the vehicle shall stop within 50 feet but not
less than 15 feet from the nearest rail of the railroad and shall not proceed
until the driver can do so safely. The requirements of this section shall apply
when the following occur:
      (1)   A clearly visible electric or mechanical signal device gives
warning of the immediate approach of a railroad train;
      (2)   A crossing gate is lowered or a human flagperson gives or continues
to give a signal of the approach or passage of a railroad train;
      (3)   A railroad train approaching within approximately one quarter mile
of the highway, street or road crossing emits a signal audible from such
distance and the railroad train, by reason of its speed or nearness to the
crossing, is an immediate hazard; and/or
      (4)   An approaching railroad train is plainly visible and is in
hazardous proximity to the crossing.
   (B)   Crossing gates or barriers. No person shall drive any vehicle through,
around or under any crossing gate or barrier which is being closed or is being
opened or closed.
(Prior Code, § 95.02) (Ord. 93-57, passed 12-6-1993) Penalty, see §
10.99
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
110.   GENERAL REGULATIONS
      
111.   OCCUPATION AND LODGING FACILITY TAX
      
112.   ALCOHOL REGULATIONS
      
113.   HOTELS
      
114.   BUILDING MOVING
      
115.   CABLE TELEVISION FRANCHISE
CHAPTER 110: GENERAL REGULATIONS
Section
Junk Shops; Pawnbrokers
   
110.01   Definitions
   
110.02   License application
   
110.03   Fee; bond
   
110.04   Prohibited purchases
   
110.05   Inspection
   
110.06   Records
Solicitors or Vendors
   
110.20   Definitions
   
110.21   Permit
   
110.22   Nonprofit organizations
Gas Distribution
   
110.35   Gas distribution franchise
   
110.36   Rates established
JUNK SHOPS; PAWNBROKERS
§ 110.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   JUNK SHOP. Any enterprise engaged in the gathering, obtaining or processing
of junk, refuse, metals, waste and discarded or salvaged materials, machinery
or equipment, including automobile wrecking and dismantling.
   PAWNBROKER. Any person engaged in the business of lending money upon chattel
property for security and requiring possession of the property so mortgaged on
condition of returning the same upon payment of a stipulated amount of money,
or purchasing property on condition of selling it back at a stipulated price.
(Prior Code, § 110.020) (Ord. 2456, passed 8-4-1976)
§ 110.02 LICENSE APPLICATION.
   Application for a license to be issued under the provisions of this
subchapter shall be made to the Clerk and shall contain a description of the
location of the applicant, together with a statement concerning the type of
business contemplated. The Mayor and City Council may provide regulations
requiring such other information as they may deem advisable.
(Prior Code, § 110.021)
§ 110.03 FEE; BOND.
   Upon receipt of proper application, the Clerk shall issue a license for a
junk shop or pawnbroker subject to all of the provisions of this subchapter.
The fee and bond amount shall be set by resolution.
(Prior Code, § 110.022) (Ord. 2456, passed 8-4-1976)
§ 110.04 PROHIBITED PURCHASES.
   No person licensed under the provisions of this subchapter shall make any
purchase from any minor without first obtaining approval from the Chief of
Police.
(Prior Code, § 110.023) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 110.05 INSPECTION.
   The Chief of Police, or other designated official, shall be permitted at any
reasonable time to inspect any property contained on the premises of any person
licensed under this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 110.024)
§ 110.06 RECORDS.
   (A)   Any person licensed under the provisions of this subchapter shall
maintain a written record of all business transactions, including the time of
purchase and description of any article and the name and address of the person
from whom the article was purchased.
   (B)   This record shall be in the English language and shall be available at
any reasonable time for inspection by the Chief of Police or other designated
official.
(Prior Code, § 110.025) Penalty, see §
10.99
SOLICITORS OR VENDORS
§ 110.20 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   PERSON. Any natural person, firm, proprietorship, partnership, corporation,
association, receiver or trustee.
   PRODUCTS. All goods, chattels, wares and merchandise of any kind whatsoever.
   SOLICITOR or VENDOR. Every person who offers for sale products of any kind
without maintaining a permanent place of business in the city.
(Prior Code, § 110.040) (Ord. 99-29, passed 5-17-1999)
§ 110.21 PERMIT.
   (A)   (1)   All solicitors or vendors, before doing business within the
city, shall make application for and be issued a solicitor or vendor permit.
Application for the permit shall be made between the hours of 8:00 a.m. to 4:00
p.m., Monday through Friday, excluding holidays, to the city’s Police
Department on a form as described below and shall contain all necessary
information and documents required for the protection of the residents of the
city.
      (2)   Any person granted a solicitor or vendor permit shall be subject to
any fees, occupation taxes and other rules and regulations which the governing
body deems appropriate for the purposes stated herein and shall comply with the
code of personal conduct as defined by city resolution. Any permit so granted
shall be subject to revocation for good cause by the city’s Police Department.
The application shall be on a form as approved by the City Administrator, and
shall include, but not be limited to such information so that the type and
nature of the product being sold may be identified, as well as the name and
permanent address of the solicitor or vendor and the length of the solicitor or
vendor’s stay within the city.
   (B)   An exemption to the procedure contained in division (A) above is for a
solicitor or vendor who is participating in an event on city property which has
been permitted, approved and authorized by the “special event permit
application” (which said special event permit application has been adopted by
the City Council; and, as it may be amended from time to time). Any solicitor
or vendor who sells products off of city property and who is not part of an
event approved through the special event permit application must comply with
division (A) above.
(Prior Code, § 110.041) (Ord. 99-29, passed 5-17-1999; Ord. 21-40, passed 1-3-
2022) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 110.22 NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS.
   (A)   Any individual, otherwise defined as a solicitor or vendor, who is
volunteering that individual’s time for a nonprofit organization, such as
public and parochial schools, churches and other nonprofit organizations, shall
be exempt from the requirements of obtaining a permit as set forth in §
110.21 of this code.
   (B)   The individual shall, upon request of the city’s Police Department,
provide a certificate issued by the Internal Revenue Service as to the
individual’s organization being qualified and established as a nonprofit
organization.
(Prior Code, § 110.042) (Ord. 99-29, passed 5-17-1999)
GAS DISTRIBUTION
§ 110.35 GAS DISTRIBUTION FRANCHISE.
   (A)   The Mayor and City Council shall have the power to grant nonexclusive
franchises for gas distribution within the city. Such nonexclusive franchise
agreement shall have a term not exceeding 25 years. There hereby is established
a franchise fee on every natural gas company and every other person, firm or
corporation, their successors and assigns, owning, operating, controlling,
leasing or managing a natural gas plant or system and/or generating,
manufacturing, selling, distributing or transporting natural gas (hereinafter
referred to, collectively, as “franchisees,” each, individually, a
“franchisee”). Franchisees shall collect from their customers located within
the corporate limits of the city and pay to the city an amount based on the
following initial fee schedule, after adjustment for net write-off of
uncollectible accounts and corrections of bills theretofore rendered:
 
Customer Class Volumetric Fee
Commercial     $0.03214/ccf month/customer
Industrial     $0.00328/ccf month/customer
Residential    $0.03177/ccf month/customer
 
   (B)   The franchise fee shall be subject to change by resolution of the City
Council from time to time.
   (C)   Franchisees shall report and pay any amount payable under this section
on a monthly basis. Such payments shall be made no more than 30 days following
the close of the period for which the payment is due. Initial and final
payments shall be prorated for the portions of the periods at the beginning and
end of any franchise granted by the city to a franchisee.
   (D)   If, at any time, the state’s Public Service Commission or any other
authority having proper jurisdiction prohibits such recovery, franchisees will
no longer be obligated to collect the franchise fee.
   (E)   The city shall provide copies of annexation ordinances to franchisees
on a timely basis to ensure appropriate franchise fee collection from customers
within the corporate limits of the city. A franchisee’s obligation to collect
and pay the franchise fee from customers from an annexed area shall not
commence until 60 days after such franchisee’s receipt of the annexation
ordinance pertaining to such area.
   (F)   The city shall have access to and the right to examine during normal
business hours, such franchisee’s books, receipts, files, records and documents
as is necessary to verify the accuracy of payments due hereunder. If it is
determined that a mistake was made in the payment of any franchise fee required
hereunder, such mistake shall be corrected promptly upon discovery, such that
any underpayment made by a franchisee shall be paid within 30 days of
recalculation of the amount due, and overpayment for a franchisee shall be
deducted from the next payment of such franchise fee due by such franchisee to
the city.
(Prior Code, § 110.055) (Ord. 2370, passed 8-7-1974; Ord. 07-03, passed 1-15-
2007; Ord. 07-26, passed 12-3-2007)
§ 110.36 RATES ESTABLISHED.
   (A)   Application. This section shall apply to any person, firm or
corporation supplying gas service to the city and the inhabitants thereof. Any
such person, firm or corporation shall be hereinafter referred to as the gas
franchise holder or holder.
   (B)   Classes of service. The gas franchise holder shall provide two classes
of service to its customers as hereinafter specified and defined.
      (1)   Firm gas service. FIRM GAS SERVICE is defined as gas service that
is supplied on a non-interruptible basis. FIRM GAS SERVICE shall be made
available to all customers whose maximum space heating requirements are less
than 1,000 cubic feet per hour.
      (2)   Interruptible gas service. INTERRUPTIBLE GAS SERVICE is defined as
gas service that is supplied on an interruptible basis. It shall be subject to
curtailment or interruption on demand of the gas franchise holder whenever
necessary to protect the service of its firm gas customers.
   (C)   Rates. Any gas franchise holder shall not, after the effective date of
this section, charge more for gas services than has been authorized by
resolution of the City Council.
   (D)   Adjustments for cost of purchased gas.
      (1)   In the event the rates to be charged by the gas franchise holder
for any natural or supplemental gas purchased by it on a firm supply basis for
resale in the city are increased or decreased, either temporarily or
permanently, the rates prescribed by the resolution of the City Council
establishing rates may be increased and shall be decreased correspondingly to
reflect the change in the cost of firm gas, the increase or decrease to be
effective not earlier than the effective date of the increase or decrease in
rates charged to the franchise holder.
      (2)   Any refund, including interest thereon, if any, received by the
franchise holder from its supplier in respect to any increased rates paid by
the gas franchise holder subject to refund and applicable to gas purchased on a
firm supply basis for resale in the city shall be refunded to its local gas
franchise holder customers in the form of credits on the customer’s bill or in
cash to the extent the increased rates paid by the franchise holder were passed
on to the local firm gas customers.
      (3)   In the event, after the effective date of this section, the
business of the gas franchise holder shall be subjected to any additional taxes
measured by its gross revenues from the operation of the business on the volume
of the business or constituting a fee for carrying on the business or in the
event that the rate of any such tax or the amount of any such fee shall be
increased after the effective date of this section, the gas franchise holder
shall be entitled to increase its charges as previously set by resolution so as
to offset the additional imposition or impositions of the increase.
   (E)   Interruptible gas service rate.
      (1)   Availability. This rate is available only on a contract basis to
customers whose requirements for gas amount to 1,000 cubic feet or more per
hour and who install and maintain sufficient standby fuel to take care of
customer’s entire requirements during periods of curtailment of the use of gas
by the gas franchise holder in order to protect the service of its firm gas
users.
      (2)   Rate. The rate for interruptible gas service shall be such rate as
may be mutually agreed upon between the customer and the gas franchise holder
but shall not be higher than the firm gas service rate that may be in effect
from time to time.
      (3)   Other contracts. The gas franchise holder may enter into written
contracts with any customer or class of customer making application therefor
without discrimination for special gas service for commercial and industrial
uses at such rates and on such conditions as the contracting parties may agree.
(Prior Code, § 110.056) (Ord. 2743, passed 11-3-1980; Ord. 96-04, passed 2-19-
1996; Ord. 00-06, passed 2-25-2000)
CHAPTER 111: OCCUPATION AND LODGING FACILITY TAX
Section
Occupation Tax
   
111.01   Occupation tax on telephone
   
111.02   Occupation tax on liquor licenses
   
111.03   Occupation tax on garbage/refuse collectors
Lodging Facility Tax
   
111.15   Purpose
   
111.16   Definitions
   
111.17   Tax imposed; collection of tax
   
111.18   Return
   
111.19   Tax cumulative
   
111.20   Failure to file return; delinquency; assessment by Finance Director
   
111.21   Administration; miscellaneous provisions
   
111.22   Right of city to sue
OCCUPATION TAX
§ 111.01 OCCUPATION TAX ON TELEPHONE.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/c898f04873aad83d2018fee9d1c91b72c99beaa9/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2454.png]Publisher's Note: This Section has been AMENDED by new
legislation (Ord. 24-20, passed 8-19-2024). The text of the amendment will be
incorporated below when the amending legislation is codified.
   (A)   For the purpose of raising a revenue, there is hereby levied a license
or occupation tax upon each and every occupation or business carried on within
the corporate limits as hereinafter specified.
   (B)   (1)   The amount of the occupation tax levied and imposed on telephone
companies shall be the sum of 5% of the gross receipts resulting from the sales
of communication services (including cell phone customers) within the corporate
limits of the city. There shall be excepted from the provisions of this chapter
all receipts from telephone service to the United States government or any of
its departments, and all receipts from the state or any of its departments, and
no part or portion of the tax provided for in this chapter shall be levied upon
or assessed against or taken from the United States government, the government
of the state or any of either of their departments.
      (2)   The payment of such occupation tax shall be upon the following
terms and conditions.
         (a)   The payment of the occupation tax levied pursuant to this
section shall be in quarterly payments, using the calendar quarter as a basis
for determining and computing the quarterly amount of tax payable. Each
quarter’s payment shall be due 45 days after the termination of each calendar
quarter.
         (b)   The occupation tax levied on such telephone companies shall be
paid to the Finance Director at the time herein provided and the amount of
payment shall be credited by the Finance Director to the General Fund.
         (c)   All telephone companies shall, at the time they make their
payments of the occupation tax levied pursuant to the provisions hereof, file
with the Finance Director a full, complete and detailed statement of the gross
receipts subject to such occupation tax, which statement shall be duly verified
and sworn to by the manager in charge of the business of the particular company
in the city or by a higher managerial employee of such company.
         (d)   Each succeeding payment of the occupation tax levied pursuant to
the provisions hereof may include any adjustment which is shown on the report
provided for herein, which may be necessary for the consideration of
uncollectibles or any other matters which may have resulted in either an excess
or a deficiency in the amount of tax paid in any previous quarter.
         (e)   At all times during reasonable business hours, the city shall
have the right to inspect, through its officers, agents or representatives, the
books and records of any telephone company for the purpose of verifying any
report submitted pursuant to the provisions hereof.
(Prior Code, § 111.01) (Ord. 05-23, passed 3-21-2005; Ord. 20-14, passed 9-8-
2020)
§ 111.02 OCCUPATION TAX ON LIQUOR LICENSES.
   (A)   For the purpose of raising revenue within the city, an occupation tax
is hereby levied upon the businesses that are required to obtain any class of
annual license from the state’s Liquor Control Commission. The amount of this
occupation tax shall be double the amount of the annual license fee amount that
is set by Neb. Rev. Stat. Chapter 53 and the state’s Liquor Control Commission.
   (B)   The license holder shall also be assessed a fee as set by resolution.
If the Clerk is not notified in a timely manner by a license holder that said
license holder does not want to obtain a renewal license, the license holder
shall be responsible to reimburse the city for such actual publication costs
and administrative fees expended by the city regarding such license.
   (C)   (1)   Such occupation tax shall be paid to the City Clerk at the time
the license is issued together with publication costs and administrative fees
that are assessed in conjunction with obtaining the license.
      (2)   The occupation tax years shall commence on May 1 of each year and
end April 30 of the succeeding year on all classifications of liquor licenses
except Class C licenses. The occupation tax for Class C licenses shall commence
on November 1 of each year and end on October 31 of the succeeding year.
   (D)   The annual occupation tax for all licenses shall be reduced by any
full quarterly periods that have lapsed at the time the license is issued. All
occupation tax and costs shall be paid prior to the issuance of license.
(Prior Code, § 111.02) (Ord. 05-15, passed 3-7-2005; Ord. 07-18, passed 9-17-
2007; Ord. 21-29, passed 10-4-2021)
§ 111.03 OCCUPATION TAX ON GARBAGE/REFUSE COLLECTORS.
   (A)   (1)   An occupation tax in the amount of $27 is hereby imposed:
         (a)   On each ton of garbage and refuse collected by a licensed
garbage/refuse collector within the corporate limits of the city; and
         (b)   On each ton of garbage and refuse collected by a licensed
garbage/refuse collector outside the limits of the city and deposited in the
city’s solid waste transfer station.
      (2)   The occupation tax authorized herein shall be exclusively used for
funding solid waste management programs, including the payment of principal and
interest on revenue bonds issued by
the city.
   (B)   Each licensed garbage/refuse collector shall, not later than the first
of the month immediately following the city’s monthly billing statement, remit
to the City Clerk payment of occupation taxes due and owing from the previous
calendar month.
   (C)   All garbage and refuse collected by licensed garbage/refuse collectors
within the corporate limits, whether destined for deposit at the city’s solid
waste transfer station or for deposit elsewhere, shall, before leaving the
corporate limits of the city, be weighed at scales located at the city’s solid
waste transfer station or at such other scales approved by the Public Works
Department. Any garbage and refuse not being deposited at the city’s solid
waste transfer station, whether destined for deposit inside or outside of the
state, shall be weighed and the driver of the garbage/refuse vehicle shall be
provided with a certificate of weight which shall be displayed upon demand to
any police officer or community service technician of the city.
   (D)   The occupation tax provided herein shall not be imposed upon garbage
or refuse destined for deposit at any location outside of the state. The
garbage/refuse collector shall file a written and verified statement
identifying any tonnage which is claimed to be exempt under this division (D)
which specifically provides the tonnage, date and deposit location garbage or
refuse is deposited outside the state. Upon verification, the city shall refund
to the garbage/refuse collector the portion of the paid occupation tax which
was paid for out-of-state deposit.
   (E)   A collector’s license issued pursuant to §
50.15 of this code may be revoked or suspended by the City Council after a
hearing if the Public Works Department files a complaint with the City
Administrator alleging that a particular collector is not complying with the
terms of this section or in the event the City Clerk files a complaint with the
City Administrator alleging that a particular collector is not paying the
occupation taxes in a timely manner.
   (F)   Each licensed collector shall be required to notify the bonding
company which is providing the bond required of the collector under §
50.15 of this code and obtain the written confirmation of the bonding company
that the bond will cover the payment of the occupation taxes to the extent of
the bond.
(Prior Code, § 111.03) (Ord. 06-18, passed 6-19-2006; Ord. 08-24, passed 9-2-
2008; Ord. 10-26, passed 9-7-2010)
LODGING FACILITY TAX
§ 111.15 PURPOSE.
   Pursuant to the authority of Neb. Rev. Stat. § 16-205, the city finds,
determines and declares that it is appropriate that a tax be imposed on all
lodgings facilities as herein defined for the purposes of raising revenues. The
foregoing determination is made with due consideration of business in the city
and the relation of business to the municipal welfare, together with relation
thereof to expenditures required by the city, and with consideration of just,
proper and equitable distribution of the tax burdens within the city and other
properly associated matters. This tax to be imposed on all lodging facilities
as herein defined is for the intent of raising revenues for the operation of
city park and recreation facilities.
(Ord. 22-19, passed 10-3-2022)
§ 111.16 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicated or required a different meaning.
   LODGING FACILITY. Any commercial, nonprofit or state-owned facility where
the public may obtain sleeping accommodations for payment. This term includes
any hotel, motel, tourist lodging facility, courts, campground (charges for RV
pads or tent sites), inn or short-term rentals (rentals for a period of not
longer than 30 days). LODGING FACILITY does not include the portion of a health
care facility (licensed under the Health Care Facility Licensure Act), which
provides rooms, lodging or sleeping accommodations for a charge; or a facility
operated by an approved educational institution used to house students.
   PERSON. Any natural person, individual, partnership, association,
organization or corporation of any kind or character engaging in the business
of operating a lodging facility.
   ROOM. Any space ordinarily used for sleeping accommodations and for which
any occupant has, for consideration, obtained the use or possession, or the
right to use or possess, for a period not to exceed 30 contiguous days. The
term shall include camping space, trailer space or recreational vehicle space.
The term does not include a function room such as a ballroom, banquet room,
reception room or meeting room, provided it is not used as temporary sleeping
accommodations, nor for complimentary or other sleeping accommodations for
which no consideration is charged or for sleeping accommodations for which the
consideration is paid by a person not subject to the sales and use tax imposed
by the Nebraska Revenue Act of 1967.
   TAXPAYER. Any person engaged in the lodging business herein defined who is
required to pay the tax herein imposed.
   TOTAL CONSIDERATION CHARGED FOR OCCUPANCY. Any and all charges that are
subject to the lodging tax under the Nebraska Visitors Development Act, Neb.
Rev. Stat. §§ 81-1,245 et seq. excluding the city’s lodging facility occupation
tax.
(Ord. 22-19, passed 10-3-2022)
§ 111.17 TAX IMPOSED; COLLECTION OF TAX.
   (A)   Each person engaged in the business of operating a lodging facility in
the city shall pay an occupancy tax in the amount of 4% of the lodging
consideration charged for occupancy per occupied room per night.
   (B)   The tax imposed by this chapter shall be collected by the lodging
facility operator from the occupant of each room to which the tax applies. The
tax imposed by this chapter may be shown as an add-on to the charge for
occupancy of the rooms and shall be collectible at the time the lodging is
furnished, regardless of when the charge for the occupancy is paid. The lodging
facility operator shall remain responsible for payment of all taxes imposed,
whether or not the taxes are actually collected from the guests.
(Ord. 22-19, passed 10-3-2022)
§ 111.18 RETURN.
   Each and every person engaged in the business of operating a lodging
facility within the city for the calendar month beginning December 2022, and
for each and every month thereafter, shall prepare and file, on or before the
twenty-fifth day of the following month on a form prescribed and furnished by
the city, a return for the taxable calendar month, and at the same time to pay
to the city the tax herein imposed. The return shall be verified and sworn to
by an owner or officer of the business. The return shall be considered filed on
time if mailed with payment enclosed in an envelope properly addressed to the
city’s Finance Department, postage prepaid and postmarked before midnight of
the twenty-fifth of the appropriate month. If the city offers online filing,
the return will also be considered filed on time if filed online and electronic
payment submitted to the city by midnight of the twenty-fifth of the
appropriate month.
(Ord. 22-19, passed 10-3-2022)
§ 111.19 TAX CUMULATIVE.
   The levy of tax under this subchapter is in addition to all other fees,
taxes, excises and licenses levied and imposed under any contract or any other
provisions of this code or ordinances of the city, in addition to any fee, tax,
excise or license imposed by the state. Payment of the tax imposed by this
subchapter shall not relieve the person paying the same from payment of any
other tax now or hereafter imposed by contract or ordinance or by this code of
ordinances, including those imposed for any business or occupation he or she
may carry on, unless so provided therein. The occupational taxes imposed by
this code of ordinances shall be cumulative except where otherwise specifically
provided.
(Ord. 22-19, passed 10-3-2022)
§ 111.20 FAILURE TO FILE RETURN; DELINQUENCY; ASSESSMENT BY FINANCE DIRECTOR.
   (A)   If any person neglects or refuses to file a return or make a payment
of the taxes as required by this chapter, the Finance Director shall make an
estimate, based upon such information as may be reasonably available, of the
amount of taxes due for the period or periods for which the taxpayer is
delinquent, and upon the basis of such estimated amount, compute and assess in
addition thereto a penalty equal or 2% per month or fraction thereof from date
when due, together with interest on such delinquent taxes at the rate of 1% per
month or fraction thereof from the date when due.
   (B)   The Finance Director shall give the delinquent taxpayer written notice
of such estimated taxes, penalty and interest, which notice must be served
personally or by certified mail.
   (C)   Such estimate shall thereupon become an assessment, and such
assessment shall be final and due and payable from the taxpayer to the Finance
Director ten days from the date of service of the notice or the date of mailing
by certified mail; however, within such ten-day period the delinquent taxpayer
may petition the Finance Director for a revision or modification of such
assessment and shall, within such ten-day period, furnish the Finance Director
the facts and correct figures showing the correct amount of such taxes.
   (D)   Such petition shall be in writing, and the facts and figures submitted
shall be submitted in writing and shall be given under oath of the taxpayer.
   (E)   The Finance Director may then modify such assessment in accordance
with the facts which he or she deems correct. Such adjusted assessment shall be
made in writing, and notice thereof shall be mailed to the taxpayer within ten
days; and all such decisions shall become final upon the expiration of 30 days
from the date of service, unless proceedings are commenced within that time for
appeal in the District Court.
   (F)   It shall be an offense for any person to fail to file a return or make
payment of the taxes as required by this subchapter.
(Ord. 22-19, passed 10-3-2022) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.21 ADMINISTRATION; MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS.
   (A)   The administration of the provisions of this chapter are hereby vested
in the Finance Director, or his or her designee, who shall prescribe forms in
conformity with this chapter for the making of returns, for the ascertainment,
assessment and collection of the tax imposed hereunder, and for the proper
administration and enforcement hereof.
   (B)   All notices required to be given to the taxpayer under the provisions
of this chapter shall be in writing. Notices shall be mailed by registered or
certified mail, postage prepaid, return receipt requested, to the taxpayer at
his or her last known address.
   (C)   It shall be the duty of every taxpayer to keep and preserve suitable
records and other books or accounts as may be necessary to determine the amount
of tax for which he or she is liable hereunder.
      (1)   Records of the gross revenue by which the tax is measured shall be
kept separate and apart from the records of other sales or receipts in order to
facilitate the examination of books and records as necessary for the collection
of the tax.
      (2)   (a)   It shall be the duty of every such taxpayer to keep and
preserve for a period of three years all such books, invoices and other
records, which shall be open for examination at any time by the Finance
Director or his or her duly designated persons.
         (b)   If such taxpayer keeps or maintains the books, invoices,
accounts or other records, or any part thereof, outside of the state, upon
demand of the Finance Director such taxpayer shall make the same available at a
suitable place within the city, to be designated by the Finance Director, for
examination, inspection and audit by the Finance Director or his or her duly
authorized persons.
         (c)   The taxpayer shall reimburse the city for the reasonable costs
of the examination, inspection and audit if the Finance Director determines
that the taxpayer paid 90% or less of the tax owing for the period of the
examination.
      (3)   The Finance Director, in his or her discretion, may make, permit or
cause to be made the examination, inspection or audit of books, invoices,
accounts or other records so kept or maintained by such taxpayer outside of the
state at the place where same are kept or maintained or at any place outside
the state where the same may be made available, provided such taxpayer shall
have entered into a binding agreement with the city to reimburse it for all
costs and expenses incurred by it in order to have such examination, inspection
or audit made it such place.
   (D)   For the purpose of ascertaining the correctness of a return, or for
the purpose of determining the amount of tax due from any taxpayer, the Finance
Director or his or her duly authorized persons, may conduct investigations
concerning any matters covered by this chapter; and may examine any relevant
books, papers, records or memoranda of any such taxpayer.
(Ord. 22-19, passed 10-3-2022) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.22 RIGHT OF CITY TO SUE.
   In case any lodging facility shall fail to make payment of the occupation
tax provided for by this subchapter at the time specified for such payment, the
city shall have the right to sue any such company in any court of competent
jurisdiction for the amount of such occupation tax due and payable under the
terms and provisions of this subchapter and may recover judgment against any
such company for such amount so due, together with interest and penalties, and
may have execution thereon.
(Ord. 22-19, passed 10-3-2022) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 112: ALCOHOL REGULATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
112.01   Right of entry
   
112.02   Appeal
Regulations
   
112.15   Consumption; where prohibited; exceptions
   
112.16   Sale at retail; hours
Entertainment Districts
   
112.30   Intent
   
112.31   Definitions
   
112.32   Entertainment district designation and commons area permit
   
112.33   Licensure
   
112.34   Requirements and regulations
   
112.35   Modification of entertainment districts
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 112.01 RIGHT OF ENTRY.
   All police officers of this city are hereby authorized to enter at any time
upon the premises of any liquor licensee or applicant for a liquor license to
determine whether any laws and rules of the state, the state’s Liquor Control
Commission and the provisions of this code have been or are being violated and
at such time to examine sufficiently the premises.
(Prior Code, § 112.01)
§ 112.02 APPEAL.
   Any order or action by the City Council revoking or refusing to revoke a
retail liquor license or refusing to grant a hearing upon a complaint to revoke
the license may, within 15 days after notice of the order or action, be
appealed from by the holder of the retail license, three or more persons who
are residents of the city or any person interested, to the state’s Liquor
Control Commission.
(Prior Code, § 112.02) (Ord. 2216, passed 9-1-1971)
REGULATIONS
§ 112.15 CONSUMPTION; WHERE PROHIBITED; EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   No person shall consume any alcoholic liquors in the city in or upon
property owned by the city, the state or any governmental subdivision thereof,
or in or upon any other property or place open to the public, or inside or on a
vehicle while in or upon the same, except on a premises for which a legal
license has been obtained for the consumption of the alcoholic liquors.
   (B)   Consumption of any alcoholic liquors in or upon property owned by the
city, the state or any governmental subdivision thereof, including public
buildings, public parks, streets, avenues, alleys, parking areas or roads may
be authorized after an applicant submits a special event permit application and
receives approval from the City Administrator, Fire Chief and Police Chief for
said permit allowing for alcohol consumption.
(Prior Code, § 112.15) (Ord. 2835, passed 2-1-1982; Ord. 01-20, passed 3-19-
2001; Ord. 21-29, passed 10-4-2021) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 112.16 SALE AT RETAIL; HOURS.
   (A)   (1)   It shall be unlawful for any licensed person(s) or his, her or
their agents to sell any alcoholic liquors, including beer and wine, at retail
or dispensed within the city, except during the following hours:
         (a)   Secular days: 6:00 a.m. to 1:00 a.m.; and
         (b)   Sundays: 6:00 a.m. to 1:00 a.m.
      (2)   Provided that the limitations shall not apply after 12:00 p.m. on
Sundays to a licensee that is a nonprofit corporation holding a license
pursuant to Neb. Rev. Stat. § 53-179(2).
   (B)   No person or persons shall consume any alcoholic beverages on licensed
premises for a period of time longer than 15 minutes after the time fixed
herein for stopping the sale of alcoholic beverages on the premises.
   (C)   Nothing in this section shall be construed to prohibit licensed
premises from being open for business on days and hours during which the sale
or dispensing of alcoholic beverages is prohibited by this section.
(Prior Code, § 112.16) (Ord. 91-42, passed 8-19-1991; Ord. 17-27, passed 1-2-
2018) Penalty, see §
10.99
ENTERTAINMENT DISTRICTS
§ 112.30 INTENT.
   The intent and purpose of the City Council in adopting and administering the
provisions of this subchapter on entertainment districts includes, but is not
limited to:
   (A)   Encouraging economic growth in areas near entertainment venues and
creating additional entertainment venues within the city by providing exciting,
vibrant and diverse restaurants, retail, housing and lodging that will support
and complement the entertainment venue;
   (B)   Providing for the regulation of areas designated as entertainment
district(s) and commons area(s) contained with the entertainment district(s);
and
   (C)   Protecting the health, safety and/or welfare of the public in said
entertainment district(s).
(Prior Code, § 112.20) (Ord. 21-29, passed 10-4-2021)
§ 112.31 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   COMMONS AREA. Shall have the same meaning as that which is set forth in Neb.
Rev. Stat. § 53-123.17, as may be amended from time to time.
   ENTERTAINMENT DISTRICT.
      (1)   An area of real property designated and permitted by the City
Council pursuant to this chapter whereby the City Council may approve commons
area(s) for events that qualify based on this chapter and Neb. Rev. Stat.
Chapter 53.
      (2)   The state’s Liquor Control Commission may issue annual
ENTERTAINMENT DISTRICT licenses to businesses to allow retail licensees, craft
brewery licensees, microdistillery licensees and holders of a manufacturer’s
license to share in the use of one or more commons areas.
(Prior Code, § 112.21) (Ord. 21-29, passed 10-4-2021)
§ 112.32 ENTERTAINMENT DISTRICT DESIGNATION AND COMMONS AREA PERMIT.
   Entertainment districts within the city shall be private in nature and shall
comply with the following permit and designation requirements.
   (A)   Private entertainment districts. The City Council may designate
private entertainment districts in which a commons area may be used by retail,
craft brewery and microdistillery licensees and holders of a manufacturer’s
license which obtain an entertainment district liquor license from the state’s
Liquor Control Commission.
   (B)   Commons area permit procedure.
      (1)   For establishment and use of a private entertainment district:
         (a)   Upon presentation of an entertainment district permit
application to the City Council a public hearing shall be held;
         (b)   The entertainment district permit application shall designate
the commons area;
         (c)   The public hearing shall be conducted informally, and the intent
is to inquire into the facts in a non-adversary nature. The hearing shall be
conducted according to the rules and procedures of the City Council, as they
may be amended from time to time; and
         (d)   If approved by a majority vote, the City Council shall designate
the real property described on the permit application as an entertainment
district and file such designation with the state’s Liquor Control Commission.
      (2)   The filing fee for each permit application shall be established by
resolution adopted by the City Council.
   (C)   Commons area(s) permit within designated entertainment districts. The
city shall establish and modify, as necessary, the requirements of utilizing an
entertainment district as a commons area within the special event permit
application.
(Prior Code, § 112.22) (Ord. 21-29, passed 10-4-2021; Ord. 23-01, passed 2-6-
2023)
§ 112.33 LICENSURE.
   (A)   Following approval of an entertainment district permit by the City
Council, and the designation of an area of real property as an entertainment
district, any retail licensees, craft brewery licensees, microdistillery
licensees and holders of a manufacturer’s license located within the
entertainment district may apply to the state’s Liquor Control Commission for
an entertainment district license. Such license shall be in addition to the
underlying liquor license already possessed by such applicant and shall be
issued for the same period and may be renewed in the same manner as the
underlying license.
   (B)   The annual occupation tax levied and assessed by the city upon all
businesses possessing an entertainment district license shall be as set forth
in this code.
(Prior Code, § 112.23) (Ord. 21-29, passed 10-4-2021)
§ 112.34 REQUIREMENTS AND REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Any entertainment district as designated by the City Council, must
meet all requirements and follow all regulations for such as outlined in Neb.
Rev. Stat. Chapter 53.
   (B)   The City Council may impose any condition, requirement or restriction
on the commons area to include, but not be limited to, boundaries, barriers,
access, design, types of business and uses, hours of operation and events.
   (C)   The city retains the right to regulate, not inconsistent with the
state’s Liquor Control Act, any area designated as an entertainment district
and to cancel and/or revoke an entertainment district permit/license for cause
(which shall include but not be limited to: Operating the entertainment
district in a manner that threatens the health, safety or welfare of the public
or has become a common nuisance). In the event that the City Council cancels
and/or revokes an entertainment district designation, such revocation shall be
filed with the state’s Liquor Control Commission.
(Prior Code, § 112.24) (Ord. 21-29, passed 10-4-2021; Ord. 23-02, passed 2-6-
2023)
§ 112.35 MODIFICATIONS OF ENTERTAINMENT DISTRICTS.
   For a private entertainment district, any proposed change to the dimensions
or location of the defined commons area as listed in an approved entertainment
district permit shall be submitted to the City Administrator for approval
before being undertaken. The City Administrator shall provide an approval,
approval with conditions or a denial within 30 business days of receiving such
request for an addition, modification or demolition.
(Prior Code, § 112.25) (Ord. 21-29, passed 10-4-2021; Ord. 23-01, passed 2-6-
2023)
CHAPTER 113: HOTELS
Section
   
113.01   Definition
   
113.02   Fire protection equipment
   
113.03   Inspection
   
113.04   Hotel register
   
113.05   Application to include plan
§ 113.01 DEFINITION.
   Every establishment maintained or advertised as a public lodging house,
hotel, bed and breakfast or motel shall be known as a HOTEL in this code.
(Prior Code, § 113.01)
§ 113.02 FIRE PROTECTION EQUIPMENT.
   The Fire Chief, or other officer designated by the Mayor and City Council,
shall survey each hotel and specify suitable fire detecting devices or
extinguishing appliances which shall be provided.
(Prior Code, § 113.02)
§ 113.03 INSPECTION.
   It shall be the duty of the Fire Chief or the Fire Chief’s designee, to make
periodic and regular inspections of every hotel.
(Prior Code, § 113.03)
§ 113.04 HOTEL REGISTER.
   A register shall be maintained at every hotel, and each guest shall be
required to register that guest’s name and home address. The date of arrival
and departure shall be clearly indicated, and the register shall be maintained
for a period of at least one year following registration. The register shall be
open for inspection to any authorized person, including Chief of Police, Fire
Chief and their designees.
(Prior Code, § 113.04) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 113.05 APPLICATION TO INCLUDE PLAN.
   (A)   Each application for a hotel shall be submitted to the Chief Building
and Code Inspector with a complete plan, including the plot plan and adjacent
buildings, parking arrangement and driveways, unit sizes, plumbing and heating
layout, accessory uses, materials to be used, front and rear elevations and
architectural design all in accordance with the current version of the Unified
Land Development Ordinance.
   (B)   The plumbing, heating and ventilation components of each hotel shall
meet all local Fire, Plumbing and Building Code requirements.
(Prior Code, § 113.05) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 114: BUILDING MOVING
Section
   
114.01   Definitions
   
114.02   Act prohibited
   
114.03   Jurisdiction
   
114.04   License required
   
114.05   Insurance required
   
114.06   Cancellation or termination of insurance
   
114.07   License suspension or revocation
   
114.08   Permit required
   
114.09   Permit fee required
   
114.10   Notice along moving route
   
114.11   Waiver of notice and publication
   
114.12   Required hearing notice and publication
   
114.13   Permit insurance
   
114.14   Standards for issuance of permit
   
114.15   Denial of permit
   
114.16   Building permit
   
114.17   Certificate of occupancy
   
114.18   Size of building; limitation
   
114.19   Interfering with trees
   
114.20   Cleaning premises
   
114.21   Utilities capped
   
114.22   Termination of moving permit
   
114.23   Expiration of moving permit
   
114.24   Duties of building mover
   
114.25   Newly constructed buildings
 
   
114.99   Penalty
§ 114.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BUILDING. A structure used or intended for supporting or sheltering any use
or occupancy, but does not include buildings under 120 square feet, trailers
and single-wide mobile homes.
   BUILDING MOVER. A person who engages in the business or in the act of moving
a building or buildings from one location to another.
(Prior Code, § 114.01) (Ord. 01-28, passed 5-7-2001; Ord. 17-03, passed 1-16-
2017)
§ 114.02 ACT PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to move or allow to be moved any
building into, out of, within or through the city without first securing a
permit from the city, or to engage in the business of moving buildings out of,
into, within or through the city unless being issued a license by the city.
(Prior Code, § 114.02) (Ord. 01-28, passed 5-7-2001; Ord. 17-03, passed 1-16-
2017) Penalty, see §
114.99
§ 114.03 JURISDICTION.
   The provisions of this chapter shall be applicable within the corporate
limits of the city and its two-mile extra-territorial jurisdiction as provided
by Neb. Rev. Stat. Chapter 14.
(Prior Code, § 114.03) (Ord. 01-28, passed 5-7-2001; Ord. 17-03, passed 1-16-
2017)
§ 114.04 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   Any person, before engaging in the business or occupation of building
moving, shall obtain a license as provided in this chapter. The license fee
shall be set by resolution. All such annual licenses shall be for a period of
one year, commencing May 1 of each year and expiring April 30 of the next
succeeding year. The building mover shall fully protect the city for damages
sustained to persons or property, resulting from the moving of any building or
parts thereof within the city and shall indemnify and keep the city harmless
from any and all suits, costs, judgments, exactions, executions and liabilities
as to personal injuries or property damage in connection with, or related to,
either directly or indirectly, any building move or the issuance of such
license. Before being granted a license, the building mover shall obtain and
furnish the City Clerk’s office with proof of insurance reflecting compliance
with §
114.05 of this code. Upon the license fee being paid to the City Clerk and,
upon providing proof of insurance as required herein, it shall be the duty of
the City Clerk to issue such license.
(Prior Code, § 114.04) (Ord. 01-28, passed 5-7-2001; Ord. 17-03, passed 1-16-
2017; Ord. 18-03, passed 2-5-2018) Penalty, see §
114.99
§ 114.05 INSURANCE REQUIRED.
   Before being granted a moving license, the building mover shall place on
file with the City Clerk’s office proof of insurance. The insurance shall be
public liability with the amount as set by resolution and the city as an
additional named insured. Any license issued under the provisions of this
chapter shall be revoked should the building mover’s insurance policy expire or
lapse. All certificates of insurance policies shall be reviewed by the City
Attorney as to form.
(Prior Code, § 114.05) (Ord. 01-28, passed 5-7-2001; Ord. 17-03, passed 1-16-
2017; Ord. 18-03, passed 2-5-2018) Penalty, see §
114.99
§ 114.06 CANCELLATION OR TERMINATION OF INSURANCE.
   Whenever any insurance policy required by the provisions of §
114.05 of this code is canceled or terminated for any reason, the general
license of the building mover shall terminate unless the building mover shall
immediately furnish a new policy in compliance with §
114.05 of this code. In such a situation, the building mover shall surrender
the building mover’s license and shall cease the conduct of the business until
a new insurance policy is furnished as required by this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 114.06) (Ord. 01-28, passed 5-7-2001; Ord. 17-03, passed 1-16-
2017) Penalty, see §
114.99
§ 114.07 LICENSE SUSPENSION OR REVOCATION.
   A license issued under the provisions of §
114.04 of this code can be suspended or revoked by the city if in its opinion
the licensee has demonstrated, through multiple violations, that the licensee
is not capable or willing to comply with the requirements of this chapter. The
length of suspension shall be based on the severity and frequency of documented
violations.
(Prior Code, § 114.07) (Ord. 01-28, passed 5-7-2001; Ord. 17-03, passed 1-16-
2017) Penalty, see §
114.99
§ 114.08 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   (A)   Before moving any building out of, into, within or through the city,
except wholly upon private property, a permit shall be obtained by the building
mover and owner of the building, by making application upon a form furnished by
the Building Department for filing with the City Clerk. The application shall
be signed by the building mover and owner of the building and include the
following information:
      (1)   A description of the building and the address and legal description
of its current location;
      (2)   The location of the lot to which the building is to be moved
including its address and legal description;
      (3)   A detailed description or map of the proposed route over which the
building is to be moved;
      (4)   The date and approximate time that the building will be moved,
along with the length of time required for moving;
      (5)   Owner of the building;
      (6)   A certificate from the County Treasurer showing that all taxes and
special assessments then due against the building and lot on which it stands
have been paid;
      (7)   How and by whom the building is to be moved;
      (8)   Use of building at new site;
      (9)   A photograph of the building;
      (10)   Such additional information as may be requested by the city; and
      (11)   Request to exceed height limitation, if applicable.
   (B)   In addition, the following documents must accompany the application:
      (1)   A signed statement from all utility companies and also from any
railroad or other utility company that has lines crossing the proposed route
acknowledging that they have been notified of the move and that the move meets
with their approval. If the move will interfere with the utility company, the
signed statement must contain the nature and duration of the interference and
the portions of the city to be affected;
      (2)   Certification from the Police Chief or designee that the Chief or
designee has reviewed the date, time and route along with any recommendations
for the move;
      (3)   Verification that the Chief Building and Code Inspector has
inspected the building to determine the feasibility of moving it and compliance
with this chapter and the Building Code once relocated, and that following such
inspection the Chief Building and Code Inspector, or his or her designee, as
approved the building for the move subject to a list of what, if any, changes,
alterations or corrections need to be made to the building once relocated. The
building permit obtained for the relocated building shall require the list of
changes, alterations or corrections to be complied with;
      (4)   Verification that the Chief Building and Code Inspector, or his or
her designee, has ascertained that the size, condition, proposed use and
proposed construction alterations are in accordance with the zoning regulations
of the city;
      (5)   Verification that a building permit has been applied for and
approved for the relocated building;
      (6)   Proof that the insurance required under this chapter has been
obtained; and
      (7)   A signed statement from a tree service insured and registered with
the city as provided in §
96.11 of this code stating that any needed trimming of trees or shrubbery will
not damage or otherwise disturb the trees or shrubbery and, if applicable, the
signed consent required by §
114.19 of this code.
   (C)   (1)   The application shall be submitted to the City Clerk along with
the required fee at least 21 calendar days before the Planning Commission
meeting at which the application will be considered. The City Clerk shall then
schedule the application for public hearings before the Planning Commission and
City Council. The Chief Building and Code Inspector will report on the
application for a moving permit to the Planning Commission, which shall
investigate the matter.
      (2)   The Planning Commission, after the ten days’ notice and publication
requirements of §
114.12 of this code, have been complied with, shall hold a public hearing and
following the public hearing, shall make a recommendation to the City Council
that the permit be granted or denied. The City Council, after the ten-day
notice and publication requirements of §
114.12 of this code have been complied with, shall hold a public hearing, and
following such public hearing shall grant or deny the permit.
(Prior Code, § 114.08) (Ord. 01-28, passed 5-7-2001; Ord. 17-03, passed 1-16-
2017) Penalty, see §
114.99
§ 114.09 PERMIT FEE REQUIRED.
   Each application for a moving permit shall be accompanied by a fee as set by
resolution.
(Prior Code, § 114.09) (Ord. 90-64, passed 12-17-1990; Ord. 01-28, passed 5-7-
2001; Ord. 17-03, passed 1-16-2017)
§ 114.10 NOTICE ALONG MOVING ROUTE.
   (A)   Prior to the actual move of a building, the applicant for such moving
permit shall provide notice of the move by publication in a daily newspaper
having a general circulation in the city in a form as provided for in the
permit application. The notice shall be published at least seven days before
the scheduled move and shall contain the designated moving route and include
notification that electrical power to the businesses or residences along the
moving route may be affected by the move. The notice shall contain the name,
address and telephone number of the following: The building owner; the building
mover; and the utility companies. The notice shall also set forth the date of
the move, an alternate date for such move and a time frame within which the
move is to take place.
   (B)   The applicant shall be responsible for filing an affidavit of
publication provided by the Columbus Telegram with the City Clerk. The
affidavit shall be filed before the move commences and shall verify that the
notice requirement of this section has been complied with.
(Prior Code, § 114.10) (Ord. 01-28, passed 5-7-2001; Ord. 17-03, passed 1-16-
2017) Penalty, see §
114.99
§ 114.11 WAIVER OF NOTICE AND PUBLICATION.
   In the event the building to be moved is a structure of less than 600 square
feet and not to be used for human occupancy, the City Council may in its
discretion waive the notice requirements of this chapter and the requirement
for public hearings and grant or deny the application. If such waiver is
granted, all other provisions of this chapter shall remain applicable to the
applicant.
(Prior Code, § 114.11) (Ord. 01-28, passed 5-7-2001; Ord. 17-03, passed 1-16-
2017)
§ 114.12 REQUIRED HEARING NOTICE AND PUBLICATION.
   Prior to consideration of a building moving application by the Planning
Commission and City Council, notice of public hearings before the Planning
Commission and City Council shall be provided as follows.
   (A)   Posted notice.
      (1)   Notices shall be posted in a conspicuous place on or near the
property to which the house or building is to be moved to (unless it is being
moved outside the city) and on or near the building to be moved at least ten
days prior to the dates of such public hearings. Each notice shall not be less
than 18 inches in height and 24 inches in width, with black letters of not less
than one and one-half inches in height on yellow or white background. Such
posted notice shall be so placed upon such premises that it is easily visible
from the street nearest the same.
      (2)   It shall be the duty of the applicant to make sure the signs are
laminated or otherwise protected from the weather so that they remain visible
and legible for the ten-day period. It shall be unlawful for anyone to remove,
mutilate, destroy or change such posted notice prior to such hearing. It shall
be the responsibility of the applicant to make sure the signs remain posted for
the ten-day period of time and in the event any sign is removed, mutilated,
destroyed or changed, it shall be the duty of the applicant to promptly post a
new sign for the remainder of the ten-day period.
   (B)   Notice by publication. At least ten days before the date of the
hearing, the City Clerk, at the expense of the applicant, shall have published
in a daily newspaper having a general circulation in the city a notice of the
time, place and subject matter of such hearing. The notice shall also contain
the designated moving route.
   (C)   Notice by personal service or mail. The applicant for such moving
permit shall either personally serve or mail to the owners of all real estate
within 300 feet of the real estate onto which the building is to be moved a
written notice of the requested moving permit, setting forth the legal
description and address of the location of the property onto which the building
is to be moved, along with the date, time and place of such hearing at least
ten days prior to the date of such hearing.
   (D)   Affidavit of compliance. The applicant shall be responsible for filing
with the City Clerk on the date of the hearing an affidavit of hearing notice
compliance. The affidavit shall verify that all notice requirements of this
section have been complied with. The affidavit shall be submitted on a form
approved by the city.
(Prior Code, § 114.12) (Ord. 01-28, passed 5-7-2001; Ord. 17-03, passed 1-16-
2017) Penalty, see §
114.99
§ 114.13 PERMIT INSURANCE.
   A certificate of liability insurance in the amount of $1,000,000 and listing
the city as an additional insured shall be filed by the building mover with the
Chief Building and Code Inspector prior to a building moving permit being
issued.
(Prior Code, § 114.13) (Ord. 01-28, passed 5-7-2001; Ord. 17-03, passed 1-16-
2017) Penalty, see §
114.99
§ 114.14 STANDARDS FOR ISSUANCE OF PERMIT.
   No permit shall be issued for moving a building without giving consideration
to the following circumstances and conditions:
   (A)   The traffic hazards involved;
   (B)   Whether the route over which such structure may be moved will cause
exceptional hazard(s) to persons or property;
   (C)   The structural conditions of streets, alleys and public property
proposed to be used;
   (D)   The condition and appearance of the building to be moved and any
injurious effects upon the neighborhood to which it is to be moved;
   (E)   Architectural similarity and dissimilarity with other existing
buildings or structures in the neighborhood to which it is to be moved;
   (F)   Whether the building to be moved is substandard to the buildings and
structures in the neighborhood to which it is to be moved;
   (G)   Whether the building, when completed, will be compatible with and will
not depreciate the surrounding properties;
   (H)   Impact on trees along the route of the move and whether significant
trimming is needed to trees or shrubbery situated on city property or city
right-of-way; and
   (I)   Impact on the city, its businesses or residents concerning any
interruption or interference with utilities and/or services.
(Prior Code, § 114.14) (Ord. 01-28, passed 5-7-2001; Ord. 17-03, passed 1-16-
2017)
§ 114.15 DENIAL OF PERMIT.
   No specific permit for the moving of a building shall be recommended for
approval by the Planning Commission or approved by the City Council if any of
the following conditions exist:
   (A)   The application does not contain all information and accompanying
documents required by §
114.08 of this code;
   (B)   The move requires trimming of trees or shrubbery situated on private
property for which written consent has not been obtained from all owners;
   (C)   Applicable ordinances of the city would be violated by the building in
its new location;
   (D)   The moving equipment is unsafe and persons or property would be
endangered by its use;
   (E)   The building is too large to move without endangering persons or
property;
   (F)   The building is structurally unsafe or unfit for the purpose for which
it is to be used;
   (G)   There has not been compliance with the requirements for the fee,
payments, bond, insurance or other requirements of this chapter;
   (H)   The building, regardless of size, is in such a state of deterioration
or disrepair or is otherwise so structurally unsafe that it could not be moved
without endangering persons or property;
   (I)   It is proposed to move the building to a location on which a similar
building would be in violation of the zoning ordinances and requirements of the
city relating to such building, unless a variance has been granted by the
appropriate board;
   (J)   The building or structure to be moved is or has been infested with
termites or other destructive insects which would endanger life or property by
moving the building;
   (K)   The building to be moved is in such condition or age that it has
depreciated more than 50% of a similar new building; however, any building may
be moved if it has been well maintained and is in an excellent state of
preservation and meets the requirements of this chapter and is approved by the
Chief Building and Code Inspector; or
   (L)   For any other reason persons or property in the city would be
endangered by the moving of the building.
(Prior Code, § 114.15) (Ord. 01-28, passed 5-7-2001; Ord. 17-03, passed 1-16-
2017)
§ 114.16 BUILDING PERMIT.
   (A)   No building shall be moved into or moved and relocated within the city
without first having obtained a building permit for the placement of the
building at the new location as required by § 12-6 of the Unified Land
Development Ordinance, copies of which are available for public inspection at
the office of the City Clerk during regular city business hours.
   (B)   All building permits issued hereunder shall require compliance with
the Building Code, Zoning Code and all other applicable ordinances and laws.
(Prior Code, § 114.16) (Ord. 01-28, passed 5-7-2001; Ord. 17-03, passed 1-16-
2017) Penalty, see §
114.99
§ 114.17 CERTIFICATE OF OCCUPANCY.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to use or occupy or permit the use or
occupancy of any building which has been moved without having obtained a
certificate of occupancy. All moved buildings shall be subject to and governed
by § 12-6 of the Unified Land Development Ordinance, copies of which are
available for public inspection at the office of the City Clerk during regular
city business hours.
(Prior Code, § 114.17) (Ord. 01-28, passed 5-7-2001; Ord. 17-03, passed 1-16-
2017) Penalty, see §
114.99
§ 114.18 SIZE OF BUILDING; LIMITATION.
   No permit shall be issued to move any building if any part thereof has a
loaded height in excess of 18 feet or if any part thereof, at its greatest
width, including eaves or any other extension of the building, is wider than
the narrowest street or road on the designated route. The street or road width
shall be defined as its maintained surface. If the building height exceeds such
measurements, a request to exceed the height limitations shall be submitted
along with the application for a moving permit. The notices required under §
114.12 of this code shall include the proposed request to exceed the height
limitation and shall set forth the loaded height of the building to be moved.
After public hearings before, the Planning Commission and City Council each
such body shall take such action as set forth in §
114.08 of this code. The Planning Commission, Mayor and City Council shall take
into consideration those factors set forth in §§
114.14 and
114.15 of this code.
(Prior Code, § 114.18) (Ord. 01-28, passed 5-7-2001; Ord. 17-03, passed 1-16-
2017) Penalty, see §
114.99
§ 114.19 INTERFERING WITH TREES.
   If trees along the proposed route located on city property must be trimmed,
this work shall be done under the supervision of a tree service insured and
registered with the city as provided in §
96.11 of this code. It shall be unlawful for any person to cut or temporarily
bend any limb or branch of any tree located on private property for the purpose
of obtaining passageway for a building unless that person shall have first
obtained the approval and consent, in writing, of the property owner(s). All
cutting or temporary displacing in any manner of any tree, shrubbery or parts
of trees shall be done by a tree service insured and registered with the city
as provided in §
96.11 of this code. The expense created by trimming and pruning trees or
shrubbery to provide a passageway for moving a building shall be the
responsibility of the building mover or building owner.
(Prior Code, § 114.19) (Ord. 01-28, passed 5-7-2001; Ord. 17-03, passed 1-16-
2017) Penalty, see §
114.99
§ 114.20 CLEANING PREMISES.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any building mover to move any building or
structure in such a manner that there shall remain holes or depressions
dangerous to life and limb, or to allow debris or rubbish to remain after the
moving of a building or structure.
   (B)   (1)   When a building has been moved from a lot for the purpose of
erecting thereon another building or structure, the Building Department may
permit the owner of such property to maintain for a period not to exceed 15
days any remaining hole or depression; provided, however, that such hole or
depression is maintained in a safe and sanitary condition and kept free of all
rubbish and debris of any nature.
      (2)   Such hole or depression shall be surrounded and protected by strong
and suitable barricades or fencing not less than three and one-half feet in
height and maintained in a sound and proper condition.
   (C)   The property owner shall properly fill such holes and depressions at
the termination of such 15-day period and periodically thereafter to correct
any settling and shall maintain the same at ground level unless building
operations have commenced thereon.
(Prior Code, § 114.20) (Ord. 01-28, passed 5-7-2001; Ord. 17-03, passed 1-16-
2017) Penalty, see §
114.99
§ 114.21 UTILITIES CAPPED.
   (A)   The property owner shall have water and sewer properly disconnected
and capped at the main by a licensed plumber within five days from the date the
building has been moved off the property.
   (B)   All other utilities shall be property capped. The property owner shall
contact the Public Works Department for inspection thereof.
(Prior Code, § 114.21) (Ord. 01-28, passed 5-7-2001; Ord. 17-03, passed 1-16-
2017) Penalty, see §
114.99
§ 114.22 TERMINATION OF MOVING PERMIT.
   (A)   The applicant shall comply with all orders given the applicant by the
Building Department, Public Works Department and Police Department relative to
the manner in which a building is moved on any portion of any street or other
public ground.
   (B)   The failure to comply with the lawful orders of the representative
from either the Building Department, Public Works Department or Police
Department shall terminate the moving permit immediately.
(Prior Code, § 114.22) (Ord. 01-28, passed 5-7-2001; Ord. 17-03, passed 1-16-
2017) Penalty, see §
114.99
§ 114.23 EXPIRATION OF MOVING PERMIT.
   When work for which a permit has been issued under the provisions of this
chapter has not been started within 180 days or completed within 365 days from
the date of issuance, the permit shall become null and void. No further work
authorized by the permit shall be done until a new permit has been paid for and
obtained.
(Prior Code, § 114.23) (Ord. 01-28, passed 5-7-2001; Ord. 17-03, passed 1-16-
2017) Penalty, see §
114.99
§ 114.24 DUTIES OF BUILDING MOVER.
   Every building mover under this chapter shall:
   (A)   Move a building only over streets, alleys or other public grounds
designated for such use in the written permit;
   (B)   Obtain any necessary permits from the state’s Department of Roads
(Neb. Rev. Stat. § 60-6,299), as well as from any railroads affected by the
move;
   (C)   Notify the Chief Building and Code Inspector in writing of a desired
change in moving date and hours as proposed in the application;
   (D)   Notify the Chief Building and Code Inspector in writing of any and all
damage done to any property within 24 hours after the damage or injury has
occurred;
   (E)   Remove the building from the city streets after sunset, unless an
extension is granted by the Chief Building and Code Inspector and Chief of
Police;
   (F)   Pay any expense incurred by the city incidental to or as a result of
the move, including but not limited to, the expense of any traffic officer(s)
or police escorts;
   (G)   Pay the cost of removing or altering any wiring, cable or other
utility service;
   (H)   Properly plank, where needed, such portions of any street, alley or
public ground over which any building or other structure is to be moved so as
not to damage or injure the pavement, curbs or sidewalks thereof;
   (I)   Provide personnel to warn the public if and when any wires, ropes or
cables are extending across streets and alleys or public grounds so that the
public will not be injured thereby; and
   (J)   Exercise due care at all times to protect the public from injury or
accidents.
(Prior Code, § 114.24) (Ord. 01-28, passed 5-7-2001; Ord. 17-03, passed 1-16-
2017) Penalty, see §
114.99
§ 114.25 NEWLY CONSTRUCTED BUILDINGS.
   All newly constructed buildings which are partially assembled away from the
site of erection and are moved to the site of erection are not considered to be
moving buildings under the terms of this code, provided that the assembled
portions do not exceed 12 feet in width, 24 feet in length and 18 feet in
loaded height. The route of travel in moving of partially constructed buildings
to the site of erection must be approved by the Public Works Department.
(Prior Code, § 114.25) (Ord. 88-4, passed 4-4-1988; Ord. 01-28, passed 5-7-
2001; Ord. 17-03, passed 1-16-2017) Penalty, see §
114.99
§ 114.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Whoever violates any provision of this chapter for which no specific
penalty is provided shall be punished as set forth in §
10.99.
   (B)   Restitution may be ordered to any victim as a part of any sentence or
judgment imposed by any court.
(Prior Code, § 114.99) (Ord. 01-28, passed 5-7-2001)
CHAPTER 115: CABLE TELEVISION FRANCHISE
Section
General Provisions
   
115.01   Purpose
   
115.02   Definitions
   
115.03   Parent control mechanism
   
115.04   Restoration of a subscriber’s property
   
115.05   Preservation of public ways and private property and required
restoration
   
115.06   Construction standards
   
115.07   Systematic records to be appropriately maintained
   
115.08   Confidentiality
   
115.09   State of the art review and modification
   
115.10   System expansion
   
115.11   Permits and licenses
   
115.12   Contractor qualifications
   
115.13   Emergency alert system; standby power
   
115.14   Preventative maintenance program
   
115.15   Removal of facilities
   
115.16   Inter-governmental cooperation
   
115.17   Tampering and unauthorized reception of certain signals
Franchise Conditions
   
115.30   Franchise required
   
115.31   Franchise non-exclusive
   
115.32   Franchise agreement; minimal requirements
   
115.33   Extent of grant of franchise
   
115.34   Franchise term
   
115.35   Franchise application; fee
   
115.36   Franchise fees
   
115.37   Regulatory rates
   
115.38   Assignment of franchise
   
115.39   Educational and governmental access
   
115.40   Public service
   
115.41   Technical standards
   
115.42   Default
   
115.43   Federal legislation, rules and regulations; franchise subject to
amendment
Administration and Enforcement
   
115.55   Administration
   
115.56   Applicant cable operator
   
115.57   Notices
   
115.58   Indemnity
   
115.59   Liability insurance
   
115.60   Performance bond
   
115.61   Furnishing of reports
   
115.62   Books and records
   
115.63   Customer service standards
   
115.64   Cable Television Advisory Board
 
   
115.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 115.01 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to:
   (A)   Establish a local policy concerning cable television;
   (B)   Establish franchise procedures and standards which encourage the
growth and development of cable systems which assure that cable systems are
responsive to the needs and interests of the city;
   (C)   Establish guidelines for the exercise of local authority with respect
to the regulation of cable systems;
   (D)   Establish an orderly process for franchise renewal which protects
cable operators against unfair denials of renewal where an operator’s past
performance and proposal for future performance meet or exceed the standards
set by federal law and this chapter;
   (E)   Promote competition in cable communications and minimize unnecessary
regulations that would impose undue burdens on cable systems;
   (F)   Create a set of regulations, standards and procedures for cable
operators;
   (G)   Create a comprehensive customer service and consumer protection policy
for cable operators;
   (H)   Provide for access and inspection of a cable operator’s books and
records in order to monitor compliance with local, state and federal laws and
any franchise agreement;
   (I)   Provide a thorough construction and installation policy for a cable
operator’s system;
   (J)   Provide for the health, safety and welfare of the citizens of the city
in light of the cable operator’s construction, operation and maintenance;
   (K)   Provide for emergency override capability, so that citizens of the
city may be warned of a potential, imminent, actual disaster or emergency
situation that exists in the area;
   (L)   Create a thorough procedure for collecting and monitoring franchise
fees;
   (M)   Create a thorough default and revocation procedure for franchised
operators; and
   (N)   Create a performance review procedure in order to assist the city in
its periodic evaluation of a franchised operator’s performance.
(Prior Code, § 110.060) (Ord. 13-08, passed 6-3-2013)
§ 115.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AFFILIATE. Any person or entity who owns or controls, or is owned or
controlled by, or is under common ownership or control with, a franchised
operator.
   APPLICANT. A person or entity submitting an application or proposal to the
city for a franchise to operate a cable system under the terms and conditions
of this chapter and any applicable state or federal regulations.
   AUXILIARY EQUIPMENT. Equipment supplied by a cable operator which enhances
or assists in the reception or provision of cable service.
   BASIC CABLE SERVICE or BASIC SERVICE. Any service tier which includes the
retransmission of local television broadcast signals and any EG channels
required to be carried pursuant to applicable franchise.
   CABLE COMMUNICATIONS ACT or CABLE ACT. Cable Communications Policy Act of
1984, being 47 U.S.C. §§ 521 et seq., the Cable Television Consumer Protection
and Competition Act of 1992, being Pub. L. 102-385, the Telecommunications Act
of 1996, being Pub. L. 104-104, and all later federal legislation regulating
cable television operators.
   CABLE OPERATOR or OPERATOR. Any person or entity which:
      (1)   Provides cable service over a cable system and directly or through
one or more affiliates owns a significant interest in that cable system; or
      (2)   Otherwise controls or is responsible for, through any arrangement,
the management and operation of a cable system.
   CABLE SERVICE. The one-way transmission to subscribers of video programming,
or other programming service, and subscriber interaction, if any, which is
required for the selection or use of the video programming service or other
programming service.
      (1)   This shall include all forms of cable service whether provided by a
cable operator or not.
      (2)   This definition shall not be construed to prohibit any other lawful
service that may be provided by a cable operator.
   CABLE SYSTEM or CABLE TELEVISION SYSTEM. A facility consisting of a set of
closed transmission paths and associated signal generation, reception and
control equipment that is designed to provide cable service which includes
video, voice and data programming and which is provided to multiple subscribers
within the city. Provided, this shall not include:
      (1)   A facility that serves only to retransmit the television signals of
one or more television broadcast stations;
      (2)   A facility that does not use any public way or public right-of-way;
or
      (3)   Any facilities of any electric utility used solely for operating
its electric utility systems.
   CHANNEL or CABLE CHANNEL. A portion of the electromagnetic frequency
spectrum which is used in a cable system and which is capable of delivering a
television channel (as defined by the FCC).
   CITY. The City of Columbus, Nebraska.
   CITY ADMINISTRATOR. The City Administrator.
   COMMUNITY. The geographic area within the municipal limits of the city,
including those annexations approved by the city.
   CONVERTER. Any device, separate and apart from the subscriber’s receiver,
that will permit a subscriber to view or otherwise use signals delivered at
designated dial locations or other reception and use allocations as may be
applicable and required for the practical use of the signal.
   COUNCIL. The City Council.
   CUSTOMER. A subscriber.
   DISASTER EMERGENCY or DISASTER or EMERGENCY. An imminent, impending or
actual natural or humanly induced situation where the health, safety or welfare
of all, or a portion of the residents of the city is threatened. A DISASTER
EMERGENCY (by illustration) may include a snowstorm, flood, tornado, severe
thunderstorm, hazardous waste infiltration, explosion or aircraft crash.
   DROP. A small branch of cable which connects the customer’s television to
the feeder cable or future technical equivalent on the street, easement,
rights-of-way or public way.
   EASEMENT. Includes any public easement or other compatible use created by
dedication or by other means, for public utility or other purposes including
cable television. EASEMENT shall include a private easement used for the
provision of cable service.
   EG CHANNEL. A channel on a cable system made available for noncommercial
educational or governmental programming.
   ENTITY. Partnership, joint venture, corporation or limited liability
company.
   FCC. The Federal Communications Commission.
   FIBER CABLE or FIBER OPTIC CABLE. Very thin and pliable cylinders, or
strands of glass or plastic, or any future developed technical equivalent, used
to carry wide bands of multiple frequencies.
   FRANCHISE. The initial authorization, amendment or renewal granted by the
city which authorizes the construction and operation of a cable system.
   FRANCHISE AGREEMENT. A separate agreement by which a franchise is granted to
a franchised operator, as required by this chapter.
   FRANCHISING AUTHORITY. The city.
   FRANCHISE EXPIRATION. The date of expiration, or the end of the term of a
franchise, as provided under a franchise agreement.
   FRANCHISE FEE. A fee or charge that the city requires as payment for the
privilege of using the streets, rights-of-way, public ways and easements of the
city in order to construct, maintain and operate a franchised cable system.
   FRANCHISED OPERATOR. A person or entity that is awarded a franchise by the
city to construct and operate a cable system within the city.
   GROSS REVENUE.
      (1)   All revenues as determined in accordance with generally accepted
accounting principles (GAAP) derived from the operation of the cable system to
provide cable service.
      (2)   GROSS REVENUE does not mean any taxes imposed and/or assessed by
law on subscribers, including state and local sales taxes, which a cable
operator is obligated to collect and pay in full to the applicable authorities.
   LATE CHARGE. A charge which is added to a subscriber’s account or bill for
non-payment of a previously due amount account.
   MAYOR. The Mayor of the City of Columbus.
   OTHER PROGRAMMING SERVICE. Information that a cable operator makes available
to all subscribers generally.
   PAY-PER-VIEW or PREMIUM CHANNEL. The delivery over the cable system of
programming provided only to those subscribers paying a separate fee or charge.
   PUBLIC WAY. Any public street, public place or right-of-way now or later
dedicated to the public use within the area served by a cable operator.
   RATE. The monthly, bi-monthly, quarterly, semi-annual, annual or other
periodic price paid by a subscriber in order to receive cable service.
   REPORTING QUARTER. A cable operator’s fiscal quarter as reported to the
city. If a cable operator does not report to or notify the city concerning the
dates of its fiscal quarters, then the REPORTING QUARTERS for a cable operator
shall be considered to be the periods ending on the last day of March, June,
September and December of each calendar year.
   REVOCATION, TERMINATION or NON-RENEWAL. An official act by the city which
lawfully removes, repeals or rescinds a previously approved authorization for a
franchised operator to provide cable service.
   SERVICE TIER. A multi-channel category of cable service or other services
provided by a cable operator, and for which a separate rate is charged by the
cable operator.
   STATE. The State of Nebraska.
   SUBSCRIBER. Any person, firm, corporation or entity lawfully receiving cable
service delivered by the cable operator.
   USER. A person or organization utilizing a cable system and/or its equipment
for purposes of production and/or transmission.
   VIDEO PROGRAMMING. Programming provided by, or generally considered
comparable to programming provided by, a television broadcast station.
(Prior Code, § 110.061) (Ord. 13-08, passed 6-3-2013)
§ 115.03 PARENT CONTROL MECHANISM.
   Cable operators will provide, upon written request by any subscriber, a
parental control mechanism that will allow subscribers the ability to restrict
the utilization of multiple channel or cable service that is deemed
inappropriate for related viewing. This device will be provided at a reasonable
charge to the subscriber. Additional materials may also be provided by the
cable operator and are subject to related transactional charges.
(Prior Code, § 110.072) (Ord. 13-08, passed 6-3-2013)
§ 115.04 RESTORATION OF A SUBSCRIBER’S PROPERTY.
   Whenever a cable operator disturbs the yard, residence or other real or
personal property of a subscriber, the cable operator shall ensure that the
subscriber’s property is returned, replaced and/or restored to a substantially
similar condition as that in existence prior to the disturbance by the cable
operator. The costs associated with both the disturbance and the return,
replacement and/or restoration shall be borne by the cable operator. The
requirements imposed upon the cable operator extend to any subcontractor or
independent contractor employed by the cable operator. Nothing contained here
prevents the cable operator from charging the customer to relocate cable wiring
or above ground devices at the customer’s request.
(Prior Code, § 110.073) (Ord. 13-08, passed 6-3-2013)
§ 115.05 PRESERVATION OF PUBLIC WAYS AND PRIVATE PROPERTY AND REQUIRED
RESTORATION.
   The cable operator shall expeditiously carry out all of its operations
during the course of any construction, operation or maintenance operations of
public or private property. The cable operator shall protect or support public
or private property to prevent damage caused by construction, installation,
maintenance or operation of its cable system. If the cable operator fails to
protect such property, the city may do so, and the operator shall directly
compensate the city for all reasonable expenses incurred thereby. In the event
that it has damaged property, the cable operator, without undue delay, and at
its own expense, shall restore, repair or replace public or private property to
as good condition as existing prior to the disturbance, or compensate property
owners for damage caused by related actions. Restoration, repair or replacement
of public ways shall be completed within at least ten business days, and
restoration, repair or replacement of private property, with the exception of
franchisee’s private property not used in the construction, operation or
maintenance of the cable system, shall be completed within at least 30 calendar
days, except in those cases where the restoration, by its nature, cannot be
completed in that period even with the exercise of due diligence and the city
has authorized an extension of the restoration period. The cable operator shall
take all proper steps to ensure that any resurfacing or reconstruction of
public ways rests upon a property filled and tamped foundation. The city may
elect to repair or replace public property so damaged, such as sewage lines and
request reimbursement for the reasonable expenses associated with the repair or
replacement. Subject to the foregoing, the cable operator may trim trees and
other vegetation from public ways, at its own expense and subject, at the
city’s option, to the city’s supervision. The cable operator shall notify any
person whose property is damaged by its actions or operations within 24 hours
of the time the damage is discovered. At a minimum, this section requires the
cable operator to place a prominent notice in a prominent place on the damaged
property or make other diligent efforts to directly contact the property owner
or resident.
(Prior Code, § 110.074) (Ord. 13-08, passed 6-3-2013)
§ 115.06 CONSTRUCTION STANDARDS.
   (A)   Technical codes. Methods of operation, construction, installation,
maintenance, repair, replacement, removal or restoration of any cable system or
part thereof shall comply with the then most current editions of technical
codes adopted by the city, the state or the United States, which are customary
to the cable television industry. The codes referred to specifically include
but are not limited to the National Electrical Safety Code, the National
Electric Code and all locally adopted construction, fire, safety and zoning
codes. To the extent that these are inconsistent with other provisions of a
franchise, or state, or local law, then the more stringent shall govern in
order to protect the public health, safety and welfare.
   (B)   City approval of construction plans. The cable operator shall obtain
all applicable permits.
   (C)   Requirements to use existing poles. Where utility poles already exist
for use in serving the city and are available for utilization but the cable
operator does not make arrangements for such use, the city may require the
cable operator to utilize such poles and structures if it determines that the
public convenience would be enhanced thereby and the terms of the use available
to the cable operator are just and reasonable.
   (D)   Use of streets and public ways. All wires, conduits, cable coaxial,
fiber or functional equivalent and other property and facilities of a cable
operator shall be located, installed and maintained so as not to endanger or
unnecessarily interfere with usual and customary use, traffic and travel upon
the city streets, rights-of-way, easements and public ways.
      (1)   If a cable operator’s system creates a hazardous or unsafe
condition or an unreasonable interference with property, then the cable
operator shall, at its own expense, voluntarily, or upon request of the city,
remove or move, as appropriate, the part of the system that creates the
hazardous condition.
      (2)   A cable operator shall not place equipment where it will
unreasonably interfere with the rights of property owners or with other public
utility services or any other service facility that benefits the city or its
residents’ health, safety or welfare.
      (3)   A cable operator shall, at its expense, protect rights-of-way,
easements and support or temporarily disconnect or relocate in the same street
or other public way, any property of the cable operator when necessitated by
reason of: Traffic conditions; public safety; street closing; street
construction or resurfacing; change or establishment of a street grade;
installations of other city utility services; or any improvement, construction
or repair related to health, safety or welfare.
      (4)   A cable operator shall, at the request of any person holding a
building moving permit, temporarily remove, raise or lower the cable wires to
allow the moving of the building. The expense of temporary removal shall be
paid by the person requesting it. The cable operator may require payment in
advance. The affected cable operator shall be given not less than 15 days’
notice of a contemplated move to arrange for temporary wire changes.
      (5)   The city shall have the right to make additional use, for any
municipal public purpose, of any poles or conduits owned by the cable operator
in any street or right of way, provided the use by the city does not
unreasonably interfere with the cable operator’s use. The rent paid by the city
for its attachments to the cable company’s poles will be subject to the same
rental payment as the cable operator is required to pay to the city for its
poles, on a per pole basis. The city agrees to indemnify, defend and hold
harmless the cable operator from any claims resulting from its related
installation and usage.
      (6)   The cable operator’s system shall be designed, engineered and
maintained so as not to interfere with the telecommunications reception of
residents of the city who are not system subscribers.
      (7)   In those areas of the city where transmission or distribution of
both telephone and power companies are underground or are later placed
underground, a cable operator’s feeder and drop cables shall also be placed
underground.
(Prior Code, § 110.075) (Ord. 13-08, passed 6-3-2013)
§ 115.07 SYSTEMATIC RECORDS TO BE APPROPRIATELY MAINTAINED.
   (A)   The cable operator shall at all times keep at an office locally
maintained by the franchisee full and complete plans and records showing the
exact location of all broadband cable television system equipment installed or
in use in the streets or public easements in the city.
   (B)   Upon seven days’ notice, the cable operator shall furnish the city
complete maps upon request, compatible with widely available geographic
information systems, showing the location of the cable television system
equipment installed and in place in streets and in other public property
locations throughout the city. Such maps shall be annually updated.
(Prior Code, § 110.076) (Ord. 13-08, passed 6-3-2013)
§ 115.08 CONFIDENTIALITY.
   The city shall maintain as confidential any information provided to it by a
cable operator under the terms of the franchise which a cable operator has
designated as confidential. In the event that city believes at any time that it
is required by law to disclose such information to a third party, city will so
notify a cable operator at a time prior to any such disclosure that affords a
cable operator a reasonable opportunity to take such action as it deems
necessary to prevent such disclosure, including seeking relief in court.
(Prior Code, § 110.077) (Ord. 13-08, passed 6-3-2013)
§ 115.09 STATE OF THE ART REVIEW AND MODIFICATION.
   The field of cable communications is a relatively new and rapidly changing
one which may see many regulatory, technical, financial, marketing and legal
changes during the term of this chapter. Therefore, in order to provide for a
maximum degree of flexibility in the chapter and to help achieve a continued
advanced and modern cable system, the following evaluation provisions will
apply.
   (A)   The city may require, at its sole discretion, sessions evaluating a
cable operator’s performance under the terms of its franchise at any time
during the term of a franchise period provided, however, there shall not be
more than one evaluation session during any five calendar year period, not to
begin until three years after the entering into of a franchise agreement.
   (B)   Topics which may be discussed at any evaluation and renegotiation
session include, but are not limited to, state of the art, regulated rates,
channel capacity, the cable system performance, access, municipal uses of
cable, subscriber complaints, judicial rulings, FCC rulings and any other
topics the city or franchised operator deem relevant.
   (C)   (1)   During an evaluation session, the franchised operator shall
fully cooperate with the city and shall provide the reports required herein to
enable the city to perform the evaluation without cost to city.
      (2)   To the extent such information or documents contain confidential
information, such confidential information may not be disclosed.
   (D)   (1)   If at any time during its evaluation the city determines that
reasonable evidence exists of system performance which fails to meet the
requirements of this chapter, the city may require franchised operator to
perform tests and analysis directed toward such suspected inadequacies.
      (2)   Franchised operators shall fully cooperate with the city in
performing such testing and, in any report prepared, the franchised operator
shall include at least:
         (a)   A description of the problem in the cable system performance
which precipitated the special tests;
         (b)   The cable system component tested;
         (c)   The method, if any, by which the cable system performance
problem was resolved; and
         (d)   1.   Any other information pertinent to said tests and analysis
which may be required by the city or determined when the test is performed.
            2.   If, after receiving franchised operator’s report, the city
determines that reasonable evidence still exists of inadequate cable
performance, the city may enlist an independent engineer to perform tests and
analysis directed toward such suspected failures to meet the requirements of
this franchise. Franchised operators shall cooperate and permit said testing.
      (3)   If it is determined as a result of the tests that franchised
operator is not in compliance with the requirements of the franchise, the
franchised operator shall bear the costs of the test. If it is determined that
the franchised operator is in compliance, the city shall bear the costs.
   (E)   As a result of an evaluation and renegotiating session, the city and
franchised operator may determine that a change in the terms of the chapter
should be required to meet the needs of the community, as determined by the
Council, that the cable system or chapter requirements should be updated,
changed or revised, or that additional services should be provided and that to
provide same would be economically feasible. Based on this review and upon
adoption of such a change or new requirement through a mutually acceptable
amendment, the change will become effective.
(Prior Code, § 110.078) (Ord. 13-08, passed 6-3-2013)
§ 115.10 SYSTEM EXPANSION.
   A cable operator shall extend cable service to any area within the city that
has a density of 30 homes per mile, or fractional equivalent, as measured from
the nearest technically feasible point of connection to the system. A newly
installed subscriber shall not be assessed or apportioned the cost for
installation, except for the usual and normal connection fees paid by
subscribers, as long as the system expansion is technically and economically
feasible.
(Prior Code, § 110.079) (Ord. 13-08, passed 6-3-2013)
§ 115.11 PERMITS AND LICENSES.
   A cable operator shall obtain, at its own expense, all permits and licenses
required by law, rule, regulation or ordinance, and maintain the same in full
force and effect for as long as required.
(Prior Code, § 110.080) (Ord. 13-08, passed 6-3-2013)
§ 115.12 CONTRACTOR QUALIFICATIONS.
   (A)   (1)   All contractors or subcontractors shall be properly licensed,
and each contractor or subcontractor shall have the same obligations, including
insurance requirements, with respect to its work, as the cable operator would
have under this chapter and applicable laws if the work were performed by the
cable operator.
      (2)   The cable operator shall be responsible for ensuring that the work
of contractors and subcontractors is performed consistently with the applicable
franchise and related law, specifying that all contractors and subcontractors
are familiar with their related responsibilities.
   (B)   Any contractor proposed for work of construction, installation,
operation, maintenance and repair of system equipment must be properly licensed
under the laws of the state and all local ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 110.081) (Ord. 13-08, passed 6-3-2013)
§ 115.13 EMERGENCY ALERT SYSTEM; STANDBY POWER.
   In order that subscribers may be alerted in the event of an impending,
imminent or actual, natural or human-made emergency, all cable operators shall
ensure that their system complies with FCC emergency alert requirements.
(Prior Code, § 110.082) (Ord. 13-08, passed 6-3-2013)
§ 115.14 PREVENTATIVE MAINTENANCE PROGRAM.
   Each cable operator shall devise and implement a regular periodic
preventative maintenance program for the cable system in order to ensure that
there is no degradation of the cable system that would adversely affect the
citizens’ health and welfare or negatively impact the quality of cable services
being provided.
(Prior Code, § 110.083) (Ord. 13-08, passed 6-3-2013)
§ 115.15 REMOVAL OF FACILITIES.
   (A)   Termination of service. Upon termination of service to any subscriber,
the cable operator shall at its own expense promptly remove all of its
facilities and equipment from the premises of such subscriber upon his or her
written request.
   (B)   Removal after revocation or expiration. Subject to applicable state
and federal law, upon final denial of the renewal application, or upon final
franchise revocation, the city shall have the right to require the franchise
holder to remove, at cable operator’s expense, all or any portion of the system
from all streets and public property within the city. In so removing the
system, the cable operator shall refill and compact, at its own expense, any
excavation that shall be made and shall leave all streets, public property and
private property in as good a condition as that prevailing prior to the cable
operator’s removal of the system, and without affecting, altering or disturbing
in any way electric, telephone or utility cable wires or attachments. The city
or its delegated authority shall have the right to inspect and approve the
condition of such streets and public property after removal. The security fund,
insurance, indemnity and penalty provision of related ordinances shall remain
in full force and effect during the entire term of removal.
   (C)   Removal or relocation in event of emergency. In the event of an
emergency, or where the cable system creates or is contributing to an imminent
danger to health, safety or property, the city may remove or relocate the
applicable cable system without prior operator notice.
(Prior Code, § 110.084) (Ord. 13-08, passed 6-3-2013)
§ 115.16 INTER-GOVERNMENTAL COOPERATION.
   In the event that a cable operator’s cable system serves areas outside the
jurisdiction of the city, then the various jurisdictions or governmental
subdivisions shall have the right to enter into one or more agreements
concerning the matters covered by this chapter not in conflict with this
chapter or with a franchise. By way of example, it is contemplated that the
city and the county may enter into one or more agreements to assist in
regulating cable operators. These agreements may include, but shall not be
limited to, the following general areas:
   (A)   Allocation of the total franchise fee collected from the entire system
between the various governmental subdivisions;
   (B)   The taking of any surveys and the allocation of any cost to be paid by
the various governmental subdivisions; and
   (C)   EG channel use.
(Prior Code, § 110.099) (Ord. 13-08, passed 6-3-2013)
§ 115.17 TAMPERING AND UNAUTHORIZED RECEPTION OF CERTAIN SIGNALS.
   No person shall intercept or receive, or assist in intercepting or
receiving, any communications service offered over a cable system, unless
specifically authorized to do so by a cable operator, or as may otherwise is
specifically authorized by law.
   (A)   For purposes of this section, the term ASSIST IN INTERCEPTING OR
RECEIVING shall include the manufacture or distribution of equipment intended
by the manufacturer or distributor for the unauthorized reception of cable
service.
   (B)   Without securing permission from a cable operator or making payment to
a cable operator, no person shall be authorized to make any connection, whether
physically, electrically, acoustically, inductively or otherwise, with any part
of an authorized or franchised cable system for the purpose of receiving or
intercepting, or assisting others to receive or intercept any cable service
provided lawfully by the cable operator.
   (C)   No person shall be authorized to willfully tamper with, remove or
damage any cable, wires, equipment or facilities used for the distribution of
cable services.
(Prior Code, § 110.100) (Ord. 13-08, passed 6-3-2013) Penalty, see §
115.99
FRANCHISE CONDITIONS
§ 115.30 FRANCHISE REQUIRED.
   No person or cable operator, shall be permitted to construct, operate or
maintain a cable system which requires the laying or positioning of cable
(coaxial, fiber or functional equivalent) across the rights-of-way of the city
without first having entered into a franchise agreement with the city.
   (A)   The Council may award one or more non-exclusive cable service
franchises within its geographical limits.
   (B)   Such franchise shall be awarded at a public proceeding and hearing
which affords due process to both the city and the applicant. If the applicant
is selected as a franchised operator, then the applicant will enter into a
franchise agreement with the city, pursuant to the provisions of federal, state
and local laws and regulations.
   (C)   Subject to applicable law, the city reserves the right to construct,
operate or maintain a city-owned cable system and/or the right to provide
commercial cable services within the city limits.
   (D)   Should the city construct a competitive system, the cable operator may
withhold certain information it deems proprietary but shall be required to
continue to comply with the auditing and review provisions contained herein.
(Prior Code, § 110.085) (Ord. 13-08, passed 6-3-2013)
§ 115.31 FRANCHISE NON-EXCLUSIVE.
   (A)   The franchise granted herein is non-exclusive. The city specifically
reserves the right to grant, at any time, additional franchises for a cable
television system in accordance with state and federal law. The city agrees
that any grant of additional franchises by the city to any other entity to
provide cable or video service shall not be on terms and conditions that when
taken as a whole are more favorable or less burdensome to the franchisee of any
such additional franchise than those which are provided to an incumbent
franchisee.
   (B)   If the city grants a cable television franchise or other right to
provide cable service to another person on terms which overall provide greater
benefits or impose lesser burdens than provided to an incumbent franchisee, the
city agrees to amend the incumbent’s franchise (effective upon the grant to
said other person) to overall provide such greater benefits or lesser burdens.
(Prior Code, § 110.086) (Ord. 13-08, passed 6-3-2013)
§ 115.32 FRANCHISE AGREEMENT; MINIMAL REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   If the Council awards an applicant a franchise to construct, operate
or maintain a cable system in all or part of the city, or approves a proposal
for renewal of a franchise, then a franchise agreement shall be entered into. A
newly franchised operator may not lay any cable until the franchise agreement
is executed by the newly franchised operator and the city. At a minimum, a
franchise agreement shall contain provisions for the following:
      (1)   The term or duration of the franchise;
      (2)   An agreement to comply with this subchapter; and
      (3)   Any applicable construction, upgrade or rebuild schedule.
   (B)   Any franchise so approved shall materially follow the constructs of
this subchapter and may directly encompass this law allowing for applicable
operator inclusion and delineations of systematic capacity and technical
expansion and the exact term of the franchise agreement.
(Prior Code, § 110.087) (Ord. 13-08, passed 6-3-2013)
§ 115.33 EXTENT OF GRANT OF FRANCHISE.
   (A)   Upon an award of a franchise, and the subsequent execution of a
franchise agreement, a cable operator may construct, install, maintain,
operate, repair, replace, remove or restore a cable system within the
geographical limits set forth in the franchise agreement.
   (B)   The franchised cable system may utilize the streets, rights-of-way,
easements and public ways of the city.
   (C)   The franchised operator shall be responsible for obtaining its own
easements for private property, including privately-owned utility or street
light poles.
   (D)   A franchised operator, through a separate pole or utility easement
agreement with an affected utility, may locate the cable system on, or within,
the property of the utility company.
(Prior Code, § 110.088) (Ord. 13-08, passed 6-3-2013)
§ 115.34 FRANCHISE TERM.
   The initial term of a franchise may be for a period not to exceed a total of
ten years from the date that a franchise agreement, or a franchise renewal
agreement, is approved by the Council.
(Prior Code, § 110.089) (Ord. 13-08, passed 6-3-2013)
§ 115.35 FRANCHISE APPLICATION; FEE.
   The city may develop rules and regulations with respect to the submission
and processing of applications for a franchise. The rules and regulations shall
primarily be aimed at determining the legal, financial, technical and character
qualifications of the applicant. Unless otherwise prohibited by law, the rules
and regulations may require an applicant to pay an application fee which shall
be equal to the administrative costs associated with processing an application
for a franchise. If required, the total application fee must be paid prior to
the Council’s formal action on the franchise application and shall not be
subject to refund. No application fee shall be required to renew an existing
franchise provided that the cable operator has satisfactorily complied with the
provisions of this subchapter and the franchise agreement.
(Prior Code, § 110.090) (Ord. 13-08, passed 6-3-2013)
§ 115.36 FRANCHISE FEES.
   (A)   During the term of the franchise, a franchised operator shall pay to
the city a sum of money equal to 5% of the annual gross revenues accruing from
cable services rendered within the city. To the extent consistent with
applicable law, payments of compensation made by a franchised cable operator to
the city, pursuant to the provisions of this subchapter, shall be considered in
addition to, and exclusive of, any and all authorized taxes, business license
fees, other fees, other levies or assessments presently in effect or
subsequently adopted. The franchise fee is for the privilege of using the
streets, rights-of-way, easements and public ways and other facilities of the
city in the operation of the cable system, and for the city’s supervision
during the term of the franchise. If the FCC, Congress or other governmental
entity with authority over cable service allows a franchising authority to
increase the franchise fee beyond the above percentage, then the city shall
have the authority to increase the franchise fee to any new maximum stated rate
allowable. It is intended that the franchise fees will promote the health,
safety and welfare of the citizens of the city. Accordingly, the franchise fee
shall be deposited into the general revenues of the city, unless otherwise
specified.
   (B)   (1)   Within 45 days after the end of each reporting quarter, a
franchised operator shall file with the city a detailed report clearly showing
the gross revenues received by the franchised operator for operations within
the city during the proceeding reporting quarter and certified by an authorized
representative of the franchised operator attesting to the accuracy of the
revenue figures. The report shall be in a form mutually agreed upon by the city
and the cable operator.
      (2)   The report shall include revenue from whatever source, directly or
indirectly derived from the operation of the cable system, to provide cable
service. Revenue may be reported in the aggregate for the total franchise
service area by general service type or source. This report shall specifically
identify in detail the sources and amounts of all gross revenues received by a
franchisee during the quarter for which payment is made. It is specifically
understood that the right of audit and re-computation of any and all amounts
paid shall be accorded to the city for five years following payment.
   (C)   In the event that payment is not made within 60 days after the end of
a reporting quarter, then the cable operator may be declared in default of the
franchise, and the city may take action against the cable operator as
authorized in this subchapter.
   (D)   The acceptance of any payment shall not be construed as a release of,
or an accord or satisfaction of, any claim that the city might have for further
or additional sums payable under the terms of this subchapter, or for any other
performance or obligation of a franchised operator.
   (E)   To the extent consistent with applicable law, payments of compensation
made by a franchised operator to the city pursuant to this subchapter shall be
considered in addition to, and exclusive of, any and all authorized taxes,
business license fees or other levies or assessments presently in effect or
later adopted.
   (F)   Franchise fee under this subchapter shall include all items included
as a franchise fee under federal law and does not include any item excluded by
federal law.
   (G)   If at any time, the concept of franchise fees are deemed illegal, or
unconstitutional, the franchising authority may, if permitted by law, impose an
alternative user charge, or excise fee, at a rate not in excess of those fees
designated franchise fees and described herein, on the franchised cable system
operator.
(Prior Code, § 110.091) (Ord. 13-08, passed 6-3-2013)
§ 115.37 REGULATORY RATES.
   (A)   To the extent that federal or state law or regulation may now, or as
the same may hereafter be amended to, authorize the city to regulate the rates
for any particular service tiers, service packages, equipment or any other
services provided by the cable operator, the city shall have the expressed
right to exercise rate regulation to the full extent authorized by law, or to
refrain from exercising such regulation for any period of time, at the sole
discretion of the city.
   (B)   The cable operator shall, however, comply with all state and federal
laws, regulations and orders of courts regarding any reduction in fees imposed
on the cable operator.
(Prior Code, § 110.092) (Ord. 13-08, passed 6-3-2013)
§ 115.38 ASSIGNMENT OF FRANCHISE.
   (A)   A cable operator’s franchise may not be assigned in whole or in part
without the city’s prior written approval. For purposes of this section,
ASSIGNMENT shall mean the transfer, sale or any other form of assignment of a
cable operator’s franchise, to include any transaction or action which
effectively or actually changes ownership from one person or entity to another
to include the transfer of 50% or more of the ownership interest of an entity.
Any attempted assignment without prior written approval shall constitute a
default in the franchise.
   (B)   A proposed assignment shall be subject to the following.
      (1)   At least 120 days before a proposed assignment is scheduled to
become effective, the franchised operator shall make a written request to the
Council for the city’s approval of the proposed assignment.
      (2)   The city will not unreasonably withhold its consent to an
assignment. However, in making its determination, the Council may consider the
following criteria:
         (a)   Qualifications of the proposed assignee;
         (b)   Financial ability and stability of the proposed assignee;
         (c)   The experience of the proposed assignee which may include
conducting an investigation of the proposed assignee’s record in other
communities;
         (d)   Legal integrity of the proposed assignee or transferee;
         (e)   Information from the proposed assignee willingness to abide by
the terms of the franchise; and
         (f)   The corporate connection, if any, between the franchised
operator and the proposed assignee.
   (C)   Nothing in this section shall restrict the city from considering other
reasonable criteria allowed under law, and in particular, any criteria
established under state or federal law, rule or regulation.
   (D)   Before an assignment or transfer is approved by the city, the proposed
assignee shall execute an affidavit that it has read, understood and intends to
abide by any existing franchise agreements along with stipulated conditions,
covenants, liabilities, obligations and provisions associated with the cable
operator’s regulatory, statutory or contractual requirements.
   (E)   The city may condition such transfer upon such reasonable terms and
conditions as it deems appropriate including curing of any outstanding
defaults; provided, however, that any such terms and conditions shall be
related to the legal, technical and financial qualifications of the prospective
controlling party or transferee.
   (F)   In the event of an assignment, the former franchised operator shall
remain liable for any franchise fees incurred for the period while it was
franchisee, subject to the application of the state statute of limitations.
   (G)   (1)   Consent shall not be required for an assignment to any entity
controlled by, controlling or under common control of the cable operator.
      (2)   In addition, consent shall not be required for the granting of a
security interest in the cable operator’s system including its franchise.
However, if the holder of the security interest repossesses, forecloses or
takes other action concerning its collateral, it shall dispose of the system
within a reasonable period of time and the disposition by the holder of the
security interest shall be considered an assignment subject to the provisions
of this section.
(Prior Code, § 110.093) (Ord. 13-08, passed 6-3-2013)
§ 115.39 EDUCATIONAL AND GOVERNMENTAL ACCESS.
   To the extent permitted by law, and in order to fulfill an educational and
governmental access policy that will facilitate the long range needs of the
community, each cable operator shall provide at its own expense one 24-hour per
day education/government (EG) channel for the use of the city’s public school
system, any state-accredited private or parochial school within the service
area and the city and other franchising authorities served by the cable system.
(Prior Code, § 110.094) (Ord. 13-08, passed 6-3-2013)
§ 115.40 PUBLIC SERVICE.
   A cable operator shall furnish, upon request, one standard installation of
no more than 250 feet and one outlet for each public K-12 school, any state-
accredited private or parochial school within the service area, municipal
office building, public library, fire station, police station or courthouse
which is passed by the operator’s cable system. Basic cable service and the
next additional service tier shall be provided at no charge. An initial
connection will be made at no charge with additional connections to be made for
the cost of time and materials only.
(Prior Code, § 110.095) (Ord. 13-08, passed 6-3-2013)
§ 115.41 TECHNICAL STANDARDS.
   (A)   Any cable operator providing cable service within the city shall
activate and maintain a cable system with a channel capacity of at least 77
channels.
   (B)   All programming and broadcast services which may be received with
stereo signals shall be provided to all subscribers with the stereo signal.
   (C)   A cable operator shall comply with any rules and regulations of the
FCC concerning technical operation, signal quality and consumer electronics
equipment compatibility. In addition, the city may at any time amend this
subchapter to incorporate any and all standards concerning these matters
adopted by the FCC.
   (D)   A cable operator shall perform any and all essential maintenance and
service to properly ensure the operational standards necessary for proper
transmission of related programming. If the system, or any part thereof, is
inoperative for ten consecutive days or for 30 days out of any consecutive 12-
month period, then such event(s) shall be deemed a default subject to the terms
of §
115.42 of this code.
   (E)   If necessary, cable operator will provide state of the art equipment
(as defined in §
115.02 of this code), for reduction and elimination of co-channel interference
on local television broadcast signals.
(Prior Code, § 110.096) (Ord. 13-08, passed 6-3-2013)
§ 115.42 DEFAULT.
   (A)   When the franchised operator violates an integral provision of this
subchapter, then the franchised operator shall be considered in default of this
subchapter.
      (1)   Examples of a default shall include, but are not limited to:
Bankruptcy; insolvency; failure to pay taxes or franchise fees; failure to
receive written city approval for an assignment; fraud or deceit; or failure to
substantially abide by the integral terms and conditions of the franchise
agreement or this subchapter. Events in the nature of force majeure or
conditions which cannot be corrected because they are matters beyond the
immediate control of the affected cable operator shall not be considered a
default. Other examples of a default specifically include material breach,
whether by act or omission, of any terms or conditions of this subchapter,
material misrepresentation of facts presented in the submission of information
required by the franchise agreement or this subchapter, material
misrepresentation of fact in the application for or negotiation of the
franchise or failure to provide subscribers or users with service as required
by the franchise.
      (2)   In the event that a default occurs, the city shall notify the
affected cable operator in writing of the specific violation(s).
      (3)   The cable operator shall have 45 days from the receipt of the
written notice or such longer time as may be necessary in the circumstance to
bring itself into compliance so that it is no longer in default of its
franchise or this subchapter, as the case may be.
      (4)   If the cable operator fails to cure its default within the time
period provided for above, the matter shall be set for public hearing before
the Council to be held no sooner than 45 days after the notice of default was
mailed to the cable operator. Written notice of the time and place of the
public hearing shall be sent by certified mail to the cable operator and the
surety at least ten days prior to the date of the hearing.
      (5)   At the time of the hearing, the cable operator may present
information on the current status of the alleged default in the franchise
agreement. If the cable operator fails to attend the hearing where a
continuance of the hearing has not been granted by the Council, then the
franchised operator may be declared in default of the franchise agreement.
      (6)   If the default has not been resolved at the time of or as a result
of the hearing, the Council may, after the public hearing, direct the cable
operator to take corrective action within a specified period of time, or may
declare the cable operator in default of the franchise agreement, and revoke or
terminate the franchise. The Council’s action shall be mailed to the cable
operator within 15 days of the Council’s action.
      (7)   If the Council directs corrective action to be taken and the cable
operator does not rectify the default within the time specified, then the
Council may, without further notice, declare the cable operator to be in
default and revoke or terminate the franchise.
      (8)   Upon expiration without rights of renewal or cancellation of the
franchise for cause, the city shall have the express right to require the cable
operator to remove, at its expense, all portions of the cable television or
telecommunications system from all public ways in the city.
   (B)   Upon cancellation of the franchise for cause, the city shall have the
right to purchase the system for a price equal to its fair market value. The
fair market value shall be determined in accordance with applicable law and
generally accepted cable television appraisal and accounting principles. The
original cost of all tangible and intangible property, as well as salvage
value, and the book value, the replacement cost, cash flow and other factors
may be considered. However, under no circumstances shall any valuation be made
for any right or privilege granted pursuant to this franchise. If the city
elects to purchase the system, the cable operator shall promptly execute any
and all documents necessary to transfer title to the city and shall assign all
of the contracts, leases, licenses, permits and any other rights necessary to
maintain continuity of service to the public. The cable operator shall
cooperate with the city, or such agency or person authorized or directed by the
city to operate the system for a temporary period, in maintaining continuity of
service. Nothing herein is intended as a waiver of any rights the city may
have.
(Prior Code, § 110.097) (Ord. 13-08, passed 6-3-2013)
§ 115.43 FEDERAL LEGISLATION, RULES AND REGULATIONS; FRANCHISE SUBJECT TO
AMENDMENT.
   In addition to any requirement contained within this subchapter, all cable
operators shall be expected to comply with all applicable provisions of the
Cable Communications Policy Act of 1984, being 47 U.S.C. §§ 521 et seq., the
Cable Television Consumer Protection and Competition Act of 1992, being Pub. L.
102-385, the Telecommunications Act of 1996, being Pub. L. 104-104 and all
later legislation directed at controlling or regulating cable operators, and
any rules and regulations issued pursuant to this legislation. In addition, any
franchise issued pursuant to this subchapter shall be subject to amendment to
incorporate any federal legislation, rules or regulations which become
effective after the date of the franchise. Franchises may be amended only by
written agreement of the city and the cable operator.
(Prior Code, § 110.098) (Ord. 13-08, passed 6-3-2013)
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
§ 115.55 ADMINISTRATION.
   (A)   Delegation of powers and authority. Unless prohibited by federal or
state law, the Council may delegate its delegable powers and authorities, with
respect to a cable operator, to one or more duly authorized representatives of
the city, including the Mayor, the City Administrator or a Cable Advisory
Board. Provided, the Council may never delegate its franchising or revocation
power to another person. A cable operator may appeal to the Council any
decision made pursuant to such a delegation.
   (B)   Retained rights and authorities. Subject to federal or state law, the
city retains the authority for:
      (1)   The regulation and control of any cable system within the
geographical limits of the city, and within the limits prescribed by applicable
law;
      (2)   The award and grant of a cable franchise subsequent to review of an
application or proposal by the Council;
      (3)   The amendment of a franchise by mutual agreement of the Council and
the holder of the franchise;
      (4)   The regulation of rates and charges associated with the providing
of cable service by a cable operator; and
      (5)   The enforcement of all laws and regulations relating to cable
customer service practices and consumer protection.
   (C)   No waiver of immunities. Notwithstanding the above, nothing in this
subchapter shall be read to constitute or to require a waiver of any rights of
the city under the doctrine of sovereign immunity, provided, such exercise
shall not impair the rights and privileges of any cable operator under a
franchise then in force.
(Prior Code, § 110.062) (Ord. 13-08, passed 6-3-2013)
§ 115.56 APPLICANT CABLE OPERATOR.
   (A)   Compliance. Unless exempted entirely or in part from this subchapter
or any of its provisions, this subchapter shall be applicable to all cable
operators. A cable operator shall be expected to comply with this subchapter no
later than six months after it becomes effective unless a different compliance
date is given to the cable operator.
   (B)   Standards. The cable operator shall maintain service in accordance
with good and workmanlike standards, so as to provide subscribers with the
highest possible level of quality and reliability.
   (C)   Noncompliance not excused for failure to enforce. A cable operator
shall not be excused from complying with any of the requirements of this
subchapter by any failure of the city on any one or more occasions to seek, or
insist upon compliance with this subchapter.
   (D)   Compliance with law. Any cable operator, its assignee or transferee
shall be subject to, and expected to comply with:
      (1)   All ordinances in effect within the city, including this
subchapter, to the extent that the cable operator has not received exemption or
relief;
      (2)   All federal and state laws, and all rules and regulations issued by
all applicable regulatory agencies; and
      (3)   All lawful exercise of the city’s police power not inconsistent
with the terms of its franchise.
   (E)   Inconsistencies with federal or state law. If any provision or section
of this subchapter is inconsistent with any provision or section of a federal
or state rule, regulation or law, then the federal or state rule, regulation or
law shall control.
(Prior Code, § 110.063) (Ord. 13-08, passed 6-3-2013)
§ 115.57 NOTICES.
   (A)   The city and each cable operator shall provide the other party with
the name and address of the contact person designated to receive notices,
filings, reports, records, documents and all other correspondence. All notices
shall be delivered to each party’s contact person by certified mail, return
receipt requested, personal service with signed receipt of delivery, or
overnight express with receipt verification.
   (B)   All other filings, reports, records, documents and other
correspondence may be delivered by any permissible means including, but not
limited to: Facsimile transmission (faxing); personal service; overnight mail
or package delivery; or, upon agreement of the parties, email. The delivery of
all notices, reports, records and other correspondence shall be deemed to have
occurred at the time of receipt (unless otherwise designated by state law). The
designation of the contact person for notice purposes may be contained within
any franchise agreement. The cable operator shall pay the costs associated with
the publication of any notice required herein or otherwise mandated by law.
(Prior Code, § 110.064) (Ord. 13-08, passed 6-3-2013)
§ 115.58 INDEMNITY.
   (A)   General. To the extent permitted by law, each cable operator shall
defend, indemnify and hold harmless the city, its officials, authorized agents
and employees from any and all penalty, damage or loss arising out of claims,
suits, demands, causes of action or award of damages which might be claimed now
or in the future, which arise out of, or are caused by, the construction,
erection, location, products performance, operation, maintenance, repair,
installation, replacement, removal or restoration of the operator’s cable
system within the city except that this indemnity shall not apply to claims to
the extent they result from the city’s negligence or wrongdoing. Reasonable
attorney fees, consultant fees, expert witness fees and other expenses of
litigation are included as those costs which may be recovered by the city.
      (1)   If a cable operator obtains counsel for the city, its officials,
agents and employees, then the cable operator shall consult with the city on
the selection of counsel.
      (2)   The city, its officials, agents and employees shall have the right
to retain counsel of their own at their own expense.
      (3)   With respect to a cable operator’s own defense of any of the
actions noted in this section, it is understood that the cable operator
reserves the right to retain its own counsel at its own expense without the
city’s approval.
   (B)   Nonliability of city.
      (1)   The city shall not and does not by reason of this subchapter or the
granting of a certificate of franchise assume any liability of the cable
operator whatsoever for injury or loss to persons or property.
      (2)   (a)   The cable operator shall pay and by its acceptance of the
certificate of franchise specifically agrees it will pay all damages, losses
and penalties which the city may legally be required to pay as a result of
granting a franchise certificate to the cable operator.
         (b)   Those damages, losses or penalties shall include, but shall not
be limited to damages arising out of copyright infringements and all other
damages arising out of the installation, operation or maintenance of the cable
system authorized herein, and all other broadcasting or other transmission
hereover or therethrough, except for public, educational and governmental
access programming, whether or not any act or omission complained of is
authorized, allowed or prohibited by this franchise.
      (3)   In any court proceeding involving any claim against the city or any
official, member, employee or agent of the city, arising from the regulation of
cable service or from a decision of approval or disapproval with respect to a
grant, renewal, transfer or amendment of a franchise, any relief, to the extent
such relief is required by any other provision of federal, state or local law,
shall be limited to injunctive relief and declaratory relief.
      (4)   The cable operator acknowledges by the acceptance of a franchise
agreement that it has carefully read the provisions, terms and conditions
hereof and is willing to, and does accept, all of the risk attendant to said
provisions, terms and conditions hereof.
(Prior Code, § 110.065) (Ord. 13-08, passed 6-3-2013)
§ 115.59 LIABILITY INSURANCE.
   A cable operator shall secure and maintain, for as long as it provides cable
service to subscribers, public liability insurance, property damage insurance,
products, services, completed operations and independent contractors’ insurance
with umbrella coverage as follows.
   (A)   The coverage shall be in at least the following amounts:
      (1)   Public liability: $2,000,000 per person/per occurrence;
      (2)   Property damage: $2,000,000 per any one claim; or
      (3)   Umbrella liability: $2,000,000 with up to a $50,000 deductible and/
or base insurance.
   (B)   A cable operator’s public and personal liability and property damage
insurance policy shall specifically include the city and its officials, agents,
employees and representatives as additional insureds.
   (C)   The public and personal liability and property damage insurance policy
shall be issued by an insurance company licensed to do business in the state
for the type of policy being issued. The certificate shall include the city as
additionally insured.
   (D)   The public and property damage insurance policy shall contain an
endorsement obligating the insurance company to furnish the city with at least
30 days’ written notice in advance of the cancellation of the insurance.
   (E)   Renewal or replacement policies or certificates of insurance shall be
delivered to the city prior to the expiration of then existing insurance.
   (F)   Before a cable operator initially provides cable service to
subscribers, the cable operation shall deliver the policies or certificates of
insurance to the city.
   (G)   If the state permits a cable operator to self-insure, then the cable
operator may exercise its right and self-insure as long as the minimal
insurance amounts outlined in this section are met and maintained.
(Prior Code, § 110.066) (Ord. 13-08, passed 6-3-2013)
§ 115.60 PERFORMANCE BOND.
   A cable operator shall comply with the following bonding requirements.
   (A)   (1)   A construction/completion bond shall be furnished prior to the
time that a cable operator commences a system-wide construction, upgrade or
rebuild project that has a capital construction cost or outlay exceeding
$250,000 in value where the construction takes place in one or more easements
or in the public way. Such bond shall guarantee that the surety will make whole
(to the extent of the bond) any monetary losses incurred by the city due to
such construction.
      (2)   The amount of the bond shall equal at least 90% of the projected
capital construction cost or outlay but shall not exceed $250,000. The
construction/completion bond shall remain in force at all times until one year
after completion of construction as determined by the Chief Building and Code
Official, unless relief is granted or a reduction schedule is detailed in an
agreement between the city and the cable operator.
   (B)   If the city draws on a bond as a result of a cable operator’s failure
to indemnify the city from any monetary losses resulting from the construction,
the cable operator shall replenish the bond within 30 days to the level
required in this section.
(Prior Code, § 110.067) (Ord. 13-08, passed 6-3-2013)
§ 115.61 FURNISHING OF REPORTS.
   Upon written request of the city, a cable operator shall furnish, at no cost
to the city, copies of any or all filings with the FCC and the United States
Copyright Office which concern the operations system in the city within 30 days
of the request.
(Prior Code, § 110.068) (Ord. 13-08, passed 6-3-2013)
§ 115.62 BOOKS AND RECORDS.
   A cable operator shall keep complete and accurate books of accounts and
records concerning the business and operations of the cable system.
   (A)   The city shall, upon seven days’ written notice, have access at all
reasonable hours to all plans, contracts and engineering, accounting,
financial, statistical, summary customer service records and other documents,
as are necessary to the enforcement of city’s rights or cable operator’s
obligations under this subchapter or applicable law.
   (B)   The city shall have the right, on seven days’ written notice, to
review at the cable operator’s local office all records pertaining to a cable
operator’s cable operations with respect to the city which are necessary to the
enforcement of this subchapter or an applicable franchise. Any review, unless
mutually agreed upon or judicially ordered, shall occur during the cable
operator’s regular office hours. The city acknowledges the sensitivity of these
records and will treat this information as confidential and proprietary to the
fullest extent authorized by law.
   (C)   Not more frequently than every third year, subject to the provisions
of division (E) below, the city shall have the right to hire an independent
certified public accountant, or other business or financial expert, to review
the books and records of a cable operator pertaining to revenue information in
order to determine if franchise fees were properly paid.
   (D)   A deliberate false entry in the books and/or records of a cable
operator of a material and substantial fact relevant to a cable operator’s
compliance with the terms of this subchapter or its franchise may constitute a
material violation of this subchapter.
   (E)   If, after a review or audit of a cable operator’s records, it is
discovered that the cable operator has underpaid franchise fees to the city by
an amount that exceeds 5% of the total amount paid for any reporting year, then
the city may require the cable operator to reimburse the city for the actual
underpayment, and in addition thereto the city may require additional audits
the following two years.
(Prior Code, § 110.069) (Ord. 13-08, passed 6-3-2013)
§ 115.63 CUSTOMER SERVICE STANDARDS.
   (A)   FCC standards. Cable operators shall comply with the customer service
standards established by the FCC.
   (B)   Notifications to subscribers. A cable operator shall provide
information and notices to subscribers as required by FCC regulations.
   (C)   Billing practices. A cable operator shall comply with the billing
practice regulations of the FCC.
   (D)   Billing credit or refunds for service outages, interruptions or
unsolicited service. A cable operator shall provide a subscriber upon request
with credit or a rebate for a service outage or interruption exceeding eight
hours. The credit for purposes of determining the amount of the credit or
rebate shall be deemed to be equivalent to, or the same as a 24-hour service
outage. No credit or rebates shall be required where the outage was due to
matters beyond the immediate control of the cable operator.
   (E)   Special service requirements. A cable operator shall comply with all
applicable federal and state laws and regulations concerning special service
requirements for disabled, sight or hearing impaired or ambulatory impaired
customers.
   (F)   Preferential or discriminatory practices prohibited.
      (1)   A cable operator shall not, as to rules, regulations, rates,
changes, provision of service or use of a provider’s facilities and equipment,
make or allow or grant illegal preference or advantage to any person, nor
subject any person to illegal prejudice or disadvantage on the basis of age,
race, creed, color, sex, national origin, handicap, religious affiliation or
location of residence. Cable operators shall not deny cable service, or the
extension of cable service, to any group of potential residential cable
subscribers because of the income of the residents of the local area in which
such group resides.
      (1)   The provisions of this section shall not, however, prohibit a cable
operator from:
         (a)   Offering a promotional or incentive discount rate or charge;
         (b)   Denying service based on location of residence, if that
residence is outside the parameters for line extension as detailed in a
franchise agreement, if applicable; or
         (c)   Implementing a carefully designated no-frills service tier for
lower income, and/or fixed income individuals.
   (G)   Use and return of equipment. A customer shall maintain any equipment
rented or leased from a cable operator in good working order and operate the
equipment only in the manner specified by the cable operator or the
manufacturer of the equipment.
      (1)   If needed for proper operation, or requested by a customer, a cable
operator shall deliver to a customer written instructions detailing the proper
use of rented, loaned or purchased equipment. A cable operator may comply with
this section by delivering the manufacturer’s instructions to a customer.
      (2)   A customer shall totally and fully reimburse a cable operator for
any damage to a cable operator’s equipment that is due to the customer’s
failure to properly maintain and operate the equipment.
      (3)   A customer shall be relieved from any responsibility for
reimbursing a cable operator for equipment which malfunctions or does not
operate due to a hidden or latent defect in the equipment or which fails to
operate or improperly operates due to natural occurrences conditioned by the
normal wear and tear of the equipment.
      (4)   No charge shall be made to the subscriber for repair services
except in the event that such repair service is necessitated by the
subscriber’s willful misuse of the equipment or the subscriber’s continued
negligent care of such equipment.
   (H)   Security deposits. A cable operator is not required to seek a security
deposit from a customer for use or rental of the cable operator’s equipment.
However, if a security deposit is charged:
      (1)   A cable operator shall comply with any and all applicable state
statutes, rules or regulations concerning security deposits. If the state has
no statutes, rules or regulations concerning the security deposit for a
particular piece of equipment, then the cable operator shall be prohibited from
charging any security deposit for equipment which exceeds the replacement cost
to the cable operator; and
      (2)   A cable operator shall return a security deposit if the equipment
is returned in as good condition as when provided to the customer, normal wear
and tear accepted.
   (I)   Disconnection for non-payment. A subscriber shall not be subject to
disconnection for non-payment unless at the time of posting the following
months bill, payment has not been received by a cable operator.
      (1)   Before disconnection of a subscriber’s cable service for nonpayment
takes place, the subscriber must in fact be subject to disconnection for
nonpayment, and at least five days shall have elapsed after a written notice of
impending disconnection has been served upon the subscriber, or at least seven
days have elapsed after mailing written notice of impending disconnection to
the subscriber.
      (2)   The written notice of disconnection must state the amount that is
owed by the subscriber to a cable operator, the minimum amount required to be
paid to avoid disconnection and the date and place where the payment may be
made.
      (3)   Receipt of a bad check from a subscriber in response to a written
notice of disconnection does not constitute payment, and the affected cable
operator need not give the subscriber further notice prior to disconnecting
service.
      (4)   A cable operator may add a reasonable collection charge to the
subscriber’s bill if the billing amount is not appropriately contested and
payment is not made within a reasonable period following the due date, unless
prohibited by law.
   (J)   Voluntary disconnections and downgrades. A subscriber may at any time
request that a particular service tier, pay channel, premium channel,
informational service or the entire cable service be disconnected. In addition,
where different levels of service are offered by a cable operator, a subscriber
may request a downgrade from a particular level of service to a less
comprehensive or less expensive level of service.
      (1)   For a service tier, premium channel or informational service which
is voluntarily disconnected, a subscriber shall pay a pro rata share of the
monthly rate for that service.
      (2)   Any refund due a subscriber after downgrade or disconnection (both
for non-payment and voluntary) shall be made within 45 days after the downgrade
or disconnection.
   (K)   Service requirement. If the cable operator fails to provide any
material service requested by a subscriber or programmer in accordance with the
standards set forth in the franchise, the company shall, after adequate
notification and being afforded the opportunity to provide the requested
service, promptly refund all deposits or advance charges paid for the service
in question by the subscriber or programmer. If any subscriber terminates for
any other reason, the cable operator shall refund the unused portion of any
prepaid subscriber service fee, on a daily pro rata basis.
   (L)   Protection of subscriber privacy. A cable operator shall abide by any
and all subscriber privacy rules or regulations of the federal or state
governments. The cable operator shall be constantly alert to possible abuses of
the right of privacy or other legal rights of any subscriber, programmer or
general citizen resulting from any device or signal associated with the cable
communications system. The possibility of such abuse may be discussed at every
scheduled review session.
   (M)   Resolution of complaints/inquiries. A cable operator is required to
develop a comprehensive complaint/inquiry resolution policy that is consistent
with the rules and regulations outlined in this subchapter. The Cable
Television Advisory Board will be authorized to specifically handle complaints
or inquiries that are not satisfactorily resolved at the cable operator level.
(Prior Code, § 110.070) (Ord. 13-08, passed 6-3-2013)
§ 115.64 CABLE TELEVISION ADVISORY BOARD.
   (A)   A Cable Television Advisory Board is expressly authorized to provide
for related municipal services. The Mayor, with the ratification of the
majority of the City Council, shall have the established authority to appoint a
CATV Advisory Board consisting of at least five members who shall serve for
three-year terms with such terms to be staggered, as its designated
representatives.
   (B)   Interested citizens may attend Board meetings. The Board’s duration
and requisite actions shall be under the express control of the City Council
and it shall directly advise the City Council of its regulatory jurisdiction
and may have the following additional responsibilities and duties:
      (1)   Offering to mediate disputes or disagreements between subscribers
and the franchised company after an investigation, should the subscriber and
the company not be able to resolve their view or disagreement;
      (2)   Reviewing and auditing all reports and filings submitted to the
city as required hereunder and such other correspondence as may be submitted to
the city concerning the operation of the cable television network and reviewing
the rules and regulations set by franchised operators;
      (3)   Assuring that all rates and rules pertinent to the operation of the
CATV system in the city are made available for inspection by the public at
reasonable hours and upon reasonable requests;
      (4)   Reviewing rates subject to regulation;
      (5)   Recommend programming of a government access nature, to plan for
community utilization of the local EG Channels, to encourage and foster local
participation in EG channels and coordinate related use with appropriate cable
television franchise representatives;
      (6)   Periodically review and inspect for compliance with the franchise
agreement and this subchapter, the operations, service standards and technical
systematic capacities of franchised cable operators to monitor for compliance
under this subchapter and applicable local, state or federal laws or
regulations, in existence, that govern telecommunications providers;
      (7)   Provide annual review that indicate whether any problematic
concerns exist and directly communicate any related difficulties directly with
the cable operator. In addition, the Cable Advisory Board will be responsible
to coordinate the franchise renewal process whenever a cable operator with a
satisfactory performance achievement rating indicates a desire to begin this
process and the applicable renewal period is in effect. In all cases, this must
occur at a point not less than six months prior to the expiration of a related
franchise agreement; and
      (8)   Other duties and responsibilities that may be additionally assigned
or delegated by resolutions or actions of the City Council.
(Prior Code, § 110.071) (Ord. 13-08, passed 6-3-2013)
§ 115.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person who willfully violates the provisions of §
115.17 of this code shall be fined in a monetary amount which is allowed for
under §
10.99 and shall be assessed the costs of the prosecution and sctual damages.
(Prior Code, § 110.100)
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
   Chapter
      
130.   GENERAL OFFENSES
      
131.   OFFENSIVE CONDUCT
      
132.   MINORS; CURFEW
      
133.   OFFENSES AGAINST PERSONS
      
134.   OFFENSES AGAINST PROPERTY
      
135.   OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC ADMINISTRATION AND AUTHORITY
CHAPTER 130: GENERAL OFFENSES
Section
General Provisions
   
130.01   Criminal nuisance
   
130.02   Attempt
   
130.03   Aiding and abetting
   
130.04   Coercion
Advertising
   
130.15   Advertising vehicles
   
130.16   Advertising on glass of vehicle
   
130.17   Carrying advertising banners through streets
   
130.18   Posting signs or bills in public streets, avenues or alleys
Alcohol; Drugs
   
130.30   Procuring or selling to minors or incompetents
   
130.31   Consumption of liquor in public places
   
130.32   Possession of marijuana
   
130.33   Possession or use of drug paraphernalia
   
130.34   Inhalants
 
   
130.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 130.01 CRIMINAL NUISANCE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to do the following:
   (A)   Intentionally, knowingly or recklessly create or maintain a condition
which endangers the safety or health of others; or
   (B)   Knowingly conduct or maintain any premises, place or resort where
persons gather for purposes of engaging in unlawful conduct.
(Prior Code, § 130.001) (Ord. 97-16, passed 8-4-1997) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.02 ATTEMPT.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to attempt to commit a crime. A
person attempts to commit a crime if that person:
      (1)   Intentionally engages in conduct which would constitute the crime
if the attendant circumstances were as the person believes them to be; or
      (2)   Intentionally engages in conduct which, under the circumstances as
the person believes them to be, constitutes a substantial step in the course of
conduct intended to culminate in commission of the crime.
   (B)   When causing a particular result is an element of the crime, a person
shall be guilty of an attempt to commit the crime if, acting with the state of
mind required to establish liability with respect to the attendant
circumstances specified in the definition of the crime, the person
intentionally engages in conduct which is a substantial step in a course of
conduct intended or known to cause such a result.
   (C)   Conduct shall not be considered a substantial step under this section
unless it is strongly corroborative of the defendant’s criminal intent.
(Neb. Rev. Stat. § 28-201) (Prior Code, § 130.002) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.03 AIDING AND ABETTING.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, in any way or manner, to intentionally
or knowingly aid, abet, counsel, advise or encourage any other person in the
commission of any of the offenses listed within this code.
(Prior Code, § 130.003) (Ord. 97-16, passed 8-4-1997) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.04 COERCION.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to commit coercion. COERCION, as
it is used in this section, shall mean using a threat to compel or induce
another person to engage in conduct from which the latter has a legal right to
abstain, or to abstain from conduct in which the latter has a legal right to
engage.
   (B)   THREAT, as used in this section, shall mean to communicate, directly
or indirectly, the intent to do the following:
      (1)   To immediately use force against any person who is present at the
time;
      (2)   To cause bodily injury in the future to the threatened person or a
member or members of the threatened person’s immediate family;
      (3)   To subject the threatened person or a member or members of the
threatened person’s immediate family to physical confinement or restraint;
      (4)   To accuse the threatened person or a member or members of the
threatened person’s immediate family of a crime, or to cause criminal charges
to be instituted against the threatened person or a member or members of the
threatened person’s immediate family;
      (5)   To expose a secret or publicize an asserted fact, whether true or
false, tending to subject the threatened person or a member or members of the
threatened person’s immediate family to hatred, contempt or ridicule;
      (6)   To reveal significant information sought to be concealed by the
person threatened;
      (7)   To testify or provide information or withhold testimony or
information with respect to a person’s legal claim or defense;
      (8)   To take wrongful action as an official against anyone or anything,
wrongfully withhold official action or cause the action or withholding;
      (9)   To bring about or continue a strike, boycott or other similar
collective action with the intent to obtain property which is not demanded or
received for the benefit of the group which the actor purports to represent; or
      (10)   To do any other act which is intended to harm substantially the
threatened person or a member or members of the threatened person’s immediate
family with respect to his, her or their health, safety, business, financial
condition or personal relationships.
(Prior Code, § 130.004) (Ord. 97-16, passed 8-4-1997) Penalty, see §
130.99
ADVERTISING
§ 130.15 ADVERTISING VEHICLES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate or park any advertising
vehicle, except government vehicles, upon any road, street, highway or alley in
the city. Nothing herein contained shall prevent the placing of business
notices upon ordinary business vehicles, as long as the business vehicle is
engaged in the usual business or regular work of the owner and not used merely
or primarily for advertising.
(Prior Code, § 130.020) (Ord. 98-27, passed 7-20-1998) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.16 ADVERTISING ON GLASS OF VEHICLE.
   It shall be unlawful to place or have any poster, sign, picture, flyer,
circular or advertising material on the windshield or glass of the side or rear
window of any motor vehicle.
(Prior Code, § 130.021) (Ord. 98-27, passed 7-20-1998) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.17 CARRYING ADVERTISING BANNERS THROUGH STREETS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to carry any banner, placard or
advertisement for the purpose of displaying the same in or upon any public
street or public place within the city; provided, that banners, placards or
advertisements which are part of parades authorized by the Chief of Police are
excepted.
(Prior Code, § 130.022) (Ord. 98-27, passed 7-20-1998) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.18 POSTING SIGNS OR BILLS IN PUBLIC STREETS, AVENUES OR ALLEYS.
   (A)   It is hereby declared unlawful for any person to post, paint or
otherwise place circulars, handbills, flyers, posters, advertising materials or
any other printed materials on city rights-of-way, including attachment to any
utility pole or other structure located therein.
   (B)   (1)   Should any materials be found in violation of this section, the
same are hereby deemed forfeited to the city and shall be subject to
confiscation and disposal by the city without further notice to the party or
individual posting the sign.
      (2)   The city may recover from the offending party or person placing the
sign the full cost of removal and disposal.
(Prior Code, § 130.023) (Ord. 99-08, passed 2-15-1999) Penalty, see §
130.99
ALCOHOL; DRUGS
§ 130.30 PROCURING OR SELLING TO MINORS OR INCOMPETENTS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to intentionally or knowingly procure
for or sell, exchange, deliver or give to any person under the age of 21 years,
or any person who is mentally incompetent, any alcoholic beverage, including
beer.
(Prior Code, § 130.110) (Ord. 97-16, passed 8-4-1997) Penalty, see §
130.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. Rev. Stat. § 53-180
§ 130.31 CONSUMPTION OF LIQUOR IN PUBLIC PLACES.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person owning, operating, managing or
conducting any dance hall, restaurant, café or club or any place open to the
general public to permit or allow any person to consume alcoholic liquor upon
the premises except as permitted by a license issued for the premises pursuant
to the state’s Liquor Control Act, being Neb. Rev. Stat. §§ 53-101 et seq. It
shall be unlawful for any person to consume alcoholic liquor in any dance hall,
restaurant, café or club or any place open to the general public except as
permitted by a license issued for the premises pursuant to the Act. It shall be
unlawful for any person to consume alcoholic liquor in any road, street, alley,
parks or other public places.
   (B)   This section shall not apply to a retail licensee while lawfully
engaged in the catering of alcoholic beverages.
(Prior Code, § 130.111) (Ord. 98-23, passed 7-6-1998) Penalty, see §
130.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar state laws, see Neb. Rev. Stat. §§ 53-186 and 53-186.01
§ 130.32 POSSESSION OF MARIJUANA.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to knowingly or intentionally possess
marijuana weighing one ounce or less.
(Prior Code, § 130.112) (Ord. 98-23, passed 7-6-1998; Ord. 15-23, passed 11-2-
2015) Penalty, see §
130.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provision, see Neb. Rev. Stat. § 28-416(13)
§ 130.33 POSSESSION OR USE OF DRUG PARAPHERNALIA.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to use, or to possess with intent to
use, drug paraphernalia to manufacture, inject, ingest, inhale or otherwise
introduce into the human body a controlled substance as defined by state
statute.
(Prior Code, § 130.113) (Ord. 98-23, passed 7-6-1998) Penalty, see §
130.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. Rev. Stat. §§ 28-439 through 28-444
§ 130.34 INHALANTS.
   (A)   Definition. For the purpose of this section, the phrase TOXIC VAPORS
means and includes any substance containing one or more of the following
chemical compounds, or the vapors of products containing the compounds:
      (1)   Acetone;
      (2)   Amylacetate;
      (3)   Benzol or benzene;
      (4)   Butyl acetate;
      (5)   Butyl alcohol;
      (6)   Carbon tetrachloride;
      (7)   Chloroform;
      (8)   Cyclohexanone;
      (9)   Ethanol or ethyl alcohol;
      (10)   Ethyl acetate;
      (11)   Hexane;
      (12)   Isopropanol or isopropyl alcohol;
      (13)   Isopropyl acetate;
      (14)   Methyl “cellosolve” acetate;
      (15)   Methyl ethyl ketone;
      (16)   Methyl isobutyl ketone;
      (17)   Toluol or toluene;
      (18)   Trichloroethylene;   
      (19)   Triorthoscresyl phosphate;
      (20)   Xylol or xylene; or
      (21)   Any other solvent, material, substance, chemical, or combination
thereof, having the property of releasing TOXIC VAPORS.
   (B)   Examples. The following serve as examples of common products
containing toxic vapor compounds, but are not meant to limit the prohibitions
contained herein: Spray paint; model airplane glue; non-water-soluble household
glue; nail polish remover; and paint thinner.
   (C)   Intentional use for the purpose of intoxication; possession by minors;
sale.
      (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person to intentionally smell or
inhale the fumes of toxic vapors or to induce any other person to do so for the
purpose of causing a condition of, or inducing symptoms of, intoxication,
elation, euphoria, dizziness, excitement, irrational behavior, exhilaration,
paralysis, stupefaction or dulling of the senses of the nervous system, or for
the purpose of, in any manner, changing, distorting or disturbing the auditory,
visual or mental processes.
      (2)   It shall be unlawful for any person to be intentionally under the
influence of any toxic vapors.
      (3)   It shall be unlawful for any minor to be in possession of any toxic
vapors or substances containing toxic vapors under circumstances which evidence
a purpose by the minor to be under the influence of any such toxic vapors. The
term MINOR, as it is used in this section, shall mean any person under 18 years
of age.
      (4)   It shall be unlawful for any person knowingly to sell or offer for
sale, deliver or give away to any other person any substance containing or
releasing toxic vapors, where the seller, offerer, deliverer or donor knows or
has reason to believe that the substance will be used for the purpose of
inducing a condition of or inducing symptoms of intoxication, elation,
euphoria, dizziness, excitement, irrational behavior, exhilaration, paralysis,
stupefaction or dulling of the senses of the nervous system, or for the purpose
of in any manner, changing, distorting or disturbing the auditory, visual or
mental processes.
   (D)   Exceptions. This section shall not apply to the inhalation of
anesthesia for medical or dental purposes.
(Prior Code, § 130.114) (Ord. 97-16, passed 8-4-1997) Penalty, see §
130.99
Statutory reference:
   Related state laws, see Neb. Rev. Stat. §§ 28-419 through 28-424
§ 130.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Whoever violates any provision of this general offenses title for
which no specific penalty is provided shall be punished as set forth in §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person failing to appear or otherwise comply with the command of a
citation issued under this general offenses title shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor and shall, upon conviction thereof, be punished by a fine of not
more than $500, or by imprisonment in the County Jail for not more than three
months, or by both the fine and imprisonment.
(Prior Code, § 130.999)
   (C)   Any person who violates §
130.32 of this code shall be guilty of an infraction, receive a citation, be
fined according to the provisions herein, which provide the court discretion in
assessing a penalty fine up to $500.
(Prior Code, § 130.112)
   (D)   Any person who violates §
130.33 of this code shall be guilty of an infraction, receive a citation and be
fined $100.
(Prior Code, § 130.113)
(Ord. 97-16, passed 8-4-1997; Ord. 98-23, passed 7-6-1998; Ord. 98-41, passed
11-2-1998; Ord. 15-23, passed 11-2-2015)
CHAPTER 131: OFFENSIVE CONDUCT
Section
   
131.01   Criminal assault
   
131.02   Telephone calls to harass, intimidate, torment; permitting telephone
to be used
   
131.03   Offensive touching
   
131.04   Reckless endangering
   
131.05   Disorderly conduct
   
131.06   Disturbing the peace
   
131.07   Indecent exposure
   
131.08   Voyeurism
   
131.09   Criminal mischief
   
131.10   Obscene conduct or materials
   
131.11   Prostitution; maintaining house of prostitution
§ 131.01 CRIMINAL ASSAULT.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to commit criminal assault upon
another.
   (B)   CRIMINAL ASSAULT, as it is used in this section, shall mean the
following:
      (1)   To intentionally, knowingly or recklessly cause bodily injury to
another person; or
      (2)   To threaten another in a menacing manner.
(Prior Code, § 130.085) (Ord. 97-16, passed 8-4-1997) Penalty, see §
130.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar state law, see Neb. Rev. Stat. §§ 28-308 through 28-310
§ 131.02 TELEPHONE CALLS TO HARASS, INTIMIDATE, TORMENT; PERMITTING TELEPHONE
TO BE USED.
   (A)   (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person to use the telephone to
intentionally or knowingly harass, intimidate, torment or embarrass any other
person by using obscenity or fighting words or by threatening to inflict injury
on the person or property of the person called or any member of the person’s
immediate family.
      (2)   The offense committed by use of a telephone as set forth in this
section may be deemed to have been committed either at the place from which the
telephone call or calls were made or at the place where the telephone call or
calls were received.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to knowingly permit any telephone
under the person’s control to be used for any purpose prohibited by division
(A) above.
(Prior Code, § 130.086) (Ord. 97-16, passed 8-4-1997) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 131.03 OFFENSIVE TOUCHING.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to intentionally touch the genitals,
genital area, breasts or buttocks of another person, whether the genitals,
genital area, breasts or buttocks are covered or uncovered by clothing, either
with a member of the first person’s body or with any instrument, when that
person knows or should know that such touching is likely to cause offense or
alarm to the other person.
(Prior Code, § 130.087) (Ord. 97-16, passed 8-4-1997) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 131.04 RECKLESS ENDANGERING.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to recklessly engage in conduct which
creates a substantial risk of physical injury to another person.
(Prior Code, § 130.088) (Ord. 97-16, passed 8-4-1997) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 131.05 DISORDERLY CONDUCT.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to engage in conduct or behavior which
disturbs the peace and good order of the city by clamor or noise, intoxication,
drunkenness, fighting or using obscene or profane language in the streets or
other public places or otherwise violating the public peace by indecent or
disorderly conduct or lewd or lascivious behavior.
Penalty, see §
130.99
Statutory reference:
   Authority to prevent disorderly conduct, see Neb. Rev. Stat. § 17-129
   Authority to regulate noise, riots and routs, see Neb. Rev. Stat. § 17-556
§ 131.06 DISTURBING THE PEACE.
   (A)   The offense of disturbing the peace shall include, but shall not
necessarily be limited to using, operating or permitting the playing, use or
operation of any radio receiving set, compact disc player, tape player,
television set, musical instrument, phonograph or other machine or device
designed for the production or reproduction of sound as follows:
      (1)   In such manner as to disturb the peace, quiet and comfort of people
in the surrounding neighborhood; or
      (2)   At any time with volume louder than is necessary for convenient
hearing by the person or persons who are in the room, vehicle or chamber in
which the machine or device is operated and who are voluntary listeners
thereto.
   (B)   The operation of any such instrument, phonograph, machine or device
between the hours of 10:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m. in such a manner as to be plainly
audible at a distance of 50 feet from the source shall be prima facie evidence
of a violation of this section.
(Prior Code, § 130.090) (Ord. 97-16, passed 8-4-1997) Penalty, see §
130.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar state law, see Neb. Rev. Stat. § 28-1322
§ 131.07 INDECENT EXPOSURE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, in a public place or where the conduct
may reasonably be expected to be viewed by others, to perform or to procure or
assist any other person in performing the following:
   (A)   An act of sexual penetration;
   (B)   An exposure of the genitals, breasts or buttocks of the person’s self
or another person of the same or opposite sex, when the person knows or should
know that the exposure is likely to affront or alarm any other person; or
   (C)   A lewd fondling or caressing of the genitals, breasts or buttocks of
the person’s self or another person of the same or opposite sex.
(Prior Code, § 130.091) (Ord. 97-16, passed 8-4-1997) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 131.08 VOYEURISM.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      INTRUDE. To watch, look at, view, follow with the eyes, stare or spy on
another while that other person is in a state of undress.
      PLACE OF SOLITUDE OR SECLUSION. A place where a person intends to be in a
state of undress or have a reasonable expectation of privacy, including, but
not limited to any facility, public or private, used as a restroom, tanning
booth, locker room, shower room, fitting room or dressing room.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to intentionally or knowingly
intrude upon any other person without that person’s consent or knowledge in a
place of solitude or seclusion.
(Prior Code, § 130.092) (Ord. 97-16, passed 8-4-1997) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 131.09 CRIMINAL MISCHIEF.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to:
      (1)   Intentionally, knowingly or recklessly damage property of another;
      (2)   Endanger the person or property of another by intentionally
tampering with the property; or
      (3)   Intentionally or knowingly cause another to suffer pecuniary loss
by deception or threat.
   (B)   Damages or loss incurred from an act of criminal mischief must be
valued at less than $500.
(Prior Code, § 130.093) (Ord. 97-16, passed 8-4-1997) Penalty, see §
130.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provision, see Neb. Rev. Stat. § 28-519
§ 131.10 OBSCENE CONDUCT OR MATERIALS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to urinate or defecate in any public
place or place open to the public view, to commit or demonstrate in any public
place or place open to the public view other obscene acts or to have in the
person’s possession any obscene materials. For purposes of this section,
material(s) or live conduct is OBSCENE if it meets the following conditions:
   (A)   The average person applying contemporary community standards would
find the material(s) or conduct, taken as a whole, appeals to the prurient
interests;
   (B)   The material depicts or describes or the live conduct portrays the
following:
      (1)   Patently offensive representations or descriptions of ultimate
sexual acts, normal or perverted, actual or simulated; or
      (2)   Patently offensive representations or descriptions of masturbation,
excretory functions and/or lewd exhibitions of the genitals.
   (B)   The work or conduct taken as a whole lacks serious literary, artistic,
political or scientific value.
(Prior Code, § 130.094) (Ord. 97-16, passed 8-4-1997) Penalty, see §
130.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. Rev. Stat. §§ 28-807 through 28-829
§ 131.11 PROSTITUTION; MAINTAINING HOUSE OF PROSTITUTION.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to perform, offer or agree to
perform any act of sexual penetration, as defined in Neb. Rev. Stat. § 28-318,
with any person not the person’s spouse in exchange for money or other thing of
value.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to have or exercise control over
the use of any place which offers seclusion or shelter for the practice of
prostitution, or to knowingly grant or permit the use of the place for the
purpose of prostitution.
(Prior Code, § 130.095) (Ord. 97-16, passed 8-4-1997) Penalty, see §
130.99
CHAPTER 132: MINORS; CURFEW
Section
Minors
   
132.01   Minor in possession of alcohol
   
132.02   Use of tobacco, electronic nicotine delivery systems or alternative
nicotine products
   
132.03   Sale of cigarettes, tobacco, electronic nicotine delivery systems or
alternative nicotine products
   
132.04   Minor representing age
   
132.05   Encouraging delinquency
Curfew
   
132.20   Definitions
   
132.21   Offenses
   
132.22   Exemptions
   
132.23   Enforcement
 
   
132.99   Penalty
MINORS
§ 132.01 MINOR IN POSSESSION OF ALCOHOL.
   Except as provided for in divisions (A), (B) and (C) below, no minor may
sell, dispense, consume or have in that minor’s possession or physical control
any alcoholic liquor in any tavern or in any other place, including public
streets, alleys, roads or highways, upon property owned by the city or inside
any vehicle while in or on any other place, including, but not limited to the
public streets, alleys, roads or highways, or upon property owned by the city,
except that a minor may consume, possess or have physical control of alcoholic
liquor in the minor’s permanent place of residence or on the premises of a
place of religious worship on which premises alcoholic liquor is consumed as
part of a religious rite, ritual or ceremony.
   (A)   Persons who are 16 years old or older are not prohibited from carrying
alcoholic liquor from licensed establishments when they are accompanied by a
person not a minor. Persons who are 16 years old or older are not prohibited
from removing and disposing of alcoholic liquor containers for the convenience
of the employer and customers in the course of their employment.
   (B)   Persons who are 19 years old or older are not prohibited from serving
or selling alcoholic liquor in the course of their employment.
(Prior Code, § 130.125) (Ord. 98-41, passed 11-2-1998) Penalty, see §
132.99
§ 132.02 USE OF TOBACCO, ELECTRONIC NICOTINE DELIVERY SYSTEMS OR ALTERNATIVE
NICOTINE PRODUCTS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person under that age which is set forth in
Neb. Rev. Stat. § 28-1418 to smoke or use cigarettes, cigars, pipe tobacco,
smokeless tobacco, tobacco in other forms, electronic nicotine delivery systems
or alternative nicotine products. What constitutes electronic nicotine delivery
systems and alternative nicotine products shall be those as found in the
definitions used in Neb. Rev. Stat. § 28-1418.01.
(Prior Code, § 130.126) (Ord. 97-16, passed 8-4-1997; Ord. 18-54, passed 11-19-
2018; Ord. 21-07, passed 2-16-2021) Penalty, see §
132.99
Statutory reference:
   Use of tobacco by minors prohibited, see Neb. Rev. Stat. § 28-1418
§ 132.03 SALE OF CIGARETTES, TOBACCO, ELECTRONIC NICOTINE DELIVERY SYSTEMS OR
ALTERNATIVE NICOTINE PRODUCTS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to sell, exchange or give, directly or
indirectly, to any person under that age which is set forth in Neb. Rev. Stat.
§ 28-1419 any cigarettes, tobacco, compounds of tobacco in any form, electronic
nicotine delivery systems, or alternative nicotine products, cigarette papers
or cigar papers. What constitutes electronic nicotine delivery systems and
alternative nicotine products shall be defined according to the definitions
used in Neb. Rev. Stat. § 28-1418.01.
(Prior Code, § 130.127) (Ord. 97-16, passed 8-4-1997; Ord. 18-54, passed 11-19-
2018; Ord. 21-07, passed 2-16-2021) Penalty, see §
132.99
Statutory reference:
   Misrepresentation of age by minor, see Neb. Rev. Stat. § 28-1427
   Related provision, see Neb. Rev. Stat. § 28-1419
§ 132.04 MINOR REPRESENTING AGE.
   It shall be unlawful for any minor, as defined by Neb. Rev. Stat. § 53-103,
to obtain or attempt to obtain alcoholic liquor by misrepresentation of age, or
by any other method, in any tavern or other place where alcoholic liquor is
sold.
(Prior Code, § 130.128) (Ord. 98-23, passed 7-6-1998) Penalty, see §
132.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar state law, see Neb. Rev. Stat. §§ 53-180.01 and 53-180.06
§ 132.05 ENCOURAGING DELINQUENCY.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, by act or neglect, to encourage, aid or
cause a child to come within the purview of the juvenile authorities, police
officers or officers of the courts.
(Prior Code, § 130.129) (Ord. 97-16, passed 8-4-1997) Penalty, see §
132.99
CURFEW
§ 132.20 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CURFEW HOURS. 11:00 p.m. until 6:00 a.m. on the following day.
   EMERGENCY. An unforeseen combination of circumstances or the resulting state
thereof that calls for immediate action. The term includes, but is not limited
to a fire, a natural disaster, an automobile accident or any situation
requiring immediate action to prevent serious bodily injury or loss of life.
   ESTABLISHMENT. Any privately-owned place of business operated for a profit
to which the public is invited, including, but not limited to any place of
amusement or entertainment.
   GUARDIAN. Either a person who, under court order, is the guardian of the
person of a minor or a public or private agency with whom a minor has been
placed by a court.
   MINOR. Any person under 16 years of age.
   OPERATOR. Any individual, firm, association, partnership or corporation
which operates, manages or conducts any establishment. The term includes the
members or partners of an association or partnership and the officers of a
corporation.
   PARENT. A person who is either a natural parent, adoptive parent or step-
parent, foster parent, legal guardian or a person who is at least 21 years of
age and authorized by a minor’s parent or guardian to have the care and custody
of the minor.
   PUBLIC PLACE. Any place to which the public or a substantial group of the
public has access and includes, but is not limited to streets, highways and the
common areas of schools, hospitals, apartment houses, office buildings,
transport facilities, shops and movie theaters.
   SERIOUS BODILY INJURY. Bodily injury that creates a substantial risk of
death or that causes death, severe permanent disfigurement or protracted loss
or impairment of the function of any bodily member or organ.
(Prior Code, § 130.035) (Ord. 97-16, passed 8-4-1997)
§ 132.21 OFFENSES.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for a minor to be in any public place or on the
premises of any establishment within the city during curfew hours.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for a parent or guardian of a minor to knowingly
permit or by insufficient control allow the minor to remain in any public place
or on the premises of any establishment within the city during curfew hours.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for an owner, operator or any employee of an
establishment to knowingly allow a minor to remain upon the premises of the
establishment during curfew hours.
   (D)   It shall be a complete defense to prosecution under this section that
the juvenile was acting within the provisions of §
132.22 of this code.
(Prior Code, § 130.036) (Ord. 97-16, passed 8-4-1997) Penalty, see §
132.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar state law, see Neb. Rev. Stat. § 16-246
§ 132.22 EXEMPTIONS.
   The following are exemption from the provisions of this subchapter:
   (A)   At any time, if the juvenile is accompanied by the juvenile’s parent,
legal guardian or other responsible person over the age of 21, and approved by
the juvenile’s parent, guardian, custodian or other adult person having custody
of the juvenile to accompany the juvenile;
   (B)   If the juvenile is legally employed, for the period of one-half hour
before to one-half hour after work, while traveling, using the most direct
route, between the juvenile’s home and place of employment. This exception
shall also apply if the juvenile is in the juvenile’s place of employment
during curfew hours;
   (C)   If the juvenile is coming directly home from an adult organized/
sponsored activity or place of public entertainment such as a movie, play or
sporting event. This exception will apply for one-half hour after completion of
such event, while traveling, using the most direct route, between the event
site and the juvenile’s residence;
   (D)   If the juvenile is traveling by direct routes to or from an event
sponsored by an accredited educational institution;
   (E)   If the juvenile is in a motor vehicle engaged in interstate travel
with the consent of a parent, guardian, or other adult person having custody or
control of the juvenile through the state;
   (F)   If the juvenile is exercising First Amendment rights protected by the
United States Constitution, such as the free exercise of freedom of speech,
religion and the right of assembly;
   (G)   If the juvenile is on an emergency errand directed or permitted by the
juvenile’s parent, guardian, custodian or other person having custody or
control of the juvenile; or
   (H)   If the juvenile is married, or has been married, and thus has been
emancipated in the state.
(Prior Code, § 130.037) (Ord. 97-16, passed 8-4-1997)
§ 132.23 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Before taking any enforcement action under this subchapter, the law
enforcement official shall ask the apparent offender’s age and reason for being
in the public place. No citation shall be issued, or arrest made under this
section unless there is a reasonable suspicion that an offense has occurred and
that, based on any response and other circumstances, no defense in §
132.22 of this code is present.
   (B)   If a police officer takes a juvenile into custody for violating any of
the provisions of this subchapter, that police officer shall deliver or arrange
to deliver the juvenile either to:
      (1)   The juvenile’s parent, guardian, custodian or other adult person
having custody or control of the juvenile;
      (2)   A relative of the juvenile, over the age of 18, who is willing to
assume temporary custody of the juvenile;
      (3)   The Police Department; or
      (4)   The state’s Department of Health and Human Services.
(Prior Code, § 130.038) (Ord. 97-16, passed 8-4-1997)
§ 132.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
130.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person violating §
132.01 of this code, in lieu of the other penalties set out in §
130.99, may be sentenced to work on public streets, in parks or on other public
property for a period not exceeding ten working days. The work shall be under
the supervision of the County Sheriff. Upon the written certification by the
County Sheriff of the performance of the work, the sentence shall be satisfied.
(Prior Code, § 130.999)
   (C)   Any person found to be in violation of §
132.02 of this code, upon conviction thereof, shall be fined as follows:
      (1)   First offense: $10 plus costs;
      (2)   Second offense: $25 plus costs; and
      (3)   Third and subsequent offenses: $50 plus costs.
(Prior Code, § 130.126)
(Ord. 97-16, passed 8-4-1997; Ord. 98-41, passed 11-2-1998; Ord. 18-54, passed
11-19-2018; Ord. 21-07, passed 2-16-2021)
CHAPTER 133: OFFENSES AGAINST PERSONS
Section
Weapons; Explosives
   
133.01   Firearms
   
133.02   Concealed weapons
   
133.03   Sale and use of fireworks
   
133.04   Permit required for sale of fireworks
   
133.05   Discharging fireworks
Theft
   
133.20   Theft of services
   
133.21   Petit larceny
   
133.22   Theft by receiving stolen property
   
133.23   Theft of lost or mislaid property
   
133.24   Theft of leased or rented property
   
133.25   Theft by deception
   
133.26   Shoplifting
 
   
133.99   Penalty
WEAPONS; EXPLOSIVES
§ 133.01 FIREARMS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to use or discharge within the corporate
limits of the city any gun, pistol, revolver, rifle, air gun, slingshot, BB
gun, pellet gun, paint gun or any other firearm, weapon or device charged with
shot or other projectiles. However, this section shall not apply to the lawful
use of the instruments within any enclosures constructed and arranged so as to
prevent the escape of the shot or projectiles from the enclosures, when their
use is required for public or individual defense and safety or when a police
officer or other employee of the Police Department shall use their firearm in
the line of duty. The police are hereby authorized, ordered and directed to
seize and hold any such instrument that is found to be in violation of this
section and to produce the same before the Court upon the hearing of any person
arrested for the use thereof.
(Prior Code, § 130.050) (Ord. 97-16, passed 8-4-1997) Penalty, see §
133.99
§ 133.02 CONCEALED WEAPONS.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/c898f04873aad83d2018fee9d1c91b72c99beaa9/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2454.png]Publisher's Note: This Section has been AMENDED by new
legislation (Ord. 25-17, passed 10-6-2025). The text of the amendment will be
incorporated below when the amending legislation is codified.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person in the city, officers of the law
and persons holding a valid state concealed carry permit excepted, to carry
concealed on or about his or her person any pistol or revolver. It shall be
unlawful for any person in the city to carry concealed or about his or her
person any Bowie knife, dirk or knife with a dirk blade attachment, brass or
iron knuckles or any other dangerous or deadly weapon. If upon the trial of any
case arising under the terms of this section it shall clearly and
satisfactorily appear from the testimony that the accused was, at the time of
carrying any weapon as aforesaid, engaged in the pursuit of a lawful business
or employment and that the circumstances in which the accused was placed were
such as to justify a prudent person in carrying the weapon found upon the
person for the person’s own defense or the defense of the person’s family, that
person shall be acquitted.
   (B)   This section does not apply to a person who has a valid permit issued
under the state’s Concealed Handgun Permit Act if the concealed handgun being
carried is a handgun as defined in Neb. Rev. Stat. § 69-2429. Even with a valid
permit, no person shall carry a concealed handgun into municipal buildings and/
or municipal parks.
(Prior Code, § 130.051) (Ord. 97-16, passed 8-4-1997; Ord. 09-21, passed 7-20-
2009) Penalty, see §
133.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar state laws, see Neb. Rev. Stat. §§ 28-1201 and 28-1202
§ 133.03 SALE AND USE OF FIREWORKS.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/c898f04873aad83d2018fee9d1c91b72c99beaa9/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2454.png]Publisher's Note: This Section has been AMENDED by new
legislation (Ord. 25-08, passed 7-7-2025, effective 1-2-2026). The text of the
amendment will be incorporated below when the amending legislation is codified.
   (A)   (1)   It shall be unlawful for any persons to possess, sell, offer for
sale or discharge any pyrotechnics, commonly known as consumer fireworks, of
any description whatsoever within the corporate limits of the city, except
those fireworks which comply with the State Fire Marshall’s rules and
regulations, as adopted at the time of the effective date hereof, and which may
be amended from time to time.
      (2)   Such consumer fireworks shall be sold only by a person who holds a
permit from the city to do so in accordance with the provisions of §
133.04 of this code, and the consumer fireworks shall be sold only from June 25
through July 4 between the hours of 8:00 a.m. and 10:00 p.m. Consumer fireworks
may also be sold from December 29 through December 31 from 8:00 a.m. until 10:
00 p.m. This subchapter does not apply to novelty items such as toy cap and toy
cap pistols which may be sold, possessed or discharged at any time. This
subchapter shall apply to pyrotechnic exhibitions and display when duly
authorized and permitted by the State Fire Marshal pursuant to the laws of the
state. All applicants for such displays within the corporate limits of the city
shall make application to the City Clerk 45 days prior to discharging. This
subchapter shall not apply to the sale, storage or use of railroad track
torpedoes or their signaling devices used by railroads, nor to the sale,
storage or use of flashlight composition by photographers or dealers of
photographic supplies.
   (B)   Any person who shall sell or offer for sale consumer fireworks in the
city, or any person employed by another to sell or offer for sale such
fireworks, must be at least 18 years of age, except those persons who are 14
through 18 inclusive may, when working in the direct presence and supervision
of an adult 21 years or older, sell or offer for sale the fireworks. During the
hours of sale, the attendants shall restrict smoking to 50 feet or further from
the structure and shall restrict the discharge of fireworks at least 300 feet
or further from the structure. No matches shall be sold or given away from said
structure.
(Prior Code, § 130.052) (Ord. 99-15, passed 4-19-1999; Ord. 02-59, passed 11-4-
2002; Ord. 06-09, passed 2-21-2006; Ord. 11-08, passed 3-21-2011) Penalty, see
§
133.99
§ 133.04 PERMIT REQUIRED FOR SALE OF FIREWORKS.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/c898f04873aad83d2018fee9d1c91b72c99beaa9/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2454.png]Publisher's Note: This Section has been AMENDED by new
legislation (Ord. 25-06, passed 5-5-2025). The text of the amendment will be
incorporated below when the amending legislation is codified.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/c898f04873aad83d2018fee9d1c91b72c99beaa9/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2454.png]Publisher's Note: This Section has been AMENDED by new
legislation (Ord. 25-08, passed 7-7-2025, effective 1-2-2026). The text of the
amendment will be incorporated below when the amending legislation is codified.
   (A)   Any person desiring to sell any consumer fireworks as set forth in §
133.03 of this code shall make application on a form prepared by the Fire Chief
or designee. The application for a permit to sell consumer fireworks shall be
filed with the City Clerk. The application shall provide the following
information:
      (1)   The name and address of the applicant;
      (2)   Location of the premises for which the permit is sought;
      (3)   The legal description of the premises, a site plan showing the
location of the structure on the premises and a description of the structure to
be used;
      (4)   Type of structure to be used:
         (a)   Temporary structure (stand); or
         (b)   Tent.
      (5)   Where inventory will be stored;
      (6)   When inventory will arrive;
      (7)   Where inventory will be stored during the off season; and
      (8)   Certificate of insurance in the amount to be set by resolution and
naming the city as an additional insured.
   (B)   The applicant for a permit shall pay a fee as set by resolution to the
City Clerk at the time of submitting the application for each of the premises
from which the fireworks are to be sold and shall otherwise comply with all
regulations and conditions as set forth herein providing this application is
received in the Clerk’s office by 5:00 p.m. on June 10 of the year for which
the application is being made. From June 11 through June 18, there will be a
late fee charge as set by resolution, plus the original fee; from June 19
through June 25, a late fee as set by resolution, plus the original fee and the
first late fee. Applications for New Year’s Eve firework sales must be received
by the City Clerk’s office by 5:00 p.m. on December 19 of the year for which
the application is being made. If any of the above dates fall on a weekend, the
deadline would be the following Monday by 5:00 p.m.
   (C)   The following regulations apply to the premises from which said
fireworks shall be sold.
      (1)   No permanent building shall be used for the sale of fireworks to
the general public. Temporary structures (stands) from which sales are made
shall be either:
         (a)   Constructed of a substantial material, which shall consist of at
least three-eighths inch plywood with three enclosed sides and a counter at one
side only, with emergency doors installed at both ends with a minimum width of
the doors being 28 inches and a height of at least six feet and the doors shall
swing with the direction of exiting traffic; or
         (b)   Not more than two side-by-side Sea Cargo Containers (Conex) with
full width doors (eight feet by eight feet) that can be secured on both ends
and with the counter on the inside. The structure shall be in place ready for
inspection by 12:00 p.m. on the Thursday before June 25 and 12:00 p.m. on the
Thursday before December 29 with arrangements being made with the Fire
Department.
      (2)   Temporary structures (stands) where fireworks are sold cannot
exceed 424 square feet.
      (3)   Tents shall not exceed 2,400 square feet and shall comply with
National Fire Protection Association (NFPA) 1124 Chapters 7 and 8. Tents can
only be placed in commercial zoned areas and they must have a 30-foot set back
from adjoining property.
      (4)   Premises from which fireworks are to be sold must conform with all
zoning regulations.
      (5)   Premises from which fireworks are to be sold cannot be closer than
25 feet to any permanent building.
      (6)   Premises from where fireworks are to be sold must be at least 100
feet from any station, building or permanent storage where gasoline and oil for
motor vehicles are sold or stored, to include propane dispensers, aboveground
tanks for flammable or flammable liquids, flammable gases or flammable
liquefied gases.
      (7)   A distance of at least 300 feet shall be maintained from bulk
flammable or combustible liquid, flammable gas or flammable liquefied gas
(propane) tanks or dispensers.
      (8)   Temporary structures (stands) from where fireworks are to be sold
must be equipped with one two and one-half gallon pressurized fire extinguisher
for each 424 square feet of permitted sales area and one ten-pound Class A fire
extinguisher. Tents from where fireworks are to be sold must be equipped with
two and one-half gallon pressurized fire extinguishers as follows: A 40-foot by
20-foot tent shall have two extinguishers; a 40-foot by 40-foot tent shall have
three extinguishers; and a 40-foot by 60-foot tent shall have four
extinguishers. All tents shall, in addition, have one ten-pound, Class A fire
extinguisher.
      (9)   In addition to all other requirements and regulations of the city,
all fireworks stands or places of sale of fireworks, shall be located and set
back at least 25 feet from the nearest curb line of any public right-of-way, or
in the alternative, the selling windows of the fireworks stand must face away
from the curb lines or any public right-of-way, which are within 25 feet of
said selling window.
      (10)   The following commercially-made signs, with at least four inches
high by one-half inch wide block lettering of permanent design of black against
white background shall be installed on all four sides of the structure from
which fireworks are to be sold. Said signs shall state:
         (a)   Fireworks: No smoking within 50 feet;
         (b)   No fireworks discharged within 300 feet;
         (c)   No parking within 12 feet; and
         (d)   Firework discharge is only permitted in the city from: June 25
through July 3, 8:00 a.m. to 11:00 p.m. and July 4 8:00 a.m. to 12:00 a.m.
(midnight); and December 29 through December 30, 8:00 a.m. to 12:00 a.m.
(midnight) and December 31, 8:00 a.m. to January 1, 1:00 a.m. This sign shall
include the same statement in Spanish: La descarga de fuegos artificiales son
solamente permitidos en la ciudad: Del 25 de Junio al 3 de Julio, de 8:00 a.m.
a 11:00 p.m. y el 4 de Julio, de 8:00 a.m. a 12:00 a.m. (medianoche); y del 29
al 30 de Diciembre, de 8:00 a.m. a 12:00 a.m. (medianoche) y del 31 de
Diciembre, de 8:00 a.m. al primero de Enero, a la 1:00 a.m.
      (11)   The address of the stand, name of licensee, name of manager and
the telephone number of the licensee/manager shall be displayed on a sign with
lettering no less than two and one-half inches high by one-half inch wide block
lettering of permanent design of black against white background (no paper signs
will be accepted). The sign shall be firmly attached to the structure so that
the sign may be visible from the fronting street or avenue.
      (12)   The area around a fireworks sales facility shall be kept clear of
dry grass, brush and combustible debris for a distance of at least 30 feet.
      (13)   A vehicle or trailer used for fireworks storage shall be parked at
least 12 feet from a fireworks sales facility.
   (D)   Stands and tents which are equipped with electrical service must meet
the following conditions:
      (1)   Have its own exclusive electrical services or heavy wiring which is
elevated for adequate motor vehicle clearance;
      (2)   Have all electrical work done in such a manner as to conform to the
current, as adopted, National Electrical Code;
      (3)   Have protective covers over all light bulbs which are less than
eight feet from ground level;
and
      (4)   Have portable generators at least 20 feet from fireworks sales.
         (a)   Fuel for generators shall be limited to five gallons for diesel
and two gallons for gasoline.
         (b)   Fuel storage shall be at least 20 feet from fireworks sales.
   (E)   During a time period in which sales are not permitted, storage of
fireworks shall be limited to business and industrial zoned areas and the
location must meet with approval of the Fire Chief before permission is granted
for the storage of fireworks.
   (F)   The permit shall be valid for a period from June 25 through July 4 of
the year in which it is issued. In addition, in accord with the provisions of
Neb. Rev. Stat. § 28-1249, a permit may be issued for a period from December 29
of that year through January 1 of the following year. Upon payment of the
permit fees, as set by resolution, and approval of the premises by the Fire
Chief, the permit shall be issued by the city to the applicant. Sales of
consumer fireworks for the period of December 29 through December 31 will
require a permit to be applied for and paid for by the applicant. All
application fees are non-refundable.
   (G)   (1)   Consumer fireworks to be sold from tents may be stored on site
during the time period for which a permit is valid. The permit holder shall
maintain sufficient security personnel on the site of the sales facility at all
times when fireworks are stored on the site while the sales facility is closed.
Any violation of this section will result in the immediate revocation of the
permit to sell fireworks. Violations include:
         (a)   Failure to have security personnel on site; and/or
         (b)   Security personnel on site observed to be smoking or with
alcohol or other dereliction of duty to secure the site.
      (2)   Observation of these violations can be made and reported by any
sworn police officer or sworn firefighter of the city.
(Prior Code, § 130.053) (Ord. 99-15, passed 4-19-1999; Ord. 02-59, passed 11-4-
2002; Ord. 06-09, passed 2-21-2006; Ord. 11-08, passed 3-21-2011; Ord. 17-04,
passed 3-6-2017; Ord. 18-28, passed 9-4-2018) Penalty, see §
133.99
§ 133.05 DISCHARGING FIREWORKS.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/c898f04873aad83d2018fee9d1c91b72c99beaa9/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2454.png]Publisher's Note: This Section has been AMENDED by new
legislation (Ord. 25-08, passed 7-7-2025, effective 1-2-2026). The text of the
amendment will be incorporated below when the amending legislation is codified.
   (A)   Consumer fireworks may be discharged from June 25 through July 3
between the hours of 8:00 a.m. and 11:00 p.m. and on July 4 between the hours
of 8:00 a.m. and 12:00 a.m. (midnight) and for the period of December 29
through December 30 from 8:00 a.m. to 10:00 p.m. and on December 31 from 8:00
a.m. to 1:00 a.m. on January 1.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to discharge fireworks from 12:00 a.m. (midnight)
on July 4 to 8:00 a.m. on December 29 of that year and from 1:00 a.m. on
January 1 of the following year to 8:00 a.m. on June 25 of that year.
(Prior Code, § 130.054) (Ord. 99-15, passed 4-19-1999; Ord. 02-59, passed 11-4-
2002; Ord. 06-09, passed 2-21-2006; Ord. 11-08, passed 3-21-2011; Ord. 18-28,
passed 9-4-2018) Penalty, see §
133.99
THEFT
§ 133.20 THEFT OF SERVICES.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      DEVICE. Instrument, apparatus, equipment or plans or instructions for
making or assembling the same.
      SERVICES. Labor; professional services; electric service,
telecommunications service or other public service; accommodation in hotels,
restaurants or elsewhere; admission to exhibitions; and use of vehicles or
other movable property.
      TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICE. Telephone service, cable television service
or internet service.
   (B)   (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person to obtain services valued at
less than $500 by deception, threat, false token or other means to avoid
payment for the service, which services that person knows
or should know are available only for compensation.
      (2)   When compensation for service is ordinarily paid immediately upon
the rendering of the service, as in the case of hotels and restaurants, refusal
to pay or absconding without payment or offer to pay shall give rise to the
presumption regarding the intention to pay that the service was obtained by
deception.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person having control over the
disposition of the services of others, to which services that person is not
entitled, to divert the services to that person’s own benefit or to the benefit
of another not entitled thereto.
   (D)   It shall be unlawful for any person, with the intent to use the device
in the commission of an offense described in division (B) above, to knowingly
make or possess any device designed to or commonly used to fraudulently obtain
telecommunications service from a telephone, cable television or internet
provider.
   (E)   It shall be unlawful for any person, with the intent to fraudulently
obtain telecommunications service, to knowingly tamper, interfere or connect
with any cables, wires, converters or other devices used for the distribution
of telecommunications service by any mechanical, electrical, acoustical or
other means without authority from the operator of the service.
   (F)   It shall be unlawful for any person to sell, give, transfer, offer or
advertise for sale a device which the person knows or should know is intended
to be used for the purpose of fraudulently obtaining telecommunications
service.
(Prior Code, § 130.065) (Ord. 97-16, passed 8-4-1997) Penalty, see §
133.99
§ 133.21 PETIT LARCENY.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to knowingly or intentionally
commit petit larceny.
   (B)   PETIT LARCENY, as it is used in this section, shall mean a larceny or
theft of money, goods or chattels of any kind whatever of less value than $500.
(Prior Code, § 130.066) (Ord. 97-16, passed 8-4-1997) Penalty, see §
133.99
§ 133.22 THEFT BY RECEIVING STOLEN PROPERTY.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to receive, retain or dispose of movable
property belonging to another and having a value of less than $500 when that
person knows or should know that the property has been stolen, unless the
property is received, retained or disposed of with intention to restore it to
the owner.
(Prior Code, § 130.067) (Ord. 97-16, passed 8-4-1997) Penalty, see §
133.99
§ 133.23 THEFT OF LOST OR MISLAID PROPERTY.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to exercise control over the property of
another without taking reasonable measures to return the property to its owner
when that person knows or should know that the property has been lost or
mislaid or has been delivered under a mistake as to the identity of the
recipient or the nature or value of the property.
(Prior Code, § 130.068) (Ord. 97-16, passed 8-4-1997) Penalty, see §
133.99
§ 133.24 THEFT OF LEASED OR RENTED PROPERTY.
   (A)   (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person to intentionally,
fraudulently or by false pretenses take, destroy, convert, wrongfully withhold
or appropriate real or personal property having a value of less than $500 which
has been leased or rented to the person.
      (2)   If the finder of fact finds the following, then the finder of fact
shall be permitted, but not required, to presume intent to commit theft:
         (a)   That the lessee (rentee) of real or personal property has failed
to return or make arrangements acceptable to the lessor (renter) to return the
property to the lessor (renter) within ten days after proper notice, either
following the expiration of the lease (rental) contract or after default by the
lessee (rentee) on the terms of the contract; or
         (b)   That the lessee (rentee) of real or personal property presented
identification to the lessor (renter) which was materially false, fictitious or
not current with respect to name, address, place of employment or other
material items of identification.
   (B)   As used in division (A)(1) above, PROPER NOTICE shall consist of a
written demand by the lessor (renter) made after the expiration of the lease
(rental) period or after default by the lessee (rentee) on the terms of the
contract which is mailed by certified or registered mail to the lessee (rentee)
at:
      (1)   The address the lessee (rentee) gave when making the lease (rental)
contract; or
      (2)   The lessee’s (rentee’s) last known address if later furnished in
writing by the lessee (rentee) or the lessee’s agent.
   (C)   The reasonable and fair market value of the property obtained shall be
used to determine the amount of the theft.
   (D)   The following factors, if established by the lessee (rentee) by a
preponderance of the evidence, shall constitute an affirmative defense to
prosecution for theft:
      (1)   That the lessee (rentee) accurately stated the lessee’s name,
address and other material items of identification at the time of the lease
(rental); or
      (2)   That the lessee (rentee) failed to receive the lessor’s (renter’s)
notice personally, due in no significant part to the fault of the lessee
(rentee).
(Prior Code, § 130.069) (Ord. 97-16, passed 8-4-1997) Penalty, see §
133.99
§ 133.25 THEFT BY DECEPTION.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to obtain property of another by
deception. The word DECEIVE does not include falsity as to matters having no
pecuniary significance or to statements unlikely to deceive reasonably prudent
persons in the group addressed.
   (B)   A person DECEIVES another if that person intentionally:
      (1)   Creates or reinforces a false impression, including false
impressions as to law, value or intention or other state of mind; but deception
as to a person’s intention to perform a promise shall not be inferred solely
from the fact that the person did not subsequently perform the promise;
      (2)   Prevents another from acquiring information which would affect that
person’s judgment in entering into, conducting or completing a transaction;
      (3)   Fails to correct a false impression which the person previously
created or reinforced or which the person knows or should know is influencing
another to whom the person stands in a fiduciary or confidential relationship;
or
      (4)   Uses a credit card, charge plate or any other instrument which
purports to evidence an undertaking to pay for property or services delivered
to, rendered to or ordered by the bearer or actor as follows:
         (a)   Where its use by the bearer or actor is unauthorized; or
         (b)   Where the bearer or actor does not have the intention and/or
ability to meet all obligations to the issuer arising out of the bearer or
actor’s use of the instrument.
(Prior Code, § 130.070) (Ord. 97-16, passed 8-4-1997) Penalty, see §
133.99
§ 133.26 SHOPLIFTING.
   (A)   A person commits the crime of theft by shoplifting when that person,
with the intent of appropriating merchandise to that person’s own use without
paying for the same or to deprive the owner of possession of the property or
its retail value, in whole or in part, does any of the following:
      (1)   Conceals or takes possession of the goods or merchandise of any
store or retail establishment;
      (2)   Alters the price tag or other price marking on goods or merchandise
of any store or retail establishment;
      (3)   Transfers the goods or merchandise of any store or retail
establishment from one container to another;
      (4)   Interchanges the label or price tag from one item of merchandise
with a label or price tag from another item of merchandise; or
      (5)   Causes the cash register or other sales recording device to reflect
less than the retail price of the merchandise.
   (B)   In any prosecution for theft by shoplifting, in order to allow the
owner or owners of shoplifted property the use of the property pending criminal
prosecutions, photographs of the shoplifted property may be accepted as prima
facie evidence as to the identity of the property. The photograph shall be
accompanied by a written statement containing the following:
      (1)   A description of the property;
      (2)   The name of the owner or owners of the property;
      (3)   The time, date and location where the shoplifting occurred;
      (4)   The time and date the photograph was taken;
      (5)   The name of the photographer; and
      (6)   Verification by the arresting officer.
   (C)   Prior to allowing the use of shoplifted property as provided in this
section, legal counsel for the alleged shoplifter shall have a reasonable
opportunity to inspect and appraise the property and may file a motion for
retention of the property, which motion shall be granted if there is any
reasonable basis for believing that the photographs and accompanying affidavit
may be misleading.
(Prior Code, § 130.071) (Ord. 97-16, passed 8-4-1997) Penalty, see §
133.99
Statutory reference:
Related provisions, see Neb. Rev. Stat. § 28-511.01
§ 133.99 PENALTY.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/c898f04873aad83d2018fee9d1c91b72c99beaa9/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2454.png]Publisher's Note: This Section has been AMENDED by new
legislation (Ord. 25-14, passed 10-6-2025). The text of the amendment will be
incorporated below when the amending legislation is codified.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
130.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   (1)   Penalties for not complying with any part of §
133.04 of this code for temporary structures and tents are as follows:
         (a)   Warning for first offense;
         (b)   Eight hours closed (8:00 a.m. to 4:00 p.m.) with no sales for
second offense; and
         (c)   Permit will be revoked for the remainder of the current selling
season and there will be no exceptions for third offense.
      (2)   If the violation occurs the last day of sales, then it will be
carried over to the next season.
(Prior Code, § 130.053) (Ord. 99-15, passed 4-19-1999; Ord. 02-59, passed 11-4-
2002; Ord. 06-09, passed 2-21-2006; Ord. 11-08, passed 3-21-2011; Ord. 17-04,
passed 3-6-2017; Ord. 18-28, passed 9-4-2018)
CHAPTER 134: OFFENSES AGAINST PROPERTY
Section
   
134.01   Malicious injury
   
134.02   Littering
   
134.03   Trespassing
   
134.04   Barbed wire and electric fences
   
134.05   Unlawful use of boxcars
   
134.06   Playing ball on streets
   
134.07   Diving from or hanging on bridges, overpasses or viaducts
 
   
134.99   Penalty
§ 134.01 MALICIOUS INJURY.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to intentionally or knowingly injure,
deface, mutilate, remove, pull down, break or in any manner interfere with,
molest, secrete, desecrate or destroy any real, personal or movable property
belonging to or under the control of any other person or private or
governmental entity.
(Prior Code, § 130.140) (Ord. 97-16, passed 8-4-1997) Penalty, see §
134.99
§ 134.02 LITTERING.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to deposit, throw, discard or
otherwise dispose of any litter on any public or private property or in any
waters.
   (B)   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      LITTER. All waste material susceptible of being dropped, deposited,
discarded or otherwise disposed of by any person upon any property in the city,
but does not include wastes of primary processes of farming or manufacturing.
      WASTE MATERIAL. Any material appearing in a place or in a context not
associated with that material’s function or origin.
(Prior Code, § 130.141) (Ord. 97-16, passed 8-4-1997) Penalty, see §
134.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provision, see Neb. Rev. Stat. § 28-523
§ 134.03 TRESPASSING.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, other than in an emergency, to
intentionally and knowingly take down, remove or climb over or under any fence,
bar or barricade, to open any gate on the property of another person or the
property of the city or to enter or be upon the property of another person or
the property of the city, without being invited, licensed or privileged to do
so.
(Prior Code, § 130.142) (Ord. 97-16, passed 8-4-1997) Penalty, see §
134.99
§ 134.04 BARBED WIRE AND ELECTRIC FENCES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to erect or maintain within the
corporate limits of the city an electric fence or any fence constructed in
whole or in part of barbed wire, or to use barbed wire as a guard to any
parking lot or parcel of land. The Chief of Police, or the Chief’s designee,
may waive any part of this section with the approval of the City Administrator.
(Prior Code, § 130.143) (Ord. 97-16, passed 8-4-1997) Penalty, see §
134.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. Rev. Stat. §§ 16-246, 18-1720, 28-1321 and 39-
307
§ 134.05 UNLAWFUL USE OF BOXCARS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to locate, place, use or occupy any
boxcar, railway coach or other structure or building formerly used as railway
rolling stock or equipment upon any lot or plot of ground within the corporate
limits of the city for any purpose. However, any railroad company having and
maintaining a right-of-way into or within the city may place the cars, coaches,
structures or buildings upon its own right-of-way for use in connection with
its business, but no such railroad company shall be permitted to rent or permit
any of the structures to be used by others for any purpose not necessary to the
furtherance of the business of the railroad company.
(Prior Code, § 130.144) (Ord. 97-16, passed 8-4-1997) Penalty, see §
134.99
§ 134.06 PLAYING BALL ON STREETS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to play ball or other games, including,
but not limited to basketball, football, golf, street hockey or soccer upon any
public thoroughfare in the city.
(Prior Code, § 130.145) (Ord. 97-16, passed 8-4-1997) Penalty, see §
134.99
§ 134.07 DIVING FROM OR HANGING ON BRIDGES, OVERPASSES OR VIADUCTS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to jump, dive or hang from any
bridge, overpass or viaduct within the corporate limits of the city.
   (B)   For purposes of this section, BRIDGE shall mean any structure carrying
a road, highway, street, alley, walkway or railroad tracks over any depression,
highway, street, alley, road, railroad tracks, waterway, lake or obstacles.
(Prior Code, § 130.146) (Ord. 97-16, passed 8-4-1997) Penalty, see §
134.99
§ 134.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
130.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person found to be in violation §
134.03 of this code shall be subject to the penalty provisions of §
130.99 of this code, and, in addition thereto, shall be liable to the person or
persons suffering the trespass and damages for the amount thereof.
(Prior Code, § 130.142)
CHAPTER 135: OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC ADMINISTRATION AND AUTHORITY
Section
   
135.01   Failure to disperse
   
135.02   Concealing knowledge; falsifying information
   
135.03   False reporting
   
135.04   Aid in escape
   
135.05   Impersonating a peace officer
   
135.06   Assistance to police officers
   
135.07   Obstructing a peace officer, community service technician or animal
control officer
§ 135.01 FAILURE TO DISPERSE.
   Whenever a police officer has probable cause to believe that a person or
persons are disturbing the peace and quiet of any person or neighborhood, the
police officer may order the person or persons to disperse for the purpose of
abating the disturbance. It shall be unlawful for any person to knowingly
refuse to comply with an order to disperse given by a police officer in the
performance of the officer’s duties under this section.
(Prior Code, § 130.160) (Ord. 97-16, passed 8-4-1997) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 135.02 CONCEALING KNOWLEDGE; FALSIFYING INFORMATION.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to intentionally or knowingly conceal
knowledge of the commission of any offense or unlawful act as defined in this
code.
(Prior Code, § 130.161) (Ord. 97-16, passed 8-4-1997) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 135.03 FALSE REPORTING.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to intentionally or knowingly report
false information to a peace officer or other law enforcement official with the
intent to instigate an investigation or to impede an investigation.
(Prior Code, § 130.162) (Ord. 97-16, passed 8-4-1997) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 135.04 AID IN ESCAPE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to intentionally or knowingly aid or
assist any person in escaping or attempting to escape from lawful confinement,
or aid or assist any person in escaping or attempting to escape from the
custody of any peace officer.
(Prior Code, § 130.163) (Ord. 97-16, passed 8-4-1997) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 135.05 IMPERSONATING A PEACE OFFICER.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to knowingly impersonate a peace
officer.
   (B)   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      IMPERSONATE. To falsely pretend to be a peace officer and perform any act
in that pretended capacity.
      PEACE OFFICER. Any officer or employee of the state, or any political
subdivision thereof, who is authorized by law to make arrests, including, but
not limited to members of the National Guard on active service by direction of
the Governor during periods of emergency or civil disorder.
(Prior Code, § 130.164) (Ord. 97-16, passed 8-4-1997) Penalty, see §
130.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provision, see Neb. Rev. Stat. § 28-610
§ 135.06 ASSISTANCE TO POLICE OFFICERS.
   It shall be unlawful for any able-bodied citizen over the age of 18 years to
refuse or fail to render assistance to any police officer, whom the citizen
knows or should know is a police officer, when called upon for the assistance
or aid in the suppression of a riot or other unlawful assemblage or in the
arrest of any person who has committed an offense.
(Prior Code, § 130.165) (Ord. 97-16, passed 8-4-1997) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 135.07 OBSTRUCTING A PEACE OFFICER, COMMUNITY SERVICE TECHNICIAN OR ANIMAL
CONTROL OFFICER.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to intentionally or knowingly interfere
with, resist, delay, obstruct or molest any peace officer, community service
technician or animal control officer in the exercise of their official duties.
(Prior Code, § 130.166) (Ord. 97-16, passed 8-4-1997; Ord. 06-36, passed 12-18-
2006) Penalty, see §
130.99
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
   Chapter
      
150.   BUILDING REGULATIONS
      
151.   COLUMBUS LAND DEVELOPMENT ORDINANCE: ZONING CHAPTER
      
152.   COLUMBUS LAND DEVELOPMENT ORDINANCE: SUBDIVISION CHAPTER
CHAPTER 150: BUILDING REGULATIONS
Section
Building Code
   
150.001   Adoption of the 2018 International Building Code
   
150.002   Amendments to Code
   
150.003   Adoption of the 2018 International Existing Building Code
   
150.004   General contractor; registration required; registration requirements;
insurance requirements
Electrical Code
   
150.015   Adoption of National Electrical Code
   
150.016   Electrical Inspector; duties
   
150.017   Electrical inspection; fees
   
150.018   Installation; permit; fee
   
150.019   Permit for own wiring; fee
   
150.020   Application for permit
   
150.021   Installation plan
   
150.022   Report of Inspector
   
150.023   License required; insurance required
   
150.024   Registration and insurance
   
150.025   Examination
Plumbing Code
   
150.040   Adoption of Plumbing Code
   
150.041   Amendments to Code
   
150.042   Additions to Code
   
150.043   Bond conditions
   
150.044   Installation of plumbing by owner
   
150.045   Requirements for tapping sump pump discharge pipe into storm sewers
   
150.046   Plumbing regulations on tests
   
150.047   Discharging fluids
Water Conditioning Appliances Code
   
150.060   Scope; compliance
   
150.061   Definitions
   
150.062   Plumbing Board
   
150.063   License required; exemptions
   
150.064   Water conditioning contractor
   
150.065   Water conditioning installer; examination and license
   
150.066   Application for license
   
150.067   Examination of applicants
   
150.068   Failure to pass examination
   
150.069   Fees for examination and license
   
150.070   Licenses not transferable; expiration
   
150.071   Revocation or suspension of license
   
150.072   Inspection of installation
   
150.073   Permit required; fee
   
150.074   Procedure of appeal
Gas Code
   
150.085   Adoption of Gas Code
Residential Code
   
150.100   Adoption of the International Residential Code
   
150.101   Amendments to the 2018 International Residential Code
Vacant Buildings
   
150.115   Vacant buildings
International Property Maintenance Code
   
150.130   Adoption of the 2012 International Property Maintenance Code
   
150.131   Amendments, additions and deletions
 
   
150.999   Penalty
BUILDING CODE
§ 150.001 ADOPTION OF THE 2018 INTERNATIONAL BUILDING CODE.
   It is hereby adopted for the purpose of establishing rules and regulations
for the erection, construction, enlargement, alteration, repair, moving,
removal, conversion, demolition, occupancy, equipment, use, height, area and
maintenance of buildings or structures within the city or its extra-
territorial jurisdiction, including permits and providing penalties for the
violation hereof that a certain building code known as the International
Building Code and Appendix C of said code, 2018 Edition, one copy of said book
had been and is now filed in the office of the City Clerk and the same is
hereby adopted and incorporated by reference herein and made a part hereof as
if fully set forth and laid before these pages herein, from the date on which
this section shall take effect and the provisions thereof shall be controlling
of the erection, construction, enlargement, alternation, repair, moving,
removal, conversion, demolition, occupancy, equipment, use, height, area and
maintenance of buildings or structures within the city or within the extra-
territorial jurisdiction of the city.
(Prior Code, § 150.001) (Ord. 98-14, passed 5-4-1998; Ord. 03-46, passed 12-15-
2003; Ord. 11-10, passed 3-21-2011; Ord. 11-14, passed 4-4-2011; Ord. 15-26,
passed 1-18-2016; Ord. 20-30, passed 1-4-2021; Ord. 23-02, passed 4-3-2023)
§ 150.002 AMENDMENTS TO CODE.
   (A)   Chapter 1, Section (A) 101.1 is hereby amended to read as follows:
      101.1 Title. Add City of Columbus for name of jurisdiction.
   (B)   Chapter 1, Section (A) 101.4.1 is hereby amended to read as follows:
      101.4.1 Gas. The provisions of the Uniform Plumbing Code shall apply to
the installation of gas piping from the point of delivery, gas appliances and
related accessories as covered in this code.
   (C)   Chapter 1, Section (A) 101.4.3 is hereby amended to read as follows:
      101.4.3 Plumbing. The provisions of the Uniform Plumbing Code shall apply
to the installation, alteration, repair and replacement of plumbing systems,
including equipment, appliances, fixtures and fittings and appurtenances and
where connected to a water or sewage system.
   (D)   Chapter 1, Section (A) 101.4.5 is hereby amended to read as follows:
      101.4.5 Fire Prevention. The State Fire Marshal is the delegated
authority for Fire Code implementation with the jurisdiction of the City of
Columbus.
   (E)   Chapter 1, Section (A) 101.4.6 Energy section is hereby deleted.
   (F)   New Section Chapter 1, Section (A) 101.5 Radon Systems is hereby added
to the 2018 International Building Code.
      101.5 Radon Systems. Radon provisions and systems as required by
Legislative Bill 130 signed by the Governor on May 08, 2019 are hereby
incorporated as part of this code.
   (G)   Chapter 1, Section (A) 104.7 is hereby amended to read as follows:
      104.7 Department Records. The Chief Building and Code Official shall keep
official records of applications received, permits and certificates issued,
fees collected, reports of inspections and notices and orders issued. The
records shall be retained in the official records for the period required for
retention of public records. The Chief Building and Code Official shall submit
a report monthly to the City Planning Commission covering the work of the
department.
   (H)   Chapter 1, Section (A) 4.10.1 is hereby deleted and replaced by the
provisions listed in Article 5-19 of the city’s Unified Land Development
Ordinance.
   (I)   Chapter 1, Section (A) 105.2 Number 2 Fences not over 7’ is hereby
deleted.
   (J)   Chapter 1, Section (A) 105.2 Electrical and Mechanical provisions are
hereby deleted.
   (K)   Chapter 1, Section (A) 105.3.2 of the 2018 International Building Code
is hereby amended to read as follows:
      105.3.2 Time Limitation of Application. If work in any building permit
has not begun within 180 days of issuance thereof, said permit shall expire; it
shall be cancelled by the Chief Building and Code Official ; and written notice
thereof shall be given to the persons affected.
   (L)   Chapter 1, Section (A) is hereby amended to read as follows:
      105.5 Expiration. If the work described in any building permit has not
been completed within two years from the date of issuance thereof: said permit
shall expire and be cancelled by the Chief Building and Code Official and
written notice thereof shall be given to the persons affected, together with
notice that further work as described in the cancelled permit shall not proceed
unless and until a new permit has been obtained. The expiration date of a
permit may be established for a period longer than two years if established at
the time that such permit is issued by the city. The Chief Building and Code
Official may at his/her discretion extend the expiration period of the building
permit.
   (M)   Chapter 1, Section (A) 109.2 is hereby amended to read as follows:
      109.2 Schedule of Permit Fees. On buildings, structures, gas, mechanical
and plumbing systems or alterations requiring a permit, a fee for each permit
shall be paid as required, in accordance with the schedule as established by
the applicable governing authority. In addition, a plan review fee equal to 25%
of the building permit shall be paid for the plan review. The Chief Building
and Code Official is authorized to set the valuation in accordance with the
most current ICC Building Valuation Data on applications as a minimum valuation
when deemed necessary.
   (N)   Chapter 1, Section (A) 114.1 is hereby amended to read as follows:
      114.1 Unlawful Acts. It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or
corporation to erect, construct, alter, extend, repair, move, remove, demolish
or occupy any building or structure in the city or within the extraterritorial
jurisdiction of the city or cause the same to be done contrary to or in
violation of any provisions of the Code.
   (O)   Chapter 1, Section (A) 114.4 is hereby amended to read as follows:
      114.4 Violation Penalties. Any person, firm or corporation violating any
of the provisions of this code shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and that
person shall be deemed guilty of a separate offense for each and every day or
portion thereof during which any violation of any of the provisions of this
code is committed, continued or permitted and, upon conviction, shall be
punishable by a fine of not more than $100 for any one offense or by
imprisonment for not more than 30 days or by both fine and imprisonment.
      Whenever the Chief Building and Code Official is satisfied that any
provisions of this code have been violated or are about to be violated, or that
any order or direction made pursuant to this code has not been carried out or
is being disregarded, he may apply to the City Council and request that it
order civil proceedings to be instituted. Any civil proceedings, when
instituted by the City Attorney at the direction of the City Council, shall be
brought in the name of the City of Columbus. Nothing in this Section and no
action taken thereunder will exclude any other proceedings authorized by this
code or any other law or ordinance in force, or to exempt any person violating
this code or any of the laws, from any penalty which might be incurred.
   (P)   Section 305.2.3 is hereby amended to read as follows:
      305.2.3 12 or fewer children in a dwelling unit. A facility such as above
within a dwelling unit and having 12 or fewer children receiving day care shall
be classified as an R-3 occupancy or shall comply with the International
Residential Code.
   (Q)   Section 310.4.1 of the 2018 International Building Code is hereby
amended to read as follows:
      310.4 Care Facilities within a dwelling. Care facilities for 12 or fewer
persons receiving care that are within a single-family dwelling are permitted
to comply with the International Residential Code.
   (R)   Section 903.2.8 of the 2018 International Building Code is hereby
amended to add two exceptions:
      Exception #1. R-3 Occupancies consisting of one and two family dwellings
shall not be required to provide an automatic sprinkler system provided the
dwelling is separated from the other occupancy in accordance with Table 508.4
and smoke detectors are installed as required by the Chief Building and Code
Official .
      Exception #2. Care facilities located within a single family dwelling
shall not be required to provide an automatic sprinkler system where the number
of persons receiving care is 12 or fewer.
   (S)   Section 1805.1.3 of the 2018 International Building Code is hereby
amended to include the following requirement for residential construction.
      1805.1.3 Residential construction must comply with the provisions in
amended Section R405 of the 2018 International Residential Code.
   (T)   Section 1809.5 Frost Protection (Exception) of the 2018 International
Building Code is hereby amended to read as follows:
      1809.5 Frost Protection - Exception: Free standing unheated light frame
construction accessory buildings meeting all of the following conditions shall
not be required to be protected:
      1.   Assigned to Risk Category 1, in accordance with Section 1604.5.
      2.   Building has a maximum area of 440 square feet.
      3.   No dimension exceeds twenty-two feet (22’) and the width between
bearing walls does not exceed twenty feet (20’).
      4.   The walls are supported on a monolith footing and slab extending a
minimum of 12 inches below grade.
      5.   Eave height of ten (10’) or less.
   (U)   Chapter 34 of the 2018 International Building is hereby deleted and
replaced with the following State Radon Requirements.
      Radon systems shall be installed as outlined in State statute 76-3504
through 76-3506 per LB130 2019 signed by the governor on May 1, 2019 and
include:
      Terms, defined.
      For purposes of the Radon Resistant New Construction Act:
      (1)   Active radon mitigation system means a family of radon mitigation
systems involving mechanically driven soil depressurization, including sub slab
depressurization, drain tile depressurization, block wall depressurization, and
sub membrane depressurization. Active radon mitigation system is also known as
active soil depressurization;
      (2)   Building contractor means any individual, corporation, partnership,
limited liability company, or other business entity that engages in new
construction;
      (3)   Department means the Department of Health and Human Services;
      (4)   New construction means any original construction of a single-family
home or a multifamily dwelling, including apartments, group homes,
condominiums, and townhouses, or any original construction of a building used
for commercial, industrial, educational, or medical purposes. New construction
does not include additions to existing structures or remodeling of existing
structures;
      (5)   Passive radon mitigation system means a pipe installed in new
construction that relies solely on the convective flow of air upward for soil
gas depressurization and may consist of multiple pipes routed through
conditioned space from below the foundation to above the roof;
      (6)   Radon mitigation specialist means an individual who is licensed by
the department as a radon mitigation specialist in accordance with the
Radiation Control Act; and
      (7)   Radon resistant new construction means construction that utilizes
design elements and construction techniques that passively resist radon entry
and prepare a building for an active post construction mitigation system.
      Radon resistant new construction; minimum standards.
      Except as provided in Section 76-3505, new construction built after
September 1, 2019, in the State of Nebraska that is intended to be regularly
occupied by people shall be built using radon resistant new construction. Such
construction shall meet the following minimum standards:
      (1)   Sumps:
         (a)   A sump pit open to soil or serving as the termination point for
sub slab or exterior drain tile loops shall be covered with a gasketed or
otherwise sealed lid;
         (b)   A sump used as the suction point in a sub slab depressurization
system shall have a lid designed to accommodate the vent pipe; and
         (c)   A sump used as a floor drain shall have a lid equipped with a
trapped inlet;
      (2)   A passive sub slab depressurization system shall be installed
during construction in basement or slab-on-grade buildings, including the
following components:
         (a)   Vent pipe:
            (i)   (A)   A minimum three-inch diameter acrylonitrile butadiene
styrene (ABS), polyvinyl chloride (PVC), or equivalent gas-tight pipe shall be
embedded vertically into the sub slab permeable material before the slab is
cast. A “T” fitting or equivalent method shall be used to ensure that the pipe
opening remains within the sub slab permeable material; or
               (B)   A minimum three-inch diameter ABS, PVC, or equivalent gas-
tight pipe shall be inserted directly into an interior perimeter drain tile
loop or through a sealed sump cover where the sump is exposed to the sub slab
or connected to it through a drainage system;
            (ii)   The pipe shall be extended up through the building floors
and terminate at least twelve inches above the surface of the roof in a
location at least ten feet away from any window or other opening into the
conditioned spaces of the building that is less than two feet below the exhaust
point and ten feet from any window or other opening in adjoining or adjacent
buildings; and
            (iii)   In buildings where interior footings or other barriers
separate the sub slab gas-permeable material, each area shall be fitted with an
individual vent pipe. Vent pipes shall connect to a single vent that terminates
above the roof or each individual vent pipe shall terminate separately above
the roof. All exposed and visible interior radon vent pipes shall be identified
with at least one label on each floor and in accessible attics. Such label
shall read: Radon Reduction System; and
      (3)   Power source: In order to provide for future installation of an
active radon mitigation system, an electrical circuit terminated in an approved
box shall be installed during construction in the attic or other anticipated
location of vent pipe fans.
      New construction not required to use radon resistant new construction;
when.
      New construction after September 1, 2019, shall not be required to use
radon resistant new construction if (1) the construction project utilizes the
design of an architect or professional engineer licensed under the Engineers
and Architects Regulation Act, (2) the construction project is located in a
county in which the average radon concentration is less than two and seven-
tenths picocuries per liter of air as determined by the Department pursuant to
Section 76-3507, or (3) other than for any residential dwelling unit, a local
Chief Building and Code Official makes a determination, after a review of
relevant guidelines for the intended use of the structure and property
conditions, that radon resistant new construction is not necessary.
      Conversion of passive radon mitigation system to active radon mitigation
system authorized.
      A building contractor or a subcontractor of a building contractor may
convert a passive radon mitigation system to an active radon mitigation system
in accordance with rules and regulations adopted and promulgated by the
Department under the Radiation Control Act for radon mitigation, but the
contractor or subcontractor is not required to be a radon mitigation specialist
to convert such system. A radon mitigation specialist shall conduct any post
installation testing of such system.
(Prior Code, § 150.002) (Ord. 03-46, passed 12-15-2003; Ord. 11-10, passed 3-
21-2011; Ord. 11-14, passed 4-4-2011; Ord. 15-26, passed 1-18-2016; Ord. 20-30,
passed 1-4-2021)
§ 150.003 ADOPTION OF THE 2018 INTERNATIONAL EXISTING BUILDING CODE.
   It is hereby adopted for the purpose of existing buildings undergoing
repair, alterations or additions and change of occupancy within the city or
within the extra-territorial jurisdiction thereof, a certain existing building
code, known as the International Existing Building Code, 2018 Edition, one copy
of said book had been and is now filed in the office of the City Clerk and the
same is hereby adopted and incorporated by reference herein and made a part
hereof as if fully set forth and laid before these pages herein, from the date
on which this section shall take effect.
(Prior Code, § 150.003) (Ord. 15-26, passed 1-18-2016; Ord. 20-30, passed 1-4-
2021)
§ 150.004 GENERAL CONTRACTOR; REGISTRATION REQUIRED; REGISTRATION REQUIREMENTS;
INSURANCE REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Definition. For the purpose of this section, the following definition
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      GENERAL CONTRACTOR. Every person or entity engaged in business of
building, constructing, repairing, altering, remodeling, wrecking or salvaging
of residential, commercial, industrial or other property that is covered by
this code. A person constructing, repairing, altering, remodeling, wrecking or
salvaging his or her own residential property is not considered a general
contractor for the purposes of this section; provided, that such person does
not construct more than one dwelling in a two-year period and certifies in
writing that he or she will reside in such dwelling following its completion.
   (B)   Registration.
      (1)   A general contractor is required to register with the city prior to
performing any work within the jurisdiction of the city. Registration shall be
valid for one calendar year from the date of application. No building permit
shall be issued until the registration has been filed and approved by the
Community Development Department.
      (2)   Registration requirements are as follows:
         (a)   Complete and return registration application as may approved by
the Community Development Department; and
         (b)   Furnish proof of insurance as follows:
            1.   Liability insurance coverage with limits as set by resolution;
            2.   The city shall be named as additional insured; and
            3.   Insurance is required to be in effect for at least one year
from the date of license.
   (C)   Suspension.
      (1)   Expiration or cancellation of the insurance policy shall
automatically suspend the registration of the general contractor until a
substitute policy has been obtained and a certificate of that fact filed with
the city.
      (2)   If a registered general contractor willfully or repeatedly violates
any ordinance or law relating to the construction of a building or structure,
the Community Development Department may suspend such registration and such
suspension shall continue until the Community Development Department removes
such suspension or for a maximum of three years. The Community Development
Department shall serve or cause to be served upon the registrant a notice in
writing specifying the grounds for suspension, and suspension of the
registration is effective upon such service. If a registration is suspended
under this provision, the general contractor may appeal the decision within ten
days to the City Administrator who may overturn the suspension or keep the
suspension in place.
(Prior Code, § 150.004) (Ord. 17-17, passed 8-7-2017)
ELECTRICAL CODE
§ 150.015 ADOPTION OF NATIONAL ELECTRICAL CODE.
   All electrical wiring, installation of electrical fixtures, apparatus or
electrical appliances for furnishing light, heat, power or other electrical
work entered into or placed on or upon or in any way connected with any
building or structure within the corporate limits of the city, or within its
two-mile extra-territorial jurisdiction, shall be in conformity with the
provisions as set forth in the National Electrical Code, 2017 Edition, as
sponsored by the National Fire Protection Association, under the auspices of
the American National Standard Institute, one printed copy of which in book
form has been and is now filed in the office of the City Clerk and the same is
hereby adopted and is incorporated herein by reference and made a part hereof
as if fully set forth at length herein, from the date on which this section
shall take effect, and provisions thereof shall be controlling and all
electrical wiring, installation of electrical fixtures, apparatus or electrical
appliances for furnishing light, heat, power or other electrical work entered
into or placed on or upon or in any way connected with the building or
structure within the corporate limits of the city or within the two-mile extra-
territorial jurisdiction of the city.
(Prior Code, § 150.020) (Ord. 99-21, passed 6-21-1999; Ord. 02-58, passed 11-4-
2002; Ord. 05-28, passed 6-20-2005; Ord. 10-20, passed 8-2-2010; Ord. 12-01,
passed 2-21-2012; Ord. 14-15, passed 9-15-2014; Ord. 18-02, passed 2-20-2018)
§ 150.016 ELECTRICAL INSPECTOR; DUTIES.
   (A)   There is hereby created the office of the Electrical Inspector. The
Electrical Inspector shall perform the duties and receive the compensation
hereinafter provided.
   (B)   (1)   It shall be the duty of the Electrical Inspector to enforce the
provisions of this subchapter. The Electrical Inspector shall inspect all
electrical apparatus installed within the city, or within two miles of the
corporate limits of the city, and shall notify the owner or occupant of the
premises on which any electrical apparatus has been installed, or the
electrician installing the same, of any work done contrary to the provisions of
this subchapter, and of any defective workmanship or materials therein.
      (2)   It shall be the duty of the owner, occupant or electrician, upon
being notified of any such defect or failure to comply with the provisions of
this subchapter, to immediately remedy the same and if not remedied within a
reasonable time the Electrical Inspector shall disconnect the electrical
apparatus from the electric supply. However, if the defect is such as to
endanger life and property, then the Electrical Inspector shall disconnect the
electrical apparatus immediately.
      (3)   When any electrical apparatus has been disconnected from the
electric supply it shall not again be connected until all defects have been
remedied or until the installation complies strictly with the provisions of
this subchapter.
      (4)   The Electrical Inspector shall have the right to enter any
building, premises or subway in the discharge of the Electrical Inspector’s
official duties and for that purpose shall be given prompt access on
notification to the proper authority.
      (5)   The Electrical Inspector shall make and keep a record of all
inspections, giving the location, date, name of electrician, name of the person
for whom the installation was made and also a general description of the
inspection.
(Prior Code, § 150.021) (Ord. 2965, passed 3-19-1984)
§ 150.017 ELECTRICAL INSPECTION; FEES.
   There shall be paid by the holder of an electrical installation permit to
the Building Department for each inspection of electrical wiring or fixture a
fee as set by resolution of the City Council.
(Prior Code, § 150.022) (Ord. 93-65, passed 12-20-1993; Ord. 01-50, passed 10-
15-2001)
§ 150.018 INSTALLATION; PERMIT; FEE.
   (A)   No installation of electric apparatus shall be made by anyone without
having filed with the Building Department an application in writing on forms
provided for that purpose for a permit. On receipt of any such application, the
Building Department shall promptly turn the same over to the Electrical
Inspector who shall give or withhold the permit formally or informally as the
circumstances of the case may in the Electrical Inspector’s judgment require.
   (B)   There shall be paid by the holder of an electrical installation permit
for such permit a fee as set by resolution of the City Council, which shall be
paid to the City Clerk. The Electrical Inspector shall be specially notified of
all electric apparatus to be concealed in sufficient time for the Electrical
Inspector’s inspection, and no electric apparatus shall be concealed until
approved by the Electrical Inspector.
(Prior Code, § 150.023) (Ord. 2315, passed 4-18-1973; Ord. 01-52, passed 10-15-
2001) Penalty, see §
150.999
§ 150.019 PERMIT FOR OWN WIRING; FEE.
   (A)   If a person who resides within the corporate limits or within two
miles of the boundaries thereof wishes to wire or install electric apparatus in
that person’s principal residence or any of the residential outbuildings
located on the property where that person resides, the person must obtain a
permit to do so by paying a permit fee as set by resolution. Before the permit
can be issued, an electrical examination must be completed with a minimum
passing grade of 70%.
   (B)   The permit for an individual doing his or her own wiring does not
include installation of the service; this must be completed by a licensed
electrical contractor who has provided the city with the requisite certificate
of insurance. The application for a permit of this nature shall be filed with
the Community Development Department, and any permit of this nature shall be
subject to the approval of the Electrical Inspector.
(Prior Code, § 150.024) (Ord. 93-65, passed 12-20-1993; Ord. 01-51, passed 10-
15-2001; Ord. 17-19, passed 9-5-2017) Penalty, see §
150.999
§ 150.020 APPLICATION FOR PERMIT.
   All applications for permits for installations must be made at the Building
Department office, and each application must have the name of the owner or
contractor together with the owner or contractor’s correct address,
classification of wiring and the name of the electrician who is to do the
installing. The application must be filed before any installations are made,
and no installation shall be made until after a permit has been granted.
(Prior Code, § 150.025) (Ord. 2315, passed 4-18-1973) Penalty, see §
150.999
§ 150.021 INSTALLATION PLAN.
   Whenever there are any detailed plans for specifications for any electrical
installation in the city, or within two miles of the corporate limits of the
city, the same shall be submitted to the Electrical Inspector before the work
is done.
(Prior Code, § 150.026) (Ord. 2898, passed 12-20-1982) Penalty, see §
150.999
§ 150.022 REPORT OF INSPECTOR.
   (A)   Upon the completion of the installation of any electric apparatus, the
person or electrician installing the same shall notify the Electrical Inspector
who shall inspect the electric apparatus and the installation thereof. After
all of the provisions of this subchapter have been complied with, the
Electrical Inspector shall thereupon issue a report or certificate of approval.
This certificate of approval shall certify that the electric apparatus has been
installed in accordance with the provisions of this subchapter.
   (B)   Hereafter, all electric apparatus shall be installed strictly in
accordance with the provisions of this subchapter. No electric apparatus shall
be used until inspected by the Electrical Inspector and a report or certificate
issued by the Electrical Inspector approving the same and permitting its use.
(Prior Code, § 150.027) Penalty, see §
150.999
§ 150.023 LICENSE REQUIRED; INSURANCE REQUIRED.
   No person shall install any electric apparatus within the corporate limits
or within two miles of the boundaries thereof without: Having obtained the
proper license to do so from the state’s Electrical Division; furnishing a
certificate of insurance which names the city as additional insured; and having
liability insurance coverage with limits as set by resolution, being in effect
for at least one year from the date of license.
(Prior Code, § 150.028) (Ord. 2315, passed 4-18-1973; Ord. 17-19, passed 9-5-
2017) Penalty, see §
150.999
§ 150.024 REGISTRATION AND INSURANCE.
   (A)   No person shall be engaged in the business of installing, altering or
repairing any electrical wiring, fixtures or apparatus within the corporate
limits or the two-mile jurisdiction of the city without first obtaining
registration from the Community Development Department.
   (B)   No person shall be engaged in the installation of any electrical
wiring, fixtures, equipment or devices for any purpose whatsoever within the
corporate limits or within the two-mile jurisdiction without first obtain
registration from the Community Development Department.
   (C)   The requisite certificate of insurance referred to in this section
shall be filed with the Community Development Department and approved by the
City Attorney.
(Prior Code, § 150.029) (Ord. 2315, passed 4-18-1973; Ord. 17-19, passed 9-5-
2017)
§ 150.025 EXAMINATION.
   The city will not give an examination for electricians. Only valid state
licenses will be accepted, except for those individuals holding a valid city
license acquired prior hereto.
(Prior Code, § 150.030) (Ord. 3160, passed 4-20-1987)
PLUMBING CODE
§ 150.040 ADOPTION OF PLUMBING CODE.
   (A)   It is hereby adopted for the purpose of establishing rules and
regulations for the protection of public health and safety and for the
qualification and registration of persons engaged in the business of plumbing
or laboring at the trade of plumbing; and for the installation or alteration of
plumbing and drainage systems; creating an administrative office; defining
various terms; establishing minimum regulations for the installation,
alteration or repair of plumbing and drainage systems and the inspection
thereof; providing for penalties for violation of that certain plumbing code
known as the Uniform Plumbing Code, 2018 Edition, as sponsored by the
International Association of Plumbing and Mechanical Officials.
   (B)   One printed copy of said code has been and is now filed in the office
of the City Clerk and the same is hereby adopted and incorporated by reference
herein and made a part hereof as if fully set forth at length herein, from the
date on which this section shall take effect and provisions thereof shall be
controlling as to any buildings or structures within the corporate limits of
the city or within the extra- territorial jurisdiction of the city.
(Prior Code, § 150.045) (Ord. 98-13, passed 5-4-1998; Ord. 11-09, passed 3-21-
2011; Ord. 15-28, passed 1-18-2016; Ord. 20-28, passed 1-4-2021)
§ 150.041 AMENDMENTS TO CODE.
      (A)   Section 103.1 of the 2018 Uniform Plumbing Code is hereby amended
to add the following sentence.
      The authority having jurisdiction shall be the Plumbing Inspector or his
authorized representative.
   (B)   Sections 106.3 of the 2018 Uniform Plumbing Code is hereby amended to
read as follows:
      VIOLATION AND PENALTIES: Any person, firm or corporation violating any
provisions of this Code shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and upon
conviction thereof shall be punishable by a fine of not to exceed one hundred
dollars ($100.00) or by imprisonment in the County Jail for a period not to
exceed thirty (30) days or by both such fine and imprisonment. Each separate
day, or any portion thereof, during which any violation of this Code occurs or
continues shall be deemed to constitute a separate offense and upon conviction
thereof shall be punishable as herein provided.
      The issuance or granting of a permit or approval of plans and
specifications shall not be deemed or construed to be a permit for, or an
approval of, any violation of any of the provisions of this Code. No permit
presuming to give authority to violate or cancel provisions of this Code shall
be valid, except insofar as the work or use which is authorized is lawful.
      The issuance or granting of a permit or approval of plans shall not
prevent the administrative authority from thereafter requiring the correction
of errors in such plans and specifications or from preventing construction and
operation being carried on thereunder when violation of this Code or any other
ordinance or from revoking any certificate of approval when issued in error.
   (C)   Section 103.3 of the 2018 Uniform Plumbing Code is hereby amended to
read as follows:
      Issuance of Certificate of Qualification and Registration: The Building
Department shall issue Certificates of Qualification for Licensing and or
Registration pursuant to the following provisions:
      (a)   Master Plumber’s Certificates of Qualification or Registration
shall be issued to every person who makes application for such certificate,
pays the required fee and successfully passes the examination conducted through
the Uniform Plumbing Code provided, however, that in lieu of an examination,
the Building Department may issue such a certificate to any person who makes
application therefor, pays the required fee and possesses and presents to the
Building Department, a valid Certificate of Qualification or Registration
issued to him by any other governmental agency giving an examination the scope
and character of which, in the opinion of the Building Department, is at least
equal to that given by the Uniform Plumbing Code
      (b)   Journeyman Plumber’s Certificate of Qualification or Registrations
shall be issued to every person who makes application for such certificate,
pays the required fee and successfully passes an examination conducted through
the Uniform Plumbing Code provided, however, that the Building Department may
issue such a certificate to any person who makes application therefor, pays the
required fee and presents a valid Journeyman Plumber’s Certificate of
Qualification or Registration issued to him by any other governmental agency
giving an examination, the scope and character of which in the opinion of the
Building Department, is at least equal to that given by the Uniform Plumbing
Code.
      (c)   JOURNEYMAN PLUMBER: “Journeyman Plumber” is hereby defined to be
any licensed plumber employed by a Master Plumber, other than a plumber’s
apprentice or helper, who as his principal occupation is engaged in the
practical installation, alteration, repair or removal of plumbing.
      (d)   MASTER PLUMBER: “Master Plumber” is hereby defined to be any person
skilled in the planning, superintending and practical installation of plumbing
and drainage and who is familiar with the ordinances and regulations governing
the same, and who is engaged as a contractor in the installation, repair,
alteration or removal of plumbing or drainage with the full responsibility of
supervision, whether doing such work by himself or employing journeyman
plumbers and apprentices to assist him. Said term “Master Plumber” shall
include every person doing work of any character connected with the
installation, removal or drainage of buildings or property and all other
plumbing, other than journeyman plumbers or plumber’s apprentices or helpers,
as defined in this Ordinance. Only one Master Plumber’s License shall be issued
to a person, but should a person be employed by several different businesses,
each business shall be required to execute a bond along with the licensee who
is employed by such business.
      EXPIRATION OF CERTIFICATES OF QUALIFICATION OR REGISTRATION.
      Every Certificate of Qualification or Registration shall remain in force
and effect until its expiration date unless canceled or revoked.
      (a)   Plumbing Contractor’s Certificates of Qualification or Registration
shall expire on April 30 of each year.
      (b)   Journeyman Plumber’s Certificates of Qualification or Registration
shall expire on April 30 of each year.
      REGISTRATION FEE: Every person applying for a Plumber’s Certificate of
Qualification, Registration or Renewal, shall pay to the City Clerk at the time
he or she makes application, those fees as established by resolution of the
City of Columbus. All certificates of Qualification or Registration, except
certificates that have been canceled or revoked, may be renewed from year to
year upon request and payment of the required renewal fee. No certificates
shall be renewed more than ninety (90) days after the expiration of such
certificate.
   (D)   Chapter 13: Health Care Facilities and Medical Gas and Vacuum Systems
is hereby deleted.
(Prior Code, § 150.046) (Ord. 98-13, passed 5-4-1998; Ord. 01-27, passed 5-7-
2001; Ord. 01-49, passed 10-15-2001; Ord. 11-09, passed 3-21-2011; Ord. 15-28,
passed 1-18-2016; Ord. 17-19, passed 9-5-2017; Ord. 20-28, passed 1-4-2021)
§ 150.042 ADDITIONS TO CODE.
   (A)   All new housing shall be piped for soft water.
   (B)   ABS or PVC piping in buildings over two stories must have an expansion
sleeve.
   (C)   ABS or PVC may be used for residential and commercial construction.
Schedule 40 is required for commercial drain, waste and venting. Schedule 40 is
required under residential slabs, above residential slabs drain, waste and vent
piping shall be permitted to be either Schedule 30 or Schedule 40.
   (D)   All residential building sewers shall be four inches or larger
Schedule 40 ABS or PVC.
   (E)   ABS or PVC Schedule 40 pipe may be used under parkways, streets and
commercial building sewers. In addition, piping listed by IAPMO (International
Association of Plumbing and Mechanical Officials) and approved by the Plumbing
Inspector.
(Prior Code, § 150.047) (Ord. 92-29, passed 6-15-1992; Ord. 11-09, passed 3-21-
2011; Ord. 15-28, passed 1-18-2016; Ord. 20-28, passed 1-4-2021) Penalty, see §
150.999
§ 150.043 BOND CONDITIONS.
   Every master plumber shall provide a personal surety bond in the sum as set
by resolution signed by one or more sufficient sureties or a bond in like
amount of some approved corporate surety company doing business in the city,
conditioned that the licensee shall indemnify and hold harmless the city from
all accidents, damage, liability, claims, judgment, costs or expenses caused by
any negligence arising from the failure to protect the plumbing license in
connecting the places prepared to receive water or sewer services arising out
of furnishing defective material or from failure to execute and perform any
plumbing work done by a licensee or by others under a supervisor during the
period of the plumber’s license; and that applicant for a license will be
governed by the rules and requirements herein provided or that hereafter be
prescribed and adopted by the city during the period of the license with
reference to plumbing work to the satisfaction of the Plumbing Inspector. The
obligee of the bond shall be the city. An action may be maintained thereon by
anyone injured by a breach of its conditions for a period of one year after the
completion of any plumbing works. All bonds tendered by a plumber shall be
approved in writing as to form and substance by the City Attorney.
(Prior Code, § 150.048) (Ord. 98-13, passed 5-4-1998; Ord. 11-09, passed 3-21-
2011; Ord. 15-28, passed 1-18-2016; Ord. 17-19, passed 9-5-2017; Ord. 20-28,
passed 1-4-2021)
§ 150.044 INSTALLATION OF PLUMBING BY OWNER.
   (A)   All plumbing installed by the owner shall comply with the requirements
of this code and in such event, the word “owner” shall be substituted for the
word “plumber” throughout, provided that the owner shall:
      (1)   Apply for and secure a permit;
      (2)   Pay required fees, plus a registration fee as set by resolution;
      (3)   Do the work in accordance with this subchapter;
      (4)   Apply for inspections;
      (5)   Receive approval of the Plumbing Inspector or Building Inspector;
and
      (6)   All city water and sewer mains must be tapped by journeymen or
master plumbers.
   (B)   Personal installation (other than master plumber) shall be by the
owner for the owner and in the owner’s own home without compensation or pay
from any other person for such labor or installation. The owner exercising this
privilege shall not set himself or herself up as a master plumber nor shall the
owner employ journeyman plumbers. All other plumbing work must be completed by
a licensed plumbing contractor or his or her licensed journeyman plumbers with
help from registered apprentices.
(Prior Code, § 150.049) (Ord. 98-13, passed 5-4-1998; Ord. 11-09, passed 3-21-
2011; Ord. 15-28, passed 1-18-2016; Ord. 20-28, passed 1-4-2021) Penalty, see §
150.999
§ 150.045 REQUIREMENTS FOR TAPPING SUMP PUMP DISCHARGE PIPE INTO STORM SEWERS.
   Storm sewers may be tapped to insert sump pump discharge pipe from
foundation drains or floor drains upon the following requirements being met by
the applicant.
   (A)   The applicant shall contact the Street Superintendent or Street
Supervisor in writing to determine the location of the storm sewer.
   (B)   The hole cut into the storm sewer pipe shall not be larger than one
inch in diameter larger than the pipe to be installed. The storm sewer shall be
tapped as close as possible to the top of the storm sewer pipe.
   (C)   The discharge pipe shall be Schedule 40 PVC at the point of connection
and across public property.
   (D)   The discharge pipe shall be grouted in place and the storm sewer and
discharge pipe shall be left uncovered until inspection by the Street
Superintendent or Street Supervisor.
   (E)   All cuts across public road(s) shall require an excavation permit to
be obtained by application.
   (F)   Pipes across and under public roads shall have a minimum of one foot
of dirt and soil cover on the top of the pipe.
   (G)   The discharge pump shall be equipped with a check valve or backflow
precentor.
(Prior Code, § 150.050) (Ord. 98-13, passed 5-4-1998; Ord. 11-09, passed 3-21-
2011; Ord. 15-28, passed 1-18-2016) Penalty, see §
150.999
§ 150.046 PLUMBING REGULATIONS ON TESTS.
   Plumbing regulations on tests are:
   (A)   Three years as apprentice before taking journeyman test;
   (B)   Three years as a journeyman before taking the master test;
   (C)   Cost to take both the journeyman and master exam is set and paid to
the testing center by the applicant;
   (D)   Qualified applicants must be approved by the Chief Building and Code
Official or Plumbing Inspector; and
   (E)   The tests shall be based on the adopted Uniform Plumbing Code,
administered by IAPMO and taken at approved testing centers.
(Prior Code, § 150.051) (Ord. 98-13, passed 5-4-1998; Ord. 11-09, passed 3-21-
2011; Ord. 15-28, passed 1-18-2016)
§ 150.047 DISCHARGING FLUIDS.
   Any discharge of stormwater, groundwater, pond overflow, well water or water
from residential, industrial or commercial air conditioning systems from a sump
pump system shall discharge onto the resident’s own property or city street. In
no event shall any outlet from a sump pump system discharge water onto another
person’s property or in a manner as to cause it to go upon another person’s
property or allow it to discharge into the city’s sanitary sewer system. The
discharge from a sump pump shall not be cut into the curb or gutter on any
street or alley without first obtaining written approval by the Chief Building
and Code Official. Any alternation of a curb or gutter without written approval
will result in the city repairing the curb or gutter to its original condition
and assessing the associated cost against the property owner. The discharge
line from the sump pump shall be of rigid construction, without valves or quick
connectors for altering the path of the discharge. It shall be unlawful for any
person to allow any other fluids to flow into or upon any public thoroughfare
from that person’s home, property or from any vehicle or vessel. Under no
circumstances will sanitary sewer-contaminated water be permitted to discharge
to the city street.
(Prior Code, § 150.052) (Ord. 02-64, passed 11-18-2002; Ord. 11-09, passed 3-
21-2011; Ord. 15-28, passed 1-18-2016) Penalty, see §
150.999
WATER CONDITIONING APPLIANCES CODE
§ 150.060 SCOPE; COMPLIANCE.
   All connections made to a water supply system which is not connected to the
drainage system for the purpose of installing, replacing or relocating a water
conditioning appliance, as defined in §
150.061 of this code, shall be made in conformance with the provisions of this
subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 150.065) Penalty, see §
150.999
§ 150.061 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CONNECTED TO A WATER SUPPLY SYSTEM. This term shall not be considered to
include connections to existing faucets.
   WATER CONDITIONING APPLIANCE. Apparatus and equipment which is designed to
soften or filter or change the mineral content of water where the apparatus and
equipment are connected to a water supply system and are not connected to the
drainage system.
(Prior Code, § 150.066)
§ 150.062 PLUMBING BOARD.
   The City Council shall be the Examining Board and shall be referred to
hereafter as the “Board.”
(Prior Code, § 150.067)
§ 150.063 LICENSE REQUIRED; EXEMPTIONS.
   No person shall install, replace or relocate a water conditioning appliance
without first having obtained the necessary license and permit from the city’s
Community Development Department to do so. However, a master plumber and a
journeyman plumber licensed in accordance with the ordinances of the city may
perform the work without securing an additional license.
(Prior Code, § 150.068) Penalty, see §
150.999
§ 150.064 WATER CONDITIONING CONTRACTOR.
   No person shall engage in business as a water conditioning contractor
without first obtaining a license to do so from the Community Development
Department. The license shall not be issued by the Board unless the applicant
first shall have passed the examination for water conditioning installer and
shall have a regularly established place of business wherein the applicant
shall have posted in a conspicuous place the license issued hereunder;
provided, that the contractor has in full force and effect at all times a bond
as set by resolution in favor of the city, with sufficient sureties to be
approved by the City Council. The bond is to be for the protection of the city
against loss or damage by reason of carelessness or negligence of the licensee
to execute and protect any and all work performed by the licensee or under the
licensee’s supervision while the license is in effect. In case of any firm of
more than one person or partnership engaged in the business of installing water
conditioning appliances, only one of the persons shall be required to qualify
for a contractor’s license. In case of corporations, only one officer shall be
required to qualify for the license.
(Prior Code, § 150.069) Penalty, see §
150.999
§ 150.065 WATER CONDITIONING INSTALLER; EXAMINATION AND LICENSE.
   Any person other than a water conditioning contractor or master or
journeyman plumber desiring to engage in the occupation of a water conditioning
installer must take an examination and obtain a license from the Community
Development Department and be employed by a water conditioning contractor.
(Prior Code, § 150.070) Penalty, see §
150.999
§ 150.066 APPLICATION FOR LICENSE.
   All applications for water conditioning licenses shall be filed with the
Board and shall contain the following information:
   (A)   The name, residence and business address of the applicant;
   (B)   The trade name used by the applicant or the applicant’s employer;
   (C)   Name of persons acquainted with the applicant’s qualifications;
   (D)   Qualifications possessed by the applicant; and
   (E)   Additional relevant information requested by the Board.
(Prior Code, § 150.071)
§ 150.067 EXAMINATION OF APPLICANTS.
   The Board shall, prior to issuing any license under this subchapter, examine
the applicant as to the applicant’s technical knowledge and ability to install
water conditioning appliances and the applicant’s knowledge of water supply
piping and fitting as relates to the installation of a water conditioning
appliance. The examination shall not include the applicant’s knowledge of
plumbing, house drainage, ventilation or sanitation to the extent required to
meet the standards applied in licensing master plumbers or journeyman plumbers.
The examination shall be given at the same time as the regularly scheduled
master and journeyman examinations are given.
(Prior Code, § 150.072)
§ 150.068 FAILURE TO PASS EXAMINATION.
   In case any applicant for a license to install a water conditioning
appliance shall be denied for failure to pass an examination satisfactory to
the Chief Building and Code Official, the applicant may take another
examination any time after the expiration of 30 days. Denial for failure to
pass an examination satisfactory to the Chief Building and Code Official, the
second time, the person may take an examination at the next regularly scheduled
time.
(Prior Code, § 150.073)
§ 150.069 FEES FOR EXAMINATION AND LICENSE.
   Each applicant for a water conditioning installer license shall pay an
examination fee and renewal fee in the same amounts as a master plumber.
(Prior Code, § 150.074)
§ 150.070 LICENSES NOT TRANSFERABLE; EXPIRATION.
   All licenses issued hereunder shall expire on April 30 of each year, and the
licenses shall not be transferable.
(Prior Code, § 150.075) Penalty, see §
150.999
§ 150.071 REVOCATION OR SUSPENSION OF LICENSE.
   Licenses may be revoked or suspended after hearing by the City Council for
the following reasons:
   (A)   Failure to comply with this subchapter and any rules issued by the
Community Development Department hereunder;
   (B)   Abandonment of any contract or undertaking without good cause of
fraudulent departure from plans or specifications; or
   (C)   Failure to obtain or cause to be obtained permits when same are
required by this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 150.076) Penalty, see §
150.999
§ 150.072 INSPECTION OF INSTALLATION.
   Within five days after notice by the contractor of completion of an
installation, the Plumbing Inspector shall inspect, or cause to be inspected,
the installations for which permits have been issued under this subchapter. The
Inspector shall indicate in writing that the installation has been approved or
disapproved.
(Prior Code, § 150.077)
§ 150.073 PERMIT REQUIRED; FEE.
   No work except minor repairs shall be commenced by any licensee under this
subchapter or by any master plumber or journeyman plumber unless a permit
authorizing same has been secured from the Plumbing Inspector. Violations of
this section may result in suspension or revocation of the license of the
person making same. The permit fee shall be as set by resolution.
(Prior Code, § 150.078) Penalty, see §
150.999
§ 150.074 PROCEDURE OF APPEAL.
   Whenever a permit for all installation of a water conditioning appliance has
been issued and the water conditioning appliance has been installed and the
Plumbing Inspector refuses to approve the installation, the applicant or the
person may appeal from the action of the Plumbing Inspector to the City
Council.
(Prior Code, § 150.079)
GAS CODE
§ 150.085 ADOPTION OF GAS CODE.
   The rules and regulations governing basic standards for the installation of
gas piping and gas appliances in buildings shall be as provided in §
150.040 of this code.
(Prior Code, § 150.090)
RESIDENTIAL CODE
§ 150.100 ADOPTION OF THE INTERNATIONAL RESIDENTIAL CODE.
   It is hereby adopted for the purposes of establishing rules and regulations
governing the erection, construction, enlargement, alteration, moving, removal,
conversion, demolition, occupancy, equipment, repair, height and area of
detached one- and two-family dwellings and multiple single-family dwellings
(townhouses) not more than three stories in height with separate means of
egress within the jurisdiction, including permits, and providing penalties for
the violation thereof that certain building code known as the International
Residential Code, 2018 Edition, one copy of which has been and is now filed in
the office of the City Clerk and the same is hereby adopted and incorporated by
reference herein and made a part hereof as if fully set forth at length herein,
from the date on which this section shall take effect and provisions thereof
shall be controlling and the erection, construction, enlargement, alteration,
repair, moving, removal, conversion, demolition, occupancy, equipment, use,
height, area of detached one- and two-family dwellings and multiple single-
family dwelling (townhouses) not more than three stories in height with
separate means of egress within the city or within the extra-territorial
jurisdiction of the city.
(Prior Code, § 150.105) (Ord. 03-47, passed 12-15-2003; Ord. 11-11, passed 3-
21-2011; Ord. 15-27, passed 1-18-2016; Ord. 19-42, passed 11-18-2019; Ord. 20-
29, passed 1-4-2021)
§ 150.101 AMENDMENTS TO THE 2018 INTERNATIONAL RESIDENTIAL CODE.
   (A)   Section R101.1 Title, insert (City of Columbus, NE).
   (B)   Section R101.2 Exception 5 is hereby amended to read as follows:
      A care facility for 12 or fewer persons receiving care that are within a
single-family dwelling.
   (C)   Section R105 Permits. Delete the Electrical, Gas, Mechanical and
Plumbing provisions.
   (D)   R105.2 Building: #1 is hereby amended to read as follows:
      One story detached accessory structures provided the floor area does not
exceed 120 square feet and the structure is not located within the Floodway or
Flood Plain in violation of the Unified Land Development Ordinance.
   (E)   Section R105.2 Building #2 is hereby deleted.
   (F)   Section R105.10 Building: 10 is hereby deleted.
   (G)   Section R105.2 Electrical, Gas, Mechanical and Plumbing provisions are
hereby deleted.
   (H)   Section R105.5 is hereby amended to read as follows.
      Expiration.
      1.   If the work described in any building permit has not been completed
started with 180 days of issuance thereof, said permit shall expire: it shall
be cancelled by the Chief Building and Code Official , and written notice given
to the persons affected.
      2.   If the work described in any building permit has not been completed
within two years from the date of issuance thereof: said permit shall expire
and be cancelled by the Chief Building and Code Official , and written notice
thereof shall be given to the persons affected, together with notice that
further work as described in the cancelled permit shall not proceed unless and
until a new permit has been obtained.
      3.   The expiration date of a permit may be established for a period
longer than two years if established at the time that such permit is issued by
the city. The Chief Building and Code Official may at his/her discretion extend
the expiration period of the building permit.
   (I)   Section R108.2 is hereby amended to read as follows:
      Schedule of Permit Fees. On buildings, structures, gas, mechanical and
plumbing systems or alterations requiring a permit, a fee for each permit shall
be paid as required, in accordance with the schedule as established by the
applicable governing authority. In addition, a plan review fee equal to ten
percent of the building permit shall be paid for plan review.
   (J)   Section R108.3 is hereby amended to read as follows:
      Building Permit Valuations. Building permit valuations shall include the
total value of the work for which a permit is being issued, such as electrical,
gas, mechanical, plumbing equipment and other permanent systems, including
materials and labor. The Chief Building and Code Official is authorized to set
the valuation in accordance with the most current ICC Building Valuation Data
on applications as a minimum valuation when deemed necessary.
   (K)   Section R113.4 is hereby amended to read as follows:
      Violation Penalties. Any person, firm or corporation violating any of the
provisions of this code shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and the person
shall be deemed guilty of a separate offense for each and everyday or portion
thereof during which any violation of any of the provisions of this code is
committed, continued or permitted and upon conviction shall be punishable by a
fine of not more than 30 days or by both fine and imprisonment.
      Whenever the Chief Building and Code Official is satisfied that any
provisions of this code have been violated, are about to be violated or that
any order, or direction made pursuant to this code has not been carried out or
is being disregarded, he may apply to the City Council and request that it
order civil proceedings to be instituted. Any civil proceedings, when
instituted by the City Attorney at the direction of the City Council shall be
brought in the name of the City of Columbus. Nothing in this Section and no
action taken thereunder will exclude any other proceedings authorized by this
code or any other law or ordinance in force or to exempt any person violating
this code or any of the laws from any penalty which might be incurred.
   (L)   Table R301.2(1) of the 2018 International Residential Code is hereby
amended to read as follows:
Table R301.2(1)
Table R301.2(1)
Air Freezing Index                      1720
Flood Hazard                            Adopted FEMA Firm Map
Ice Barrier Underlayment Required       Yes
Mean Annual Temp                        50
Roof Ground Snow Load                   25 lbs. per square foot
Seismic Design Category                 B
Subject to Damage from Decay            None to Slight
Subject to Damage from Frost Line Depth 36 inches
Subject to Damage from Termite          Moderate to Heavy
Subject to Damage from Weathering       Severe
Wind Speed                              115
Winter Design Temperature               -3
 
   (M)   Section R302.5.1 is hereby amended to read as follows:
      Opening Protection. Openings from a private garage directly into a room
used for sleeping purposes shall not be permitted. Openings between the garage
and residence shall be equipped with solid core doors not less than 1 3/
8 inches (35 millimeters) thick, or 20-minute rated fire doors.
   (N)   Section R302.13 Fire Protection of Floors is hereby deleted entirely.
   (O)   Section R311.7.5.1 of the 2018 International Residential Code is
hereby amended to read as follows:
      Risers. The maximum riser height shall be 8 inches (203 mm). The riser
shall be measured vertically between leading edges of the adjacent treads. The
greatest riser height within any flight of stairs shall not exceed the smallest
by more than 3/8 inch (9.5 mm). Risers shall be vertical or sloped from the
underside of the nosing of the tread above at an angle not more than 30 degrees
(0.51 rad) from the vertical. Open risers are permitted provided that the
opening between treads does not permit the passage of a 4-inch-diameter (102
mm) sphere.
      Exception 1: The opening between adjacent treads is not limited on spiral
stairways.
      Exception 2: The riser height for spiral stairways shall be in accordance
with Section R311.7.10.1.
   (P)   Section R311.7.5.2 of the 2018 International Residential Code is
hereby amended to read as follows:
      Treads. The minimum tread depth shall be 9 inches (229 mm). The tread
depth shall be measured horizontally between the vertical planes of the
foremost projection of adjacent treads and at a right angle to the tread’s
leading edge. The greatest tread depth within any flight of stairs shall not
exceed the smallest by more than 3/8 inch (9.5 mm).
   (Q)   Section R313 Automatic Fire Sprinkler Systems of the 2018
International Residential Code is hereby deleted entirely including R313.1 and
the exceptions, R313.1.1, R-313.2 and the exception and R313.2.1.
   (R)   Section R322 of the 2018 International Residential Code is hereby
amended to read as follows:
      Flood-Resistant Construction where approved by Federal, State, and city
Flood Plain regulations and incorporated in the Unified Land Development
Ordinance for the City of Columbus.
   (S)   Section R403.1.4.1 of the 2018 International Residential Code is
hereby amended to read as follows:
      Frost Protection. Except where otherwise protected from frost, foundation
walls, piers and other permanent supports of buildings and structures shall be
protected from frost by one or more of the following methods.
      1.   Extending below the frost line specified in Table R301.2(1).
      2.   Constructing in accordance with Section R403.3.
      3.   Constructing in accordance with ASCE 32.
      4.   Erected on solid rock.
      Exceptions:
      1.   One story unheated sheds 180’ and less where the bearing wall width
is 12’ or less may be constructed on a 4” slab.
      2.   One-story detached unheated garages and sheds constructed with light
frame construction and not over 440 square feet in floor area (where no
dimension exceeds 22 feet and the width between bearing walls does not exceed
20 feet, may be constructed with walls supported on a monolithic footing and
slab. The footing shall be a minimum of 12 inches below grade and eight inches
wide.
      3.   One story detached unheated garages and sheds constructed with light
frame construction and not over 600’ may be constructed on a monolithic footing
and foundation designed by a registered Nebraska engineer with a Nebraska stamp
on the plan.
      4.   Detached garages and sheds that are over 440 square feet and not
constructed as outlined in exception 3, require 8” wide by 36” below grade
foundations.
      5.   Decks not supported by a dwelling need not be provided with footings
that extend below the frost line.
   (T)   All provisions contained in Section R405 of the 2018 International
Residential Code are hereby deleted and shall be replaced with the following
subsurface drainage provisions and the 2018 International Residential Code is
amended accordingly, to-wit:
      R405: Subsurface Drainage.
      Section 1.
      Drainage System. All residential dwellings located within the city limits
of the City of Columbus or within the extraterritorial jurisdiction of the
city, shall have installed, unless a waiver is obtained as provided herein, a
system to remove subsurface water from below grade habitable space. The systems
for removing the water may be a coarse gravel base, subsoil drain, both of
which are described herein, or any other system or combinations thereof when
approved by the Chief Building and Code Official of the City of Columbus.
      Section 2.
      Definitions. Coarse gravel base, for the purposes of this Section shall
mean, a minimum of 12” coarse gravel under the concrete floor of any below
grade habitable spaces, with one 24” x 24” diameter deep well, the well being
screened and having a concrete base, to act as a sump, for each 750 square feet
of floor area of below grade habitable space.
      Subsoil drain, for purposes of this Section shall mean subsoil drain
tiles with an approved filter membrane and a sump pit installed around the
perimeter of foundations enclosing habitable spaces located below grade. In
addition to the perimeter drains, the drains shall be installed so that all
areas of the floor of below grade habitable space are within 10” of a drain
tile. Drain tiles shall be installed at or below the area to be protected. The
drain tile shall be surrounded by a minimum of 6” coarse gravel on all sides.
The drain tile shall have a minimum diameter of 4” along with an approved
filter membrane and shall be constructed of vitrified clay tile or PVC pipe.
The sump into which the drain tile discharges shall be constructed of concrete
or masonry block and shall have a minimum dimension of 24” x 24”. The sump may
also be constructed of polyethylene or other materials approved by the Chief
Building and Code Official with a sealed lid.
      With either of the above-described systems, the sump shall discharge by
gravity or mechanical means to a storm sewer, street or natural drainage way
approved by the Chief Building and Code Official , but specifically shall not
discharge into a sanitary sewer system.
      Habitable space is defined, for purposes of this Section, as any space
having a ceiling height of not less than 6’ feet which is partially or
completely below the ground level elevation.
      All other terms and phrases used herein shall be defined by the
International Residential Code as adopted by the City of Columbus, Nebraska.
      Section 3.
      Administration. The Chief Building and Code Official shall approve all
drainage systems prior to and during their installation.
      The requirements to install a drainage system for the removal of
subsurface water may be waived under the following conditions:
         a.   The Chief Building and Code Official may waive this Section if
the floor of the below grade habitable space is above the highest recorded
water level at the particular location of the building so constructed as
demonstrated and proven by the owners of the property upon which the building
is to be constructed.
         Highest ground water elevation shall be determined by open soil boring
on the property upon which the residence is to be constructed.
         b.   Owners of the subdivisions and additions platted prior to the
adoption of this Section may apply for a waiver on the entire subdivision, the
waiver being granted by the Chief Building and Code Official . The Chief
Building and Code Official shall grant a waiver if the owner of the subdivision
shows to the Chief Building and Code Official that the floors of below grade
habitable space will not be constructed lower than the highest recorded ground
water elevation.
         The highest ground water elevation shall be determined by soil borings
taken at various locations within the subdivision or addition. The soil borings
shall be located not more than 300 feet apart or one per each acre or portion
thereof in the addition or subdivision, whichever would require the least
number of soil borings.
         c.   Subdivisions or additions approved subsequent to the passage of
this Section which require that all below grade habitable spaces constructed in
the subdivision or addition be constructed in a manner that the floor of the
below grade habitable space is above the height of the highest measured ground
water elevation.
         The highest ground water elevation shall be determined by soil borings
of various locations within the subdivision or addition. The soil borings shall
be located not more than 300 feet apart or one per each acre or portion
thereof, in the addition or subdivision, whichever would require the least
number of soil borings.
      Section 4.
      Default. Failure to comply with the terms of this Section, by the owner
of any building covered by this Section or by the owner of any real property
included within the terms of this Section may result in the denial of the
building permit application and a fine of $100 per day that the building does
not conform to the above requirements.
   (U)   All provisions contained in Chapter 11 of the 2018 International
Residential Code are hereby deleted and shall be replaced with the following
manufactured home dwelling provisions and the 2018 International Residential
Code is amended accordingly, to-wit:
      Chapter 11: Manufactured Home Dwellings.
      Section 1.
      Definitions. For purposes of this Section, “manufactured home dwellings”
shall mean a factory built structure which is to be used as a place for human
habitation, which is not constructed or equipped with a permanent hitch or
other device allowing it to be moved other than to a permanent site; which does
not have permanently attached to its body or frame, any wheels or axles and
which bears a label certifying it was built in compliance with the National
Manufactured Home Construction and Safety Standards promulgated by the U.S.
Department of Housing and Urban Development.
      Section 2.
      Construction Standards. A manufactured home complying with the following
architectural or ascetic standards may be placed in all residential zones
provided:
         a.   The home shall not have less than 900 square feet of floor area;
         b.   The home shall not have less than an 18 foot exterior width;
         c.   The roof shall be pitched with a minimum vertical rise of 2.5”
for each 12” of horizontal run;
         d.   The exterior material shall be of a color, material and scale
comparable with those existing in the residential site in which the
manufactured home dwelling is being permanently installed;
         e.   The home shall have a nonreflective roof material which is or
simulates asphalt or wood shingles, tile or rock;
         f.   Permanent utility connections shall be installed in accordance
with local regulations;
         g.   The home shall bear an appropriate seal which indicates it was
constructed in accordance with the standards of the U.S. Department of Housing
and Urban Development;
         h.   The home shall have all wheels, axles, transporting lights and
the removal towing apparatus removed; and
         i.   The home shall be constructed upon a permanent foundation that is
constructed and build in accordance with local regulations.
   (V)   Chapter 12 of the 2018 International Residential Code is hereby
deleted and shall be replaced with the following Radon requirements as required
per state law.
      Radon systems shall be installed as outlined in State statute 76-3504 per
LB130 2019 signed by the Governor on May 1, 2019 and include;
      Terms, defined.
      For purposes of the Radon Resistant New Construction Act:
      (1)   Active radon mitigation system means a family of radon mitigation
systems involving mechanically driven soil depressurization, including sub slab
depressurization, drain tile depressurization, block wall depressurization, and
submembrane depressurization. Active radon mitigation system is also known as
active soil depressurization;
      (2)   Building contractor means any individual, corporation, partnership,
limited liability company, or other business entity that engages in new
construction;
      (3)   Department means the Department of Health and Human Services;
      (4)   New construction means any original construction of a single-family
home or a multifamily dwelling, including apartments, group homes,
condominiums, and townhouses, or any original construction of a building used
for commercial, industrial, educational, or medical purposes. New construction
does not include additions to existing structures or remodeling of existing
structures;
      (5)   Passive radon mitigation system means a pipe installed in new
construction that relies solely on the convective flow of air upward for soil
gas depressurization and may consist of multiple pipes routed through
conditioned space from below the foundation to above the roof;
      (6)   Radon mitigation specialist means an individual who is licensed by
the department as a radon mitigation specialist in accordance with the
Radiation Control Act; and
      (7)   Radon resistant new construction means construction that utilizes
design elements and construction techniques that passively resist radon entry
and prepare a building for an active post construction mitigation system.
      Radon resistant new construction; minimum standards.
      Except as provided in Section 76-3505, new construction built after
September 1, 2019, in the State of Nebraska that is intended to be regularly
occupied by people shall be built using radon resistant new construction. Such
construction shall meet the following minimum standards:
      (1)   Sumps:
         (a)   A sump pit open to soil or serving as the termination point for
sub slab or exterior drain tile loops shall be covered with a gasketed or
otherwise sealed lid;
         (b)   A sump used as the suction point in a sub slab depressurization
system shall have a lid designed to accommodate the vent pipe; and
         (c)   A sump used as a floor drain shall have a lid equipped with a
trapped inlet;
      (2)   A passive sub slab depressurization system shall be installed
during construction in basement or slab-on-grade buildings, including the
following components:
         (a)   Vent pipe:
            (i)   (A)   A minimum three-inch diameter acrylonitrile butadiene
styrene (ABS), polyvinyl chloride (PVC), or equivalent gas-tight pipe shall be
embedded vertically into the sub slab permeable material before the slab is
cast. A “T” fitting or equivalent method shall be used to ensure that the pipe
opening remains within the sub slab permeable material; or
               (B)   A minimum three-inch diameter ABS, PVC, or equivalent gas-
tight pipe shall be inserted directly into an interior perimeter drain tile
loop or through a sealed sump cover where the sump is exposed to the sub slab
or connected to it through a drainage system;
            (ii)   The pipe shall be extended up through the building floors
and terminate at least twelve inches above the surface of the roof in a
location at least ten feet away from any window or other opening into the
conditioned spaces of the building that is less than two feet below the exhaust
point and ten feet from any window or other opening in adjoining or adjacent
buildings; and
            (iii)   In buildings where interior footings or other barriers
separate the sub slab gas-permeable material, each area shall be fitted with an
individual vent pipe. Vent pipes shall connect to a single vent that terminates
above the roof or each individual vent pipe shall terminate separately above
the roof. All exposed and visible interior radon vent pipes shall be identified
with at least one label on each floor and in accessible attics. Such label
shall read: Radon Reduction System; and
      (3)   Power source: In order to provide for future installation of an
active radon mitigation system, an electrical circuit terminated in an approved
box shall be installed during construction in the attic or other anticipated
location of vent pipe fans.
      Conversion of passive radon mitigation system to active radon mitigation
system authorized.
      A building contractor or a subcontractor of a building contractor may
convert a passive radon mitigation system to an active radon mitigation system
in accordance with rules and regulations adopted and promulgated by the
department under the Radiation Control Act for radon mitigation, but the
contractor or subcontractor is not required to be a radon mitigation specialist
to convert such system. A radon mitigation specialist shall conduct any post
installation testing of such system.
   (W)   Chapters 13 and 14 of the 2018 International Residential Code are
hereby deleted.
   (X)   Chapters 16-22 and 24-43 of the 2018 International Residential Code
are hereby deleted.
(Prior Code, § 150.106) (Ord. 03-47, passed 12-15-2003; Ord. 11-11, passed 3-
21-2011; Ord. 15-27, passed 1-18-2016; Ord. 19-42, passed 11-18-2019; Ord. 20-
29, passed 1-4-2021)
VACANT BUILDINGS
§ 150.115 VACANT BUILDINGS.
   (A)   (1)   The owner of any building that shall become vacant shall, within
30 days after the building becomes vacant or after the effective date of this
section, whichever is later, file a registration statement for each such
building with the city’s Police Department on a form provided by the city’s
Police Department for that purpose. The registration form shall remain valid
for one year after the date of registration.
         (a)   The owner shall be required to renew the registration on an
annual basis as long as the building remains vacant.
         (b)   The owner shall notify the Police Department within 30 days of
any change in the registration information by filing an amended registration
statement provided by the Police Department.
      (2)   In addition to other information required by the Chief of Police,
the registration statement shall include the name, street address and telephone
number of a person 21 years of age or older, designated by the owner or owners
as an authorized agent. The authorized agent must maintain an office or
residence in the county. The owner or owners who meet the requirements of this
section as to the location of said office or residence may designate himself or
herself as the authorized agent. By designating an authorized agent under the
provisions of this section, the owner or owners are empowering the authorized
agent to receive any and all notices of code violations, court proceedings or
administrative proceedings concerning the registered vacant building by service
of the notice or process on the authorized agent. Any owner or owners who have
designated an authorized agent under the provisions of this section shall be
deemed to consent to the continuation of the agent’s designation for the
purpose of this section until the owner or owners notify the Chief of Police of
any change or until the owner or owners file a new annual registration
statement designating a different authorized agent. Any owner or owners who
fail to register a vacant building or fail to designate an authorized agent
under the provisions of this section shall further be deemed to consent to
receive, by posting at the building, any and all code violations and all
administrative proceedings brought to enforce this subchapter.
      (3)   The Chief of Police may issue rules and regulations for the
administration of this section. These rules may designate materials and methods
that may be used when securing a building so the boarding is reasonably
incapable of being removed by trespassers or other acts without the owner,
owners or authorized agent’s consent.
      (4)   (a)   For purposes of this section, VACANT shall mean a building:
            1.   Lacking the habitual presence of human beings who have a legal
right to be on the premises; or
            2.   Substantially all lawful business operations or residency
occupancy have ceased and which is substantially devoid of content.
         (b)   In determining whether a building is vacant, it is relevant to
consider, among other factors, the percentage of the overall square footage of
the building or floors of occupied space, the condition and value of any items
in the building or floors and the presence of rental or “for sale” signs on the
property. A residential property shall not be deemed to be vacant if it has
been used as a residence by the person entitled to possession of the same for a
period of at least three months within the previous nine months and the person
entitled to possession intends to resume residing at the property. A multi-
family residential property shall not be deemed vacant unless all of the
dwelling units are unoccupied.
   (B)   The owner, owners or authorized agent of any building, whether
commercial or residential, that has become vacant shall enclose and secure the
building within 30 days.
   (C)   Within 30 days, the owner, owners or authorized agent shall acquire
and maintain liability insurance in an amount not less than $100,000 for
buildings designed primarily for residential use and not less than $300,000 for
any other building including, but not limited to, buildings designed for
manufacturing, industrial, storage or commercial uses. Such insurance shall
cover any damage to any person or any property caused by any physical condition
of or in the property. The insurance policy acquired after the building has
become vacant shall provide for written notice to the Chief of Police within 30
days of any lapse, cancellation or change in coverage. The owner, owners or
authorized agent shall provide evidence of the insurance policy upon the
request of the Chief of Police’s designated representative.
   (D)   If, at any time after making an inspection of the property, the Chief
of Police or the Chief of Police’s designated representative determines a
building is vacant and open, the Chief of Police shall notify the owner, owners
or authorized agent that the building must be enclosed or substantial action
must be taken to demolish the building within 30 days after the date of the
notice. If, at the expiration of the 30-day period, the Chief of Police
determines the building has not been enclosed or that substantial action has
not been taken to demolish the building, the city shall proceed under the
nuisance sections of this code to have the building demolished by the city with
the cost of said demolition to be paid for under the nuisance sections by the
owner or owners.
(Prior Code, § 150.201) (Ord. 07-02, passed 2-5-2007; Ord. 17-03, passed 1-16-
2017)
INTERNATIONAL PROPERTY MAINTENANCE CODE
§ 150.130 ADOPTION OF THE 2012 INTERNATIONAL PROPERTY MAINTENANCE CODE.
   The International Property Maintenance Code, 2012 Edition as established by
the International Code Council, at least one copy of said book is filed in the
office of the City Clerk and the same is hereby adopted by reference as the
city’s Property Maintenance Code for regulating and governing the conditions
and maintenance of all property, buildings and structures, by providing the
standards for supplied utilities, facilities and other physical things and
conditions essential to ensure that structures are safe, sanitary and fit for
occupation and use, and the condemnation of buildings and structures unfit for
human occupancy and use, and the demolition of such existing structures as
herein provided; providing for the issuance of permits and collections of fees
therefor, and each and all of the regulations, provisions, penalties,
conditions and terms of said Property Maintenance Code are hereby referred to,
adopted and made a part hereof, as if fully set out herein, with additions,
insertions, deletions and changes, if any, as prescribed in §
150.131 of this code.
(Prior Code, § 150.210) (Ord. 17-22, passed 10-16-2017)
§ 150.131 AMENDMENTS, ADDITIONS AND DELETIONS.
   (A)   Amendments, additions and deletions.
      (1)   Section 101.1 is amended to read:
         Title. These regulations shall be known as the International Property
Maintenance Code of the City of Columbus, herein referred to as ‘this code.’
      (2)   Section 101.2 is amended to read:
         Scope. The provisions of this code shall apply to all existing
residential structures and nonresidential structures and all existing property
and premises and constitute minimum requirements and standards for premises,
property, structures, equipment, and facilities for light, ventilation, space,
heating, sanitation, protection from the elements, life safety, safety from
fire and other hazards, and for safe, sanitary, and adequate maintenance; the
responsibility of owners, operators and occupants; the occupancy of existing
structures and premises, and for administration, enforcement, and penalties.
The jurisdiction will include the City of Columbus and all that territory
within its statutorily allowed zoning jurisdiction as allowed under Neb. Rev.
Stat. § 16-901.
      (3)   Section 102.3 is amended to read:
         Application of other codes. Repairs, additions or alterations to a
structure, or changes of occupancy, shall be done in accordance with the
procedures and provisions of the International Building Code, International
Energy Conservation Code, International Fire Code, International Residential
Code, Uniform Plumbing Code, NFPA 70, and all other codes that are or that may
be adopted by the City of Columbus. Nothing in this code shall be construed to
cancel, modify, or set aside any provision of the International Zoning Code.
      (4)   Section 102.7 is amended to read:
         Referenced codes and standards. The codes and standards referenced in
this code shall be those adopted by the City of Columbus and considered part of
the requirements of this code to the prescribed extent of each such reference
as further regulated in Sections 102.7.1 and 102.7.2.
         Exception. Where enforcement of a code provision would violate the
conditions of the listing of the equipment or appliance, the conditions of the
listing shall apply.
      (5)   Section 103.2 is amended to read:
         Appointments. The code official shall be the person as defined in
Section 202 of this code.
      (6)   Section 103.4 is amended to read:
         Liability. The code official, City Administrator, Chief Building and
Code Official, any other employee or agent of the City of Columbus charged with
or delegated with the enforcement of this code, while acting for the City of
Columbus, in good faith and without malice in the discharge of the duties
required by this code or other pertinent law or ordinance, shall not thereby be
rendered liable personally, and is hereby relieved from all liability
personally, and is hereby relieved from all personal liability for any damage
accruing to the persons or property as a result of an act or by reason of an
act or omission in the discharge of official duties. Any suit instituted
against said individuals because of an act performed by that officer or
employee in the lawful discharge of duties and under the provisions of this
code shall be defended by the legal representative of the City of Columbus
until the final termination of the proceedings. Said person shall not be liable
for costs in an action, suit, or proceeding that is instituted in pursuance of
the provisions of this code.
      (7)   Section 103.5 is amended to read:
         Fees. The fees for activities and services performed by the department
in carrying out its responsibilities under this code will be assessed to
reimburse the City of Columbus for expenses incurred and/or as set by
resolution.
      (8)   Section 106.3 is amended to read:
         Prosecution of violation. Any person failing to comply with a notice
of violation or order served in accordance with Section 107 shall be deemed
guilty of a misdemeanor or civil infraction as determined by the local
municipality, and the violation shall be deemed a strict liability offense. If
the notice of violation is not complied with, the code official shall institute
the appropriate proceeding administratively, at law or in equity to restrain,
correct or abate such violation, or to require the removal or termination of
the unlawful occupancy of the structure in violation of the provisions of this
code or of the order or direction made pursuant thereto. Any action taken by
the authority having jurisdiction on such premises shall be charged against the
real estate upon which the structure is located and shall become a lien upon
such real estate.
      (9)   Section 106.4 is amended to read:
         Violation penalties. Any person upon whom a duty is placed by the
provisions of this title who shall fail, neglect, or refuse to perform such
duty, or who shall violate a provision of this title shall be deemed guilty of
a misdemeanor and upon conviction thereof shall be fined in any sum not to
exceed $500 or be imprisoned in the county jail for a period not to exceed six
months, or both, except that each person so convicted shall be fined in a sum
of not less than $200 for the first offense, not less than $300 for a second
offense, and not less than $400 for the third offense and each offense
thereafter. The penalty herein provided shall be cumulative with and in
addition to the revocation, cancellation, or forfeiture of any license, permit,
or right elsewhere provided for violation thereof or as provided by law. Each
day that a violation of this title continues shall constitute a separate and
distinct offense and shall be punishable as such.
      (10)   Section 107.2 is amended to read:
         Form. Such notice prescribed in Section 107.1 shall be in accordance
with all of the following:
            1.   Be in writing;
            2.   Include a description of the real estate sufficient for
identification;
            3.   Include a statement of the violation or violations and why the
notice is being issued;
            4.   Include a correction order allowing a reasonable time to make
the repairs and improvements required to bring the property, dwelling unit, or
structure into compliance with the provision of this code;
            5.   Inform the property owner of the right to appeal;
            6.   Include a statement of the right to file a lien in accordance
with Section 106.3.
      (11)   Section 108.1.1 is amended to read:
         Unsafe structures. An unsafe structure is one that is found to be
dangerous to the life, health, property or safety of the public or the
occupants of the structure by not providing minimum safeguards to protect or
warn occupants in the event of fire or other life threatening events, or
because such structure contains unsafe equipment or is so damaged, decayed,
dilapidated, structurally unsafe, or of such faulty construction or unstable
foundation, that partial or complete collapse is possible.
      (12)   Section 108.1.3 is amended to read:
         Structure unfit for human occupancy. A structure is unfit for human
occupancy whenever the code official finds that such structure is unsafe,
unlawful or, because of the degree to which the structure is in disrepair or
lacks maintenance, is unsanitary, vermin or rat infested, contains filth and
contamination, is a nuisance, or lacks ventilation, illumination, or heating
facilities or other essential requirements of this code, or the location of the
structure constitutes a hazard to the occupants of the structure or to the
public. Whenever the health officer finds that such structure, because of the
degree to which the structure is in disrepair or lacks maintenance, is
unsanitary, vermin or rat infested, contains filth and contamination, or is a
nuisance, such structure shall be unfit for human occupancy and the health
officer shall make such finding to the code official.
      (13)   Section 110.1 is amended to read:
         General. The code official shall order the owner of any premises upon
which is located any structure, which in the code official’s judgment after
review is so deteriorated or dilapidated or has become so out of repair as to
be dangerous, unsafe, unsanitary, or otherwise unfit for human habitation or
occupancy, and such that it is unreasonable to repair the structure, to
demolish and remove such structure, or if such structure is capable of being
made safe by repair, to repair and make safe and sanitary, or to board up and
hold for future repair or to demolish and remove at the owners option, or where
there has been a cessation of normal construction of any structure for a period
of more than two years, the code official shall order the owner to demolish and
remove such structure, or board up until future repair. Boarding the building
up for future repair shall not extend beyond one year, unless approved by the
Chief Building and Code Official /or code official. In the event the structure
and premises upon which the structure is located are in separate ownership,
then both the owner of the structure and the owner of the premises shall be
responsible for said removal.
      (14)   Section 110.3 is amended to read:
         Failure to comply. If the owner of a premises fails to comply with a
demolition within the time prescribed, the code official may cause the
structure to be demolished and removed, either through an available public
agency or by contract or arrangement with private persons, and the cost of such
demolition and removal shall be charged against the real estate upon which the
structure is located and shall be a lien upon such real estate.
      (15)   Section 111.1 is amended to read:
         Application for appeal to City Administrator. Any person directly
affected by a decision of the code official or a notice or order issued under
this code shall have the right to appeal to the City Administrator, provided
that a written application of appeal is filed within 20 days after the day the
decision, notice or order was served. An application of appeal shall be based
on a claim that the true intent of this code or the rules legally adopted
thereunder have been incorrectly interpreted, the provisions of this code do
not fully apply, or the requirements of this code are adequately satisfied by
other means.
      (16)   Section 111.1.1 is added:
         Appeal Hearing with City Administrator. When an appeal to the City
Administrator has been properly and timely requested, the City Administrator
shall:
            1.   Schedule a hearing within five working days of receipt of the
hearing request.
               a.   Written notice of the hearing date and time shall be
provided to the owner and occupant (if known);
               b.   The hearing may be continued to a later time in cases where
additional information is needed, as determined by the City Administrator.
            2.   Review all report(s), violation notice(s) and other relevant
information presented.
            3.   Conduct a hearing.
               a.   At the hearing, the owner, occupant, and/or his agent shall
be given the opportunity to present information and evidence relevant to the
violation notice, reports, or orders;
               b.   The Code Official or his designated representative also
shall be given the opportunity to present information and evidence relevant to
the violation notice, reports, or orders;
               c.   The hearing may be conducted in an informal manner which
shall be flexible enough for the City Administrator to consider evidence,
including letters, affidavits, report(s), violation notice(s), and other
relevant information.
            4.   Render a written order within five calendar days of the
hearing.
               a.   In that decision the City Administrator shall determine if
from the testimony and evidence offered whether or not the building, structure,
or property in question is in violation of this code;
               b.   Should a violation of this code be found, the City
Administrator shall order the owner, occupant, or other persons having an
interest in the building, structure, or property to repair, alter or demolish
the building in accordance with the terms listed in said order within a
reasonable amount of time. Said reasonable amount of time must be longer than
the time frame allowed for the filing of an application for appeal to the Board
of Appeals.
      (17)   Section 111.1.1.1 is amended to read:
         Administration of City Administrator’s order. The code official shall
take action in accordance with the decision of the City Administrator following
the expiration of any and all applicable appeal periods and the expiration of
the reasonable time determination in the City Administrator’s order.
      (18)   Section 111.1.2 is added:
         Application for appeal to Board of Appeals. Any person directly
affected by a decision, finding of or by an order of the City Administrator
issued under this code shall have the right to appeal to the Board of Appeals,
provided that a written application of appeal is filed within 20 days after the
day the City Administrator’s decision or order was served. An application of
appeal shall be based on a claim that the true intent of this code or the rules
legally adopted thereunder have been incorrectly interpreted, the provisions of
this code do not fully apply, or the requirements of this code are adequately
satisfied by other means. In the rare situation where the City Administrator
has acted as the code official, any person directly affected by a decision of
the City Administrator or a notice or order issued under this code shall have
the right to appeal directly to the Board of Appeals as set forth in Section
111 of this code.
      (19)   Section 111.1 3 is added:
         Effect of failure to appeal. Failure of any person to file an appeal
(either to the City Administrator or to the Board of Appeals) shall constitute
a waiver of the right to an administrative hearing and adjudication of the
notice and order or to any portion thereof.
      (20)   Section 111.6.2 is amended to read:
         Appeal of Board’s decision. The decision of the Board of Appeals may
be appealed to the City Council.
      (21)   Section 111.6.3 is added:
         Administration. The code official shall take immediate action in
accordance with the decision of the Board of Appeals following the expiration
of any and all applicable periods concerning the decision of the Board of
Appeals.
      (22)   Section 111.7 is amended to read:
         Application for appeal to City Council. Any person directly affected
by a decision, finding or order of the Board of Appeals issued under this code
shall have the right to appeal to the City Council, provided that a written
application of appeal is filed within 20 days after the day the decision,
notice, or order was served. An application of appeal shall be based on a claim
that the true intent of this code or the rules legally adopted thereunder have
been incorrectly interpreted, the provisions of this code do not fully apply,
or the requirements of this code are adequately satisfied by other means.
      (23)   Section 111.7.1 is added:
         Scope of hearing on appeal in front of the City Council. Only those
matters or issues specifically raised by the appellant regarding the decision
of the Board of Appeals shall be considered in the hearing of the appeal in
front of the City Council.
      (24)   Section 111.7.2 is added:
         Procedure for hearing on appeal to the City Council. The procedures
for hearings conducted in front of the City Council shall be as follows:
            1.   The hearing in front of the City Council shall take place at a
date when the City Council normally meets within 30 days of the date of
appellant’s proper filing of such appeals application.
            2.   Hearings will be conducted in accordance with Rules of the
City Council of Columbus, Nebraska.
            3.   The Mayor shall preside and lead the hearing and discussion
Council members are entitled to ask questions of the appellant, the code
official, the City Administrator, or their duly authorized representatives.
            4.   A Board of Appeals decision may only be overturned or modified
a by a majority vote of the members of the City Council. The Mayor may only
vote when his or her vote will provide the additional vote required to create a
number of votes equal to the majority of the number of members elected to the
City Council, and the Mayor shall, for the purposes of such vote, be deemed to
be a member of the Council.
      (25)   Section 111.8 is amended to read:
         Court Review. Appeal of the City Council’s decision shall be filed in
accordance with state law.
      (26)   Section 111.9 is added:
         Stays of Enforcement. Appeals of notice, findings, and orders (other
than Imminent Danger notices) shall stay the enforcement and of the notice and
order until the appeal is heard at the appropriate level. Should an appeal be
taken to the Courts, there is no stay of enforcement unless the Court
authorizes an injunction.
      (27)   Section 112.4 is amended to read:
         Failure to Comply. Any person who shall continue any work after having
been served with a stop work order, except such work as that person is directed
to perform to remove a violation or unsafe condition, shall be liable to a fine
of not less then $200 or more than $500.
      (28)   Section 201.3 is amended to read:
         Terms defined in other codes. Where terms are not defined in this code
but are defined in other codes that are adopted, or which may later be adopted,
by the City of Columbus, such terms shall have the meanings ascribed to them as
stated in those codes.
      (29)   Section 202, only the following definitions are amended to read
(all other definitions in Section 202 of the 2012 International Property
Maintenance Code which are not listed below shall remain as defined):
         [A]   CODE OFFICIAL. The official who is charged with the
administration and enforcement of this code, or any duly authorized
representative. The code official shall be the Chief Building and Code Official
for the City of Columbus, or any duly authorized representative of that person.
Should the position of Chief Building and Code Official be vacant, the code
official shall be the acting City Administrator for the City of Columbus, or
any duly authorized representative of that person.
         [B]   DWELLING UNIT. A single unit and/or structure providing
complete, independent living facilities for one or more persons, including
permanent provisions for living, sleeping, eating, cooking, and sanitation.
         [C]   STRUCTURE. That which is built, manufactured, or constructed,
which may be affixed or non-affixed to the premises or property, or a portion
thereof.
      (30)   Section 301.2 is amended to read:
         Responsibility. The owner of the premises or property shall maintain
the structures and exterior property in compliance with these requirements,
except as otherwise provided for in this code. A person shall not occupy as
owner-occupant or permit another person to occupy premises which are not in a
sanitary and safe condition and which do not comply with the requirements of
this chapter. Owners and occupants of a dwelling unit, rooming unit, or
housekeeping unit are responsible for keeping in a clean, sanitary, and safe
condition that part of the dwelling unit, rooming unit, housekeeping unit, or
premises which they occupy and control.
      (31)   Section 302.4 is amended to read:
         Weeds. All premises and exterior property shall be maintained free
from weeds or plant growth in excess of twelve (12) inches. All noxious weeds
shall be prohibited. Weeds shall be defined as all grasses, annual plants and
vegetation, other than trees or shrubs provided, however, this term shall not
include cultivated flowers and gardens.
         Upon failure of the owner or agent having charge of a property to cut
and destroy weeds after service of a notice of violation, they shall be subject
to prosecution in accordance with Section 106.3 and as prescribed by the
authority having jurisdiction. Upon failure to comply with the notice of
violation, any duly authorized employee of the jurisdiction or contractor hired
by the jurisdiction shall be authorized to enter upon the property in violation
and cut and destroy the weeds growing thereon, and the costs of such removal
shall be paid by the owner or agent responsible for the property.
      (32)   Section 303 is hereby deleted in its entirety.
      (33)   Section 304.14 is amended to read:
         Insect Screens. During the period from April 1st to October 31st every
year, every door, window, and other outside opening required for ventilation of
habitable rooms, food preparation areas, food service area, or any areas where
products to be included or utilized in food for human consumption are
processed, manufactured, packaged, or stored shall be supplied with approved
tightly fitting screens of minimum 16 mesh per inch (16 mesh per 25 mm), and
every screen door used for insect control shall have a self-closing device in
good working condition.
         Exception: Screens shall not be required where other approved means,
such as air curtains or insect repellent fans, are employed.
      (34)   Section 502.5 is amended to read:
         Public Toilet Facilities. Public toilet facilities shall be maintained
in a safe sanitary and working condition in accordance with the Uniform
Plumbing Code. Except for periodic maintenance or cleaning, public access and
use shall be provided to the toilet facilities at all times during occupancy of
the premises.
      (35)   Section 505.1 is amended to read:
         General. Every sink, lavatory, bathtub or shower, drinking fountain,
water closet, or other plumbing fixture shall be properly connected to either a
public water system or to an approved private water system. All kitchen sinks,
lavatories, laundry facilities, bathtubs, and showers shall be supplied with
hot or tempered and cold running water in accordance with the Uniform Plumbing
Code.
      (36)   Section 602.2 is amended to read:
         Residential Occupancies. Dwellings shall be provided with heating
facilities capable of maintaining a room temperature of 68°F (20°C) in all
habitable rooms, bathrooms, and toilet rooms based on the outdoor winter design
temperature of -3°F (-19°C). Cooking appliances shall not be used, nor shall
portable unvented fuel-burning space heaters be used, as a means to provide
required heating.
         Exception:
            1.   In areas where the average monthly temperature is above 30°F
(-1°C), a minimum temperature of 65°F (18°C) shall be maintained.
      (37)   Section 602.3 is amended to read:
         Heat Supply. Every owner and operator of any building who rents,
leases, or lets one or more dwelling units or sleeping units on terms, either
expressed or implied, to furnish heat to the occupants thereof shall supply
heat during the period from September 1st to May 31st every year to maintain a
minimum temperature of 68°F (20°C) in all habitable rooms, bathrooms, and
toilet rooms.
         Exceptions:
            1.   When the outdoor temperature is below the winter outdoor
design temperature for the locality, maintenance of the minimum room
temperature shall not be required provided that the heating system is operating
at its full design capacity. The winter outdoor design temperature for the
locality shall be -3°F (-19°C).
            2.   In areas where the average monthly temperature is above 30°F
(-1°C) a minimum temperature of 65°F (18°C) shall be maintained.
      (38)   Section 602.4 is deleted.
   (B)   Exceptions. Nothing in this section or in the 2012 International
Property Maintenance Code hereby adopted shall be construed to affect any suit
or proceeding impending in any court, or any rights acquired, or liability
incurred, or any cause of action acquired or existing under any act or
ordinance hereby repealed, nor shall any just or legal remedy of any character
be lost, impaired or affected by this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 150.211) (Ord. 17-22, passed 10-16-2017)
§ 150.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Whoever violates any provision of this chapter for which no specific
penalty is provided shall be punished as set forth in §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person violating any of the provisions or conditions of §§
150.015 through
150.025 of this code shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and the City Council may,
at its discretion, revoke or suspend the license of any electrician for any
violation.
(Prior Code, § 150.031)
   (C)   (1)   Any person who shall violate or who shall refuse, neglect or
fail to comply with any of the provisions of §§
150.060 through
150.074 of this code shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon
conviction, shall be fined in a sum not less than $5 nor more than $50 for each
offense; and any person holding a license under the supervision and authority
of the Community Development Department who is convicted of having violated any
of the provisions of §§
150.060 through
150.074 of this code, shall have that license revoked by the City Council. Any
person having his or her license revoked for said cause shall not be granted a
new license for a period of one year thereafter.
      (2)   Any person who shall have been convicted of having done any work in
a manner prohibited by §§
150.060 through
150.074 of this code, and who shall fail, neglect or refuse to correct the same
within ten days after conviction shall be guilty of an independent and separate
offense for each day thereafter during which the work is permitted to remain in
such improper condition.
(Prior Code, § 150.999)
(Ord. 888, passed 4-20-1959; Ord. 2845, passed 3-15-1982; Ord. 15-27, passed 1-
18-2016; Ord. 20-29, passed 1-4-2021)
CHAPTER 151:COLUMBUS LAND DEVELOPMENT ORDINANCE: ZONING CHAPTER
Section
   
151.01   Adoption of the Columbus Land Development Ordinance: Zoning Chapter
§ 151.01 ADOPTION OF THE COLUMBUS LAND DEVELOPMENT ORDINANCE: ZONING CHAPTER.
   There is hereby adopted and enacted by the City Council and Mayor as the
zoning code for the City of Columbus, the Columbus Land Development Ordinance:
Zoning Chapter, comprising Articles 1 through 15 inclusive, and containing all
the conditions, provisions, limitations and terms of the zoning chapter, one
copy of which has been and is now on file in the office of the City Clerk, and
the same, including any subsequent amendments thereto, is hereby incorporated
by reference.
(Ord. 24-32, passed 11-18-2024)
https://www.columbusne.us/114/Land-Development-Zoning-Code
CHAPTER 152: COLUMBUS LAND DEVELOPMENT ORDINANCE: SUBDIVISION CHAPTER
Section
   
152.01   Adoption of the Columbus Land Development Ordinance: Subdivision
Chapter
§ 152.01 ADOPTION OF THE COLUMBUS LAND DEVELOPMENT ORDINANCE: SUBDIVISION
CHAPTER.
   There is hereby adopted and enacted by the City Council and Mayor as the
subdivision code for the City of Columbus, the Columbus Land Development
Ordinance: Subdivision Chapter, comprising Articles 1 through 6 inclusive, and
containing all the conditions, provisions, limitations and terms of the
subdivision chapter, one copy of which has been and is now on file in the
office of the City Clerk, and the same, including any subsequent amendments
thereto, is hereby incorporated by reference.
(Ord. 24-32, passed 11-18-2024)
https://www.columbusne.us/114/Land-Development-Zoning-Code
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to Nebraska Revised Statutes
References to Prior Code
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO NEBRASKA REVISED STATUTES
Neb. Rev. Stat. Cites Code Section
Neb. Rev. Stat. Cites      Code Section
9-201 through 9-266        110.02
14                         114.03
16-115                     11.02
16-205                     111.15
16-207                     94.003
16-222                     91.16 -
                           91.18
16-225                     10.99,
                           34.99
16-227                     91.17,
                           91.18
                           31.065,
16-238                     32.071 -
                           32.073
16-240                     10.99
16-245                     10.99
                           10.99,
16-246                     132.21,
                           134.04
16-302.01                  30.18
16-308                     31.003,
                           31.065
16-309                     31.003
16-310                     31.003,
                           35.02
16-317                     31.036
16-318                     31.035
16-320                     31.050
16-321                     37.01
16-323                     34.99
16-404                     30.20
16-649                     94.021
16-661                     94.022
16-662                     94.020
16-664                     94.028
16-666                     94.028
16-696                     32.016 -
                           32.018
16-701                     11.05
16-901                     150.131
16-1001 through 16-1019    34.55
16-1020 through 16-1038    33.40
17-107                     30.01,
                           30.03
17-108.02                  30.02
17-110                     30.02
17-111                     30.02
17-112                     30.02
17-113                     30.02
17-114                     30.02
17-117                     30.02
17-121                     31.065
17-129                     131.05
17-148                     30.19
17-208                     31.065
17-556                     131.05
17-610                     31.020
17-614                     10.15
17-952                     32.017
18-132                     91.01
                           10.99,
18-1720                    Ch. 92,
                           134.04
18-1736 through 18-1741.07 72.039
18-1742                    72.039
18-2801 et seq.            11.05
19-902                     91.01
19-908                     32.035,
                           32.085
19-909                     32.085
19-910                     32.085
19-912                     32.085
19-922                     91.01
19-925 through 19-929      32.035
19-929                     32.039
19-1825 et seq.            31.095
19-1825 through 19-1847    32.003
19-1827 through 19-1847    32.003
19-1832                    33.05,
                           34.40
19-1833                    33.05,
                           34.40
28-201                     130.02
28-308 through 28-310      131.01
28-318                     131.11
28-416(13)                 130.32
28-419 through 28-424      130.34
28-431                     72.005
28-439 through 28-444      130.33
28-511.01                  133.26
28-519                     131.09
28-523                     134.02
28-610                     135.05
28-807 through 28-829      131.10
28-906                     90.153
28-1201                    133.02
28-1202                    133.02
28-1249                    133.04
28-1321                    133.04
28-1322                    131.06
28-1418                    132.02
28-1418.01                 132.02,
                           132.03
28-1419                    132.03
28-1427                    132.03
29-4001 et seq.            95.01
29-4001.01                 95.01
29-4003                    95.01
32-101 et seq.             30.01,
                           36.05
32-109                     30.02
32-533                     30.01
32-534                     30.18,
                           36.03
32-554                     30.18
                           30.03,
32-560                     30.18,
                           36.03
32-560 through 32-572      30.03
32-561                     30.03
32-568                     30.03
32-603                     30.03
32-604                     30.02
32-1308                    30.03
35-101                     30.03
35-103                     30.03
39-307                     134.04
48-115                     33.03
48-1,110                   33.11
49-801(16)                 10.05
                           111.02,
53                         112.31,
                           112.34
53-101 et seq.             130.31
53-103                     132.04
53-123.17                  112.31
53-179(2)                  112.16
53-180                     130.30
53-180.01                  132.04
53-180.06                  132.04
53-186                     130.31
53-186.01                  130.31
54-603                     90.018,
                           90.045
54-617 through 54-624      90.034
55-106                     33.03
55-174                     33.03
60-324                     70.023
60-462                     70.020
60-497.01                  70.024,
                           70.036
60-498                     70.036
60-509                     70.020
60-606 through 60-676      70.001
60-680                     71.106,
                           73.01
60-696                     70.035,
                           70.999
60-697                     70.036
60-698                     70.036
60-1901 et seq.            72.005
60-1901 through 60-1911    72.005
60-1903.01                 72.005
60-2401 through 60-2411    72.037
60-4,126                   71.014
60-4,182                   70.036
60-4,182 et seq.           70.024
60-6,114                   70.004
60-6,127                   70.079
60-6,140                   71.124
60-6,146                   71.070
60-6,154                   71.025,
                           71.071
60-6,166                   72.023
60-6,167                   72.036
60-6,169                   71.128
60-6,184                   71.134
60-6,203                   71.008
60-6,211.01                71.008
60-6,211.02                71.008
60-6,212                   71.003
60-6,267                   70.062
60-6,286                   70.050
60-6,299                   114.24
60-6,316                   71.130
60-6,371                   70.050
69-2429                    133.02
71-5301                    52.150
81-502                     91.01
81-829.36                  33.10
81-1401(8)(a)              34.22
81-2005                    70.098
81-1,245 et seq.           111.16
81-2,147 et seq.           92.50
85-520.01                  91.18
                           
 
REFERENCES TO PRIOR CODE
Prior Code 2022 Code
Prior Code       2022 Code
10.05            10.05
11.01            11.01
11.02            11.02
11.03            11.03
11.04            11.04
11.05            11.05
30.01            30.21
30.15            30.15
30.16            30.16
30.17            30.17
30.18            30.18
30.20            30.20
31.001           31.001
31.002           31.002
31.003           31.003
31.004           31.004
31.005           31.005
31.025           31.035
31.026           31.036
31.040           31.050
31.055           31.065
31.065           31.080
31.066           31.081
31.067           31.082
31.068           31.083
31.080           31.095
31.081           31.096
31.082           31.097
31.083           31.098
31.084           31.099
32.001           32.001
32.002           32.002
32.003           32.003
32.015           32.015
32.016           32.016
32.017           32.017
32.018           32.018
32.019           32.019
32.020           32.020
32.035           32.035
32.036           32.036
32.037           32.037
32.038           32.038
32.039           32.039
32.065           32.050
32.066           32.051
32.067           32.052
32.068           32.053
32.069           32.054
32.070           32.055
32.071           32.056
32.072           32.999
32.085           32.070
32.086           32.071
32.087           32.072
32.088           32.073
32.115           32.085
32.120           32.100
32.121           32.101
32.122           32.102
32.123           32.103
33.01            33.01
33.02            33.02
33.03            33.03
33.04            33.04
33.05            33.05
33.07            33.06
33.08            33.07
33.09            33.08
33.10            33.09
33.11            33.10
33.12            33.11
33.25            33.25
33.26            33.26
33.27            33.27,
                 33.99
33.28            33.99
33.40            33.40
34.01            34.01
34.02            34.02
34.03            34.03
34.04            34.04
34.05            34.05
34.15            34.20
34.16            34.21
34.17            34.22
34.18            34.23
34.19            34.24
34.20            34.25
34.21            34.26
34.22            34.27
34.23            34.28
34.35            34.40
34.36            34.99
34.37            34.99
34.38            34.41,
                 34.99
34.39            34.42
34.50            34.55
35.01            35.01
35.15            35.02
36.01            36.01
36.02            36.02
36.03            36.03
36.04            36.04
36.05            36.05
36.20            36.06
37.01            37.01
50.01            50.01
50.02            50.02
50.03            50.03
50.20            50.15
50.21            50.16
50.22            50.17
50.23            50.18
50.24            50.19
50.25            50.20
50.40            50.35
50.41            50.36
50.42            50.37
50.43            50.38,
                 50.99
50.44            50.39
50.45            50.40
50.46            50.41
50.47            50.42
50.48            50.43
50.49            50.44
50.50            50.45
51.001           51.001
51.002           51.002
51.003           51.003
51.004           51.004
51.005           51.005
51.006           51.006
51.007           51.007
51.008           51.008
51.020           51.020
51.021           51.021
51.022           51.022
51.023           51.023
51.024           51.024
51.025           51.025
51.026           51.026
51.027           51.027
51.028           51.028
51.040           51.040
51.041           51.041
51.042           51.042
51.043           51.043
51.044           51.044
51.045           51.045
51.046           51.046
51.060           51.060
51.061           51.061
51.062           51.062
51.063           51.063
51.064           51.064
51.065           51.065
51.066           51.066
51.067           51.067
51.068           51.068
51.069           51.069
51.070           51.070
51.071           51.071
51.072           51.072
51.073           51.073
51.074           51.074
51.075           51.075
51.076           51.076
51.077           51.077
51.090           51.090
51.091           51.090
51.092           51.091
51.093           51.092
51.094           51.093
51.095           51.094
51.096           51.095
51.097           51.096
51.098           51.097
51.099           51.098
51.110           51.110
51.111           51.111
51.112           51.112
51.113           51.113
51.114           51.114
51.115           51.115
51.116           51.116
51.117           51.117
51.118           51.118
51.130           51.130
51.131           51.131
51.132           51.132
51.133           51.133
51.134           51.134
51.135           51.135
51.136           51.136
51.137           51.137
51.138           51.138
51.139           51.139
51.140           51.140
51.141           51.141
51.142           51.142
51.144           51.143
51.145           51.144
51.155           51.155
51.156           51.156
51.157           51.157
51.158           51.158
51.159           51.159
51.160           51.160
51.161           51.161
51.175           51.175
51.176           51.176
51.177           51.177
51.178           51.178
51.179           51.179
51.180           51.180
51.181           51.181
51.182           51.182
51.185           51.195
51.186           51.196
51.187           51.197
51.188           51.198
51.189           51.199
51.190           51.200
51.195           51.215
51.196           51.216
51.200           51.230
51.201           51.231
51.202           51.232
51.203           51.233
51.204           51.234
51.205           51.235
51.998           51.009
52.001           52.002
52.002           52.003
52.003           52.004
52.004           52.005
52.005           52.006
52.006           52.007
52.007           52.008
52.008           52.009
52.020           52.025
52.021           52.026
52.022           52.027
52.023           52.028
52.024           52.029
52.025           52.030
52.026           52.031
52.027           52.032
52.028           52.033
52.029           52.034
52.040           52.045
52.041           52.046
52.042           52.047
52.043           52.048
52.044           52.049
52.045           52.050
52.055           52.065
52.056           52.066
52.057           52.067
52.058           52.068
52.059           52.069
52.060           52.070
52.061           52.071
52.075           52.085
52.076           52.086
52.077           52.001
52.078           52.087
52.079           52.088
52.080           52.089
52.081           52.090
52.082           52.091
52.083           52.092
52.084           52.093
52.085           52.094
52.086           52.095
52.087           52.096
52.100           52.110
52.101           52.111
52.102           52.112
52.103           52.113
52.104           52.114
52.105           52.115
52.106           52.116
52.107           52.117
52.108           52.118
52.120           52.130
52.121           52.131
52.122           52.132
52.123           52.133
52.124           52.134
52.125           52.135
52.126           52.136
52.127           52.137
52.128           52.138
52.130           52.150,
                 52.999
52.140           52.001
52.141           52.165
52.142           52.166
52.143           52.167
52.144           52.168
52.145           52.169
52.146           52.170
52.147           52.171
52.148           52.172
52.149           52.173,
                 52.999
52.998           52.010,
                 52.999
52.999           52.999
53.01            53.01
53.02            53.02
53.03            53.03
53.04            53.04
53.05            53.05
53.07            53.06
53.08            53.07
53.09            53.08
53.10            53.09
53.11            53.10
53.12            53.11
53.13            53.12
53.14            53.13
53.15            53.14
53.16            53.15
53.17            53.16
53.18            53.17
53.19            53.18
53.20            53.19
53.21            53.20
53.22            53.21
53.23            53.22
53.24            53.23
53.25            53.99
53.26            53.24
54.01            54.01
54.02            54.02
54.03            54.03
54.04            54.04
54.06            54.05
54.07            54.06
54.08            54.07
54.09            54.08
54.10            54.09
54.11            54.10
54.12            54.11
54.13            54.12
54.14            54.99
54.15            54.13
54.16            54.14
70.001           70.001
70.002           70.002
70.003           70.003
70.004           70.004
70.005           70.005
70.015           70.020
70.016           70.021
70.017           70.022
70.018           70.023
70.019           70.024
70.030           70.035,
                 70.999
70.031           70.036
70.032           70.037
70.033           70.038
70.045           70.050
70.046           70.051
70.047           70.052
70.048           70.053
70.049           70.054
70.050           70.055
70.051           70.056
70.052           70.057
70.053           70.058
70.054           70.059
70.055           70.060
70.056           70.061,
                 70.999
70.057           70.062,
                 70.999
70.058           70.063
70.059           70.064
70.070           70.075
70.071           70.076
70.072           70.077
70.073           70.078
70.074           70.079
70.075           70.080
70.076           70.081,
                 70.999
70.077           70.082
70.090           70.095
70.091           70.096
70.092           70.097
70.093           70.098
70.094           70.099
70.095           70.100
70.096           70.101
70.097           70.102
70.098           70.103
70.099           70.104
71.001           71.001
71.002           71.002
71.003           71.003
71.004           71.004
71.005           71.005
71.006           71.006
71.007           71.007
71.008           71.008,
                 71.999
71.009           71.009
71.010           71.010
71.011           71.011
71.012           71.012
71.013           71.013
71.014           71.014
71.025           71.025
71.026           71.026
71.040           71.040
71.041           71.041
71.055           71.055
71.056           71.056
71.057           71.057
71.070           71.070
71.071           71.071
71.072           71.072
71.073           71.073
71.074           71.074
71.075           71.075
71.076           71.076
71.077           71.077
71.090           71.090
71.091           71.091
71.092           71.092
71.105           71.105
71.106           71.106
71.120           71.120
71.121           71.121
71.122           71.122
71.123           71.123
71.124           71.124
71.125           71.125
71.126           71.126
71.127           71.127
71.128           71.128
71.129           71.129
71.130           71.130
71.131           71.131
71.132           71.132
71.133           71.133
71.134           71.134
71.135           71.135
71.145           71.150
71.146           71.151
71.147           71.152
72.01            72.001
72.02            72.002
72.03            72.003
72.04            72.004
72.05            72.005
72.15            72.020
72.16            72.021
72.17            72.022
72.18            72.023
72.19            72.024
72.20            72.025
72.21            72.026
72.22            72.027
72.23            72.028
72.24            72.029
72.25            72.030
72.26            72.031
72.27            72.032
72.28            72.033
72.29            72.034
72.30            72.035
72.31            72.036
72.32            72.037
72.33            72.038
72.34            72.039
72.35            72.040
72.36            72.041
72.37            72.042,
                 72.999
72.38            72.043
72.39            72.044
72.40            72.045
72.50            72.060
72.51            72.061
72.52            72.062
72.53            72.063
72.54            72.064
72.55            72.065
72.57            72.067
72.58            72.068
72.59            72.069
72.60            72.070
72.75            72.085
72.76            72.086
72.77            72.087
72.78            72.088
72.79            72.089
72.80            72.090
72.81            72.999
73.01            73.01
73.15            73.15
73.16            73.16
73.17            73.17
73.18            73.18
73.19            73.19
73.20            73.20
73.21            73.21
73.22            73.22
73.23            73.23
73.24            73.24
73.25            73.25
73.26            73.26
73.27            73.27
73.28            73.28
73.29            73.29
Ch. 74 Schd. I   Ch. 74 Schd. I
Ch. 74 Schd. II  Ch. 74 Schd. II
Ch. 74 Schd. III Ch. 74 Schd. III
Ch. 75 Schd. I   Ch. 75 Schd. I
90.001           90.001
90.002           90.002
90.003           90.003
90.015           90.015
90.016           90.016
90.017           90.017
90.018           90.018
90.030           90.030
90.031           90.031
90.032           90.032
90.033           90.033
90.034           90.034
90.035           90.035
90.036           90.036
90.037           90.037
90.038           90.038
90.039           90.039
90.040           90.040
90.041           90.041
90.042           90.042
90.043           90.043
90.044           90.044
90.045           90.045,
                 90.999
90.046           90.046
90.060           90.060
90.061           90.061
90.062           90.062
90.063           90.063
90.064           90.064
90.065           90.065
90.066           90.066
90.067           90.067
90.070           90.080
90.071           90.081
90.072           90.082
90.080           90.095
90.081           90.096
90.082           90.097
90.083           90.098
90.084           90.099
90.085           90.100
90.086           90.101
90.087           90.102
90.088           90.103
90.089           90.104
90.090           90.105
90.091           90.106
90.105           90.120
90.106           90.121
90.107           90.122
90.108           90.123
90.109           90.124
90.110           90.125
90.111           90.126
90.112           90.127
90.113           90.128
90.114           90.129
90.115           90.130
90.125           90.145
90.126           90.146
90.127           90.147
90.128           90.148
90.129           90.149
90.130           90.150
90.131           90.151
90.132           90.152
90.133           90.153
90.134           90.154
90.135           90.155
90.136           90.156
90.137           90.999
90.999           90.999
91.01            91.01
91.20            91.15
91.21            91.16
91.22            91.17
91.23            91.18
91.40            91.30
91.41            91.31
91.42            91.32
91.43            91.33
91.44            91.34
91.45            91.35
91.46            91.36
92.01            92.01
92.02            92.02
92.03            92.03
92.04            92.04
92.05            92.05,
                 92.99
92.06            92.06
92.07            92.07
92.08            92.08,
                 92.99
92.09            92.09
92.10            92.10
92.11            92.11
92.12            92.12
92.25            92.25,
                 92.99
92.26            92.26
92.27            92.27,
                 92.99
92.28            92.28
92.29            92.29
92.30            92.30,
                 92.99
92.40            92.45
92.41            92.46
92.42            92.47
92.43            92.48
92.44            92.49
92.45            92.50
92.46            92.50
92.99            92.99
93.01            93.01
93.02            93.02
93.03            93.03
93.04            93.04
93.05            93.05
93.06            93.06
93.07            93.07
93.99            93.99
94.001           94.001
94.003           94.003
94.004           94.004,
                 94.999
94.005           94.005
94.006           94.006
94.020           94.020
94.021           94.021
94.022           94.022
94.023           94.023
94.024           94.024
94.025           94.025
94.026           94.026
94.027           94.027
94.029           94.028
94.030           94.029
94.031           94.030
94.032           94.031
94.046           94.046
94.047           94.047
94.048           94.048
94.049           94.049
94.050           94.050
94.065           94.065
94.066           94.066
94.067           94.067
94.068           94.999
94.080           94.080
94.081           94.081
94.082           94.082
95.01            98.01
95.02            98.02
96.01            96.01
96.02            96.02
96.03            96.03
96.04            96.04
96.05            96.05
96.06            96.06
96.07            96.07
96.08            96.08
96.09            96.09
96.10            96.10
96.11            96.11
96.12            96.12
96.13            96.13
96.14            96.14
97.01            97.01
97.02            97.02
98.01            95.01
98.02            95.02,
                 95.99
110.020          110.01
110.021          110.02
110.022          110.03
110.023          110.04
110.024          110.05
110.025          110.06
110.040          110.20
110.041          110.21
110.042          110.22
110.055          110.35
110.056          110.36
110.060          115.01
110.061          115.02
110.062          115.55
110.063          115.56
110.064          115.57
110.065          115.58
110.066          115.59
110.067          115.60
110.068          115.61
110.069          115.62
110.070          115.63
110.071          115.64
110.072          115.03
110.073          115.04
110.074          115.05
110.075          115.06
110.076          115.07
110.077          115.08
110.078          115.09
110.079          115.10
110.080          115.11
110.081          115.12
110.082          115.13
110.083          115.14
110.084          115.15
110.085          115.30
110.086          115.31
110.087          115.32
110.088          115.33
110.089          115.34
110.090          115.35
110.091          115.36
110.092          115.37
110.093          115.38
110.094          115.39
110.095          115.40
110.096          115.41
110.097          115.42
110.098          115.43
110.099          115.16
110.100          115.17,
                 115.99
111.01           111.01
111.02           111.02
111.03           111.03
112.01           112.01
112.02           112.02
112.15           112.15
112.16           112.16
112.20           112.30
112.21           112.31
112.22           112.32
112.23           112.33
112.24           112.34
112.25           112.35
113.01           113.01
113.02           113.02
113.03           113.03
113.04           113.04
113.05           113.05
114.01           114.01
114.02           114.02
114.03           114.03
114.04           114.04
114.05           114.05
114.06           114.06
114.07           114.07
114.08           114.08
114.09           114.09
114.10           114.10
114.11           114.11
114.12           114.12
114.13           114.13
114.14           114.14
114.15           114.15
114.16           114.16
114.17           114.17
114.18           114.18
114.19           114.19
114.20           114.20
114.21           114.21
114.22           114.22
114.23           114.23
114.24           114.24
114.25           114.25
114.99           114.99
130.001          130.01
130.002          130.02
130.003          130.03
130.004          130.04
130.020          130.15
130.021          130.16
130.022          130.17
130.023          130.18
130.035          132.20
130.036          132.21
130.037          132.22
130.038          132.23
130.050          133.01
130.051          133.02
130.052          133.03
130.053          133.04,
                 133.99
130.054          133.05
130.065          133.20
130.066          133.21
130.067          133.22
130.068          133.23
130.069          133.24
130.070          133.25
130.071          133.26
130.085          131.01
130.086          131.02
130.087          131.03
130.088          131.04
130.090          131.06
130.091          131.07
130.092          131.08
130.093          131.09
130.094          131.10
130.095          131.11
130.110          130.30
130.111          130.31
130.112          130.32,
                 130.99
130.113          130.33,
                 130.99
130.114          130.34
130.125          132.01
130.126          132.02,
                 132.99
130.127          132.03
130.128          132.04
130.129          132.05
130.140          134.01
130.141          134.02
130.142          134.03,
                 134.99
130.143          134.04
130.144          134.05
130.145          134.06
130.146          134.07
130.160          135.01
130.161          135.02
130.162          135.03
130.163          135.04
130.164          135.05
130.165          135.06
130.166          135.07
130.999          130.99,
                 132.99
150.001          150.001
150.002          150.002
150.003          150.003
150.004          150.004
150.020          150.015
150.021          150.016
150.022          150.017
150.023          150.018
150.024          150.019
150.025          150.020
150.026          150.021
150.027          150.022
150.028          150.023
150.029          150.024
150.030          150.025
150.031          150.999
150.045          150.040
150.046          150.041
150.047          150.042
150.048          150.043
150.049          150.044
150.050          150.045
150.051          150.046
150.052          150.047
150.065          150.060
150.066          150.061
150.067          150.062
150.068          150.063
150.069          150.064
150.070          150.065
150.071          150.066
150.072          150.067
150.073          150.068
150.074          150.069
150.075          150.070
150.076          150.071
150.077          150.072
150.078          150.073
150.079          150.074
150.090          150.085
150.105          150.100
150.106          150.101
150.201          150.115
150.210          150.130
150.211          150.131
150.999          150.999
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
580      12-20-1939  33.26
666      5-18-1949   33.09
717      6-20-1951   70.005
720      7-6-1951    91.17
748      11-19-1952  94.004
843      5-1-1957    32.001
853      8-21-1957   33.10,
                     33.11
854      11-20-1957  94.046,
                     94.048
888      4-20-1959   150.999
1033     12-4-1963   34.41,
                     34.99
1120     11-17-1965  34.55
2216     9-1-1971    112.02
2242     12-15-1971  34.03
                     51.040,
                     51.045,
                     51.064 -
2270     6-17-1972   51.068,
                     51.112,
                     51.113,
                     51.141
2274     6-21-1972   11.04
2302     1-17-1973   34.02
                     150.018,
2315     4-18-1973   150.020,
                     150.023,
                     150.024
                     72.062,
2326     9-5-1973    72.065,
                     72.070
2334     12-19-1973  36.05
                     51.001,
                     51.060,
                     51.070,
2354     5-1-1974    51.090,
                     51.092,
                     51.093,
                     51.098
2361     6-19-1974   30.21
2362     6-19-1974   31.098,
                     36.04
2370     8-7-1974    110.35
                     31.080,
2413     8-20-1975   31.081,
                     31.083
2430     4-21-1976   94.031
2456     8-4-1976    110.01,
                     110.03
2499     7-6-1977    36.06
                     51.076,
2535     12-5-1977   51.110,
                     51.112,
                     51.113
2696     3-3-1980    51.063,
                     52.137
2708     5-19-1980   94.050
2743     11-3-1980   110.36
2818     11-2-1981   51.070
2835     2-1-1982    112.15
2845     3-15-1982   150.999
2776     5-3-1982    51.070
2898     12-20-1982  150.021
2930     9-19-1983   94.067
2965     3-19-1984   150.016
2976     4-2-1984    31.050,
                     37.01
3041     5-6-1985    94.023,
                     94.024
3042     5-6-1985    94.026
3057     10-7-1985   91.01
                     51.002,
3059     10-7-1985   51.180,
                     51.216
                     52.003 -
                     52.006,
                     52.008,
                     52.009,
                     52.025,
                     52.027,
                     52.029,
3060     10-7-1985   52.030,
                     52.033,
                     52.034,
                     52.048,
                     52.049,
                     52.112,
                     52.116,
                     52.132,
                     52.133
3096     5-5-1986    52.134
3160     4-20-1987   150.025
                     72.060,
                     72.061,
3165     6-1-1987    72.063,
                     72.064,
                     94.003,
                     94.030
3189     12-7-1987   72.067
                     50.16,
                     50.17,
88-11    3-21-1988   50.35,
                     50.37,
                     50.39,
                     50.40
88-4     4-4-1988    114.25
88-17    4-18-1988   94.047
89-3A    3-6-1989    33.01,
                     33.25
89-4     3-6-1989    52.131
89-8     3-20-1989   50.03
89-13    5-1-1989    33.07
89-20    6-19-1989   32.002,
                     32.051
90-2     5-7-1990    92.46,
                     92.47
90-33    7-2-1990    32.085
90-49    9-4-1990    92.28
90-56    11-5-1990   52.002
90-64    12-17-1990  114.09
91-02    4-1-1991    50.15
91-16    4-1-1991    52.135
91-39    8-5-1991    92.45,
                     92.49
91-42    8-19-1991   112.16
91-52    9-16-1991   11.01
92-01    1-6-1992    50.20
92-03    2-3-1992    30.20
92-29    6-15-1992   150.042
92-66    12-21-1992  31.035,
                     31.036
93-11    4-5-1993    92.25 -
                     92.27
93-32    8-16-1993   92.29
93-49    10-18-1993  50.41,
                     50.42
93-57    12-6-1993   98.02
93-59    12-20-1993  31.082
93-65    12-20-1993  150.017,
                     150.019
                     72.068,
94-09    2-7-1994    72.069,
                     92.30
                     50.39,
94-23    4-18-1994   50.43 -
                     50.45,
                     92.48
94-50    9-6-1994    51.062,
                     52.138
94-57    9-19-1994   50.01
94-58    9-19-1994   50.45
94-71    11-21-1994  94.029
95-05    1-16-1995   52.031
95-38    12-18-1995  52.085 -
                     52.096
96-04    2-19-1996   110.36
96-06    2-19-1996   30.17
96-07    3-4-1996    51.007
96-22    6-3-1996    31.001
96-37    12-16-1996  31.004
97-05    3-3-1997    11.03
                     90.001 -
                     90.003,
                     90.016 -
                     90.018,
                     90.030,
                     90.031,
                     90.033 -
                     90.044,
                     90.060 -
                     90.067,
                     90.145 -
                     90.156,
                     90.999,
                     94.080 -
                     94.082,
                     130.01,
                     130.03,
                     130.04,
                     130.30,
97-16    8-4-1997    130.34,
                     130.99,
                     131.01 -
                     131.04,
                     131.06 -
                     131.11,
                     132.02,
                     132.03,
                     132.05,
                     132.20 -
                     132.23,
                     132.99,
                     133.01,
                     133.02,
                     133.20 -
                     133.26,
                     134.01 -
                     134.07,
                     135.01 -
                     135.07
97-21    8-18-1997   50.19
                     93.01 -
98-07    3-16-1998   93.07,
                     93.99
                     150.040,
98-13    5-4-1998    150.041,
                     150.043 -
                     150.046
98-14    5-4-1998    150.001
98-18    6-1-1998    51.002,
                     51.179
98-19    6-1-1998    52.130
98-20    6-1-1998    52.136
                     130.31 -
98-23    7-6-1998    130.33,
                     130.99,
                     132.04
                     90.015,
                     90.031,
                     90.032,
                     90.045,
98-24    7-6-1998    90.095 -
                     90.106,
                     90.120 -
                     90.130,
                     90.999
                     70.001 -
                     70.004,
                     70.020 -
                     70.024,
                     70.037,
                     70.038,
                     70.050 -
                     70.064,
                     70.075 -
                     70.082,
                     70.095 -
                     70.104,
                     71.001 -
                     71.007,
                     71.009 -
                     71.013,
                     71.025,
                     71.026,
                     71.040,
                     71.041,
                     71.055 -
                     71.057,
                     71.070 -
                     71.077,
                     71.090 -
                     71.092,
                     71.105,
98-27    7-20-1998   71.106,
                     71.120 -
                     71.135,
                     71.150 -
                     71.152,
                     72.001 -
                     72.004,
                     72.020 -
                     72.025,
                     72.028 -
                     72.030,
                     72.033 -
                     72.035,
                     72.037,
                     72.045,
                     72.085,
                     72.086,
                     72.088,
                     72.999,
                     73.01,
                     73.15 -
                     73.29,
                     Ch. 74 Schd. I,
                     Ch. 74 Schd. II,
                     Ch. 74 Schd. III,
                     Ch. 75 Schd. I,
                     130.15 -
                     130.17
98-39    11-2-1998   11.02
                     130.99,
98-41    11-2-1998   132.01,
                     132.99
98-49    12-21-1998  72.039
99-03    2-1-1999    96.01 -
                     96.14
99-04    2-1-1999    71.008,
                     71.999
99-08    2-15-1999   130.18
                     133.03 -
99-15    4-19-1999   133.05,
                     133.99
99-29    5-17-1999   110.20 -
                     110.22
99-30    5-17-1999   71.014
99-31    5-17-1999   72.004
99-21    6-21-1999   150.015
99-46    9-7-1999    35.02
99-50    9-20-1999   72.032
00-01    1-3-2000    52.130
00-06    2-25-2000   110.36
00-10    4-3-2000    90.042
00-30    9-5-2000    35.02
                     34.04,
00-35    11-6-2000   70.001,
                     71.007
                     90.015 -
00-36    11-6-2000   90.017,
                     90.999
01-20    3-19-2001   112.15
01-22    4-2-2001    92.45 -
                     92.50
01-23    4-2-2001    72.045
                     92.01 -
01-24    4-2-2001    92.12,
                     92.99
01-25    4-2-2001    96.01 -
                     96.14
01-27    5-7-2001    150.041
                     114.01 -
01-28    5-7-2001    114.25,
                     114.99
01-33    6-4-2001    71.152
01-34    6-18-2001   11.01
01-42    8-2-2001    90.060 -
                     90.067
01-38    8-6-2001    70.064
01-45    9-4-2001    35.02
01-49    10-15-2001  150.041
01-50    10-15-2001  150.017
01-51    10-15-2001  150.019
01-52    10-15-2001  150.018
02-03    2-4-2002    31.001
02-38    8-19-2002   32.051
                     32.015 -
02-50    9-16-2002   32.020,
                     97.01
                     72.001 -
                     72.005,
                     72.020 -
02-53    10-7-2002   72.044,
                     72.085 -
                     72.090,
                     72.999,
                     Ch. 75 Schd. I
02-57    10-21-2002  90.145
02-58    11-4-2002   150.015
                     133.03 -
02-59    11-4-2002   133.05,
                     133.99
02-60    11-4-2002   71.152
02-64    11-18-2002  150.047
03-13    5-19-2003   70.005
                     94.020 -
03-15    5-19-2003   94.027,
                     94.029 -
                     94.031
03-23    7-7-2003    33.08
03-27    8-4-2003    94.021
03-30    9-2-2003    35.02
                     51.001,
                     51.002,
                     51.007 -
                     51.009,
                     51.040,
                     51.045,
                     51.060,
                     51.062 -
                     51.068,
                     51.070,
                     51.076,
                     51.090,
                     51.092,
                     51.093,
03-39    11-17-2003  51.095,
                     51.098,
                     51.110,
                     51.112,
                     51.113,
                     51.115,
                     51.117,
                     51.132,
                     51.138,
                     51.141,
                     51.142,
                     51.161,
                     51.179,
                     51.180,
                     51.215,
                     51.216
                     52.002 -
                     52.004,
                     52.008,
                     52.025,
                     52.027 -
                     52.031,
03-40    11-17-2003  52.033,
                     52.034,
                     52.046 -
                     52.050,
                     52.110 -
                     52.118,
                     52.130 -
                     52.138
03-46    12-15-2003  150.001,
                     150.002
03-47    12-15-2003  150.100,
                     150.101
04-03    1-5-2004    90.060 -
                     90.067
04-11    6-7-2004    71.014
04-12    6-7-2004    91.01
04-29    9-7-2004    35.02
04-39    10-18-2004  36.05
05-06    3-7-2005    30.20
05-07    3-7-2005    31.095,
                     31.096
05-09    3-7-2005    32.002
05-10    3-7-2005    90.061
05-11    3-7-2005    90.001,
                     90.149
05-12    3-7-2005    51.046
05-13    3-7-2005    51.161
05-15    3-7-2005    111.02
05-16    3-7-2005    37.01
05-20    3-21-2005   31.001
05-21    3-21-2005   90.066
                     50.15,
05-22    3-21-2005   50.16,
                     50.20,
                     50.36
05-23    3-21-2005   111.01
05-28    6-20-2005   150.015
05-54    11-7-2005   31.003
                     133.03 -
06-09    2-21-2006   133.05,
                     133.99
06-16    5-1-2006    70.075
06-18    6-19-2006   111.03
06-19    6-19-2006   30.20
                     95.01,
06-33    11-6-2006   95.02,
                     95.99
                     90.001,
                     90.030,
06-36    12-18-2006  90.033,
                     90.999,
                     135.07
07-03    1-15-2007   110.35
07-02    2-5-2007    150.101
07-16    9-17-2007   72.029
07-18    9-17-2007   111.02
                     90.001,
                     90.060,
07-22    11-19-2007  90.061,
                     90.063,
                     90.065,
                     90.066
07-26    12-3-2007   110.35
07-27    12-3-2007   32.019
                     94.020,
08-05    3-17-2008   94.021,
                     94.024
08-23    8-18-2008   50.01,
                     50.15
08-24    9-2-2008    111.03
08-27    11-3-2008   32.100 -
                     32.103
                     92.01 -
                     92.12,
                     92.25 -
09-12    4-20-2009   92.30,
                     92.45 -
                     92.50,
                     92.99
09-21    7-20-2009   133.02
10-04    3-1-2010    52.150
10-15    6-21-2010   52.150
10-16    6-21-2010   95.01
10-20    8-2-2010    150.015
10-22    8-16-2010   97.02
10-26    9-7-2010    111.03
10-37    12-20-2010  97.01
10-39    1-3-2011    Ch. 74 Schd. II
10-40    1-3-2011    93.01,
                     93.02
                     133.03 -
11-08    3-21-2011   133.05,
                     133.99
11-09    3-21-2011   150.040 -
                     150.047
11-10    3-21-2011   150.001,
                     150.002
11-11    3-21-2011   150.100,
                     150.101
11-14    4-4-2011    150.001,
                     150.002
11-26    9-6-2011    97.01
                     70.001,
11-30    10-3-2011   70.020,
                     71.014
11-31    10-3-2011   91.15
11-37    11-7-2011   70.020
12-01    2-21-2012   150.015
12-03    4-16-2012   97.01
12-13    10-1-2012   32.051
13-01    3-4-2013    90.035
13-02    3-4-2013    90.060
13-04    4-1-2013    32.051
                     115.01 -
                     115.17,
13-08    6-3-2013    115.30 -
                     115.43,
                     115.55 -
                     115.64
13-12    7-15-2013   90.034
                     90.001,
14-07    8-4-2014    90.080 -
                     90.082
14-08    8-4-2014    90.034
14-15    9-15-2014   150.015
                     32.019,
15-11    7-6-2015    97.01,
                     97.02
15-21    10-19-2015  70.020
15-23    11-2-2015   130.32,
                     130.99
15-26    1-18-2016   150.001 -
                     150.003
                     150.100,
15-27    1-18-2016   150.101,
                     150.999
15-28    1-18-2016   150.040 -
                     150.047
15-29    1-18-2016   91.01
16-18    8-1-2016    70.001
16-22    9-6-2016    32.019
17-01    1-3-2017    90.016,
                     90.017
                     114.01 -
17-03    1-16-2017   114.25,
                     150.101
17-04    3-6-2017    133.04,
                     133.99
17-14    8-7-2017    90.035
17-15    8-7-2017    92.12
17-17    8-7-2017    150.004
                     150.019,
                     150.023,
17-19    9-5-2017    150.024,
                     150.041,
                     150.043
17-22    10-16-2017  150.130,
                     150.131
17-27    1-2-2018    112.16
18-03    2-5-2018    114.04,
                     114.05
18-02    2-20-2018   150.015
18-07    3-5-2018    34.04
18-21    9-4-2018    53.01
                     133.04,
18-28    9-4-2018    133.05,
                     133.99
18-29    9-4-2018    51.230 -
                     51.235
18-30    9-4-2018    51.195 -
                     51.200
                     53.02 -
18-31    9-4-2018    53.24,
                     53.99
                     54.01 -
18-32    9-4-2018    54.14,
                     54.99
18-42    9-4-2018    71.014
18-44    9-4-2018    93.02,
                     93.03
18-49    11-5-2018   70.020
18-53    11-19-2018  90.046
                     132.02,
18-54    11-19-2018  132.03,
                     132.99
19-05    2-4-2019    11.01
19-03    2-19-2019   72.004
19-10    4-1-2019    Ch. 74 Schd. I
19-30    8-19-2019   70.020
19-27    9-3-2019    90.043
19-42    11-18-2019  150.100,
                     150.101
20-14    9-8-2020    111.01
20-31    12-7-2020   32.070
20-27    1-4-2021    91.01
20-28    1-4-2021    150.040 -
                     150.044
                     150.100,
20-29    1-4-2021    150.101,
                     150.999
20-30    1-4-2021    150.001 -
                     150.003
                     33.01,
                     33.02,
21-04    2-1-2021    33.04,
                     33.05,
                     33.07,
                     33.99
                     132.02,
21-07    2-16-2021   132.03,
                     132.99
                     111.02,
21-29    10-4-2021   112.15,
                     112.30 -
                     112.35
21-40    1-3-2022    110.21
21-41    1-3-2022    97.01
                     92.01 -
                     92.12,
                     92.25 -
22-02    3-7-2022    92.30,
                     92.45 -
                     92.50,
                     92.99
22-07    4-18-2022   90.040
                     33.01,
                     33.02,
22-18    7-18-2022   33.04,
                     33.07,
                     33.25
22-19    10-3-2022   111.15 -
                     111.22
22-25    10-17-2022  70.001,
                     70.020
22-31    12-5-2022   70.020
21-42    12-20-2022  11.01
23-01    2-6-2023    112.35
23-02    4-3-2023    150.001
23-04    6-19-2023   92.02,
                     92.03
23-07    7-17-2023   30.17,
                     32.038
                     34.03,
                     34.20 -
                     34.22,
23-10    7-17-2023   34.24,
                     34.26 -
                     34.28,
                     34.42
23-18    11-20-2023  90.034
24-32    11-18-2024  151.01,
                     152.01
                    
 
