CORTLAND, NEBRASKA
CODE OF ORDINANCES
Local legislation current through Ordinance 2020-06, passed 12-9-2020
 
Published by:
American Legal Publishing Corporation
525 Vine Street, Suite 310
Cincinnati, Ohio  45202
Tel: (800) 445-5588
Internet: http://www.amlegal.com
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
   Chapter
      
10.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
11.   VILLAGE STANDARDS
CHAPTER 10:  GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
10.01   Title of code
   
10.02   Interpretation
   
10.03   Application to future ordinances
   
10.04   Captions
   
10.05   Definitions
   
10.06   Rules of interpretation
   
10.07   Severability
   
10.08   Reference to other sections
   
10.09   Reference to offices
   
10.10   Errors and omissions
   
10.11   Official time
   
10.12   Reasonable time
   
10.13   Ordinances repealed
   
10.14   Ordinances unaffected
   
10.15   Repeal or modification of ordinance
   
10.16   Section histories; statutory references
   
10.17   Supplementation of code of ordinances
 
   
10.99   General penalty
§ 10.01  TITLE OF CODE.
   This codification of ordinances by and for the Village of Cortland,
Nebraska, shall be designated as “the Code of Cortland” and may be so cited.
§ 10.02  INTERPRETATION.
   Unless otherwise provided herein, or by law or implication required, the
same rules of construction, definition, and application shall govern the
interpretation of this code as those governing the interpretation of state law.
§ 10.03  APPLICATION TO FUTURE ORDINANCES.
   All provisions of Title I compatible with future legislation shall apply to
ordinances hereafter adopted amending or supplementing this code unless
otherwise specifically provided.
§ 10.04  CAPTIONS.
   Headings and captions used in this code other than the title, chapter, and
section numbers are employed for reference purposes only and shall not be
deemed a part of the text of any section.
§ 10.05  DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   General rule. Words and phrases shall be taken in their plain, or
ordinary and usual sense. However, technical words and phrases having a
peculiar and appropriate meaning in law shall be understood according to their
technical import.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this code, the following definitions
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      BOARD OF TRUSTEES,VILLAGE BOARD, or GOVERNING BODY. The legislative body
of the Village of Cortland.
      CODE,THIS CODE, or THIS CODE OF ORDINANCES. This village code as modified
by amendment, revision, and adoption of new titles, chapters, or sections.
      COUNTY. Gage County, Nebraska.
      MAY. The act referred to is permissive.
      MONTH. A calendar month.
      OATH. An affirmation in all cases in which, by law, an affirmation may be
substituted for an oath, and in such cases the words SWEAR and SWORN shall be
equivalent to the words AFFIRM and AFFIRMED.
      OFFICER, OFFICE, EMPLOYEE, COMMISSION, or DEPARTMENT. An officer, office,
employee, commission, or department of this village unless the context clearly
requires otherwise.
      PERSON. Includes bodies politic and corporate, societies, communities,
the public generally, individuals, partnerships, limited liability companies,
joint-stock companies, and associations.
(Neb. Rev. Stat. 49-801(16))
      PRECEDING or FOLLOWING. Next before or next after, respectively.
      SHALL. The act referred to is mandatory.
      SIGNATURE or SUBSCRIPTION. Includes a mark when the person cannot write.
      STATE. The State of Nebraska.
      SUBCHAPTER. A division of a chapter, designated in this code by a heading
in the chapter analysis and a capitalized heading in the body of the chapter,
setting apart a group of sections related by the subject matter of the heading.
Not all chapters have SUBCHAPTERS.
      VILLAGE, MUNICIPAL CORPORATION, or MUNICIPALITY. The Village of Cortland,
Nebraska.
      WRITTEN. Any representation of words, letters, or figures, whether by
printing or otherwise.
      YEAR. A calendar year, unless otherwise expressed.
§ 10.06  RULES OF INTERPRETATION.
   The construction of all ordinances of this village shall be by the following
rules, unless that construction is plainly repugnant to the intent of the Mayor
and Village Board or of the context of the same ordinance.
   (A)   ANDorOR. Either conjunction shall include the other as if written
“and/or”, if the sense requires it.
   (B)   Acts by assistants. When a statute or ordinance requires an act to be
done which, by law, an agent or deputy as well may do as the principal, the
requisition shall be satisfied by the performance of the act by an authorized
agent or deputy.
   (C)   Gender; singular and plural; tenses. Words denoting the masculine
gender shall be deemed to include the feminine and neuter genders; words in the
singular shall include the plural, and words in the plural shall include the
singular; the use of a verb in the present tense shall include the future, if
applicable.
   (D)   General term. A general term following specific enumeration of terms
is not to be limited to the class enumerated unless expressly so limited.
§ 10.07  SEVERABILITY.
   If any provision of this code as now or later amended or its application to
any person or circumstance is held invalid, the invalidity does not affect
other provisions that can be given effect without the invalid provision or
application.
§ 10.08  REFERENCE TO OTHER SECTIONS.
   Whenever in one section reference is made to another section hereof, that
reference shall extend and apply to the section referred to as subsequently
amended, revised, recodified, or renumbered unless the subject matter is
materially altered by the amendment or revision.
§ 10.09  REFERENCE TO OFFICES.
   Reference to a public office or officer shall be deemed to apply to any
office, officer, or employee of this village exercising the powers, duties, or
functions contemplated in the provision, irrespective of any transfer of
functions or change in the official title of the functionary.
§ 10.10  ERRORS AND OMISSIONS.
   If a manifest error is discovered, consisting of the misspelling of any
words; the omission of any word or words necessary to express the intention of
the provisions affected; the use of a word or words to which no meaning can be
attached; or the use of a word or words when another word or words was clearly
intended to express the intent, the spelling shall be corrected and the word or
words supplied, omitted, or substituted as will conform with the manifest
intention, and the provisions shall have the same effect as though the correct
words were contained in the text as originally published. No alteration shall
be made or permitted if any question exists regarding the nature or extent of
the error.
§ 10.11  OFFICIAL TIME.
   The official time, as established by applicable state/federal laws, shall be
the official time within this village for the transaction of all village
business.
§ 10.12  REASONABLE TIME.
   (A)   In all cases where an ordinance requires an act to be done in a
reasonable time or requires reasonable notice to be given, REASONABLE TIME OR
NOTICE shall be deemed to mean the time which is necessary for a prompt
performance of the act or the giving of the notice.
   (B)   The time within which an act is to be done, as herein provided, shall
be computed by excluding the first day and including the last. If the last day
is Sunday, it shall be excluded.
§ 10.13  ORDINANCES REPEALED.
   This code contains all of the provisions of a general nature pertaining to
the subjects enumerated and embraced in this code. All prior ordinances
pertaining to the subjects treated by this code are repealed, except that
nothing shall affect any rights acquired under, actions involving, or fines,
penalties, forfeitures, or liabilities incurred pursuant to those ordinances
prior to repeal.
§ 10.14  ORDINANCES UNAFFECTED.
   All ordinances of a temporary or special nature and all other ordinances
pertaining to subjects not embraced in this code, including ordinances
specified in this section, shall remain in full force and effect unless
repealed expressly or by necessary implication:
   (A)   Vacating or setting the boundaries of streets, alleys, or other public
places;
   (B)   Annexing or detaching territory;
   (C)   Granting or accepting easements, plats, or dedication of land to
public use;
   (D)   Providing for the acquisition or conveyance of real or personal
property;
   (E)   Authorizing or directing public improvements to be made;
   (F)   Levying taxes or special assessments;
   (G)   Appropriating money;
   (H)   Granting franchises or special licenses; or
   (I)   Providing for the issuance of bonds or other instruments of
indebtedness.
§ 10.15  REPEAL OR MODIFICATION OF ORDINANCE.
   (A)   Whenever any ordinance or part of an ordinance shall be repealed or
modified by a subsequent ordinance, the ordinance or part of an ordinance thus
repealed or modified shall continue in force until the publication of the
ordinance repealing or modifying it to give effect thereto.
   (B)   No suit, proceedings, right, liability, fine, forfeiture, or penalty
instituted, created, given, secured, or accrued under any ordinance previous to
its repeal shall in any way be affected, released, or discharged, but may be
prosecuted, enjoyed, and recovered as fully as if the ordinance had continued
in force, unless it is otherwise expressly provided.
   (C)   When any ordinance repealing a former ordinance, clause, or provision
is itself repealed, the repeal shall not be construed to revive the former
ordinance, clause, or provision, unless it is expressly provided.
§ 10.16  SECTION HISTORIES; STATUTORY REFERENCES.
   (A)   As histories for the code sections, the specific number and passage
date of the original ordinance, and the amending ordinances, if any, are listed
following the text of the code section. Example: (Ord. 10, passed 5-13-1960;
Ord. 15, passed 1-1-1970; Ord. 20, passed 1-1-1980; Ord. 25, passed 1-1-1985)
   (B)   (1)   A statutory cite included in the history indicates that the text
of the section reads substantially the same as the statute. Example: (Neb. Rev.
Stat. 17-100)
      (2)   A statutory cite set forth as a “statutory reference” following the
text of the section indicates that the reader should refer to that statute for
further information. Example:
         § 39.01  PUBLIC RECORDS AVAILABLE.
            This municipality shall make available to any person for inspection
or copying all public records, unless otherwise exempted by state law.
         Statutory reference:
            Related provisions, see Neb. Rev. Stat. 84-712 et seq.
   (C)   If a section of this code was derived from the previous code of
ordinances of the village, the code section number shall be indicated in the
history by “(Prior Code, §     )”.
§ 10.17  SUPPLEMENTATION OF CODE OF ORDINANCES.
   (A)   Discretion. When preparing a supplement to this municipal code, the
codifier (that is, the person, agency, or organization authorized to prepare
the supplement) may make formal nonsubstantive changes in ordinances and parts
of ordinances included in the supplement as necessary to embody them into a
unified code. For example, the codifier may:
      (1)   Organize the ordinance material into appropriate sections and
divisions;
      (2)   Provide appropriate catchlines, headings, and titles for sections
and other subdivisions of the ordinance printed in the supplement and make
changes in such catchlines, headings, and titles;
      (3)   Assign appropriate numbers to sections and other divisions to be
inserted in the code and, where necessary to accommodate new material, change
existing section or other division numbers;
      (4)   Change the words “this ordinance” or words of the same meaning to
“this chapter”, “this subchapter”, “this section”, and the like, as may be
appropriate, or to “§§      through     “ (inserting section numbers to
indicate the sections of the code which embody the substantive sections of the
ordinance incorporated into the code);
      (5)   Insert appropriate section numbers in references to code sections
such as “§     “ or “§§      through     “ which are not filled in prior to
adoption of an ordinance;
      (6)   Correct the spelling of words, correct obvious typographical
errors, correct erroneous division and hyphenation of words, capitalize or
decapitalize words, and make other similar changes in accordance with accepted
usage or for consistency with other provisions of the code;
      (7)   Change terminology for consistency with terminology used in other
provisions of the code; and
      (8)   Make other nonsubstantive changes necessary to incorporate
ordinance material into the code while preserving the original meaning of the
ordinance sections.
   (B)   Prohibition. In no case shall the codifier make any change in the
meaning or effect of ordinance material included in the supplement or already
embodied in the code and not repealed by any ordinance.
§ 10.99  GENERAL PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who shall violate or refuse to comply with the enforcement
of any of the provisions of this chapter set forth at full length herein or
incorporated by reference, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and upon conviction
thereof shall be fined not more than $500 for each offense. A new violation
shall be deemed to have been committed every 24 hours of such failure to
comply.
   (B)   (1)   Whenever a nuisance exists as defined in this chapter, the
municipality may proceed by a suit in equity to enjoin, abate, and remove the
same in the manner provided by law.
      (2)   Whenever, in any action, it is established that a nuisance exists,
the court may, together with the fine or penalty imposed, enter an order of
abatement as a part of the judgment in the case.
(Prior Code, § 1-1201)  (Ord. 2002-16, passed 10-16-2002; Ord. 2004-18, passed
10-6-2004)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. Rev. Stat. 17-207, 17-505, 18-1720, and 18-1722
CHAPTER 11:  VILLAGE STANDARDS
Section
   
11.01   Official corporate seal
   
11.02   Municipal limits
   
11.03   Original plats
§ 11.01  OFFICIAL CORPORATE SEAL.
   The official corporate seal of the municipality shall be kept in the office
of the Village Clerk, and shall bear the following inscription, “Village Seal,
Cortland, Nebraska”. The Village Clerk shall affix an impression of the said
official seal to all warrants, licenses, permits, ordinances, and all other
official papers issued by order of the governing body and countersigned by the
Village Clerk.
(Prior Code, § 1-401)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. Rev. Stat. 17-502
§ 11.02  MUNICIPAL LIMITS.
   All additions, lots, lands, subdivisions, and parcels of ground included
within the official municipal map, and plat on file at the office of the County
Register of Deeds, having been by act or ordinance of the governing body or by
law duly annexed to or made a part of this municipality, or having been by act,
authority, acquiescence, consent, platting, and dedication of their respective
owners, created either as the original town site or as additions to the
municipality, are hereby declared to be within the corporate limits of the
municipality. Lawfully constituted additions or changes in said municipal
limits shall be indicated upon said maps and plat by the Municipal Engineer
after such addition or change has been completed in accordance with the
ordinances of this municipality and the laws of the state.
(Prior Code, § 11-101)
§ 11.03  ORIGINAL PLATS.
   Each and all plats, lots, blocks, additions, subdivisions, outlots, and
parcels of ground included within the corporate limits of the municipality and
not vacated of record prior to the enactment of this chapter, including the
original plat of the municipality, are hereby accepted, approved, and confirmed
as valid, and each and all of said lots, blocks, additions, subdivisions, and
outlots as heretofore platted and recorded in the office of the County Register
of Deeds, and not heretofore vacated, and all other parcels of ground, included
within said corporate limits are hereby declared to be within said municipality
and an integral part thereof.
(Prior Code, § 11-102)
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
   Chapter
      
30.   VILLAGE ORGANIZATION
      
31.   FISCAL MANAGEMENT
      
32.   FIRE DEPARTMENT
      
33.   HEALTH AND SANITATION
CHAPTER 30:  VILLAGE ORGANIZATION
Section
Elected Officials
   
30.001   Village Board Chairperson; selection and duties
   
30.002   Village Board; organization
   
30.003   Village Board; powers
   
30.004   Elected officials; vacancy
   
30.005   Elected officials; vacancy due to unexcused absences
Appointed Officials
   
30.020   Appointment; terms; removal; powers; duties
   
30.021   Merger of offices
   
30.022   Clerk-Treasurer position created
   
30.023   Village Clerk
   
30.024   Village Treasurer
   
30.025   Municipal Bookkeeper
   
30.026   Village Attorney
   
30.027   Fire Chief
   
30.028   Special Engineer
   
30.029   Municipal Street Commissioner
   
30.030   Utilities Superintendent
   
30.031   Zoning Administrator
Bonds and Oath
   
30.045   Bonds; requirements
   
30.046   Oath of office; village officials
Meetings
   
30.060   Meetings defined
   
30.061   Public body defined
   
30.062   Public meetings
   
30.063   Closed sessions
   
30.064   Emergency meetings
   
30.065   Meeting minutes
   
30.066   Votes
   
30.067   Notice to news media
   
30.068   Public participation
   
30.069   Order of business
   
30.070   Change in office
   
30.071   Reorganizational meetings
   
30.072   Regular meeting
   
30.073   Special meetings
   
30.074   Prohibited acts; exempt events
   
30.075   Video conferencing
   
30.076   Tele-conferencing
Ordinances
   
30.090   Grant of power
   
30.091   Procedure for resolutions and motions
   
30.092   Introduction of ordinances
   
30.093   Ordinances; style, title
   
30.094   Reading and passage of ordinances, resolutions, orders, bylaws
   
30.095   Publication or posting
   
30.096   Certificate of publication or posting
   
30.097   Effective date; emergency ordinances
   
30.098   Amendments and revisions
Elections
   
30.110   Election of officers; certifications required
   
30.111   Elections generally
   
30.112   Filing fee
   
30.113   General election notice
   
30.114   Joint/special elections
   
30.115   Petition, write-in, and other candidates for general election ballot;
procedures
   
30.116   Voter qualifications
   
30.117   Proclamation
   
30.118   Caucus candidates
   
30.119   Ballots
   
30.120   Recount of ballots
   
30.121   Recall procedure
   
30.122   Board of Trustees
   
30.123   Exit polls
Intergovernmental Risk Management
   
30.135   General provisions
Commission and Boards
   
30.150   Standing committees
   
30.151   Board of Health
   
30.152   Board of Adjustment
   
30.153   Planning Commission
   
30.154   Planning Commission rules and regulations; records
   
30.155   Planning Commission powers and duties
 
   
30.999   Penalty
ELECTED OFFICIALS
§ 30.001  VILLAGE BOARD CHAIRPERSON; SELECTION AND DUTIES.
   The Village Board Chairperson shall be selected at the first regular meeting
of the Board of Trustees in December by the Board of Trustees from its own
membership. The Chairperson shall preside at all meetings of the Board of
Trustees. In the absence of the Chairperson, the Board of Trustees shall elect
one of its own body to occupy the position temporarily who shall hold the title
of Chairperson pro tempore of the Board of Trustees. The Chairperson and the
Chairperson pro tempore shall have the same powers and privileges as other
members of the Board of Trustees. The Chairperson shall cause the ordinances of
the Board of Trustees to be printed and published for the information of the
inhabitants. The Chairperson shall also perform all duties of his or her office
in accordance with the laws of the state and the ordinances of the
municipality. The qualifications for the Chairperson shall be the same general
qualifications that apply to the members of the Board of Trustees.
(Prior Code, § 1-101)  (Ord. 1996-2, passed 2-7-1996)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. Rev. Stat. 17-202 through 17-210
§ 30.002  VILLAGE BOARD; ORGANIZATION.
   The Board of Trustees shall consist of five members. Any person who is a
citizen of the United States, a resident of the municipality at the time of his
or her election, and a registered voter may be eligible to be elected to the
Board of Trustees. Every Trustee so elected and so qualified shall hold his or
her office for a term of four years; provided, a Trustee’s term shall expire,
and the office will become vacant upon a change of residence from the
municipality. The Board of Trustees shall, before entering upon the duties of
their office, take an oath to support the Constitution of the United States,
and the Constitution of the State of Nebraska, and faithfully and impartially
discharge the duties of their office. All Trustees elected to office shall
qualify and meet at the first regular meeting of the Board in December,
organize, and appoint the municipal officers required by law.
(Prior Code, § 1-102)  (Ord. 1996-3, passed 2-7-1996)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. Rev. Stat. 17-202 through 17-204
§ 30.003  VILLAGE BOARD; POWERS.
   (A)   The Board of Trustees shall have the power to pass ordinances to
prevent and remove nuisances; to restrain and prohibit gambling; to provide for
licensing and regulating theatrical and other amusements within the village; to
prevent the introduction and spread of contagious diseases; to establish and
regulate markets; to erect and repair bridges; to erect, repair, and regulate
wharves and the rates of wharfage; to regulate the landing of watercraft; to
provide for the inspection of building materials to be used or offered for sale
in the village; to govern the planting and protection of shade trees in the
streets and the building of structures projecting upon or over and adjoining,
and all excavations through and under, the sidewalks of the village; and in
addition to the special powers herein conferred and granted, to maintain the
peace, good government, and welfare of the village and its trade, commerce, and
manufactories; and to enforce all ordinances by inflicting penalties upon
inhabitants or other persons for violation thereof not exceeding $500 for any
one offense, recoverable with costs.
   (B)   The village has the power and authority by ordinance to define,
regulate, suppress, and prevent nuisances, and to declare what constitutes a
nuisance, and to abate and remove the same. The village may exercise such power
and authority within its zoning jurisdiction.
(Prior Code, § 1-103)  (Ord. 2002-15, passed 10-16-2002)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. Rev. Stat. 17-207 and 18-1720
§ 30.004  ELECTED OFFICIALS; VACANCY.
   (A)   Every elective office shall be vacant upon the happening of any of the
events specified in Neb. Rev. Stat. 32-560.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in divisions (D) or (E) below, vacancies
in village elected offices shall be filled by the Board of Trustees for the
balance of the unexpired term. Notice of a vacancy, except a vacancy resulting
from the death of the incumbent, shall be in writing and presented to the Board
at a regular or special meeting and shall appear as a part of the minutes of
such meeting. The Board shall at once give public notice of the vacancy by
causing to be published in a newspaper of general circulation within the
village or by posting in three public places in the village the office vacated
and the length of the unexpired term.
   (C)   The Chairperson of the Board shall, within four weeks after the
meeting at which such notice of vacancy has been presented or upon the death of
the incumbent, call a special meeting of the Board or place the issue of
filling such vacancy on the agenda at the next regular meeting, at which time
the Chairperson shall submit the name of a qualified registered voter to fill
the vacancy for the balance of the unexpired term. The Board shall vote upon
such nominee, and if a majority votes in favor of such nominee, the vacancy
shall be declared filled. If the nominee fails to receive a majority of the
votes, the nomination shall be rejected and the Chairperson shall, at the next
regular or special meeting, submit the name of another qualified registered
voter to fill the vacancy. If the subsequent nominee fails to receive a
majority of the votes, the Chairperson shall continue at such meeting to submit
the names of qualified registered voters in nomination and the Board shall
continue to vote upon such nominations until the vacancy is filled. All
Trustees present shall cast a ballot for or against the nominee. Any member of
the Board who has been appointed to fill a vacancy on the Board shall have the
same rights, including voting, as if such person were elected.
   (D)   The Chairperson and Board of Trustees may, in lieu of filling a
vacancy in a village elected office as provided in divisions (B) and (C) above,
call a special election to fill such vacancy.
   (E)   If vacancies exist in the offices of a majority of the members of the
Board of Trustees, the Secretary of State shall conduct a special election to
fill such vacancies, except that the Board of Trustees of a village situated in
more than one county shall have power to fill by appointment any vacancy that
may occur in their number.
   (F)   No official who is removed at a recall election or resigns after the
initiation of the recall process shall be appointed to fill the vacancy
resulting from his or her removal or the removal of any other member of the
same governing body during the remainder of his or her term of office.
(Prior Code, § 1-104)  (Ord. 1984-3, passed 11-7-1984; Ord. 1991-2, passed 2-6-
1991; Ord. 1998-1, passed 10-7-1998)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. Rev. Stat. 32-560 through 32-572 and 32-1308
§ 30.005  ELECTED OFFICIALS; VACANCY DUE TO UNEXCUSED ABSENCES.
   (A)   In addition to the events listed in Neb. Rev. Stat. 32-560 and any
other reasons for a vacancy provided by law, after notice and a hearing, a
vacancy on the Board of Trustees shall exist if a member is absent from more
than five consecutive regular meetings of the Board unless the absences are
excused by a majority vote of the remaining members.
   (B)   The Board of Trustees shall take a vote on whether to excuse a
member’s absence from a meeting upon either:
      (1)   A written request from the member submitted to the Village Clerk;
or
      (2)   A motion of any other Board member.
   (C)   If a member has been absent from six consecutive regular meetings and
none of the absences have been excused by a majority vote of the remaining
members, the Village Clerk shall include this as an item on the agenda for the
next regular meeting. At that meeting, the Board shall set a date for a hearing
and direct the Village Clerk to give the member notice of the hearing by
personal service or first-class mail to the member’s last-known address.
   (D)   At the hearing, the Board member shall have the right to present
information on why one or more of the absences should be excused. If the Board
does not excuse one or more of the member’s absences by a majority vote at the
conclusion of the hearing, there shall be a vacancy on the Board.
(Prior Code, § 1-105)  (Ord. 2003-2, passed 5-7-2003)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. Rev. Stat. 19-3101
APPOINTED OFFICIALS
§ 30.020  APPOINTMENT; TERMS; REMOVAL; POWERS; DUTIES.
   (A)   The Board of Trustees may appoint a Village Clerk, Treasurer,
Attorney, Engineer, Overseer of the Streets, and other such officers as shall
be required by ordinance or otherwise required by law.
   (B)   The Village Clerk, Treasurer, Attorney, Overseer of the Streets,
members of the Board of Health, and other appointed officers, shall hold office
for one year unless removed by the Chairperson of the Village Board with the
advice and consent of the Trustees.
(Neb. Rev. Stat. 17-208)
   (C)   (1)   The village may enact ordinances or bylaws to regulate and
prescribe the powers and duties of officers not provided for in state law.
(Neb. Rev. Stat. 17-604)
      (2)   If the Village Board of Trustees appoints any of the officials
specified in this chapter or any other officials, the officials shall have the
powers and duties, if any, provided in this chapter or as otherwise provided by
village ordinances and state law.
§ 30.021  MERGER OF OFFICES.
   The governing body may by ordinance combine and merge any elective or
appointive office or employment or any combination of duties of any such
offices or employments, except Trustee, with any other elective or appointive
office or employment so that one or more of such offices or employments or any
combination of duties of any such offices or employments may be held by the
same officer or employee at the same time, except that Trustees may perform and
upon Board approval receive compensation for seasonal or emergency work subject
to Neb. Rev. Stat. 49-14,103.01 through 49-14,103.06. The offices or
employments so merged and combined shall always be construed to be separate and
the effect of the combination or merger shall be limited to a consolidation of
official duties only. The salary or compensation of the officer or employee
holding the merged and combined offices or employments or offices and
employments shall not be in excess of the maximum amount provided by law for
the salary or compensation of the office, offices, employment, or employments
so merged and combined. For purposes of this section, volunteer firefighters
and ambulance drivers shall not be considered officers.
(Prior Code, § 1-202)  (Ord. 1984-4, passed 11-7-1984; Ord. 1991-3, passed 2-6-
1991)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. Rev. Stat. 17-209.02, and 49-14,103.01 through
49-14,103.06
§ 30.022  CLERK-TREASURER POSITION CREATED.
   (A)   The appointive offices of Village Clerk and Municipal Treasurer are
hereby combined and merged, in accordance with the authority granted to the
governing body by §
30.021.
   (B)   The office so merged and combined shall always be construed to be
separate, and the effect of the combination, or merger, shall be limited to a
consolidation of official duties only.
   (C)   The salary of the officer holding the merged offices shall not be in
excess of the maximum amount provided by law for the salary of the offices so
combined.
(Prior Code, § 1-203)
§ 30.023  VILLAGE CLERK.
   (A)   The Village Clerk shall attend the meetings of the governing body and
keep a correct journal of the proceedings of that body. He or she shall keep a
record of all outstanding bonds against the municipality and when any bonds are
sold, purchased, paid, or canceled, said record shall show the fact. He or she
shall make, at the end of the fiscal year, a report of the business of the
municipality transacted through his or her office for the year. That record
shall describe particularly the bonds issued, and sold during the year, and the
terms of the sale with each, and every item, and expense thereof. He or she
shall file all official bonds after the same shall have been properly executed
and approved. He or she shall make the proper certificate of passage which
shall be attached to original copies of all bond ordinances hereafter enacted
by the governing body.
   (B)   The Village Clerk shall issue and sign all licenses, permits, and
occupation tax receipts authorized by law, and required by the municipal
ordinances. He or she shall collect all occupation taxes and license money,
except where some other municipal officer is specifically charged with that
duty. He or she shall keep a register of all licenses granted in the
municipality, and the purpose for which they have been issued.
   (C)   The Village Clerk shall permit no records, public papers, or other
documents of the municipality kept and preserved in his or her office to be
taken therefrom, except by such officers of the municipality as may be entitled
to the use of the same, but only upon their leaving a receipt therefor. He or
she shall keep all the records of his or her office, including a record of all
licenses issued by him or her, in a blank book with a proper index. He or she
shall include as part of his or her records all petitions under which the
governing body shall order public work to be done at the expense of the
property fronting thereon, together with references to all resolutions, and
ordinances relating to the same. He or she shall endorse the date, and hour of
filing upon every paper, or document so filed in his or her office. All such
filings made by him or her shall be properly docketed. Included in his or her
records shall be all standard codes, amendments thereto, and other documents
incorporated by reference, and arranged in triplicate in a manner convenient
for reference. He or she shall keep an accurate and complete account of the
appropriation of the several funds, draw, sign, and attest all warrants ordered
for the payment of money on the particular fund from which the same is payable.
At the end of each month, he or she shall then make a report of the amounts
appropriated to the various funds and the amount of the warrants drawn thereon.
Nothing herein shall be construed to prevent any citizen, official, or other
person from examining any public records at all reasonable times.
   (D)   The Village Clerk shall deliver all warrants, ordinances, and
resolutions under his or her charge to the Chairperson for his or her
signature. He or she shall also deliver to officers, employees, and committees
all resolutions and communications which are directed at said officers,
employees, or committees. With the seal of the municipality, he or she shall
duly attest the Chairperson’s signature to all ordinances, deeds, and papers
required to be attested to when ordered to do so by the governing body. Within
30 days after any meeting of the governing body, the Village Clerk shall
prepare and publish the official proceedings of the governing body in a legal
newspaper of general circulation in the municipality, and which was duly
designated as such by the governing body. Said publication shall set forth a
statement of the proceedings thereof and shall also include the amount of each
claim allowed, the purpose of the claim, and the name of the claimant, except
that the aggregate amount of all payroll claims may be included as one item.
Between July 15 and August 15 of each year, the employee job titles and the
current annual, monthly, or hourly salaries corresponding to such job titles
shall be published. Each job title published shall be descriptive and
indicative of the duties and functions of the position. The charge for such
publication shall not exceed the rates provided by the statutes of the state.
Said publication shall be charged against the General Fund. He or she shall
then keep in a book with a proper index, copies of all notices required to be
published, or posted by the Village Clerk by order of the governing body, or
under the ordinances of the municipality. To each of the file copies of said
notices shall be attached the printer’s affidavit of publication, if the said
notices are required to be published, or the Village Clerk’s certificate under
seal where the same are required to be posted only.
   (E)   The Village Clerk shall receive all objections to creation of paving
districts, and other street improvements. He or she shall receive the claims of
any person against the municipality, and in the event that the said claim is
disallowed in part, or in whole, the Village Clerk shall notify such claimant,
his or her agent, or attorney by letter within five days after such
disallowance, and the Village Clerk shall then prepare transcripts on appeals
of any disallowance of a claim in all proper cases.
   (F)   The Village Clerk may charge a reasonable fee for certified copies of
any record in his or her office as set by resolution of the governing body. He
or she shall destroy municipal records under the direction of the State Records
Board pursuant to Neb. Rev. Stat. 84-1201 through 84-1220; provided, the
governing body shall not have the authority to destroy the minutes of the
Village Clerk, the permanent ordinances, and resolution books, or any other
records classified as permanent by the State Records Board.
(Prior Code, § 1-204)  (Ord. 1993-1, passed 4-7-1993)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. Rev. Stat. 17-605, 19-1102, 19-1104, 84-712,
and 84-1201 through       84-1220
§ 30.024  VILLAGE TREASURER.
   (A)   The Village Treasurer shall be the custodian of all money belonging to
the village. He or she shall keep a separate account of each fund or
appropriation and the debts and credits belonging thereto. He or she shall give
every person paying money into the treasury a receipt therefor, specifying the
date of payment and on what account paid. He or she shall also file copies of
such receipts with his or her monthly reports. The Village Treasurer shall, at
the end of every month, and as often as may be required, render an account to
the Board of Trustees, under oath, showing the state of the treasury at the
date of such account and the balance of money in the treasury. He or she shall
also accompany such accounts with a statement of all receipts and
disbursements, together with all warrants redeemed and paid by him or her,
which warrants, with any and all vouchers held by him or her, shall be filed
with his or her account in the Village Clerk’s office. If the Village Treasurer
neglects or fails, for the space of ten days from the end of each month, to
render his or her account, the office shall be declared vacant, and the Board
of Trustees shall fill the vacancy by appointment until the next election for
municipal officers.
   (B)   (1)   All warrants upon the Village Treasurer shall be paid in the
order of their presentation therefor and as otherwise provided in Neb. Rev.
Stat. 77-2201 through 77-2215.
      (2)   The Village Treasurer shall keep a warrant register in the form
required by Neb. Rev. Stat.  77-2202.
      (3)   The Village Treasurer shall make duplicate receipts for all sums
which shall be paid into his or her office, which receipts shall show the
source from which such funds are derived, and shall, by distinct lines and
columns, show the amount received to the credit of each separate fund, and
whether the same was paid in cash, in warrants, or otherwise. The Treasurer
shall deliver one of the duplicates to the person making the payment and retain
the other in his or her office.
      (4)   The Village Treasurer shall daily, as money is received, foot the
several columns of the cash book and of the register, and carry the amounts
forward, and at the close of each year, in case the amount of money received by
the Treasurer is insufficient to pay the warrants registered, he or she shall
close the account for that year in the register and shall carry forward the
excess.
   (C)   (1)   The Village Treasurer shall prepare and publish annually, within
60 days following the close of the municipal fiscal year, a statement of the
receipts and expenditures by funds of the village for the preceding fiscal
year.
      (2)   Publication shall be made in one legal newspaper of general
circulation in the village. If no legal newspaper is published in the village,
then such publication shall be made in one legal newspaper published or of
general circulation within the county in which the village is located.
   (D)   The Village Treasurer shall keep all money belonging to the village
separate and distinct from his or her own money. He or she shall invest and
collect all money owned by or owed to the village as directed by the Board of
Trustees. He or she shall maintain depository evidence that all municipal money
is, in the name of the village, in a solvent and going financial institution of
a type authorized by state law for deposit of municipal funds. He or she shall
cancel all bonds, coupons, warrants, and other evidences of debt against the
village, whenever paid by him or her, by writing or stamping on the face
thereof, “Paid by the Village Treasurer”, with the date of payment written or
stamped thereon. He or she shall collect all special taxes, allocate special
assessments to the several owners, and obtain from the County Treasurer a
monthly report as to the collection of delinquent taxes.
(Prior Code, § 1-205)  (Ord. 2002-22, passed 10-16-2002)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. Rev. Stat. 17-606, 19-1101, 19-1103, 77-2201,
77-2209, and 77-2210
§ 30.025  MUNICIPAL BOOKKEEPER.
   (A)   The Chairperson, with the advice and consent of the governing body,
may appoint a Municipal Bookkeeper who shall be responsible for billing and
collection of all sewer and water fees and for collection of any delinquent
fees which should arise. He or she shall keep all money belonging to the
municipality separate and distinct from his or her own money. He or she shall
keep a separate account for each fund or appropriation, and the debits and
credits belonging thereto. He or she shall issue duplicate receipts for all
money received by him or her for the municipality. He or she shall give to
every person paying money into the municipality a receipt therefor, specifying
the date of payment and the amount paid.
   (B)   All money collected shall be immediately transferred to the Municipal
Treasurer. The Municipal Bookkeeper shall keep his or her books and accounts
open for inspection by any citizen of the municipality at any reasonable time.
   (C)   The Municipal Bookkeeper may be removed at any time by the Chairperson
with the approval of the governing body.
(Prior Code, § 1-208)
§ 30.026  VILLAGE ATTORNEY.
   (A)   The Village Attorney shall be the legal advisor of the Board of
Trustees. He or she shall commence, prosecute, and defend all suits and actions
necessary to be commenced, prosecuted, or defended on behalf of the village, or
that may be ordered by the Board. When requested, he or she shall attend
meetings of the Board and give them his or her opinion upon any matters
submitted to him or her, either orally or in writing, as may be required. He or
she shall draft or review for legal correctness ordinances, contracts,
franchises, and other instruments as may be required, and he or she shall
perform such other duties as may be imposed upon him or her by general law or
ordinance. The Board shall have the right to pay the Village Attorney
compensation for legal services performed by him or her for it on such terms as
the Board and Attorney may agree, and to employ additional legal assistance and
to pay for such legal assistance out of the funds of the village.
(Neb. Rev. Stat. 17-610)
   (B)   The Village Attorney shall also examine, when requested to do so by
the Board of Trustees, the ordinance records and advise and assist the Village
Clerk as much as may be necessary to the end that each procedural step will be
taken in the passage of each ordinance to ensure that it will be a valid and
subsisting local law in so far as its passage and approval are concerned.
§ 30.027  FIRE CHIEF.
   The Fire Chief shall be elected by the members of the Fire Department. He or
she shall enforce all laws and ordinances covering the prevention of fires, the
storage and use of explosives and flammable substances, the installation of
fire alarm systems, the maintenance of fire extinguishing equipment, the
regulation of fire escapes, and the inspection of all premises requiring
adequate fire escapes.
§ 30.028  SPECIAL ENGINEER.
   The governing body may employ a Special Engineer to make or assist the
Municipal Engineer in making any particular estimate, survey, or other work.
The Special Engineer shall make a record of the minutes of his or her surveys
and all other work done for the municipality. He or she shall, when directed by
the governing body, accurately make all plats, sections, profiles, and maps as
may be necessary in the judgment of the governing body. He or she shall, upon
request of the governing body, make estimates of the costs of labor and
material which may be done or furnished by contract with the municipality, and
make all surveys, estimates, and calculations necessary for the establishment
of grades, bridges, building of culverts, sewers, electric light system,
waterworks, power plant, public heating system, curbing and gutters, and the
improvement of streets and erection and repair of buildings, and shall perform
such other duties as the governing body may require. All records of the Special
Engineer shall be public records which shall belong to the municipality, and
shall be turned over to his or her successor.
(Prior Code, § 1-212)  (Ord. 1983-6, passed 11-2-1983)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. Rev. Stat. 17-405, 17-568, 17-568.01, and 17-
919
§ 30.029  MUNICIPAL STREET COMMISSIONER.
   (A)   The Municipal Street Commissioner shall, subject to the orders and
directives of the governing body, have general charge, direction, and control
of all work on the streets, sidewalks, culverts, and bridges of the
municipality, and shall perform such other duties as the governing body may
require. It shall be his or her responsibility to see that gutters and drains
therein function properly, and that the same are kept in good repair.
   (B)   He or she shall, at the request of the governing body, make a detailed
report to the governing body on the condition of the streets, sidewalks,
culverts, alleys, and bridges of the municipality, and shall direct their
attention to such improvements, repairs, extensions, additions, and additional
employees as he or she may believe are needed to maintain a satisfactory street
system in the municipality along with an estimate of the cost thereof. He or
she shall issue such permits and assume such other duties as the governing body
may direct.
(Prior Code, § 1-213)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. Rev. Stat. 17-214
§ 30.030  UTILITIES SUPERINTENDENT.
   (A)   (1)   As soon as a system of waterworks or mains or portion or
extension of any system of waterworks or water supply has been established by
the village, the Chairperson shall nominate and, by and with the advice and
consent of the Board of Trustees, shall appoint any competent person who shall
be known as the Utilities Superintendent of the village and whose term of
office shall be for one fiscal year or until his or her successor is appointed
and qualified. Annually at the first regular meeting of the Board of Trustees
in December, the Utilities Superintendent shall be appointed as provided in
this section.
      (2)   The Utilities Superintendent may at any time, for sufficient cause,
be removed by a two- thirds vote of the Board of Trustees. Any vacancy
occurring in the office of Utilities Superintendent by death, resignation,
removal from office, or removal from the village may be filled in the manner
provided in this section for the appointment of the Superintendent.
      (3)   The Utilities Superintendent shall, before he or she enters upon
the discharge of his or her duties, execute a bond or provide evidence of
equivalent insurance to the village in a sum to be fixed by the Board of
Trustees, but not less than $5,000, conditioned upon the faithful discharge of
his or her duties, and such bond shall be signed by two or more good and
sufficient sureties, to be approved by the Board of Trustees or executed by a
corporate surety.
      (4)   The Utilities Superintendent, subject to the supervision of the
Board of Trustees, shall have the general management and control of the system
of waterworks or mains or portion or extension of any system of waterworks or
water supply in the village.
      (5)   In a village where no Board of Public Works exists, and the village
has other public utilities than its waterworks system, the Board of Trustees
shall by ordinance designate Utilities Superintendent as Public Works
Commissioner with authority to manage not only the system of waterworks but
also other public utilities, and all of the provisions of this division (A)
applying to the Utilities Superintendent shall apply to the Public Works
Commissioner.
(Neb. Rev. Stat. 17-541)
   (B)   (1)   The Utilities Superintendent shall collect all money received by
the village on account of its system of waterworks and shall faithfully account
for and pay over the same to the Village Treasurer, taking his or her receipt
therefor in duplicate, filing one of the same with the Village Clerk.
      (2)   (a)   He or she shall make a detailed report to the Board of
Trustees, at least once every six months, of the condition of the water system,
of all mains, pipes, hydrants, reservoirs, and machinery, and such
improvements, repairs, and extension thereof as he or she may think proper.
         (b)   The report shall show the amount of receipts and expenditures on
account thereof for the preceding six months.
         (c)   No money shall be expended for improvements, repairs, or
extension of the waterworks system except upon recommendation of the Utilities
Superintendent.
      (3)   The Utilities Superintendent shall perform such other duties as may
be prescribed by ordinance.
      (4)   The Utilities Superintendent shall be paid such salary as the Board
of Trustees may by ordinance provide, and upon his or her written
recommendation, the Board shall employ such laborers and clerks as may to them
seem necessary.
      (5)   If the village owns public utilities other than the waterworks
system and the Utilities Superintendent has been designated by ordinance as the
Public Works Commissioner under the authority of division (A) above, then all
provisions of this division (B) in reference to a Utilities Superintendent
shall apply to the Public Works Commissioner.
(Neb. Rev. Stat. 17-543)
§ 30.031  ZONING ADMINISTRATOR.
   (A)   There is hereby created the office of Zoning Administrator for the
village, who shall be appointed by the Chairperson of the Board of Trustees.
   (B)   The Zoning Administrator shall be responsible for administering the
village’s Comprehensive Plan, Zoning Regulations, and Subdivision Regulations,
and shall perform the duties of the Zoning Administrator as specified by the
ordinances and regulations of the village.
   (C)   The Zoning Administrator shall hold office for one year, unless sooner
removed by the Chairperson of the Board of Trustees, by and with the advice and
consent of the Village Board.
   (D)   The Zoning Administrator may be compensated at such rate as may, from
time to time, be established by ordinance.
   (E)   (1)   In the event that the position of Zoning Administrator shall be
vacant, the Chairperson of the Board of Trustees shall be responsible to see
that the duties and functions of the office are performed in a timely manner.
In the absence of an appointed Zoning Administrator, the duties may be
performed by any one or more of the following: Village Clerk; Chairperson of
the Board of Trustees; Village Attorney; Village Engineer; Planning Commission
Chairperson; Planning Commission Vice Chairperson; Planning Commission
Secretary; or other designee.
      (2)   The duties of the Zoning Administrator by any of the designees
above named while such position is vacant shall be as official as if performed
by the Zoning Administrator.
(Prior Code, § 1-215)  (Ord. 2001-10, passed 11-7-2001)
BONDS AND OATH
§ 30.045  BONDS; REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   The village may enact ordinances or bylaws to require from all
officers and servants, elected or appointed, bonds and security or evidence of
equivalent insurance for the faithful performance of their duties. The village
may pay the premium for such bonds or insurance coverage.
(Neb. Rev. Stat. 17-604)
   (B)   (1)   All official bonds of officers of the village shall be in form,
joint and several, and made payable to the village in such penalty as the Board
of Trustees may fix.
      (2)   In place of the individual bonds required to be furnished by
municipal officers, a schedule, position, blanket bond or undertaking, or
evidence of equivalent insurance may be given by municipal officers, or a
single corporate surety fidelity, schedule, position, or blanket bond or
undertaking, or evidence of insurance coverage covering all the officers,
including officers required by law to furnish an individual bond or
undertaking, may be furnished. The municipality may pay the premium for the
bond or insurance coverage. The bond or insurance coverage shall be, at a
minimum, an aggregate of the amounts fixed by law or by the Board of Trustees,
and with such terms and conditions as may be required.
(Neb. Rev. Stat. 11-104)
      (3)   The penalty amount on any bond shall not fall below the legal
minimum, when one has been set by the state, for each particular official.
   (C)   (1)   Official bonds, with the oath endorsed thereon, shall be filed
in the Village Clerk’s office within the following time:
         (a)    Of all officers elected at any general election, following
receipt of their election certificate and not later than ten days before the
first Thursday after the first Tuesday in January next succeeding the election;
         (b)   Of all appointed officers, within 30 days after their
appointment; and
         (c)   Of officers elected at any special election and village
officers, within 30 days after the canvass of the votes of the election at
which they were chosen.
      (2)   The filing of the bond with the oath endorsed thereon does not
authorize a person to take any official action prior to the beginning of his or
her term of office pursuant to Article XVII, § 5, of the Constitution of
Nebraska.
(Neb. Rev. Stat. 11-105)
   (D)   All official bonds of village officers shall be executed by the
principal named in such bonds and by at least two sufficient sureties who shall
be freeholders of the county in which such bonds are given, or any official
bond of a village officer may be executed by the officer as principal and by a
guaranty, surety, fidelity, or bonding company as surety, or by two or more
such companies. Only such companies as are legally authorized to transact
business in this state shall be eligible to suretyship on the bond of a village
officer.
(Neb. Rev. Stat. 11-109)
   (E)   The Village Clerk shall carefully record and preserve the bonds in his
or her office and shall give certified copies thereof, when required, under the
seal of his or her office, and shall be entitled to receive for the same the
usual fee allowed by law for certified copies of records in other cases.
(Neb. Rev. Stat. 11-110)
   (F)   (1)   The approval of each official bond shall be endorsed upon such
bond by the officer approving the same, and no bond shall be filed and recorded
until so approved.
(Neb. Rev. Stat. 11-111)
      (2)   No bond shall be deemed to be given or complete until the approval
of the Board of Trustees and all sureties are endorsed in writing on the
instrument by the Chairperson and Village Clerk pursuant to the approval of the
Board of Trustees.
   (G)   All official bonds shall obligate the principal and sureties for the
faithful discharge of all duties required by law of such principal and shall
inure to the benefit of any persons injured by a breach of the conditions of
such bonds.
(Neb. Rev. Stat. 11-112)
   (H)   No official bond shall be rendered void by reason of any informality
of irregularity in its execution or approval.
(Neb. Rev. Stat. 11-113)
   (I)   No village official shall be taken as security on the bond of any
administrator, executor, or other officer from whom by law bond is or may be
required.
(Neb. Rev. Stat. 11-114)
   (J)   If any person elected or appointed to any office neglects to have his
or her official bond executed and approved as provided by law and filed for
record within the time limited by this section, the Village Clerk shall
immediately issue an order to such person to show cause why he or she has
failed to properly file such bond and why his or her office should not be
declared vacant. If such person properly files the official bond within ten
days of the issuance of the show cause order for appointed officials or before
the date for taking office for elected officials, such filing shall be deemed
to be in compliance with this section. If such person does not file the bond
within ten days of the issuance of such order for appointed officials or before
the date for taking office for elected officials and sufficient cause is not
shown within that time, his or her office shall thereupon ipso facto become
vacant and such vacancy shall thereupon immediately be filled by election or
appointment as the law may direct in other cases of vacancy in the same office.
(Neb. Rev. Stat. 11-115)
   (K)   Any person appointed to fill a vacancy, before entering upon the
duties of the office, must give a bond corresponding in substance and form with
the bond required of the officer originally elected or appointed, as herein
provided.
(Neb. Rev. Stat. 11-116)
   (L)   When the incumbent of an office is reelected or reappointed, he or she
shall qualify by taking the oath and giving the bond as above directed, but
when such officer has had public funds or property in his or her control, his
or her bond shall not be approved until he or she has produced and fully
accounted for such funds and property. When it is ascertained that the
incumbent of an office holds over by reason of the nonelection or
nonappointment of a successor or of the neglect or refusal of the successor to
qualify, he or she shall qualify anew within ten days from the time at which
his or her successor, if elected, should have qualified.
(Neb. Rev. Stat. 11-117)
   (M)   No person shall be surety for the same officer for more than two
successive terms of the same office, but this provision shall not apply to
incorporated surety companies.
(Neb. Rev. Stat. 11-118)
   (N)   If the sureties on the official bond of any appointed officer of the
village, in the opinion of the Board of Trustees, become insufficient, the
Board may, by resolution, fix a reasonable time within which the officer may
give a new bond or additional sureties as directed. If the officer fails,
refuses, or neglects to give a new bond or additional sureties to the
satisfaction and approval of the Board, the office shall, by such failure,
refusal, or neglect, become vacant and it shall be the duty of the Board to
appoint a competent and qualified person to fill the office.
§ 30.046  OATH OF OFFICE; VILLAGE OFFICIALS.
   (A)   All officials of the village, whether elected or appointed, except
when a different oath is specifically provided herein, shall before entering
upon their respective duties take and subscribe the following oath, which shall
be endorsed upon their respective bonds:
“I, ______________________________, do solemnly swear that I will support the
constitution of the United States and the constitution of the State of
Nebraska, against all enemies foreign and domestic; that I will bear true faith
and allegiance to the same; that I take this obligation freely and without
mental reservation or for the purpose of evasion; and that I will faithfully
and impartially perform the duties of the office of ______________________,
according to law and to the best of my ability. And I do further swear that I
do not advocate nor am I a member of any political party or organization that
advocates the overthrow of the government of the United States or of this state
by force or violence; and that during such time as I am in this position I will
not advocate nor become a member of any political party or organization that
advocates the overthrow of the government of the United States or of this state
by force or violence. So help me God.”
   (B)   If any such officer is not required to give bond, the oath shall be
filed with the Village Clerk.
(Neb. Rev. Stat. 11-101)
MEETINGS
§ 30.060  MEETINGS DEFINED.
   MEETINGS, as used in this subchapter, shall mean all regular, special, or
called meetings, formal or informal, of a public body for the purposes of
briefing, discussion of public business, formation of tentative policy, or the
taking of any action.
(Prior Code, § 1-501)  (Ord. 1983-7, passed 11-2-1983)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. Rev. Stat. 84-1409(2)
§ 30.061  PUBLIC BODY DEFINED.
   (A)   PUBLIC BODY, as used in this subchapter, shall mean:
      (1)   The governing body of the municipality;
      (2)   All independent boards, commissions, bureaus, committees, councils,
subunits, or any other bodies, now or hereafter created by constitution,
statute, ordinance, or otherwise pursuant to law; and
      (3)   Advisory committees of the bodies listed above.
   (B)   This section shall not apply to subcommittees of such bodies unless a
quorum of the public body attends a subcommittee meeting or unless such
subcommittees are holding hearings, making policy, or taking formal action on
behalf of their parent body.
(Prior Code, § 1-502)  (Ord. 1983-7, passed 11-2-1983; Ord. 1993-2, passed 4-7-
1993)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. Rev. Stat. 84-1409(1)
§ 30.062  PUBLIC MEETINGS.
   (A)   All public meetings as defined by law shall be held in a municipal
public building which shall be open to attendance by the public. All meetings
shall be held in the public building in which the governing body usually holds
such meetings unless the publicized notice hereinafter required shall designate
some other public building or other specified place. The advance publicized
notice of all public convened meetings shall be simultaneously transmitted to
all members of the governing body and to the public by a method designated by
the governing body or by the Mayor if the governing body has not designated a
method. Such notice shall contain the time and specific place for each meeting
and either an enumeration of the agenda subjects known at the time of the
notice, or a statement that such an agenda kept continually current shall be
readily available for public inspection at the office of the Village Clerk.
   (B)   Except for items of an emergency nature, the agenda shall not be
altered later than 24 hours before the scheduled commencement of the meeting or
48 hours before the scheduled commencement of a meeting of the governing body
scheduled outside the corporate limits of the municipality. The governing body
shall have the right to modify the agenda to include items of an emergency
nature only at such public meetings. The minutes of the Village Clerk shall
include the record of the manner and advance time by which the advance
publicized notice was given, a statement of how the availability of an agenda
of the then known subjects was communicated, the time and specific place of the
meetings, and the names of each member of the governing body present or absent
at each convened meeting. The minutes of the governing body shall be a public
record open to inspection by the public upon request at any reasonable time at
the office of the Village Clerk. Any official action on any question or motion
duly moved and seconded shall be taken only by roll call vote of the governing
body in open session. The record of the Village Clerk shall show how each
member voted, or that the member was absent and did not vote.
(Prior Code, § 1-503)  (Ord. 1983-7, passed 11-2-1983; Ord. 1987-7, passed 10-
7-1987)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. Rev. Stat. 84-1408, 84-1409, 84-1411, and 84-
1413
§ 30.063  CLOSED SESSIONS.
   (A)   (1)   Any public body may hold a closed session by the affirmative
vote of a majority of its voting members if a closed session is clearly
necessary for the protection of the public interest or for the prevention of
needless injury to the reputation of an individual and if such individual has
not requested a public meeting. Closed sessions may be held for, but shall not
be limited to, such reasons as:
         (a)   Strategy sessions with respect to collective bargaining, real
estate purchases, pending litigation, or litigation which is imminent as
evidenced by communication of a claim or threat of litigation to or by the
public body;
         (b)   Discussion regarding deployment of security personnel or
devices;
         (c)   Investigative proceedings regarding allegations of criminal
misconduct; or
         (d)   Evaluation of the job performance of a person when necessary to
prevent needless injury to the reputation of a person and if such person has
not requested a public meeting.
      (2)   Nothing in this section shall permit a closed meeting for
discussion of the appointment or election of a new member to any public body.
   (B)   The vote to hold a closed session shall be taken in open session. The
vote of each member on the question of holding a closed session, the reason for
the closed session, and the time when the closed session commenced and
concluded shall be recorded in the minutes. The public body holding such a
closed session shall restrict its consideration of matters during the closed
portions to only those purposes set forth in the minutes as the reason for the
closed session. The meeting shall be reconvened in open session before any
formal action may be taken. For purposes of this section, FORMAL ACTION means a
collective decision or a collective commitment or promise to make a decision on
any question, motion, proposal, resolution, order, or ordinance or formation of
a position or policy but shall not include negotiating guidance given by
members of the public body to legal counsel or other negotiators in closed
sessions authorized under division (A)(1)(a) above.
   (C)   Any member of any public body shall have the right to challenge the
continuation of a closed session if the member determines that the session has
exceeded the reason stated in the original motion to hold a closed session or
if the member contends that the closed session is neither clearly necessary
for:
      (1)   The protection of the public interest; or
      (2)   The prevention of needless injury to the reputation of an
individual. Such challenge shall be overruled only by a majority vote of the
members of the public body. Such challenge and its disposition shall be
recorded in the minutes.
   (D)   Nothing in this section shall be construed to require that any meeting
be closed to the public.
(Prior Code, § 1-504)  (Ord. 1983-7, passed 11-2-1983; Ord. 1993-3, passed 4-7-
1993; Ord. 2005-6, passed 3-2-2005)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. Rev. Stat. 84-1410
§ 30.064  EMERGENCY MEETINGS.
   (A)   When it is necessary to hold an emergency meeting without reasonable
advance public notice, the nature of the emergency shall be stated in the
minutes and any formal action taken in such meeting shall pertain only to the
emergency. Such emergency meetings may be held by means of electronic or
telecommunication equipment. The provisions of §
30.067 shall be complied with in conducting emergency meetings.
   (B)   Complete minutes of such emergency meetings specifying the nature of
the emergency and any formal action taken at the meeting shall be made
available to the public by no later than the end of the next regular business
day.
(Prior Code, § 1-505)  (Ord. 1983-7, passed 11-2-1983)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. Rev. Stat. 84-1411
§ 30.065  MEETING MINUTES.
   (A)   Each public body shall keep minutes of all meetings showing the time,
place, members present and absent, and the substance of all matters discussed.
   (B)   The minutes of all meetings and evidence and documentation received or
disclosed in open session shall be public records and open to public inspection
during normal business hours.
   (C)   Minutes shall be written and available for inspection within ten
working days or prior to the next convened meeting, whichever occurs earlier,
except that the village may have an additional ten working days if the employee
responsible for writing the minutes is absent due to a serious illness or
emergency.
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. Rev. Stat. 84-1413
§ 30.066  VOTES.
   (A)   Any action taken on any question or motion duly moved and seconded
shall be by roll call vote of the public body in open session, and the record
shall state how each member voted, or if the member was absent or not voting.
The requirements of a roll call or viva voce vote shall be satisfied by a
village which utilizes an electronic voting device which allows the yeas and
nays of each member of the Board of Trustees to be readily seen by the public.
   (B)   The vote to elect leadership within a public body may be taken by
secret ballot, but the total number of votes for each candidate shall be
recorded in the minutes.
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. Rev. Stat. 84-1413
§ 30.067  NOTICE TO NEWS MEDIA.
   The Village Clerk, in the case of the Board of Trustees, and the Secretary
or other designee of each other public body shall maintain a list of the news
media requesting notification of meetings and shall make reasonable efforts to
provide advance notification to them of the time and place of each meeting and
the subjects to be discussed at that meeting.
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. Rev. Stat. 84-1411
§ 30.068  PUBLIC PARTICIPATION.
   (A)   Subject to the provisions of this subchapter, the public shall have
the right to attend and the right to speak at meetings of public bodies, and
all or any part of a meeting of a public body, except for closed sessions
called pursuant to §
30.063, may be videotaped, televised, photographed, broadcast, or recorded by
any person in attendance by means of a tape recorder, camera, video equipment,
or any other means of pictorial or sonic reproduction or in writing.
   (B)   It shall not be a violation of this section for any public body to
make and enforce reasonable rules and regulations regarding the conduct of
persons attending, speaking at, videotaping, televising, photographing,
broadcasting, or recording its meetings. A body may not be required to allow
citizens to speak at each meeting, but it may not forbid public participation
at all meetings.
   (C)   No public body shall require members of the public to identify
themselves as a condition for admission to the meeting. The body may require
any member of the public desiring to address the body to identify himself or
herself.
   (D)   No public body shall, for the purpose of circumventing the provisions
of this subchapter, hold a meeting in a place known by the body to be too small
to accommodate the anticipated audience.
   (E)   No public body shall be deemed in violation of this section if it
holds its meeting in its traditional meeting place which is located in this
state.
   (F)   No public body shall be deemed in violation of this section if it
holds a meeting outside of this state if, but only if, a member entity of the
public body is located outside of this state and the other requirements of Neb.
Rev. Stat. 84-1412 are met.
   (G)   The public body shall, upon request, make a reasonable effort to
accommodate the public’s right to hear the discussion and testimony presented
at the meeting.
   (H)   Public bodies shall make available at the meeting, for examination and
copying by members of the public, at least one copy of all reproducible written
material to be discussed at an open meeting.
(Prior Code, § 1-509)  (Ord. 1983-7, passed 11-2-1983; Ord. 1985-7, passed 12-
4-1985; Ord. 1987-8, passed 10-7-1987; Ord. 2002-24, passed 10-16-2002)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. Rev. Stat. 84-1412
§ 30.069  ORDER OF BUSINESS.
   Promptly at the hour set by law on the day of each regular meeting, the
members of the Village Board, the Village Clerk, and such other village
officials that may be required shall take their regular stations in the meeting
place, and the business of the village shall be taken up for consideration and
disposition in the order prescribed by the official agenda on file at the
office of the Village Clerk.
§ 30.070  CHANGE IN OFFICE.
   The Chairperson and Board of Trustees shall meet at the regular meeting of
the Board in December in each election year, and the outgoing officers and
outgoing members of the Board of Trustees shall present their reports, and upon
the outgoing Board having completed its business, the outgoing Trustees shall
surrender their offices to the incoming Trustees, and the outgoing officers
shall thereupon each surrender to his or her successor in office all property,
records, papers, and moneys belonging to the same.
(Prior Code, § 1-512)  (Ord. 1996-4, passed 2-7-1996)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. Rev. Stat. 17-204
§ 30.071  REORGANIZATIONAL MEETINGS.
   (A)   The newly elected Board of Trustees shall convene at the regular place
of meeting at the first regular meeting of the Board in each election year
immediately after the prior Board adjourns and proceed to organize themselves
for the ensuing year. The Chairperson pro tempore shall call the meeting to
order. The Board shall then proceed to examine the credentials of its members
and other elective officers of the municipality to see that each has been duly
and properly elected and to see that such oaths and bonds have been given as
are required.
   (B)   After ascertaining that all Trustees and officers are duly qualified,
the Board shall then elect one of its own body who shall be styled as
Chairperson of the Board of Trustees. The Chairperson shall then nominate his
or her candidates for appointive offices and said officers shall hold office
until their successors are duly appointed and qualified. The Chairperson shall
then proceed with the regular order of business. It is hereby made the duty of
each and every member of the Board or of its successors in office and of each
officer hereafter elected to any office, to qualify prior to the first regular
meeting of the Board in December following his or her election.
   (C)   Immediately upon the assembly of the newly elected Board upon the
first regular meeting in December following the election, each officer elected
at the general election shall take possession of his or her office. Each
appointive officer who is required to give bond shall qualify by filing the
required bond, approved by the Board of Trustees, in the office of the Village
Clerk within two weeks from the date of his or her said appointment; provided,
on said bond shall be endorsed the same oath as required of a Trustee. Failure
to qualify by elective or appointive officers within the time and manner
provided in this section shall and does in itself create a vacancy in the
office to which said person failing to qualify shall have been elected or
appointed.
(Prior Code, § 1-513)  (Ord. 1996-5, passed 2-7-1996)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. Rev. Stat. 17-204
§ 30.072  REGULAR MEETING.
   (A)   The meetings of the governing body shall be held in the meeting place
of the municipality. Regular meetings shall be held on the second Wednesday of
each month at the hour of 7:00 p.m.
   (B)   At all meetings of the Board of Trustees, a majority of the Board
shall constitute a quorum to do business.
(Prior Code, § 1-514)  (Ord. 1985-8, passed 12-4-1985; Ord. 2005-16, passed 5-
11-2005)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. Rev. Stat. 17-204, 17-205, and 17-210
§ 30.073  SPECIAL MEETINGS.
   (A)   Special meetings may be called by the Chairperson, or by three members
of the Board of Trustees, the object of which shall be submitted to the Board
in writing. The call and object, as well as the disposition thereof, shall be
entered upon the journal by the Village Clerk. On filing the call for a special
meeting, the Village Clerk shall notify the members of the Board of Trustees of
the special meeting, stating the time and its purpose. Notice of a special
meeting need not be given to a member of the Board known to be out of the
state, or physically unable to be present. A majority of the members of the
Board of Trustees shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of business,
but a smaller number may adjourn from day to day and compel the attendance of
the absent members. Whether a quorum is present or not, all absent members
shall be sent for and compelled to attend.
   (B)   At the hour appointed for the meeting, the Village Clerk shall proceed
to call the roll of members and announce whether a quorum is present. If a
quorum is present, the Board shall be called to order by the Chairperson, if
present, or if absent, by the President of the Board. In the absence of both
the Chairperson and the President of the Board, the members of the Board of
Trustees shall elect a President pro tempore. All ordinances passed at any
special meeting shall comply with procedures set forth in §§
30.090 through
30.099.
(Prior Code, § 1-515)  (Ord. 1985-8, passed 12-4-1985)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. Rev. Stat. 17-204 and 17-205
§ 30.074  PROHIBITED ACTS; EXEMPT EVENTS.
   (A)   No person or public body shall fail to invite a portion of its members
to a meeting, and no public body shall designate itself a subcommittee of the
whole body for the purpose of circumventing this subchapter or the Open
Meetings Act. No closed session, informal meeting, chance meeting, social
gathering, email, fax, or electronic communication shall be used for the
purpose of circumventing the requirements of this subchapter or the Act.
   (B)   This subchapter does not apply to chance meetings or to attendance at
or travel to conventions or workshops of members of a public body at which
there is no meeting of the body then intentionally convened, if there is no
vote or other action taken regarding any matter over which the public body has
supervision, control, jurisdiction, or advisory power.
(Prior Code, § 1-516)  (Ord. 2005-6, passed 3-2-2005)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. Rev. Stat. 84-1410
§ 30.075  VIDEO CONFERENCING.
   (A)   A meeting of an organization created under the Interlocal Cooperation
Act, the Joint Public Agency Act, or the Municipal Cooperative Financing Act or
of the governing body of a risk management pool or its advisory committees
organized in accordance with the Intergovernmental Risk Management Act may be
held by means of videoconferencing if:
      (1)   Reasonable advance publicized notice is given;
      (2)   Reasonable arrangements are made to accommodate the public’s right
to attend, hear, and speak at the meeting, including seating, recordation by
audio or visual recording devices, and a reasonable opportunity for input such
as public comment or questions to at least the same extent as would be provided
if video conferencing was not used;
      (3)   At least one copy of all documents being considered is available to
the public at each site of the video conference;
      (4)   At least one member of the governing body or advisory committee is
present at each site of the video conference; and
      (5)   No more than one-half of the governing body’s or advisory
committee’s meetings in a calendar year are held by video conference.
   (B)   Video conferencing or conferencing by other electronic communication
shall not be used to circumvent any of the public government purposes
established in the Open Meetings Act.
   (C)   For the purpose of this section, the following definition applies.
      VIDEO CONFERENCING. Conducting a meeting involving participants at two or
more locations through the use of audio-video equipment which allows
participants at each location to hear and see each meeting participant at each
other location, including public input. Interaction between meeting
participants shall be possible at all meeting locations.
(Prior Code, § 1-517)  (Ord. 2005-4, passed 3-2-2005)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. Rev. Stat. 84-1409 and 84-1411
§ 30.076  TELE-CONFERENCING.
   (A)   A meeting of the governing body of an entity formed under the
Interlocal Cooperation Act or the Joint Public Agency Act or of the governing
body of a risk management pool or its advisory committees organized in
accordance with the Intergovernmental Risk Management Act may be held by
telephone conference call if:
      (1)   The territory represented by the member public agencies of the
entity or pool covers more than one county;
      (2)   Reasonable advance publicized notice is given which identifies each
telephone conference location at which a member of the entity’s or pool’s
governing body will be present;
      (3)   All telephone conference meeting sites identified in the notice are
located within public buildings used by members of the entity or pool or at a
place which will accommodate the anticipated audience;
      (4)   Reasonable arrangements are made to accommodate the public’s right
to attend, hear, and speak at the meeting, including seating, recordation by
audio recording devices, and a reasonable opportunity for input such as public
comment or questions to at least the same extent as would be provided if a
telephone conference call was not used;
      (5)   At least one copy of all documents being considered is available to
the public at each site of the telephone conference call;
      (6)   At least one member of the governing body of the entity or pool is
present at each site of the telephone conference call identified in the public
notice;
      (7)   The telephone conference call lasts no more than one hour; and
      (8)   No more than one-half of the entity’s or pool’s meetings in a
calendar year are held by telephone conference call.
   (B)   Nothing in this section shall prevent the participation of
consultants, members of the press, and other nonmembers of the governing body
at sites not identified in the public notice. Telephone conference calls,
emails, faxes, or other electronic communication shall not be used to
circumvent any of the public government purposes established in the Open
Meetings Act.
(Prior Code, § 1-518)  (Ord. 2005-5, passed 3-2-2005)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. Rev. Stat. 84-1411
ORDINANCES
§ 30.090  GRANT OF POWER.
   In addition to its special powers, the village shall have the power to make
all ordinances, bylaws, rules, regulations, and resolutions, not inconsistent
with the laws of the state, as may be expedient for maintaining the peace, good
government, and welfare of the village and its trade, commerce, and
manufactories, and to enforce all ordinances by inflicting fines or penalties
for the breach thereof, not exceeding $500 for any one offense, recoverable
with costs.
(Neb. Rev. Stat. 17-505)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. Rev. Stat. 18-132, 19-922, and 25-2703
§ 30.091  PROCEDURE FOR RESOLUTIONS AND MOTIONS.
   Unless the Board of Trustees has specified other procedures, resolutions and
motions shall be introduced in one of the methods prescribed in §
30.092 for the introduction of ordinances. The issue raised by the resolution
or motion shall be disposed of in accordance with the usage of parliamentary
law adopted for the guidance of the Board of Trustees. A majority vote shall be
required to pass any resolution or motion. The vote on any resolution or motion
shall be by roll call vote.
§ 30.092  INTRODUCTION OF ORDINANCES.
   Unless the Board of Trustees has specified other procedures, ordinances
shall be introduced by members of the Board of Trustees in one of the following
ways:
   (A)   With the recognition of the Chairperson, a member may, in the presence
and hearing of a majority of the members elected to the Board of Trustees, read
aloud the substance of the proposed ordinance and file a copy with the Village
Clerk for future consideration; or
   (B)   With the recognition of the Chairperson, a member may present the
proposed ordinance to the Clerk who, in the presence and hearing of a majority
of the members elected to the Board of Trustees, shall read aloud the substance
of the ordinance and file it for future consideration.
§ 30.093  ORDINANCES; STYLE, TITLE.
   (A)   The style of all village ordinances shall be: “Be it ordained by the
Chairperson and Board of Trustees of the Village of Cortland, Nebraska:....”
(Neb. Rev. Stat. 17-613)
   (B)   No ordinance shall contain a subject which is not clearly expressed in
the title.
(Neb. Rev. Stat. 17-614)
§ 30.094  READING AND PASSAGE OF ORDINANCES, RESOLUTIONS, ORDERS,
BYLAWS.
   (A)   All ordinances and resolutions or orders for the appropriation or
payment of money shall require for their passage or adoption the concurrence of
a majority of all members elected to the Board of Trustees. Ordinances of a
general or permanent nature shall be read by title on three different days
unless three-fourths of the Board of Trustees vote to suspend this requirement,
except that this requirement shall not be suspended for any ordinance for the
annexation of territory. In case this requirement is suspended, the ordinance
shall be read by title and then moved for final passage. Three-fourths of the
Board of Trustees may require a reading of any such ordinance in full before
enactment under either procedure set out in this section.
(Neb. Rev. Stat. 17-614)
   (B)   (1)   On the passage or adoption of every bylaw or ordinance, and
every resolution or order to enter into a contract by the Board of Trustees,
the yeas and nays shall be called and recorded. To pass or adopt any bylaw,
ordinance, or any such resolution or order, a concurrence of a majority of the
whole number of members elected to the Board of Trustees shall be required.
      (2)   All appointments of the officers by the Board of Trustees shall be
made viva voce, and the concurrence of a like majority shall be required, and
the names of those, and for whom they voted, on the vote resulting in an
appointment, shall be recorded. The requirements of a roll call or viva voce
vote shall be satisfied by a village which utilizes an electronic voting device
which allows the yeas and nays of each member of the Board of Trustees to be
readily seen by the public.
(Neb. Rev. Stat. 17-616)
§ 30.095  PUBLICATION OR POSTING.
   All ordinances of a general nature shall be published one time within 15
days after they are passed in some newspaper published in the municipality or,
if no paper is published in the municipality, then by posting a written or
printed copy thereof in each of three public places in the municipality, or in
book or pamphlet form.
(Prior Code, § 1-607)  (Ord. 1986-16 16, passed 11-5-1986)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. Rev. Stat. 17-613
§ 30.096  CERTIFICATE OF PUBLICATION OR POSTING.
   The passage, approval, and publication or posting of an ordinance shall be
sufficiently proved by a certificate under the seal of the village from the
Village Clerk showing that the ordinance was passed and approved, and when and
in what paper the ordinance was published, or when and by whom and where the
ordinance was posted.
(Neb. Rev. Stat. 17-613)
Statutory reference:
   Passage; rules and regulations, see Neb. Rev. Stat. 17-615
§ 30.097  EFFECTIVE DATE; EMERGENCY ORDINANCES.
   (A)   Except as provided in §
30.095 and division (B) below, an ordinance for the government of the village
which has been adopted by the Board of Trustees without submission to the
voters of the village shall not go into effect until 15 days after the passage
of the ordinance.
(Neb. Rev. Stat. 19-3701)
   (B)   (1)   In the case of riot, infectious or contagious diseases, or other
impending danger, failure of a public utility, or any other emergency requiring
its immediate operation, an ordinance shall take effect upon the proclamation
of the Chairperson and the posting thereof in at least three of the most public
places in the village.
      (2)   The emergency ordinance shall recite the emergency, be passed by a
three-fourths vote of the Board of Trustees, and be entered of record on the
Village Clerk’s minutes.
(Neb. Rev. Stat. 17-613)
§ 30.098  AMENDMENTS AND REVISIONS.
   No ordinance or section thereof shall be revised or amended unless the new
ordinance contains the entire ordinance or section as revised or amended and
the ordinance or section so amended is repealed, except that an ordinance
revising all the ordinances of the village and modifications to zoning or
building districts may be adopted as otherwise provided by law.
(Neb. Rev. Stat. 17-614)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. Rev. Stat. 17-614 and 19-915
ELECTIONS
§ 30.110  ELECTION OF OFFICERS; CERTIFICATIONS REQUIRED.
   No later than July 1 of each even-numbered year, the Village Board shall
certify to the Election Commissioner or the County Clerk, on forms prescribed
by such official, the name of the village, the number of officers to be
elected, the length of the terms of office, the vacancies to be filled by
election and length of remaining term, and the number of votes to be cast by a
registered voter for each office.
(Prior Code, § 1-701)  (Ord. 1996-6, passed 2-7-1996; Ord. 2002-9, passed 10-
16-2002; Ord. 2005-7, passed 3-2-2005)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. Rev. Stat. 32-404
§ 30.111  ELECTIONS GENERALLY.
   (A)   All municipal issues and offices shall be combined on the state-wide
primary and general election ballots whenever possible. The issuance of
separate ballots shall be avoided in a state-wide election if municipal offices
or issues can reasonably be combined with the nonpartisan ballot and state law
does not require otherwise. All municipal elections involving the election of
officers shall be held in accordance with the Election Act and in conjunction
with the state-wide primary or general election.
   (B)   When the municipality holds an election in conjunction with the state-
wide primary or general election, the election shall be held as provided in the
Election Act. Any other election held by the municipality shall be held as
provided in the Election Act unless otherwise provided by the charter, code, or
bylaws of the municipality.
(Prior Code, § 1-701.01)  (Ord. 2005-7, passed 3-2-2005)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. Rev. Stat. 32-404 and 32-556
§ 30.112  FILING FEE.
   (A)   Except as provided in divisions (D) or (E) below, a filing fee shall
be paid to the Village Treasurer by or on behalf of each candidate for village
office prior to filing for office. The fee shall be placed in the General Fund
of the village. No candidate filing forms shall be filed until the proper
payment or the proper receipt showing the payment of such filing fee is
presented to the filing officer. On the day of the filing deadline, the Village
Treasurer’s office shall remain open to receive filing fees until the hour of
the filing deadline.
   (B)   Except as provided in divisions (D) or (E) below, the filing fee shall
be a sum equal to 1% of the annual salary as of November 30 of the year
preceding the election for the office for which he or she files as a candidate.
   (C)   All declared write-in candidates shall pay the filing fees that are
required for the office at the time that they present the write-in affidavit to
the filing officer. Any undeclared write-in candidate who is nominated or
elected by write-in votes shall pay the filing fee required for the office
within ten days after the canvass of votes by the County Canvassing Board and
shall file the receipt with the person issuing the certificate of nomination or
the certificate of election prior to the certificate being issued.
   (D)   No filing fee shall be required for any candidate filing for an office
in which a per diem is paid rather than a salary or for which there is a salary
of less than $500 per year.
   (E)   (1)   No filing fee shall be required of any candidate completing an
affidavit requesting to file for elective office in forma pauperis.
      (2)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
         AVAILABLE RESOURCES. Includes every type of property or interest in
property that an individual owns and may convert into cash except:
            1.   Real property used as a home;
            2.   Household goods of a moderate value used in the home; and
            3.   Assets to a maximum value of $3,000 used by a recipient in a
planned effort directed towards self-support.
         PAUPER. A person whose income and other resources for maintenance are
found under assistance standards to be insufficient for meeting the cost of his
or her requirements and whose reserve of cash or other available resources does
not exceed the maximum available resources that an eligible individual may own.
   (F)   If any candidate dies prior to an election, the spouse of the
candidate may file a claim for refund of the filing fee with the Board of
Trustees prior to the date of the election. Upon approval of the claim by the
Board of Trustees, the filing fee shall be refunded.
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. Rev. Stat. 32-608
§ 30.113  GENERAL ELECTION NOTICE.
   The notice of election required to be published by the Election Commissioner
or County Clerk pursuant to Neb. Rev. Stat. 32-802 shall serve as the notice
requirement for all village elections which are held in conjunction with the
state-wide primary or general election.
§ 30.114  JOINT/SPECIAL ELECTIONS.
   (A)   In lieu of submitting a matter or issue at a separate special
municipal election, the municipality may submit such matter or issue at a
state-wide general or primary election or at a scheduled county election, or
may request the county to conduct a special election. Such matter or issue must
be certified by the Village Clerk to the County Clerk or Election Commissioner
at least 50 days prior to the election.
   (B)   The Village Clerk shall be responsible for the publication or posting
of any required special notice of the submission of such matter other than that
required to be given of the state-wide or county election issues.
(Prior Code, § 1-704)  (Ord. 1984-5, passed 11-7-1984)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. Rev. Stat. 32-4,153 and 32-4,154
§ 30.115  PETITION, WRITE-IN, AND OTHER CANDIDATES FOR GENERAL ELECTION BALLOT;
PROCEDURES.
   (A)   (1)   Any registered voter who was not a candidate in the primary
election may have his or her name placed on the general election ballot for a
partisan office by filing petitions as prescribed in this section and Neb. Rev.
Stat. 32-621 or by nomination by political party convention or committee.
      (2)   Any candidate who was defeated in the primary election and any
registered voter who was not a candidate in the primary election may have his
or her name placed on the general election ballot if a vacancy exists on the
ballot under Neb. Rev. Stat. 32-625(2) and the candidate files for the office
by petition as prescribed in this section or files as a write-in candidate as
prescribed in Neb. Rev. Stat. 32-615.
   (B)   Petitions for nomination shall conform to the requirements of Neb.
Rev. Stat. 32-628. Petitions shall state the office to be filled and the name
and address of the candidate. Petitions for partisan office shall also indicate
the party affiliation of the candidate. Petitions shall be signed by registered
voters residing in the ward in which the officer is to be elected, if
candidates are chosen by ward, or residing in the municipality, if candidates
are not chosen by ward, and shall be filed with the filing officer in the same
manner as provided for candidate filing forms in Neb. Rev. Stat. 32-607.
Petition signers and circulators shall conform to the requirements of Neb. Rev.
Stat. 32-629 and 32-630. No petition for nomination shall be filed unless there
is attached thereto a receipt showing payment of the filing fee required
pursuant to Neb. Rev. Stat.  32-608. The petitions shall be filed by September
1 in the year of the general election.
   (C)   (1)   The number of signatures of registered voters needed to place
the name of a candidate upon the nonpartisan ballot for the general election
shall be at least 10% of the total number of registered voters voting for
Governor or President of the United States at the immediately preceding general
election in the ward in which the officer is to be elected or in the
municipality, as appropriate.
      (2)   The number of signatures of registered voters needed to place the
name of a candidate upon the partisan ballot for the general election shall be
as follows:
         (a)   For each partisan office to be filled by the registered voters
of the entire state, at least 4,000, and at least 750 signatures shall be
obtained in each congressional district in the state;
         (b)   For each partisan office to be filled by the registered voters
of a county, at least 20% of the total number of registered voters voting for
Governor or President of the United States at the immediately preceding general
election within the county, not to exceed 2,000, except that the number of
signatures shall not be required to exceed 25% of the total number of
registered voters voting for the office at the immediately preceding general
election; and
         (c)   For each partisan office to be filled by the registered voters
of a political subdivision other than a county, at least 20% of the total
number of registered voters voting for Governor or President of the United
States at the immediately preceding general election within the political
subdivision, not to exceed 2,000.
(Prior Code, § 1-705)  (Ord. 1984-5, passed 11-7-1984; Ord. 1998-2, passed 10-
7-1998; Ord. 2003-3, passed 5-7-2003)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. Rev. Stat. 32-616, 32-617, and 32-618
§ 30.116  VOTER QUALIFICATIONS.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      REGISTERED VOTER. An elector who has a current voter registration record
on file with the Election Commissioner or County Clerk in the county of his or
her residence.
(Neb. Rev. Stat. 32-115)
   (B)   All registered voters residing within the corporate limits of the
village on or before election day shall be entitled to vote at all village
elections.
(Neb. Rev. Stat. 17-602)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. Rev. Stat. 32-110
§ 30.117  PROCLAMATION.
   The Chairperson of the Board of Trustees shall issue a proclamation, at
least 90 days prior to the state-wide primary, designating all offices to be
filled by a vote of the electors of the municipality or the special issues to
be submitted for the approval or rejection of such electors, at any general
election, and transmit the same to the Village Clerk for filing. In the event
of a special election, such proclamation shall be issued at least ten days
prior to the election.
(Prior Code, § 1-707)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. Rev. Stat. 19-3004
§ 30.118  CAUCUS CANDIDATES.
   (A)   The Board of Trustees may, by ordinance, call a caucus for the purpose
of nomination of candidates for offices to be filled in the village election.
This caucus shall be held at least ten days before the filing deadline for that
election, and the Board of Trustees shall publish notice of the caucus in at
least one legal newspaper in or of general circulation in the county at least
once each week for two consecutive weeks before the caucus.
(Neb. Rev. Stat. 17-601.01)
   (B)   (1)   The chairperson of the caucus at which candidates are nominated
shall notify the Village Clerk in writing of the candidates so nominated, not
later than two days following the caucus. The Village Clerk shall then notify
the persons so nominated of their nomination, this notification to take place
not later than five days after the caucus.
      (2)   No candidate so nominated shall have his or her name placed upon
the ballot unless, not more than ten days after the holding of the caucus, he
or she files with the Village Clerk a written statement accepting the
nomination of the caucus and pays the filing fee, if any, for the office for
which he or she was nominated.
(Neb. Rev. Stat. 17-601.02)
   (C)   The provisions of this section shall not preclude in any manner any
person from filing for the offices to which this section is applicable, either
by direct filing or by petition.
(Neb. Rev. Stat. 17-601.03)
§ 30.119  BALLOTS.
   It shall be the duty of the County Clerk to provide printed ballots for
every general municipal election and the expense of printing and delivering the
ballots and cards of instruction shall be a charge upon the municipality.
(Prior Code, § 1-709)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. Rev. Stat. 32-417 and 32-418
§ 30.120  RECOUNT OF BALLOTS.
   The losing candidate for any office at the municipal election may request a
recount of the ballots cast when the official canvass of such votes cast
reveals that there is a difference of 25 votes or less between the total cast
for the winner and the loser. Such recount shall be made if the losing
candidate files a written request therefor with the Village Clerk within three
days following the completion of the official canvass.
(Prior Code, § 1-711)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. Rev. Stat. 19-3042 through 19-3050
§ 30.121  RECALL PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Any or all of the elected officials of the village may be removed from
office by recall pursuant to Neb. Rev. Stat. 32-1301 through 32-1309. Petition
circulators shall conform to the requirements of Neb. Rev. Stat.  32-628, 32-
630, and 32-1303. Each petition paper shall conform to the requirements of
Neb.  Rev. Stat.  32-1304.
   (B)   (1)   (a)   The petition papers shall be procured from the Village
Clerk. Prior to the issuance of such petition papers, an affidavit shall be
signed and filed with the Clerk by at least one registered voter. Such voter or
voters shall be deemed to be the principal circulator or circulators of the
recall petition.
         (b)   The affidavit shall state the name and office of the official
sought to be removed, shall include in typewritten form in concise language of
60 words or less the reason or reasons for which recall is sought, and shall
request that the Clerk issue initial petition papers to the principal
circulator for circulation.
         (c)   The Clerk shall deliver a copy of the affidavit by certified
mail to the official sought to be removed. If the official chooses, he or she
may submit a defense statement in typewritten form in concise language of 60
words or less for inclusion on the petition.
         (d)   Any such defense statement shall be submitted to the filing
Clerk within 20 days after the official receives the copy of the affidavit. The
Clerk shall notify the principal circulator or circulators that the necessary
signatures must be gathered within 30 days from the date of issuing the
petitions.
      (2)   The Clerk, upon issuing the initial petition papers or any
subsequent petition papers, shall enter in a record, to be kept in his or her
office, the name of the principal circulator or circulators to whom the papers
were issued, the date of issuance, and the number of papers issued. The Clerk
shall certify on the papers the name of the principal circulator or circulators
to whom the papers were issued and the date they were issued. No petition paper
shall be accepted as part of the petition unless it bears such certificate. The
principal circulator or circulators who check out petitions from the Clerk may
distribute such petitions to registered voters residing in the village who may
act as circulators of such petitions.
      (3)   Petition signers shall conform to the requirements of Neb. Rev.
Stat. 32-629, 32-630, and 32-1303.
      (4)   A petition demanding that the question of removing a member of the
Board of Trustees be submitted to the registered voters shall be signed by
registered voters equal in number to at least 45% of the total vote cast for
the person receiving the most votes for that office in the last general
election. The signatures shall be affixed to petition papers and shall be
considered part of the petition.
   (C)   (1)   The principal circulator or circulators shall file, as one
instrument, all petition papers comprising a recall petition for signature
verification with the Clerk within 30 days after the Clerk issues the initial
petition papers to the principal circulator or circulators.
      (2)   Within 15 days after the filing of the petition, the Clerk shall
ascertain whether or not the petition is signed by the requisite number of
registered voters. No new signatures may be added after the initial filing of
the petition papers. No signatures may be removed unless the Clerk receives an
affidavit signed by the person requesting his or her signature be removed
before the petitions are filed with the Clerk for signature verification. If
the petition is found to be sufficient, the Clerk shall attach to the petition
a certificate showing the result of such examination. If the requisite number
of signatures has not been gathered, the Clerk shall file the petition in his
or her office without prejudice to the filing of a new petition for the same
purpose.
   (D)   (1)   If the recall petition is found to be sufficient, the Clerk
shall notify the official whose removal is sought and the Board of Trustees
that sufficient signatures have been gathered. If the official does not resign
within five days after receiving the notice, the Board shall order an election
to be held not less than 30 nor more than 45 days after the expiration of the
five-day period, except that if any other election is to be held in the village
within 90 days of the expiration of the five-day period, the Board shall
provide for the holding of the removal election on the same day.
      (2)   After the Board sets the date for the recall election, the recall
election shall be held regardless of whether the official whose removal is
sought resigns before the recall election is held.
   (E)   (1)   If a majority of the votes cast at a recall election are against
the removal of the official named on the ballot or the election results in a
tie, the official shall continue in office for the remainder of his or her term
but may be subject to further recall attempts as provided in division (F)
below.
      (2)   If a majority of the votes cast at a recall election are for the
removal of the official named on the ballot, he or she shall, regardless of any
technical defects in the recall petition, be deemed removed from office unless
a recount is ordered. If the official is deemed removed, the removal shall
result in a vacancy in the office which shall be filled as otherwise provided
in this section and state law.
      (3)   If the election results show a margin of votes equal to 1% or less
between the removal or retention of the official in question, the Secretary of
State, Election Commissioner, or County Clerk shall order a recount of the
votes cast unless the official named on the ballot files a written statement
with the Village Clerk that he or she does not want a recount.
      (4)   If there are vacancies in the offices of a majority or more of the
members of the Board of Trustees at one time due to the recall of such members,
a special election to fill such vacancies shall be conducted as expeditiously
as possible by the Secretary of State, Election Commissioner, or County Clerk.
      (5)   No official who is removed at a recall election or who resigns
after the initiation of the recall process shall be appointed to fill the
vacancy resulting from his or her removal or the removal of any other member of
the same governing body during the remainder of his or her term of office.
   (F)   No recall petition shall be filed against an elected official within
12 months after a recall election has failed to remove him or her from office
or within six months after the beginning of his or her term of office or within
six months prior to the incumbent filing deadline for the office.
(Prior Code, § 1-712)  (Ord. 1984-5, passed 11-7-1984; Ord. 1998-3, passed 10-
7-1998; Ord. 2002-7, passed 10-16-2002; Ord. 2003-5, passed 5-7-2003)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. Rev. Stat. 32-1303, 32-1305, 32-1306, 32-1308,
and 32-1309
§ 30.122  BOARD OF TRUSTEES.
   (A)   The members of the Board of Trustees shall be elected from the
municipality at large unless the registered voters of the municipality have
voted to elect its Board members by wards.
   (B)   The members of the Board of Trustees shall be elected at the state-
wide general election as provided in Neb. Rev. Stat. 17-202, and each four
years thereafter. Except as provided in such section, the term of each Trustee
shall be four years or until his or her successor is elected and qualified.
   (C)   Any person may be a Trustee who is a citizen of the United States,
resides in the village, and is a registered voter.
(Prior Code, § 1-713)  (Ord. 1984-5, passed 11-7-1984; Ord. 1996-7, passed 2-7-
1996)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. Rev. Stat. 17-202, 17-203, 32-532, and 32-554
§ 30.123  EXIT POLLS.
   (A)   No person shall conduct any exit poll, public opinion poll, or any
other interview with voters on election day seeking to determine voter
preference within 20 feet of the entrance of any polling place room or, if
inside the polling place building, within 100 feet of any voting booth.
   (B)   (1)   No poll watcher shall interfere with any voter in the
preparation or casting of such voter's  ballot or prevent any election worker
from performing the worker's duties.
      (2)   A poll watcher shall not provide assistance to a voter as described
in Neb. Rev. Stat. 32-918 unless selected by the voter to provide assistance as
provided in Neb. Rev. Stat. 32-918.
      (3)   A poll watcher shall not engage in electioneering as defined in
Neb. Rev. Stat. 32-1524 while engaged in observing at a polling place.
      (4)   A poll watcher shall maintain a distance of at least eight feet
from the sign-in table, the sign-in register, the polling booths, the ballot
box, and any ballots which have not been cast, except that if the polling place
is not large enough for a distance of eight feet, the judge of election shall
post a notice of the minimum distance the poll watcher must maintain from the
sign-in table, the sign-in register, the polling  booths, the ballot box, and
any ballots which have not been cast. The posted notice shall be clearly
visible to the voters and shall be posted prior to the opening of the polls on
election day.  The minimum  distance shall not be determined to exclude a poll
watcher from being in the polling place.
(Neb. Rev. Stat. 32-1525)  (Prior Code, § 1-714)  (Ord. 1985-9, passed 12-4-
1985)  Penalty, see §
30.999
INTERGOVERNMENTAL RISK MANAGEMENT
§ 30.135  GENERAL PROVISIONS.
   (A)   PUBLIC AGENCY means any county, city, village, school district, public
power district, rural fire district, or other political subdivision of this
state, the State of Nebraska, the University of Nebraska, and any corporation
whose primary function is to act as an instrumentality or agency of the State
of Nebraska.
   (B)   The Board of Trustees and any one or more public agencies may make and
execute an agreement providing for joint and cooperative action in accordance
with the Intergovernmental Risk Management Act to form, become members of, and
operate a risk management pool for the purpose of providing to members risk
management services and insurance coverages in the form of group self-insurance
or standard insurance, including any combination of group self-insurance and
standard insurance, to protect members against losses arising from any of the
following:
      (1)   General liability;
      (2)   Damage, destruction, or loss of real or personal property,
including, but not limited to, loss of use or occupancy, and loss of income or
extra expense resulting from loss of use or occupancy;
      (3)   Errors and omissions liability; and
      (4)   Workers’ compensation liability.
   (C)   The Board of Trustees and any one or more public agencies, other than
school districts and educational service units, may make and execute an
agreement providing for joint and cooperative action in accordance with the act
to form, become members of, and operate a risk management pool for the purpose
of providing to members risk management services and insurance coverages in the
form of group self-insurance or standard insurance, including any combination
of group self-insurance and standard insurance, to provide health, dental,
accident, and life insurance to member’s employees and officers.
(Prior Code, § 1-1101)  (Ord. 1987-9, passed 10-7-1987; Ord. 2002-25, passed
10-16-2002)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. Rev. Stat. 44-4303 and 44-4304
COMMISSION AND BOARDS
§ 30.150  STANDING COMMITTEES.
   At the organizational meeting of the Village Board, the Village Chairperson
shall appoint members of such standing committees as the Village Board may by
ordinance, or resolution, create. The membership of such standing committees
may be changed at any time by the Village Chairperson. The Village Chairperson
shall be a member ex officio of each standing committee. The members of the
standing committees shall serve a term of office of one year, unless
reappointed.
(Prior Code, § 2-101)
§ 30.151  BOARD OF HEALTH.
   (A)   (1)   The Board of Trustees shall appoint a Board of Health consisting
of three members: the Chairperson of the Board of Trustees, who shall be
chairperson, and two other members. One member shall be a physician or health
care provider, if one can be found who is willing to serve. Such physician or
health care provider, if appointed, shall be the Board of Health’s medical
advisor. If the Board of Trustees has appointed a Chief of Police, the Chief of
Police may be appointed to the Board of Health and serve as secretary and
quarantine officer.
      (2)   A majority of the Board of Health shall constitute a quorum and
shall enact rules and regulations, which shall have the force and effect of
law, to safeguard the health of the people of such village and prevent
nuisances and unsanitary conditions. The Board of Health shall enforce such
rules and regulations and provide fines and punishments for violations.
      (3)   The appointees shall hold office for one year unless removed by the
Chairperson of the Board of Trustees with the advice and consent of the
Trustees.
(Neb. Rev. Stat. 17-208)
   (B)   The Board of Health shall reorganize at its meeting each year after
the Board of Trustees’ meeting when appointments are regularly made and, if
necessary, select a member to serve as Secretary. No member of the Board of
Health shall hold more than one Board of Health position. The Secretary shall
keep full and correct minutes and records of all meetings and file the same
with the Village Clerk where they shall be available for public inspection
during office hours.
   (C)   The Board shall meet at such times as the Board of Trustees may
designate. Special meetings may be held upon the call of the Chairperson or any
two members of the Board of Health.
   (D)   The members of the Board of Health shall serve without compensation.
The Board of Health shall be funded by the Board of Trustees from time to time
out of the General Fund.
   (E)   The Board of Health may regulate, suppress, and prevent the occurrence
of nuisances and enforce all laws of the state and ordinances of the village
relating to nuisances and to matters of sanitation which affect the health and
safety of the people. The Board shall regularly inspect such premises and
businesses as the Board of Trustees may direct.
   (F)   All members of the Board of Health shall be responsible for making
such reports and performing such other duties as the Board of Trustees may,
from time to time, designate.
§ 30.152  BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT.
   (A)   The Board of Trustees shall appoint a Board of Adjustment, which shall
consist of five regular members plus one additional member designated as an
alternate who shall attend and serve only when one of the regular members is
unable to attend for any reason. Each member shall be appointed for a term of
three years and shall be removable for cause by the Chairperson of the Board of
Trustees, with the advice and consent of the other members of the Board of
Trustees, upon written charges and after public hearings. Vacancies shall be
filled for the unexpired term of any member whose term becomes vacant. One
member only of the Board of Adjustment shall be appointed from the membership
of the Planning Commission, and the loss of membership on the Planning
Commission by such member shall also result in his or her immediate loss of
membership on the Board of Adjustment and the appointment of another Planning
Commissioner to the Board of Adjustment. If the Board does not include a member
who resides in the extraterritorial zoning jurisdiction of the village, the
first vacancy occurring on the Board of Adjustment after the effective date of
this section shall be filled by the appointment of a person who resides in the
extraterritorial zoning jurisdiction of the village at such time as more than
200 persons reside within such area. Thereafter, at all times, at least one
member of the Board of Adjustment shall reside outside the corporate boundaries
of the village but within its extraterritorial zoning jurisdiction. No member
of the Board of Trustees shall serve as a member of the Board of Adjustment.
   (B)   The members of the Board of Adjustment shall serve without
compensation and may be required, in the discretion of the Board of Trustees,
to give a bond in a sum set by resolution of the Board of Trustees and
conditioned upon the faithful performance of their duties. The Board of
Adjustment shall organize at its first meeting each year after the Board of
Trustees meeting when appointments are regularly made and shall elect from its
membership a Chairperson and Secretary. No member of the Board of Adjustment
shall serve in the capacity of both Chairperson and Secretary of the Board.
   (C)   The Board of Adjustment shall adopt rules in accordance with the
provisions of this section and Neb. Rev. Stat. 19-901 through 19-914. Meetings
of the Board shall be held at the call of the Chairperson and at such other
times as the Board may determine. Special meetings may be also held upon the
call of any three members of the Board. A majority of the Board shall
constitute a quorum for the purpose of doing business. The Chairperson, or in
his or her absence the Acting Chairperson, may administer oaths and compel the
attendance of witnesses. All meetings of the Board shall be open to the public.
It shall be the duty of the Secretary to keep complete and accurate minutes of
the Board’s proceedings, showing the vote of each member upon each question,
or, if absent or failing to vote, indicating such fact, and to keep records of
the Board’s examinations and other official actions, all of which shall be
immediately filed in the office of the Board and shall be public record. The
Board shall be responsible for making such reports and performing such other
duties as the Board of Trustees may designate.
   (D)   Appeals to the Board of Adjustment may be taken by any person
aggrieved or by any officer, department, board, or bureau of the village
affected by any decision of the administrative officer. Such appeal shall be
taken within a reasonable time, as provided by the rules of the Board, by
filing with the officer from whom the appeal is taken and with the Board a
notice of appeal specifying the grounds thereof. The officer from whom the
appeal is taken shall forthwith transmit to the Board all the papers
constituting the record upon which the action appealed from was taken. An
appeal stays all proceedings in furtherance of the action appealed from, unless
the officer from whom the appeal is taken certifies to the Board, after the
notice of appeal shall have been filed with him or her, that by reason of facts
stated in the certificate a stay would, in his or her opinion, cause imminent
peril to life or property. In such case, proceedings shall not be stayed
otherwise than by a restraining order which may be granted by the Board or by a
court of record on application on notice to the officer from whom the appeal is
taken and on due cause shown. The Board shall fix a reasonable time for the
hearing of the appeal, give public notice thereof, as well as due notice to the
parties in interest, and decide the same within a reasonable time. Upon the
hearing, any party may appear in person or by agent or by attorney.
   (E)   The Board shall have only the following powers:
      (1)   To hear and decide appeals when it is alleged there is error in any
order, requirement, decision, or determination made by an administrative
official or agency based on or made in the enforcement of any zoning regulation
or any regulation relating to the location or soundness of structures, except
that the authority to hear and decide appeals shall not apply to decisions made
by the Board of Trustees or Planning Commission regarding a conditional use or
special exception;
      (2)   To hear and decide, in accordance with the provisions of any zoning
regulation, requests for interpretation of any map; and
      (3)   When by reason of exceptional narrowness, shallowness, or shape of
a specific piece of property at the time of the enactment of the zoning
regulations, or by reason of exceptional topographic conditions or other
extraordinary and exceptional situation or condition of such piece of property,
the strict application of any zoning regulation would result in peculiar and
exceptional practical difficulties to or exceptional and undue hardships upon
the owner of such property, to authorize, upon an appeal relating to the
property, a variance from such strict application so as to relieve such
difficulties or hardship, if such relief may be granted without substantial
detriment to the public good and without substantially impairing the intent and
purpose of any ordinance or resolution.
   (F)   (1)   No such variance shall be authorized by the Board unless it
finds that:
         (a)   The strict application of the zoning regulation would produce
undue hardship;
         (b)   Such hardship is not shared generally by other properties in the
same zoning district and the same vicinity;
         (c)   The authorization of such variance will not be of substantial
detriment to adjacent property and the character of the district will not be
changed by the granting of the variance; and
         (d)   The granting of such variance is based upon reason of
demonstrable and exceptional hardship as distinguished from variations for
purposes of convenience, profit, or caprice.
      (2)   No variance shall be authorized unless the Board finds that the
condition or situation of the property concerned or the intended use of the
property is not of so general or recurring a nature as to make reasonably
practicable the formulation of a general regulation to be adopted as an
amendment to the zoning regulations.
   (G)   In exercising the powers granted in this section, the Board may, in
conformity with Neb. Rev. Stat. 19-901 through 19-915, reverse or affirm,
wholly or partly, or may modify the order, requirement, decision, or
determination appealed from, and may make such order, requirement, decision, or
determination as ought to be made, and to that end shall have all the powers of
the officer from whom the appeal is taken. The concurring vote of four members
of the Board shall be necessary to reverse any order, requirement, decision, or
determination of any such administrative official, or to decide in favor of the
applicant on any matter upon which it is required to pass under any such
regulation or to effect any variation in such regulation.
   (H)   Appeals from a decision by the Board may be taken as provided in Neb.
Rev. Stat. 19-912.
(Prior Code, § 2-202)  (Ord. 2001-9, passed 10-3-2001; Ord. 2005-3, passed 3-2-
2005)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. Rev. Stat. 19-908, 19-909, and 19-910
§ 30.153  PLANNING COMMISSION.
   (A)   The Village Board shall appoint a Planning Commission which shall
consist of five regular members which shall represent, insofar as is possible,
the various professions and occupations in the village. Said Commission shall
be appointed by the Board Chairperson, by and with the approval of a majority
vote of the members elected to the Village Board. At least one of said members
may be a resident of the area over which the village exercises its
extraterritorial zoning and subdivision regulations.
   (B)   Three members of the Commission shall constitute a quorum for the
transaction of any business.
   (C)   All regular members of the Commission shall serve without compensation
and shall hold no other municipal office except when appointed to serve on the
Board of Adjustment as provided by law.
   (D)   The term of each regular member shall be three years, except that two
regular members of the first Commission to be so appointed shall serve for
terms of one year, two for terms of two years, and one for a term of three
years. All regular members shall hold office until their successors are
appointed.
   (E)   Any member may, after a public hearing before the Council or before
the Village Board, be removed by the Board Chairperson with the consent of a
majority vote of the members elected to the Village Board for inefficiency,
neglect of duty, or malfeasance in office, or other good and sufficient cause.
Vacancies occurring otherwise than through the expiration of term shall be
filled for an unexpired portion of the term by the Board Chairperson.
(Prior Code, § 2-301)  (Ord. 1999-2, passed 6-2-1999)
§ 30.154  PLANNING COMMISSION RULES AND REGULATIONS; RECORDS.
   The Commission shall elect its Chairperson from its members and create and
fill such other of its offices as it may determine. The term of the Chairperson
shall be for one year, and he or she shall be eligible for reelection. The
Commission shall hold at least one regular meeting in each calendar quarter,
except the Village Board may require the Commission to meet more frequently,
and the Chairperson of the Commission may call for a meeting when necessary to
deal with business pending before the Commission. The Commission shall adopt
rules and regulations for the transaction of business and shall keep a record
of its resolutions, transaction, filings, and determinations, which shall be a
public record.
(Prior Code, § 2-302)  (Ord. 1999-2, passed 6-2-1999)
§ 30.155  PLANNING COMMISSION POWERS AND DUTIES.
   (A)   The Planning Commission shall:
      (1)   Make and adopt plans for the physical development of the village,
including any areas outside its boundaries which in the Commission’s judgment
bear relation to the planning of such municipality and including a
comprehensive plan as defined by Neb. Rev. Stat. 19-903;
      (2)   Prepare and adopt such implemental means as a capital improvement
program, subdivision regulations, building codes, and a zoning ordinance in
cooperation with other interested municipal departments and/or municipalities;
and
      (3)   Consult with and advise public officials and agencies, public
utilities, civic organizations, educational institutions, and citizens with
relation to the promulgation and implementation of the comprehensive
development plan and its implemental programs.
   (B)   The Commission may delegate authority to any such group to conduct
studies and make surveys for the Commission, make preliminary reports on its
findings, and hold public hearings before submitting its final reports. The
Village Board shall not take final action on matters relating to the
comprehensive development plan, capital improvements, building codes,
subdivision development, the annexation of territory, or zoning until it has
received the recommendation of the Planning Commission.
   (C)   The Commission may, with the consent of the Village Board, in its own
name:
      (1)   Make and enter into contracts with public or private bodies;
      (2)   Receive contributions, bequests, gifts, or grant funds from public
or private sources;
      (3)   Expend the funds appropriated to it by the Village Board;
      (4)   Employ agents and employees; and
      (5)   Acquire, hold, and dispose of property.
   (D)   The Commission may on its own authority make arrangements consistent
with its program, conduct or sponsor special studies or planning work for any
public body or appropriate agency, receive grants, remuneration, or
reimbursement for such studies or work, and at its public hearings, summon
witnesses, administer oath, and compel the giving of testimony.
(Prior Code, § 2-303)  (Ord. 1999-2, passed 6-2-1999)
§ 30.999  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who shall violate or refuse to comply with the enforcement
of any of the provisions of this chapter set forth at full length herein or
incorporated by reference, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and upon conviction
thereof shall be fined not more than $500 for each offense. A new violation
shall be deemed to have been committed every 24 hours of such failure to
comply.
   (B)   (1)   Unless otherwise provided, any person upon whom a duty is placed
by the provisions of this §§
30.150 to
30.155 who shall fail, neglect, or refuse to perform such duty, or who shall
violate any of the provisions of §§
30.150 to
30.155, shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and upon conviction thereof
shall be punished by imprisonment in the county jail for a period not to exceed
three months or by a fine in a sum not more than $500, recoverable with costs,
or both, except that each person so convicted shall be fined in a sum not less
than $35 for the first offense, not less than $50 for a second offense, and not
less than $100 for the third offense and each offense thereafter.
      (2)   Each day that a violation of any section of §§
30.150 to
30.155 continues shall constitute a separate and distinct offense and shall be
punishable as such. The penalties herein provided shall be cumulative with and
in addition to any penalty or forfeiture elsewhere in §§
30.150 to
30.155 provided.
      (3)   (a)   Whenever a nuisance exists as defined in this chapter, the
municipality may proceed by a suit in equity to enjoin, abate, and remove the
same in the manner provided by law.
         (b)   Whenever, in any action, it is established that a nuisance
exists, the court may, together with the fine or penalty imposed, enter an
order of abatement as a part of the judgment in the case.
(Prior Code, § 2-401)  (Ord. 2002-16, passed 10-16-2002; Ord. 2004-18, passed
10-6-2004)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. Rev. Stat. 17-207, 17-505, 18-1720, and 18-1722
CHAPTER 31:  FISCAL MANAGEMENT
Section
General Provisions
   
31.001   Fiscal year
   
31.002   Proposed budget statement; contents; availability; correction
   
31.003   Proposed budget statement; hearing; adoption; certification of tax
amount
   
31.004   Adopted budget statement; filing; certification of amount of tax
   
31.005   Budget procedure
   
31.006   Appropriations
   
31.007   All-purpose levy; allocation; abandonment; extraordinary levies
   
31.008   Expenditures
   
31.009   Contracts and purchases; bidding and other requirements
   
31.010   Annual audit; financial statements
   
31.011   Claims
   
31.012   Warrants
   
31.013   Special assessment fund
   
31.014   Sinking funds, gifts
   
31.015   Deposit of funds
   
31.016   Investment of funds
   
31.017   Bond issues
   
31.018   Property tax; certification of amount
   
31.019   Property tax levy; maximum; authority to exceed
   
31.020   Property tax levy and request; authority to set
   
31.021   Budget revision
   
31.022   Time deposits; conditions
   
31.023   Credit cards and electronic funds transfers; authority to accept
   
31.024   Sales tax
Compensation
   
31.035   Municipal officials
   
31.036   Conflict of interest involving contracts
   
31.037   Contract exemption
   
31.038   For seasonal or emergency work
Initiative and Referendum
   
31.050   Definitions
   
31.051   Petitions, ballots
   
31.052   Petitions; form; declaratory judgments
   
31.053   Signature sheets
   
31.054   Petitions, affidavit
   
31.055   Petitions, notification
   
31.056   Frequency of occurrence
   
31.057   Direct vote
   
31.058   Elections
   
31.059   Ballots
   
31.060   Initiative
   
31.061   Referendum limitations
   
31.062   Referendum, passage
   
31.063   Application
Fee Schedule
   
31.075   Fee schedule
 
   
31.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 31.001  FISCAL YEAR.
   The fiscal year of the municipality and any public utility of the
municipality commences on October 1 and extends through the following September
30 except as provided in the Municipal Proprietary Function Act.
(Prior Code, § 1-801)  (Ord. 1996-8, passed 2-7-1996)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. Rev. Stat. 17-701
§ 31.002  PROPOSED BUDGET STATEMENT; CONTENTS; AVAILABILITY; CORRECTION.
   (A)   The governing body shall annually prepare a proposed budget statement
on forms prescribed and furnished by the Auditor of Public Accounts. The
proposed budget statement shall be made available to the public prior to
publication of the notice of the hearing on the proposed budget statement. A
proposed budget statement shall contain the following information, except as
provided by state law:
      (1)   For the immediately preceding fiscal year, the revenue from all
sources, including motor vehicle taxes, other than revenue received from
personal and real property taxation, allocated to the funds and separately
stated as to each such source: the unencumbered cash balance at the beginning
and end of the year; the amount received by taxation of personal and real
property; and the amount of actual expenditures;
      (2)   For the current fiscal year, actual and estimated revenue from all
sources, including motor vehicle taxes, allocated to the funds and separately
stated as to each such source: the actual unencumbered cash balance available
at the beginning of the year; the amount received from personal and real
property taxation; and the amount of actual and estimated expenditures,
whichever is applicable. Such statement shall contain the cash reserve for each
fiscal year and shall note whether or not such reserve is encumbered. Such cash
reserve projections shall be based upon the actual experience of prior years.
The cash reserve shall not exceed 50% of the total budget adopted exclusive of
capital outlay items;
      (3)   For the immediately ensuing fiscal year, an estimate of revenue
from all sources, including motor vehicle taxes, other than revenue to be
received from taxation of personal and real property, separately stated as to
each such source: the actual or estimated unencumbered cash balances, whichever
is applicable, to be available at the beginning of the year; the amounts
proposed to be expended during the year; and the amount of cash reserve, based
on actual experience of prior years, which cash reserve shall not exceed 50% of
the total budget adopted exclusive of capital outlay items;
      (4)   A statement setting out separately the amount sought to be raised
from the levy of a tax on the taxable value of real property:
         (a)   For the purpose of paying the principal or interest on bonds
issued by the governing body; and
         (b)   For all other purposes.
      (5)   A uniform summary of the proposed budget statement, including each
proprietary function fund included in a separate proprietary budget statement
prepared pursuant to the Municipal Proprietary Function Act, and a grand total
of all funds maintained by the governing body; and
      (6)   A list of the proprietary functions which are not included in the
budget statement. Such proprietary functions shall have a separate budget
statement which is approved by the governing body as provided in the Municipal
Proprietary Function Act.
   (B)   The actual or estimated unencumbered cash balance required to be
included in the budget statement by this section shall include deposits and
investments of the municipality as well as any funds held by the County
Treasurer for the municipality and shall be accurately stated on the proposed
budget statement.
   (C)   The municipality shall correct any material errors in the budget
statement detected by the Auditor of Public Accounts or by other sources.
   (D)   The estimated expenditures plus the required cash reserve for the
ensuing fiscal year less all estimated and actual unencumbered balances at the
beginning of the year and less the estimated income from all sources, including
motor vehicle taxes, other than taxation of personal and real property shall
equal the amount to be received from taxes, and such amount shall be shown on
the proposed budget statement pursuant to this section. The amount to be raised
from taxation of personal and real property, as determined above, plus the
estimated revenue from other sources, including motor vehicle taxes, and the
unencumbered balances shall equal the estimated expenditures, plus the
necessary required cash reserve, for the ensuing year.
(Prior Code, § 1-802)  (Ord. 1984-6, passed 11-7-1984; Ord. 1994-6, passed 10-
5-1994; Ord. 1998-4, passed 10-7-1998; Ord. 2002-18, passed 10-16-2002; Ord.
2003-7, passed 5-7-2003)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. Rev. Stat. 13-504 and 13-505
§ 31.003  PROPOSED BUDGET STATEMENT; HEARING; ADOPTION; CERTIFICATION OF TAX
AMOUNT.
   (A)   The governing body shall each year conduct a public hearing on its
proposed budget statement. Notice of the place and time of the hearing,
together with a summary of the proposed budget statement, shall be published at
least five days prior to the date set for the hearing in a newspaper of general
circulation within the municipality.
   (B)   After the hearing, the proposed budget statement shall be adopted, or
amended and adopted as amended, and a written record shall be kept of such
hearing. The amount to be received from personal and real property taxation
shall be certified to the Levying Board after the proposed budget statement is
adopted or is amended and adopted as amended. The certification of the amount
to be received from personal and real property taxation shall specify
separately:
      (1)   The amount to be applied to the payment of principal or interest on
bonds issued by the governing body; and
      (2)   The amount to be received for all other purposes.
   (C)   If the adopted budget statement reflects a change from that shown in
the published proposed budget statement, a summary of such changes shall be
published within 20 days after its adoption in the manner provided in this
section, but without provision for hearing, setting forth the items changed and
the reasons for such changes.
   (D)   When a levy increase has been authorized by vote of the electors, the
adopted budget statement shall indicate the amount of the levy increase.
(Prior Code, § 1-803)  (Ord. 1998-5, passed 10-7-1998; Ord. 2003-8, passed 5-7-
2003)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. Rev. Stat. 13-506 and 13-507
§ 31.004  ADOPTED BUDGET STATEMENT; FILING; CERTIFICATION OF AMOUNT OF TAX.
   (A)   After publication and hearing on the proposed budget statement and
within the time prescribed by law, the governing body shall file with and
certify to the Levying Board on or before September 20 of each year and file
with the Auditor of Public Accounts, a copy of the adopted budget statement,
together with the amount of the tax required to fund the adopted budget,
setting out separately the amount to be levied for the payment of principal or
interest on bonds issued by the governing body and the amount to be levied for
all other purposes. Proof of publication shall be attached to the statements.
   (B)   The governing body, in certifying the amount required, may make
allowance for delinquent taxes not exceeding 5% of the amount required plus the
actual percentage of delinquent taxes for the preceding tax year and for the
amount of estimated tax loss from any pending or anticipated litigation which
involves taxation and in which tax collections have been or can be withheld or
escrowed by court order. For purposes of this section, anticipated litigation
shall be limited to the anticipation of an action being filed by a taxpayer who
or which filed a similar action for the preceding year which is still pending.
Except for such allowances, the governing body shall not certify an amount of
tax more than 1% greater or lesser than the amount determined in the proposed
budget statement.
   (C)   The governing body may designate one of its members to perform any
duty or responsibility required of such body by this section.
(Prior Code, § 1-804)  (Ord. 1994-7, passed 10-5-1994; Ord. 1996-9, passed 2-7-
1996; Ord. 1998-6, passed 10-7-1998)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. Rev. Stat. 13-508
§ 31.005  BUDGET PROCEDURE.
   The Manual of Instructions for City/Village: Budgets, prepared by the
Auditor of Public Accounts, State Capitol, Lincoln, Nebraska 68509 is
incorporated by reference for the purpose of proper budget preparation.
(Prior Code, § 1-805)
§ 31.006  APPROPRIATIONS.
   The governing body shall adopt a budget statement pursuant to the state’s
Budget Act, to be termed “The Annual Appropriation Bill”, in which are
appropriated such sums of money as may be deemed necessary to defray all
necessary expenses and liabilities of the village.
(Prior Code, § 1-806)  (Ord. 1994-8, passed 10-5-1994; Ord. 1996-10, passed 2-
7-1996)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. Rev. Stat. 17-706
§ 31.007  ALL-PURPOSE LEVY; ALLOCATION; ABANDONMENT; EXTRAORDINARY LEVIES.
   (A)   The governing body has decided to certify to the County Clerk for
collection one all-purpose levy required to be raised by taxation for all
municipal purposes instead of certifying a schedule of levies for specific
purposes added together. Subject to the limits in Neb. Rev. Stat. 77-3442, the
all-purpose levy shall not exceed the annual levy specified in Neb. Rev. Stat.
19-1309, to be levied upon the taxable valuation of all taxable property in the
municipality.
   (B)   The amount of the all-purpose levy shall be certified as a single
amount for General Fund purposes. The governing body shall allocate the amount
raised by the all-purpose levy to the several departments of the municipality
in its annual budget and appropriation ordinance, or in other legal manner, as
the governing body deems wisest and best.
   (C)   The municipality shall be bound by its election to follow the all-
purpose levy method during the ensuing fiscal year but may abandon such method
in succeeding fiscal years.
   (D)   Otherwise authorized extraordinary levies to service and pay bonded
indebtedness of the municipality may be made by the municipality in addition to
the all-purpose levy.
(Prior Code, § 1-807)  (Ord. 1998-10, passed 10-7-1998)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. Rev. Stat. 19-1309 through 19-1312
§ 31.008  EXPENDITURES.
   No municipal official shall have the power to appropriate, issue, or draw
any order or warrant on the municipal treasury for money, unless the same has
been appropriated or ordered by ordinance. No expenditure for any improvement
to be paid for out of the General Fund of the municipality shall exceed in any
one year the amount provided for that improvement in the adopted budget
statement.
(Prior Code, § 1-812)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. Rev. Stat. 17-708
§ 31.009  CONTRACTS AND PURCHASES; BIDDING AND OTHER REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Except as provided in Neb. Rev. Stat. 18-412.01, for a contract with a
public power district to operate, renew, replace, or add to the electric
distribution, transmission, or generation system of the village, no contract
costing over $30,000 shall be made for enlargement or general improvements,
such as water extensions, sewers, public heating system, bridges, work on
streets, or any other work or improvement when the cost of such enlargement or
improvement is assessed to the property, unless it is first approved by the
Village Board.
   (B)   Except as provided in Neb. Rev. Stat. 18-412.01, before the Village
Board makes any contract in excess of $30,000 for enlargement or general
improvements, such as water extensions, sewers, public heating system, bridges,
work on streets, or any other work or improvement when the cost of such
enlargement or improvement is assessed to the property, an estimate of the cost
shall be made by the village engineer and submitted to the Village Board. In
advertising for bids as provided herein, the board may publish the amount of
the estimate,
   (C)   Advertisements for bids shall be required for any contract costing
over $30,000 entered into for enlargement or general improvements, such as
water extensions, sewers, public heating system, bridges, work on streets, or
any other work or improvement when the cost of such enlargement or improvement
is assessed to the property or for the purchase of equipment used in the
construction of such enlargement or general improvements.
   (D)   The advertisement provided for in division (C) of this section shall
be published at least seven days prior to the bid closing in a legal newspaper
published in or of general circulation in the village or by posting a written
or printed copy thereof in each of three public places in the village at least
seven days prior to the bid closing, in case of a public emergency resulting
from infectious or contagious diseases, destructive windstorms, floods, snow,
war, or an exigency or pressing necessity or unforeseen need calling for
immediate action or remedy to prevent a serious loss of or serious injury or
damage to life, health, or property, estimates of costs and advertising for
bids may be waived in the emergency ordinance authorized by Neb. Rev. Stat. 17-
613 when adopted by a three-fourths vote of the Village Board and entered of
record.
   (E)   If, after advertising for bids as provided in this section, the
Village Board receives fewer than two bids on a contract or if the bids
received by the board contain a price which exceeds the estimated cost, the
board may negotiate a contract in an attempt to complete the proposed
enlargement or general improvements at a cost commensurate with the estimate
given.
   (F)   If the materials are of such a nature that, in the opinion of the
manufacturer and with the concurrence of the Village Board, no cost can be
estimated until the materials have been manufactured or assembled to the
specific qualifications of the village, the board may authorize the manufacture
and assemblage of such materials and may thereafter approve the estimated cost
expenditure when it is provided by the manufacturer.
   (G)   Any village bidding procedure may be waived by the Village Board when
materials or equipment are purchased at the same price and from the same seller
as materials or equipment which have formerly been obtained pursuant to the
state bidding procedure in Neb. Rev. Stat. 81-145 to 81-162 or when the
contract is negotiated directly with a sheltered workshop pursuant to Neb. Rev.
Stat. 48-1503.
   (H)   Notwithstanding any other provisions of law or a home rule charter, a
village which has established by an interlocal agreement with any county a
joint purchasing division or agency may purchase personal property without
competitive bidding if the price for the property has been established by the
federal General Services Administration or the materiel division of the
Department of Administrative Services. For purposes of this division, “personal
property” includes but is not limited to supplies, materials, and equipment
used by or furnished to any officer, office, department, institution, board, or
other agency; and “purchasing” or “purchase”  means the obtaining of personal
property by sale, lease, or other contractual means
(Neb. Rev. Stat. 17-568.01, 17-568.02, 18-1756)
§ 31.010  ANNUAL AUDIT; FINANCIAL STATEMENTS.
   (A)   (1)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
         ACCOUNTANT. A duly licensed public accountant or certified public
accountant who otherwise is not an employee of or connected in any way with the
village.
         ANNUAL AUDIT REPORT. The written report of the accountant and all
appended statements and schedules relating thereto presenting or recording the
findings of an examination or audit of the financial transactions, affairs, or
financial condition of the village and its proprietary functions for the fiscal
year immediately prior to the making of such annual report.
         FISCAL YEAR. The fiscal year for the village or the fiscal year
established in Neb. Rev. Stat. 18-2804 for a proprietary function if different
than the municipal fiscal year.
      (2)   The Board of Trustees shall cause an audit of the village’s
accounts to be made by a recognized independent and qualified accountant as
expeditiously as possible following the close of the fiscal year and to cover
all financial transactions and affairs of the village for such preceding fiscal
year. Such audit shall be made on a cash or accrual method at the discretion of
the Board of Trustees. Such audit shall be completed and the annual audit
report made by such accountant shall be submitted within six months after the
close of the fiscal year in any event, unless an extension of time is granted
by a written resolution adopted by the Board of Trustees. The Board of Trustees
may request a waiver of the audit requirement subject to the requirements of
Neb. Rev. Stat. 84-304. If the village is required to conduct an audit under
Neb. Rev. Stat. 84-304 and owns or operates any type of public utility or other
enterprise which substantially generates its own revenue, the Board of Trustees
shall have that phase of the village’s affairs reported separately from the
other functions of the village. The result of such audit shall appear
separately in the annual audit report made by the accountant to the village,
and the audit shall be on a cash or accrual basis at the discretion of the
Board of Trustees.
      (3)   The annual audit report shall set forth, insofar as possible, the
financial position and results of financial operations for each fund or group
of accounts of the village. When the accrual method is selected for the annual
audit report, such report shall be in accordance with generally accepted
accounting principles. The annual audit report shall also include the
professional opinion of the accountant with respect to the financial
statements, or, if an opinion cannot be expressed, a declaration that the
accountant is unable to express such an opinion with an explanation of the
reasons why he or she cannot do so.
      (4)   At least three copies of such annual audit report shall be properly
signed and attested by the accountant; two copies shall be filed with the
Village Clerk and one copy shall be filed with the Auditor of Public Accounts.
The annual audit report filed, together with any accompanying comment or
explanation, shall become a part of the public records of the Village Clerk and
shall at all times thereafter be open and subject to public inspection.
   (B)   The Board of Trustees shall provide and file with the Village Clerk,
not later than August 1 of each year, financial statements showing the
village’s actual and budgeted figures for the most recently completed fiscal
year.
(Prior Code, § 1-814)  (Ord. 1984-7, passed 11-7-1984; Ord. 2003-13, passed 5-
7-2003)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. Rev. Stat. 13-606, 19-2902, 19-2903, 19-2904,
and 19-2905
§ 31.011  CLAIMS.
   All claims against the municipality shall be presented to the governing body
in writing with a full account of the items, and no claim or demand shall be
audited or allowed unless presented as provided for in this section. No costs
shall be recovered against the municipality in any action brought against it
for an unliquidated claim which has not been presented to the governing body to
be audited, nor upon claims allowed in part, unless the recovery shall be for a
greater sum than the amount allowed, with the interest due. No order or warrant
shall be drawn in excess of 85% of the current levy for the purpose for which
it is drawn unless there shall be sufficient money in the municipal treasury
for the appropriate fund against which it is to be drawn; provided, that in the
event there exists obligated funds from the federal and/or state government for
the general purpose of such warrant, then such warrant may be drawn in excess
of 85%, but not more than 100% of the current levy for the purpose for which
said warrant is drawn.
(Prior Code, § 1-815)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. Rev. Stat. 17-714 and 17-715
§ 31.012  WARRANTS.
   All warrants drawn upon the Municipal Treasury must be signed by the
Chairperson of the Board and countersigned by the Village Clerk, stating the
particular fund to which the warrant is chargeable, the person to whom it is
payable, and the purpose of the expenditure. No money shall be otherwise paid
than upon warrants so drawn. Each warrant shall specify the amount included of
such fund.
(Prior Code, § 1-816)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. Rev. Stat. 17-711
§ 31.013  SPECIAL ASSESSMENT FUND.
   All money received on special tax assessments shall be held by the Municipal
Treasurer as a special fund to be applied to the payment of the improvement for
which the assessment was made, and such money shall be used for no other
purpose unless to reimburse the municipality for money expended for any such
improvement.
(Prior Code, § 1-817)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. Rev. Stat. 17-710
§ 31.014  SINKING FUNDS, GIFTS.
   (A)   The village is hereby empowered to receive money or property by
donation, bequest, gift, devise, or otherwise for the benefit of any one or
more of the public purposes for which sinking funds are established by the
provisions of this section, as stipulated by the donor. Title to any money or
property so donated shall vest in the Board of Trustees, or in its successors
in office, who shall become the owners thereof in trust to the uses of the
sinking fund or funds; provided. In the event of a donation of real estate, the
Board of Trustees may manage the real estate as in the case of real estate
donated to the village for village library purposes under the provisions of
Neb. Rev. Stat. 51-215 and 51-216.
(Neb. Rev. Stat. 19-1301)
   (B)   The Board of Trustees, subject to all the limitations set forth in
this section, shall have the power to levy a tax of not to exceed $0.105 on
each $100 in any one year upon the taxable value of all the taxable property
within the village for a term of not to exceed ten years, in addition to the
amount of tax which may be annually levied for the purposes of the adopted
budget statement of the village, for the purpose of establishing a sinking fund
for the construction, purchase, improvement, extension, original equipment, or
repair, not including maintenance, of any one or more of the following public
improvements, including acquisition of any land incident to the making thereof:
village libraries; village auditoriums or community houses for social or
recreational purposes; village halls; village public libraries, auditoriums, or
community houses in a single building; village swimming pools; village jails;
village fire stations, together with firefighting equipment or apparatus;
village parks; village cemeteries; village medical buildings, together with
furnishings and equipment; or village hospitals. The village shall not be
authorized to levy the tax or to establish the sinking fund as provided in this
division if, having bonded indebtedness, such village has been in default in
the payment of interest thereon or principal thereof for a period of ten years
prior to the date of the passage of the resolution providing for the submission
of the proposition for establishment of the sinking fund as required in
division (C) below.
(Neb. Rev. Stat. 19-1302)
   (C)   Before any sinking fund or funds are established or before any annual
tax is levied for any such planned village improvements mentioned in division
(B) above by the village, the Board of Trustees shall declare its purpose by
resolution to submit to the qualified electors of the village at the next
general village election the proposition to provide the village with the
specific village improvement planned under this section. The resolution of
submission shall, among other things, set forth a clear description of the
improvement planned, the estimated cost according to the prevailing costs, the
amount of annual levy over a definite period of years, not exceeding ten years,
required to provide such cost, and the specific name or designation for the
sinking fund sought to be established to carry out the planned improvement,
together with a statement of the proposition for placement upon the ballot at
the election. Notice of the submission of the proposition, together with a copy
of the official ballot containing the same, shall be published in its entirety
three successive weeks before the day of the election in a legal newspaper in
or of general circulation in the village or, if no legal newspaper is published
in or of general circulation in the village, in a legal newspaper in or of
general circulation in the county in which the village is located. No such
sinking fund shall be established unless the same has been authorized by a
majority or more of the legal votes of the village cast for or against the
proposition. If less than a majority of the legal votes favor the establishment
of the sinking fund, the planned improvement shall not be made, no annual tax
shall be levied therefor, and no sinking fund or sinking funds shall be
established in connection therewith, but such resolution of submission shall
immediately be repealed. If the proposition shall carry at such election in the
manner prescribed in this division (C), the Board of Trustees and its
successors in office shall proceed to do all things authorized under such
resolution of submission but never inconsistent with this section. The election
provided for under this section shall be conducted as provided under the
Election Act.
(Neb. Rev. Stat. 19-1303)
   (D)   All funds received by the Village Treasurer, by donation or by tax
levy, as hereinbefore provided, shall, as they accumulate, be immediately
invested by the Treasurer, with the written approval of the Board of Trustees,
in the manner provided in §
31.016. Whenever investments of such sinking fund or funds are made, as
aforesaid, the nature and character of the same shall be reported to the Board
of Trustees, and the investment report shall be made a matter of record by the
Village Clerk in the proceedings of the Village Board. The sinking fund, or
sinking funds, accumulated under the provisions of this section, shall
constitute a special fund, or funds, for the purpose or purposes for which the
same was authorized and shall not be used for any other purpose unless
authorized by 60% of the qualified electors of the village voting at a general
election favoring such change in the use of the sinking fund or sinking funds;
provided that the question of the change in the use of the sinking fund or
sinking funds, when it fails to carry, shall not be resubmitted in substance
for a period of one year from and after the date of such election.
(Neb. Rev. Stat. 19-1304)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. Rev. Stat. 17-702
§ 31.015  DEPOSIT OF FUNDS.
   (A)   The Board of Trustees, at its first meeting in each fiscal year, shall
designate some one or more banks, capital stock financial institutions, or
qualifying mutual financial institutions of approved and responsible standing
in which the Village Treasurer shall keep at all times, subject to payment on
his or her demand, all money held by him or her as Village Treasurer. If there
is one or more banks, capital stock financial institutions, or qualifying
mutual financial institutions located in the village which apply for the
privilege of keeping such money and give bond or give security for the
repayment of deposits as provided in this section, such banks, capital stock
financial institutions, or qualifying mutual financial institutions shall be
selected as such depositories. The Village Treasurer shall not give a
preference to any one or more of them in the money he or she may so deposit.
   (B)   (1)   The Board of Trustees shall require from all banks, capital
stock financial institutions, or qualifying mutual financial institutions:
         (a)   A bond in such penal sum as may be the maximum amount on deposit
at any time less the amount insured by the Federal Deposit Insurance
Corporation or, in lieu thereof; and
         (b)   Security given as provided in the Public Funds Deposit Security
Act to secure the payment of all such deposits and accretions.
      (2)   The Board of Trustees shall approve such bond or giving of
security. The Village Treasurer shall not be liable for any loss of any money
sustained by reason of the failure of any such depository so designated and
approved. The fact that a stockholder, director, or other officer of such bank,
capital stock financial institution, or qualifying mutual financial institution
is also serving as a member of the Board of Trustees or as any other officer of
the village shall not disqualify such bank, capital stock financial
institution, or qualifying mutual financial institution from acting as a
depository for such municipal funds.
   (C)   The insurance afforded to depositors in banks, capital stock financial
institutions, or qualifying mutual financial institutions through the Federal
Deposit Insurance Corporation shall be deemed and construed to be a surety bond
to the extent that the deposits are insured by such corporation, and for
deposits so insured, no other surety bond or other security shall be required.
Neb. Rev. Stat. 77-2366 shall apply to deposits in capital stock financial
institutions. Neb. Rev. Stat. 77-2365.01 shall apply to deposits in qualifying
mutual financial institutions.
(Prior Code, § 1-819)  (Ord. 1998-14, passed 10-7-1998; Ord. 2002-26, passed
10-16-2002; Ord. 2003-12, passed 5-7-2003)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. Rev. Stat. 17-607 and 77-2362
§ 31.016  INVESTMENT OF FUNDS.
   Whenever a village has accumulated a surplus of any fund in excess of its
current needs or has accumulated a sinking fund for the payment of its bonds
and the money in such sinking fund exceeds the amount necessary to pay the
principal and interest of any such bonds which become due during the current
year, the governing body of such village may invest any such surplus in
certificates of deposit, in time deposits, and in any securities in which the
state investment officer is authorized by law and as provided in the authorized
investment guidelines of the state’s Investment Council in effect on the date
the investment is made.
(Prior Code, § 1-820)  (Ord. 1989-4, passed 12-6-1989)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. Rev. Stat. 17-608, 17-609, 21-1316.01, and 77-
2341
§ 31.017  BOND ISSUES.
   The Board of Trustees may, after meeting all the requirements of state law,
issue bonds, fund bonds, and retire bonds for such purposes as may be permitted
by state law. The Board of Trustees shall have the authority to levy special
assessments for the payment of interest and principal on these bonds and may
spread the payments up to the maximum number of years permitted by state law.
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. Rev. Stat. 10-101 through 10-143, and 18-1801
through 18-1805
§ 31.018  PROPERTY TAX; CERTIFICATION OF AMOUNT.
   (A)   The governing body shall, at the time and in the manner provided by
law, cause to be certified to the County Clerk the amount of tax to be levied
upon the taxable value of all the taxable property of the municipality which
the municipality requires for the purposes of the adopted budget statement for
the ensuing year, including all special assessments and taxes assessed as
otherwise provided.
   (B)   Subject to Neb. Rev. Stat. 77-3442, the maximum amount of tax which
may be so certified, assessed, and collected shall not require a tax levy in
excess of the amounts specified in Neb. Rev. Stat. 17-702
(Prior Code, § 1-822)  (Ord. 1998-7, passed 10-7-1998)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. Rev. Stat. 17-702
§ 31.019  PROPERTY TAX LEVY; MAXIMUM; AUTHORITY TO EXCEED.
   (A)   Property tax levies for the support of the village for fiscal years
beginning on or after July 1, 1998, shall be limited to the amounts set forth
in this division (A), except as provided in division (C) below. The village may
levy a maximum levy of $0.45 per $100 of taxable valuation of property subject
to the levy plus an additional $0.05 per $100 of taxable valuation to provide
financing for the village’s share of revenue required under an agreement or
agreements executed pursuant to the Interlocal Cooperation Act or the Joint
Public Agency Act. The maximum levy shall include amounts levied to pay for
sums to support a library pursuant to Neb. Rev. Stat. 51-201, museum pursuant
to Neb. Rev. Stat. 51-501, visiting community nurse, home health nurse, or home
health agency pursuant to Neb. Rev. Stat. 71-1637, or statue, memorial, or
monument pursuant to Neb. Rev. Stat. 80-202. Property tax levies for judgments,
except judgments or orders from the Commission of Industrial Relations,
obtained against the village which require or obligate the village to pay such
judgment, to the extent such judgment is not paid by liability insurance
coverage of the village, for preexisting lease-purchase contracts approved
prior to July 1, 1998, for bonded indebtedness approved according to law and
secured by a levy on property, and for payments by a public airport to retire
interest-free loans from the Department of Aeronautics in lieu of bonded
indebtedness at a lower cost to the public airport are not included in the levy
limits established by this division (A). The limitations on tax levies provided
in this division (A) are to include all other general or special levies
provided by law. Notwithstanding other provisions of law, the only exceptions
to the limits in this division (A) are those provided by or authorized by this
section. Tax levies in excess of the limitations in this section shall be
considered unauthorized levies under Neb. Rev. Stat. 77-1606 unless approved
under division (C) below.
   (B)   (1)   All village airport authorities established under the Cities
Airport Authorities Act, and community redevelopment authorities established
under the Community Development Law may be allocated property taxes as
authorized by law which are authorized by the village and are counted in the
municipal levy limit provided by division (A) above, except that such
limitation shall not apply to property tax levies for preexisting lease-
purchase contracts approved prior to July 1, 1998, for bonded indebtedness
approved according to law and secured by a levy on property, and for payments
by a public airport to retire interest-free loans from the Department of
Aeronautics in lieu of bonded indebtedness at a lower cost to the public
airport. The Board of Trustees shall review and approve or disapprove the levy
request of the political subdivisions subject to this division (B). The Board
of Trustees may approve all or a portion of the levy request and may approve a
levy request that would allow a levy greater than that permitted by law. The
levy allocated by the village may be exceeded as provided in division (C)
below.
      (2)   On or before August 1, all political subdivisions subject to
municipal levy authority under this division (B) shall submit a preliminary
request for levy allocation to the Board of Trustees. The preliminary request
of the political subdivision shall be in the form of a resolution adopted by a
majority vote of members present of the political subdivision’s governing body.
The failure of a political subdivision to make a preliminary request shall
preclude such political subdivision from using procedures set forth in Neb.
Rev. Stat. 77-3444 to exceed the final levy allocation as determined in this
division (B).
      (3)   (a)   The Board of Trustees shall:
            1.   Adopt a resolution by a majority vote of members present which
determines a final allocation of levy authority to its political subdivisions;
and
            2.   Forward a copy of such resolution to the Chairperson of the
governing body of each of its political subdivisions.
         (b)   No final levy allocation shall be changed after September 1
except by agreement between both the Board of Trustees and the governing body
of the political subdivision whose final levy allocation is at issue.
   (C)   (1)   The village may exceed the limits provided in division (A) above
by an amount not to exceed a maximum levy approved by a majority of registered
voters voting on the issue in a primary, general, or special election at which
the issue is placed before the registered voters. A vote to exceed the limits
must be approved prior to October 10 of the fiscal year which is to be the
first to exceed the limits.
      (2)   The Board of Trustees may call for the submission of the issue to
the voters:
         (a)   By passing a resolution calling for exceeding the limits by a
vote of at least two-thirds of the members of the Board of Trustees and
delivering a copy of the resolution to the County Clerk or Election
Commissioner of every county which contains all or part of the village; or
         (b)   Upon receipt of a petition by the County Clerk or Election
Commissioner of every county containing all or part of the village requesting
an election signed by at least 5% of the registered voters residing in the
village.
      (3)   The resolution or petition shall include the amount of levy which
would be imposed in excess of the limits provided in division (A) above and the
duration of the excess levy authority. The excess levy authority shall not have
a duration greater than five years. Any resolution or petition calling for a
special election shall be filed with the County Clerk or Election Commissioner
no later than 30 days prior to the date of the election, and the time of
publication and providing a copy of the notice of election required in Neb.
Rev. Stat. 32-802 shall be no later than 20 days prior to the election.
      (4)   The County Clerk or Election Commissioner shall place the issue on
the ballot at an election as called for in the resolution or petition which is
at least 30 days after receipt of the resolution or petition. The election
shall be held pursuant to the Election Act. For petitions filed with the County
Clerk or Election Commissioner on or after May 1, 1998, the petition shall be
in the form as provided in Neb. Rev. Stat. 32-628 through 32-631.
      (5)   Any excess levy authority approved under this division (C) shall
terminate pursuant to its terms, on a vote of the Board of Trustees to
terminate the authority to levy more than the limits, at the end of the fourth
fiscal year following the first year in which the levy exceeded the limit, or
as provided in division (C)(8) below, whichever is earliest.
      (6)   The Board of Trustees may pass no more than one resolution calling
for an election pursuant to this division (C) during any one calendar year.
Only one election may be held in any one calendar year pursuant to a petition
initiated under this division (C). The ballot question may include any terms
and conditions set forth in the resolution or petition and shall include the
language specified in Neb. Rev. Stat. 77-3444.
      (7)   If a majority of the votes cast upon the ballot question are in
favor of such tax, the County Board shall authorize a tax in excess of the
limits in division (A) above, but such tax shall not exceed the amount stated
in the ballot question. If a majority of those voting on the ballot question
are opposed to such tax, the Board of Trustees shall not impose such tax.
      (8)   In lieu of the election procedures in this division (C), the
village may approve a levy in excess of the limits in division (A) above for a
period of one year at a meeting of the residents of the village, called after
notice is published in a newspaper of general circulation in the village at
least 20 days prior to the meeting. At least 10% of the registered voters
residing in the village shall constitute a quorum for purposes of taking action
to exceed the limits. If a majority of the registered voters present at the
meeting vote in favor of exceeding the limits, a copy of the record of that
action shall be forwarded to the County Board prior to October 10 and the
County Board shall authorize a levy as approved by the residents for the year.
If a majority of the registered voters present at the meeting vote against
exceeding the limits, the limit shall not be exceeded and the village shall
have no power to call for an election under this division (C).
      (9)   (a)   The village may rescind or modify a previously approved
excess levy authority prior to its expiration by a majority of registered
voters voting on the issue in a primary, general, or special election at which
the issue is placed before the registered voters. A vote to rescind or modify
must be approved prior to October 10 of the fiscal year for which it is to be
effective.
         (b)   The Board of Trustees may call for the submission of the issue
to the voters:
            1.   By passing a resolution calling for the rescission or
modification by a vote of at least two-thirds of the members of the Board of
Trustees and delivering a copy of the resolution to the County Clerk or
Election Commissioner of every county which contains all or part of the
village; or
            2.   Upon request of a petition by the County Clerk or Election
Commissioner of every county containing all or part of the village requesting
an election signed by at least 5% of the registered voters residing in the
village.
         (c)   The resolution or petition shall include the amount and the
duration of the previously approved excess levy authority and a statement that
either such excess levy authority will be rescinded or such excess levy
authority will be modified. If the excess levy authority will be modified, the
amount and duration of such modification shall be stated. The modification
shall not have a duration greater than five years. The County Clerk or Election
Commissioner shall place the issue on the ballot at an election as called for
in the resolution or petition which is at least 30 days after receipt of the
resolution or petition, and the time of publication and providing a copy of the
notice of election required in Neb. Rev. Stat.  32-802 shall be no later than
20 days prior to the election. The election shall be held pursuant to the
Election Act.
(Prior Code, § 1-823)  (Ord. 1998-8, passed 10-7-1998; Ord. 2002-11, passed 10-
16-2002; Ord. 2003-10, passed 5-7-2003)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. Rev. Stat. 77-3442, 77-3443, and 77-3444
§ 31.020  PROPERTY TAX LEVY AND REQUEST; AUTHORITY TO SET.
   (A)   If the annual assessment of property would result in an increase in
the total property taxes levied by a county, municipality, school district,
learning community, sanitary and improvement district, natural resources
district, educational service unit, or community college, as determined using
the previous year’s rate of levy, the village’s property tax request for the
current year shall be no more than its property tax request in the prior year,
and the village’s rate of levy for the current year shall be decreased
accordingly when such rate is set by the County Board of Equalization pursuant
to Neb. Rev. Stat. 77-1601. The Board of Trustees shall pass a resolution or
ordinance to set the amount of its property tax request after holding the
public hearing required in division (C) of this section. If the Board of
Trustees seeks to set its property tax request at an amount that exceeds its
property tax request in the prior year, it may do so after holding the public
hearing required in division (C) of this section and by passing a resolution or
ordinance that complies with division (D) of this section.
   (B)   If the annual assessment of property would result in no change or a
decrease in the total property taxes levied by a county, municipality, school
district, learning community, sanitary and improvement district, natural
resources district, educational service unit, or community college, as
determined using the previous year’s rate of levy, the village’s property tax
request for the current year shall be no more than its property tax request in
the prior year, and the Board of Trustee’s rate of levy for the current year
shall be adjusted accordingly when such rate is set by the County Board of
Equalization pursuant to Neb. Rev. Stat. 77-1601. The Board of Trustees shall
pass a resolution or ordinance to set the amount of its property tax request
after holding the public hearing required in division (C) of this section. If
the Board of Trustees seeks to set its property tax request at an amount that
exceeds its property tax request in the prior year, it may do so after holding
the public hearing required in division (C) of this section and by passing a
resolution or ordinance that complies with division (D) of this section.
   (C)   The resolution or ordinance required under this section shall only be
passed after a special public hearing called for the purpose is held and after
notice is published in a newspaper of general circulation in the area of the
village at least four calendar days prior to the hearing. For purposes of such
notice, the four calendar days shall include the day of publication but not the
day of hearing, If the village’s total operating budget, not including
reserves, does not exceed $10,000 per year or $20,000 per biennial period, the
notice may be posted at the Board of Trustee’s principal headquarters.
   (D)   The hearing notice shall contain the following information:
      (1)   The certified taxable valuation under Neb. Rev. Stat. 13-509 for
the prior year, the certified taxable valuation under Neb. Rev. Stat. 13-509
for the current year, and the percentage increase or decrease in such
valuations from the prior year to the current year;
      (2)   The dollar amount of the prior year’s tax request and the property
tax rate that was necessary to fund that tax request;
      (3)   The property tax rate that would be necessary to fund last year’s
tax request if applied to the current year’s valuation;
      (4)   The proposed dollar amount of the tax request for the current year
and the property tax rate that will be necessary to fund that tax request;
      (5)   The percentage increase or decrease in the property tax rate from
the prior year to the current year; and
      (6)   The percentage increase or decrease in the total operating budget
from the prior year to the current year.
   (E)   Any resolution or ordinance setting a property tax request under this
section shall be certified and forwarded to the County Clerk prior to October
14 of the year for which the tax request is to apply.
   (F)   Any tax levy which is not in compliance with this section and Neb.
Rev. Stat. 77-1601 shall be construed as an unauthorized levy under Neb. Rev.
Stat. 77-1606.
   (G)   Any resolution or ordinance setting a village’s property tax request
at an amount that exceeds the village’s property tax request in the prior year
shall include, but not be limited to, the following information:
      (1)   The name of the village;
      (2)   The amount of the property tax request;
      (3)   The following statements:
         (a)   The total assessed value of property differs from last year’s
total assessed value by        percent;
         (b)   The tax rate which would levy the same amount of property taxes
as last year, when multiplied by the new total assessed value of property,
would be $       per $100 of assessed value;
         (c)   The (name of village) proposes to adopt a property tax request
that will cause its tax rate to be $       per $100 of assessed value; and
         (d)   Based on the proposed property tax request and changes in other
revenue, the total operating budget of (name of village) will exceed last
year’s by        percent; and
      (4)   The record vote of the Board of Trustees in passing such resolution
or ordinance.
(Prior Code, § 1-824)  (Ord. 1998-9, passed 10-7-1998; Ord. 2002-10, passed 10-
16-2002)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. Rev. Stat. 77-1601.02
§ 31.021  BUDGET REVISION.
   (A)   Unless otherwise provided by law, the governing body may propose to
revise the previously adopted budget statement and shall conduct a public
hearing on such proposal whenever during the current fiscal year it becomes
apparent to the governing body that:
      (1)   There are circumstances which could not reasonably have been
anticipated at the time the budget for the current year was adopted;
      (2)   The budget adopted violated Neb. Rev. Stat. 13-518 through 13-522,
such that the revenue of the current fiscal year for any fund thereof will be
insufficient, additional expenses will be necessarily incurred, or there is a
need to reduce the budget requirements to comply with Neb. Rev. Stat. 13-518
through 13-522; or
      (3)   The governing body has been notified by the Auditor of Public
Accounts of a mathematical or accounting error or noncompliance with the
state’s Budget Act.
   (B)   Notice of the time and place of the hearing shall be published at
least five days prior to the date set for hearing in a newspaper of general
circulation within the municipality. Such published notice shall set forth:
      (1)   The time and place of the hearing;
      (2)   The amount in dollars of additional or reduced money required and
for what purpose;
      (3)   A statement setting forth the nature of the unanticipated
circumstances and, if the budget requirements are to be increased, the reasons
why the previously adopted budget of expenditures cannot be reduced during the
remainder of the current year to meet the need for additional money in that
manner;
      (4)   A copy of the summary of the originally adopted budget previously
published; and
      (5)   A copy of the summary of the proposed revised budget.
   (C)   At such hearing, any taxpayer may appear or file a written statement
protesting any application for additional money. A written record shall be kept
of all such hearings.
   (D)   Upon conclusion of the public hearing on the proposed revised budget
and approval of the proposed revised budget by the governing body, the
governing body shall file with the County Clerk of the county or counties in
which such governing body is located, and with the Auditor of Public Accounts,
a copy of the revised budget, as adopted. The governing body may then issue
warrants in payment for expenditures authorized by the adopted revised budget.
Such warrants shall be referred to as registered warrants and shall be repaid
during the next fiscal year from funds derived from taxes levied therefor.
   (E)   Within 30 days after the adoption of the budget under Neb. Rev. Stat.
13-506, a governing body may, or within 30 days after notification of an error
by the Auditor of Public Accounts, a governing body shall, correct an adopted
budget which contains a clerical, mathematical, or accounting error which does
not affect the total amount budgeted by more than 1% or increase the amount
required from property taxes. No public hearing shall be required for such a
correction. After correction, the governing body shall file a copy of the
corrected budget with the County Clerk of the county or counties in which such
governing body is located and with the Auditor of Public Accounts. The
governing body may then issue warrants in payment for expenditures authorized
by the budget.
(Prior Code, § 1-825)  (Ord. 2002-14, passed 10-16-2002; Ord. 2002-21, passed
10-16-2002; Ord. 2003-9, passed 5-7-2003)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. Rev. Stat. 13-511
§ 31.022  TIME DEPOSITS; CONDITIONS.
   The Village Treasurer may, upon resolution of the Board of Trustees
authorizing the same, purchase certificates of deposit from and make time
deposits in any bank, capital stock financial institution, or qualifying mutual
financial institution in the state to the extent that such certificates of
deposit or time deposits are insured by the Federal Deposit Insurance
Corporation. Deposits may be made in excess of the amounts so secured by the
corporation, and the amount of the excess deposit shall be secured by a bond or
by security given in the same manner as is provided for cities of the first
class in Neb. Rev. Stat. 16-714 through 16-716. Neb. Rev. Stat. 77-2366 shall
apply to deposits in capital stock financial institutions. Neb. Rev. Stat. 77-
2365.01 shall apply to deposits in qualifying mutual financial institutions.
(Prior Code, § 1-826)  (Ord. 2002-27, passed 10-16-2002)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. Rev. Stat. 17-720
§ 31.023  CREDIT CARDS AND ELECTRONIC FUNDS TRANSFERS; AUTHORITY TO ACCEPT.
   (A)   The governing body may authorize municipal officials to accept credit
cards, charge cards, or debit cards, whether presented in person or
electronically, or electronic funds transfers as a method of cash payment of
any tax, levy, excise, duty, custom, toll, interest, penalty, fine, license,
fee, or assessment of whatever kind or nature, whether general or special, as
provided by Neb. Rev. Stat. 77-1702.
   (B)   The total amount of such taxes, levies, excises, duties, customs,
tolls, interest, penalties, fines, licenses, fees, or assessments of whatever
kind or nature, whether general or special, paid for by credit card, charge
card, debit card, or electronic funds transfer shall be collected by the
municipal official.
   (C)   With respect to a facility which it operates in a proprietary
capacity, the governing body may choose to accept credit cards, charge cards,
or debit cards, whether presented in person or electronically, or electronic
funds transfers as a means of cash payment and may adjust the price for
services to reflect the handling and payment costs.
   (D)   The municipal official shall obtain, for each transaction,
authorization for use of any credit card, charge card, or debit card used
pursuant to this section from the financial institution, vending service
company, credit card or charge card company, or third-party merchant bank
providing such service.
   (E)   The governing body may choose to participate in the state contract for
such payment services. If the governing body chooses not to participate in the
state contract, it may choose types of credit cards, charge cards, and debit
cards and may negotiate and contract independently or collectively as a
governmental entity with one or more financial institutions, vending service
companies, credit card, charge card, or debit card companies, or third-party
merchant banks for the provision of such services.
   (F)   When authorizing acceptance of credit card or charge card payments,
the governing body shall be authorized but not required to impose a surcharge
or convenience fee upon the person making a payment by credit card or charge
card so as to wholly or partially offset the amount of any discount or
administrative fees charged to the municipality, but the surcharge or
convenience fee shall not exceed the surcharge or convenience fee imposed by
the credit card or charge card companies or third-party merchant banks which
have contracted with the state or under division (E) above. The surcharge or
convenience fee shall be applied only when allowed by the operating rules and
regulations of the credit card or charge card involved or when authorized in
writing by the credit card or charge card company involved. When a person
elects to make a payment to the municipality by credit card or charge card and
such a surcharge or convenience fee is imposed, the payment of such surcharge
or convenience fee shall be deemed voluntary by such person and shall be in no
case refundable. If a payment is made electronically by credit card, charge
card, debit card, or electronic funds transfer as part of a system for
providing or retrieving information electronically, the municipal official
shall be authorized but not required to impose an additional surcharge or
convenience fee upon the person making a payment.
   (G)   For purposes of this section, ELECTRONIC FUNDS TRANSFER means the
movement of funds by nonpaper means, usually through a payment system,
including, but not limited to, an automated clearinghouse or the Federal
Reserve’s Fedwire System.
(Prior Code, § 1-827)  (Ord. 2003-11, passed 5-7-2003)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. Rev. Stat. 13-609
§ 31.024  SALES TAX.
   (A)   Pursuant to the approval of the electors of the village, at the
village’s primary election held on May 14, 2002, there is hereby adopted
pursuant to the provisions of Neb. Rev. Stat. 77-2701 through 77-27,135, as
amended, known as the state’s Revenue Act of 1967, and Neb. Rev. Stat. 77-
27,142 through 77-27,148, as amended, known as the Local Option Revenue Act of
1969, a sales tax effective on and after October 1, 2002, of 1% upon the same
transactions within the corporate limits of the village, as the same may from
time to time be extended, on which the state is authorized to impose a tax
pursuant to the provisions of the aforementioned statutes of the state as the
same may from time to time be amended.
   (B)   The administration of the sales tax imposed by this section, the
making of returns for the ascertainment and assessment, the provisions for tax
claims and remedies, the laws governing consummation of sales, penalties, and
collection, and for the disposition and distribution of the tax so imposed and
collected shall be provided by Neb. Rev. Stat. 77-27,142 through 77-27,148, as
amended, and Neb. Rev. Stat. 77-2701 through 77-27,135, as amended.
   (C)   The Village Board shall mail by certified or registered mail a
certified copy of Ord. 2002-01 and a certified copy of a map of the village
showing the corporate limits thereof to the State Tax Commissioner and the
state’s Department of Revenue immediately after the effective date of this
section and at least 60 days prior to October 1, 2002, as provided by law.
(Prior Code, § 1-828)  (Ord. 2002-01, passed 6-5-2002)
COMPENSATION
§ 31.035  MUNICIPAL OFFICIALS.
   The compensation of any elective official of the municipality shall not be
increased or diminished during the term for which he or she shall have been
elected except when there has been a merger of offices; provided, the
compensation of the members of the governing body, a board, or commission may
be increased or diminished at the beginning of the full term of any member
whether or not the terms of one or more members commence and end at different
times. No elected official may be rehired at a greater salary if he or she
resigns and desires to be rehired during the unexpired term of office. He or
she may be rehired after the term of office during which he or she resigned at
a greater salary. All salaries shall be set by ordinance of the governing body
and will be available for public inspection at the office of the Village Clerk.
(Prior Code, § 1-901)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. Rev. Stat. 17-209.02 and 17-612
§ 31.036  CONFLICT OF INTEREST INVOLVING CONTRACTS.
   (A)   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      BUSINESS ASSOCIATION.
         (a)   A business:
            1.   In which the individual is a partner, limited liability
company member, director, or officer; or
            2.   In which the individual or a member of the individual’s
immediate family is a stockholder of closed corporation stock worth $1,000 or
more at fair market value or which represents more than a 5% equity interest or
is a stockholder of publicly traded stock worth $10,000 or more at fair market
value or which represents more than 10% equity interest.
         (b)   An individual who occupies a confidential professional
relationship protected by law shall be exempt from this definition. This
definition shall not apply to publicly traded stock under a trading account if
the filer reports the name and address of the stockbroker.
      IMMEDIATE FAMILY. A child residing in an individual’s household, a spouse
of an individual, or an individual claimed by that individual or that
individual’s spouse as a dependent for federal income tax purposes.
      OFFICER.
         (a)   1.   A member of any board or commission of the municipality
which spends and administers its own funds, who is dealing with a contract made
by such board or commission; or
            2.   Any elected municipal official.
         (b)   OFFICER does not mean volunteer firefighters or ambulance
drivers with respect to their duties as firefighters or ambulance drivers.
   (B)   (1)   Except as provided in Neb. Rev. Stat. 49-1499.04 or 70-624.04,
no officer may have an interest in any contract to which his or her governing
body, or anyone for its benefit, is a party. The existence of such an interest
in any contract shall render the contract voidable by decree of a court of
competent jurisdiction as to any person who entered into the contract or took
assignment of such contract with actual knowledge of the prohibited conflict.
An action to have a contract declared void under this section may be brought by
the County Attorney, the governing body, or any resident within the
jurisdiction of the governing body and shall be brought within one year after
the contract is signed or assigned. The decree may provide for the
reimbursement of any person for the reasonable value of all money, goods,
material, labor, or services furnished under the contract, to the extent that
the governing body has benefitted thereby.
      (2)   The prohibition in this division (B) shall apply only when the
officer or his or her parent, spouse, or child:
         (a)   Has a business association with the business involved in the
contract; or
         (b)   Will receive a direct pecuniary fee or commission as a result of
the contract.
   (C)   Division (B) above does not apply if the contract is an agenda item
approved at a meeting of the governing body and the interested officer:
      (1)   Makes a declaration on the record to the governing body responsible
for approving the contract regarding the nature and extent of his or her
interest prior to official consideration of the contract;
      (2)   Does not vote on the matters of granting the contract, making
payments pursuant to the contract, or accepting performance of work under the
contract, or similar matters relating to the contract, except that if the
number of members of the governing body declaring an interest in the contract
would prevent the body with all members present from securing a quorum on the
issue, then all members may vote on the matters; and
      (3)   Does not act for the governing body which is a party to the
contract as to inspection or performance under the contract in which he or she
has an interest.
   (D)   An officer who:
      (1)   Has no business association with the business involved in the
contract; or
      (2)   Will not receive a direct pecuniary fee or commission as a result
of the contract shall not be deemed to have an interest within the meaning of
this section.
   (E)   The receiving of deposits, cashing of checks, and buying and selling
of warrants and bonds of indebtedness of any such governing body by a financial
institution shall not be considered a contract for purposes of this section.
The ownership of less than 5% of the outstanding shares of a corporation shall
not constitute an interest within the meaning of this section.
   (F)   If an officer’s parent, spouse, or child is an employee of the
officer’s governing body, the officer may vote on all issues of the contract
which are generally applicable to:
      (1)   All employees; or
      (2)   All employees within a classification and do not single out his or
her parent, spouse, or child for special action.
   (G)   Neb. Rev. Stat. 49-14,102 shall not apply to contracts covered by this
section.
   (H)   (1)   The person charged with keeping records for the governing body
shall maintain separately from other records a ledger containing the
information listed in divisions (H)(1)(a) through (H)(1)(e) below about every
contract entered into by the governing body in which an officer of the body has
an interest and for which disclosure is made pursuant to division (C) above.
Such information shall be kept in the ledger for five years from the date of
the officer’s last day in office and shall include the:
         (a)   Names of the contracting parties;
         (b)   Nature of the interest of the officer in question;
         (c)   Date that the contract was approved by the governing body;
         (d)   Amount of the contract; and
         (e)   Basic terms of the contract.
      (2)   The information supplied relative to the contract shall be provided
no later than ten days after the contract has been signed by both parties. The
ledger kept pursuant to this division (H) shall be available for public
inspection during the normal working hours of the office in which it is kept.
   (I)   An open account established for the benefit of any governing body with
a business in which an officer has an interest shall be deemed a contract
subject to this section. The statement required to be filed by division (H)
above shall be filed within ten days after such account is opened. Thereafter,
the person charged with keeping records for the governing body shall maintain a
running account of amounts purchased on the open account. Purchases made from
petty cash or a petty cash fund shall not be subject to this section.
   (J)   Notwithstanding divisions (A) through (I) above, the governing body
may prohibit contracts over a specific dollar amount in which an officer of the
governing body may have an interest.
   (K)   The governing body may exempt from divisions (A) through (I) above,
contracts involving $100 or less in which an officer of such body may have an
interest.
(Prior Code, § 1-902)  (Ord. 1982-3, passed 10-6-1982; Ord. 1983-9, passed 11-
2-1983; Ord. 1984-8, passed 11-7-1984; Ord. 1986-11, passed 11-5-1986; Ord.
2002-23, passed 10-16-2002)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. Rev. Stat. 49-14,103.01, 49-14,103.02, 49-
14,103.03, 49-14,103.05,49-14,103.06, 49-1408, and 49-1425
§ 31.037  CONTRACT EXEMPTION.
   Contracts involving $100 or less in which an officer of the municipality may
have an interest shall be exempt from the provisions of §
31.036.
(Prior Code, § 1-903)  (Ord. 1989-1, passed 1-4-1989)
§ 31.038  FOR SEASONAL OR EMERGENCY WORK.
   Members of the Village Board of Trustees may perform and, upon Board
approval, receive compensation for seasonal or emergency work subject to the
requirements in §§
31.036 and
31.037, and for such purposes the governing body of the village may, at its
discretion, declare any of the offices of members of the Village Board of
Trustees to be merged with the employment position known as “Village
Maintenance Person” or such other employment as is customarily undertaken by
the village for general maintenance of the village.
(Prior Code, § 1-904)  (Ord. 1989-1, passed 1-4-1989)
INITIATIVE AND REFERENDUM
§ 31.050  DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   The powers of initiative and referendum are reserved to the qualified
electors of the municipality by state law. This subchapter shall govern the use
of initiative to enact, and the use of referendum to amend or repeal, measures
affecting the governance of the municipality.
   (B)   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      CIRCULATOR. Any person who solicits signatures for an initiative or
referendum petition.
      CLERK. The Village Clerk or the municipal official in charge of
elections.
      GOVERNING BODY. The legislative authority of the municipality.
      MEASURE. An ordinance, charter provision, or resolution which is within
the legislative authority of the governing body to pass, and which is not
excluded from the operation of referendum by the exceptions in §
31.061.
      MUNICIPALITY. The Village of Cortland, Nebraska.
      PETITION. A document authorized for circulation pursuant to §
31.051, or any copy of such document.
      PLACE OF RESIDENCE. The street and number of the residence. If there is
no street and number for the residence, PLACE OF RESIDENCE shall mean the
mailing address.
      PROSPECTIVE PETITION. A sample document containing the information
necessary for a completed petition, including a sample signature sheet, which
has not yet been authorized for circulation.
      QUALIFIED ELECTORS. All persons registered to vote, at the time the
prospective petition is filed, in the jurisdiction governed or to be governed
by any measure sought to be enacted by initiative or altered or repealed by
referendum.
      RESIDENCE. The place at which a person has established his or her home,
where he or she is habitually present, and to which, when he or she departs, he
or she intends to return.
      SIGNATURE SHEET. A sheet of paper which is part of a petition and which
is signed by persons wishing to support the petition effort.
(Prior Code, § 1-1001)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. Rev. Stat. 18-2501 through 18-2511
§ 31.051  PETITIONS, BALLOTS.
   (A)   Before circulating an initiative or referendum petition, the
petitioner shall file with the Clerk a prospective petition. The Clerk shall
date the prospective petition immediately upon its receipt. The Clerk shall
verify that the prospective petition is in proper form and shall provide a
ballot title for the initiative or referendum proposal, as described below. If
the prospective petition is in proper form, the Clerk shall authorize the
circulation of the petition and such authorization shall be given within three
working days from the date the prospective petition was filed. If the form of
the prospective petition is incorrect, the Clerk shall, within three working
days from the date the prospective petition was filed, inform the petitioner of
necessary changes and request that those changes be made. When the requested
changes have been made and the revised prospective petition has been submitted
to the Clerk in proper form, the Clerk shall authorize the circulation of the
petition and such authorization shall be given within two working days from the
receipt of the properly revised petition. Verification by the Clerk that the
prospective petition is in proper form does not constitute an admission by the
Clerk, governing body, or municipality that the measure is subject to
referendum or limited referendum or that the measure may be enacted by
initiative.
   (B)   The ballot title of any measure to be initiated or referred shall
consist of:
      (1)   A briefly-worded caption by which the measure is commonly known or
which accurately summarizes the measure;
      (2)   A briefly-worded question which plainly states the purpose of the
measure, and is phrased so that an affirmative response to the question
corresponds to an affirmative vote on the measure; and
      (3)   A concise and impartial statement, of not more than 75 words, of
the chief purpose of the measure.
   (C)   The ballots used when voting on an initiative or referendum proposal
shall contain the entire ballot title. Proposals for initiative and referendum
shall be submitted on separate ballots and the ballots shall be printed in
lower case ten point type, except that the caption shall be in bold face type.
All initiative and referendum measures shall be submitted in a nonpartisan
manner without indicating or suggesting on the ballot that they have or have
not been approved or endorsed by any political party or organization.
(Prior Code, § 1-1002)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. Rev. Stat. 18-2512 and 18-2513
§ 31.052  PETITIONS; FORM; DECLARATORY JUDGMENTS.
   (A)   The Secretary of State shall design the form to be used for initiative
and referendum petitions, including signature sheets. These forms shall be made
available to the public by the Clerk, and they shall serve as a guide for
individuals preparing prospective petitions. Substantial compliance with
initiative and referendum forms is required before authorization to circulate
such petition shall be granted by the Clerk pursuant to §
31.051. Chief petitioners or circulators preparing prospective petitions shall
be responsible for making copies of the petition for circulation, once
authorization for circulation has been granted, and each petition presented for
signature must be identical to the petition authorized for circulation by the
Clerk pursuant to §
31.051.
   (B)   (1)   The municipality or any chief petitioner may seek a declaratory
judgment regarding any questions arising under this subchapter, as it may be
from time to time amended, including, but not limited to, determining whether a
measure is subject to referendum or limited referendum or whether a measure may
be enacted by initiative. If a chief petitioner seeks a declaratory judgment,
the municipality shall be served by personal, residence, or certified mail
service upon the Chief Executive Officer or Clerk. If the municipality seeks a
declaratory judgment, only the chief petitioner or chief petitioners shall be
required to be served. Any action brought for declaratory judgment for purposes
of determining whether a measure is subject to limited referendum or
referendum, or whether a measure may be enacted by initiative, may be filed in
the district court at any time after the filing of a referendum or initiative
petition with the Village Clerk for signature verification until 40 days from
the date the governing body received notification pursuant to §
31.055. If the municipality does not bring an action for declaratory judgment
to determine whether the measure is subject to limited referendum or
referendum, or whether the measure may be enacted by initiative until after it
has received notification pursuant to §
31.055, it shall be required to proceed with the initiative or referendum
election in accordance with the provisions of this subchapter.
      (2)   If the municipality does file such an action prior to receiving
notification pursuant to §
31.055, it shall not be required to proceed to hold such election until a final
decision has been rendered in the action. Any action for a declaratory judgment
shall be governed generally by Neb. Rev. Stat. 25-21,149 through 25-21,164,
except that only the municipality and each chief petitioner shall be required
to be made parties. The municipality, Clerk, governing body, or any of the
municipality’s officers shall be entitled to rely on any order rendered by the
court in any such proceeding. Any action brought for declaratory judgment
pursuant to this section shall be given priority in scheduling, hearings, and
in disposition as determined by the court when an action is brought to
determine whether the measure is subject to limited referendum or referendum,
or whether a measure may be enacted by initiative, a decision shall be rendered
by the court no later than five days prior to the election. The provisions of
this section relating to declaratory judgments shall not be construed as
limiting, but construed as supplemental and additional to other rights and
remedies conferred by law.
   (C)   Every petition shall contain the name and place of residence of not
more than three persons as chief petitioners or sponsors of the measure. The
chief petitioners or sponsors shall be qualified electors of the municipality
potentially affected by the initiative or referendum proposal. Every petition
shall contain the caption and ballot title required in §
31.051, and only qualified electors shall circulate petitions. When a special
election is being requested, such fact shall be stated on every petition.
(Prior Code, § 1-1003)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. Rev. Stat. 25-510.02, 25-2514, and 25-515
§ 31.053  SIGNATURE SHEETS.
   (A)   Every signature sheet shall:
      (1)   Contain the caption required in §
31.051(A);
      (2)   Be part of a complete and authorized petition when presented to
potential signatories;
      (3)   Provide space for signatories to write their names, residential
addresses, and the date of signing; and
      (4)   Contain a statement that anyone falsifying information on a
signature sheet shall be subject to penalties provided by law.
   (B)   No more than 25 signatures on each signature sheet shall be counted.
In order to be valid, a signature shall be that of an individual registered to
vote, at the time of signing, in the jurisdiction governed or to be governed by
the measure addressed in the petition. A signature shall include the
signatory’s full name, his or her place of residence, and the date of signing.
No signatory shall use ditto marks as a means of affixing his or her place of
residence or date on any petition. A wife shall not use her husband’s Christian
or given name when she signs a petition and she shall sign her own Christian or
given name along with her surname.
(Prior Code, § 1-1004)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. Rev. Stat. 18-2516
§ 31.054  PETITIONS, AFFIDAVIT.
   Included in the contents of every petition shall be an affidavit, to be
signed by the circulator in the presence of a notary, which states that the
circulator is a qualified elector, that each person who signed the petition did
so in the presence of the circulator on the date indicated, and that the
circulator believes that each signatory was registered to vote in the affected
jurisdiction at the time he or she signed the petition and that the circulator
believes that each signatory has stated his or her name and place of residence
correctly.
(Prior Code, § 1-1005)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. Rev. Stat. 18-2517
§ 31.055  PETITIONS, NOTIFICATION.
   (A)   Signed petitions shall be filed with the Clerk for signature
verification. Upon the filing of a petition, and passage of a resolution by the
governing body, the municipality and the County Clerk or Election Commissioner
of the county in which such municipality is located may, by mutual agreement,
provide that the County Clerk or Election Commissioner shall ascertain whether
the petition is signed by the requisite number of voters. The municipality
shall reimburse the county for any costs incurred by the County Clerk or
Election Commissioner. When the verifying official has determined that 100% of
the necessary signatures required by this subchapter have been obtained, he or
she shall notify the governing body of that fact, and shall immediately forward
to the governing body a copy of the petition.
   (B)   In order for an initiative or referendum proposal to be submitted to
the governing body and the voters, the necessary signatures shall be on file
with the Clerk within six months from the date the prospective petition was
authorized for circulation. If the necessary signatures are not obtained by
such date, the petition shall be void.
(Prior Code, § 1-1006)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. Rev. Stat. 18-2518
§ 31.056  FREQUENCY OF OCCURRENCE.
   The same measure, either in form or in essential substance, may not be
submitted to the people by initiative petition, either affirmatively or
negatively, more often than once every two years. No attempt to repeal or alter
an existing measure or portion of such measure by referendum petition may be
made within two years from the last attempt to do the same. Such prohibition
shall apply only when the subsequent attempt to repeal or alter is designed to
accomplish the same, or essentially the same purpose as the previous attempt.
(Prior Code, § 1-1007)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. Rev. Stat. 18-2519
§ 31.057  DIRECT VOTE.
   (A)   The Executive Officer and governing body of the municipality may at
any time, by resolution, provide for the submission to a direct vote of the
electors of any measure pending before it, passed by it, including an override
of any veto, if necessary, or enacted by the electors under this subchapter and
may provide in such resolution that such measure shall be submitted at a
special election or the next regularly scheduled primary or general election.
   (B)   Immediately upon the passage of any such resolution for submission,
the Clerk shall cause such measure to be submitted to a direct vote of the
electors, at the time specified in such resolution and in the manner provided
in this subchapter for submission of measures upon proposals and petitions
filed by voters. Such matter shall become law if approved by a majority of the
votes cast.
(Prior Code, § 1-1008)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. Rev. Stat. 18-2520
§ 31.058  ELECTIONS.
   (A)   The Clerk shall call elections under this subchapter, either at a
special election or regularly scheduled primary or general election. He or she
shall cause notice of every such election to be printed in one or more
newspapers of general circulation in such municipality at least once not less
than 30 days prior to such election and also posted in the office of the Clerk
and in at least three conspicuous places in such municipality at least 30 days
prior to such election. The notice shall be substantially as follows:
   Notice is hereby given that on Tuesday, the            day of              
              , 20        , at (identify polling place or precinct) of the
Municipality of                           , Nebraska, an election will be held
at which there Municipality for their approval or rejection, the following
measures, propositions, or issues:                                            
                                                                               
                                                                       
(naming measures, propositions, or issues), which election will be open at 8:00
a.m. and will continue open until 8:00 p.m., of the same day.
   Dated this          day of                                , 20         
                                                                
   Clerk of the Village of Cortland, Nebraska.
   (B)   The Clerk shall make available for photocopying a copy in pamphlet
form of measures initiated or referred. Such notice provided in this section
shall designate where such a copy in pamphlet form may be obtained.
(Prior Code, § 1-1009)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. Rev. Stat. 18-2521
§ 31.059  BALLOTS.
   All ballots for use in special elections under this subchapter shall be
prepared by the Clerk and furnished by the governing body, unless the governing
body contracts with the county for such service, and shall be in the same form
as provided by law for election of the Executive Officer and governing body of
such municipality. When ordinances under such sections are submitted to the
electors at a regularly scheduled primary or general election, they shall be
placed upon the official ballots as provided in this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 1-1010)
§ 31.060  INITIATIVE.
   (A)   The power of initiative allows citizens the right to enact measures
affecting the governance of the municipality. An initiative proposal shall not
have as its primary or sole purpose the repeal or modification of existing law
except if such repeal or modification is ancillary to and necessary for the
adoption and effective operation of the initiative measure.
   (B)   An initiative shall not be effective if the direct or indirect effect
of the passage of such initiative measure shall be to repeal or alter an
existing law, or portion thereof, which is not subject to referendum or subject
only to limited referendum pursuant to §
31.061.
   (C)   Whenever an initiative petition bearing signatures equal in number to
at least 15% of the qualified electors of the municipality has been filed with
the Clerk and verified, it shall be the duty of the governing body to consider
passage of the measure contained in the petition including an override of any
veto, if necessary. If the governing body fails to pass the measure without
amendment, including an override of any veto, if necessary, within 30 days from
the date it received notification, the Clerk shall cause the measure to be
submitted to a vote of the people at the next regularly scheduled primary or
general election held within the municipality. If the governing body desires to
submit the measure to a vote of the people at a special election prior to the
next regularly scheduled primary or general election held within the
municipality, the governing body shall, by resolution, direct the Clerk to
cause the measure to be submitted at a special election. Such resolution shall
not be subject to referendum or limited referendum.
   (D)   Whenever an initiative petition bearing signatures equal in number to
at least 20% of the qualified electors which requests that a special election
be called to submit the initiative measure to a vote of the people, has been
filed with the Clerk and verified pursuant to §
31.055, it shall be the duty of the governing body to consider passage of the
measure contained in the petition including an override of any veto, if
necessary. If the governing body fails to pass the measure, without amendment,
including an override of any veto, if necessary, within 30 days from the date
it received notification, the Clerk shall cause the measure to be submitted to
a vote of the people at a special election called for such purpose. The date of
such election shall not be less than 30 nor more than 60 days from the date the
governing body received notification pursuant to §
31.055.
   (E)   If a majority of voters voting on the initiative measure shall vote in
favor of such measure, it shall become a valid and binding measure of the
municipality 30 days after certification of the election results, unless the
governing body by resolution orders an earlier effective date or the measure
itself provides for a later effective date, which resolution shall not be
subject to referendum or limited referendum. A measure passed by such method
shall not be amended or repealed except by two-thirds majority of the members
of the governing body. No such attempt to amend or repeal shall be made within
one year from the passage of the measure by the electors.
(Prior Code, § 1-1011)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. Rev. Stat. 18-2523 through 18-2526
§ 31.061  REFERENDUM LIMITATIONS.
   (A)   The power of referendum allows citizens the right to repeal or amend
existing measures, or portions thereof, affecting the governance of the
municipality.
   (B)   The following measures shall not be subject to referendum or limited
referendum:
      (1)   Measures necessary to carry out contractual obligations including,
but not limited to, those relating to the issuance of or provided for in bonds,
notes, warrants, or other evidences of indebtedness, for projects previously
approved by a measure which was, or is, subject to referendum or limited
referendum or previously approved by a measure adopted prior to July 17, 1982;
      (2)   Measures relating to any industrial development projects,
subsequent to measures giving initial approval to such projects;
      (3)   Measures adopting proposed budget statements following compliance
with procedures set forth in the state’s Budget Act;
      (4)   Measures relating to the immediate preservation of the public
peace, health, or safety which have been designated as urgent measures by
unanimous vote of those present and voting of the governing body and approved
by its Executive Officer;
      (5)   Measures relating to projects for which notice has been given as
provided for in division (E) below for which a sufficient referendum petition
was not filed within the time limit stated in such notice or which received
voter approval after the filing of such petition;
      (6)   Resolutions directing the Village Clerk to cause measures to be
submitted to a vote of the people at a special election as provided in Neb.
Rev. Stat. 18-2524 and 18-2529;
      (7)   Resolutions ordering an earlier effective date for measures enacted
by initiative as provided in Neb. Rev. Stat. 18-2526;
      (8)   Measures relating to any facility or system adopted or enacted
pursuant to the Integrated Solid Waste Management Act by the municipality and
which are necessary to carry out contractual obligations provided for in
previously issued bonds, notes, warrants, or other evidence of indebtedness;
      (9)   Measures that amend, supplement, change, modify, or repeal a zoning
regulation, restriction, or boundary and are subject to protest as provided in
Neb. Rev. Stat. 19-905;
      (10)   Measures relating to personnel issues, including, but not limited
to, establishment, modification, or elimination of any personnel position,
policy, salary, or benefit and any hiring, promotion, demotion, or termination
of personnel; and
      (11)   Measures relating to matters subject to the provisions of the
Municipal Natural Gas System Condemnation Act.
   (C)   The following measures shall be subject to limited referendum:
      (1)   Measures in furtherance of a policy of the municipality or relating
to projects previously approved by a measure which was subject to referendum or
which was enacted by initiative or has been approved by the voters at an
election, except that such measures shall not be subject to referendum or
limited referendum for a period of one year after any such policy or project
was approved at a referendum election, enacted by initiative, or approved by
the voters at an election;
      (2)   Measures relating to the acquisition, construction, installation,
improvement, or enlargement, including the financing or refinancing of the
costs of public ways, public property, utility systems, and other capital
projects and measures giving initial approval for industrial development
projects;
      (3)   Measures setting utility system rates and charges, except for
measures necessary to carry out contractual obligations provided for in
previously issued bonds, notes, warrants, or other evidences of indebtedness,
and pay rates and salaries for municipal employees other than the members of
the governing body and its Executive Officer; and
      (4)   Measures relating to any facility or system adopted or enacted
pursuant to the Integrated Solid Waste Management Act by the municipality
except for measures necessary to carry out contractual obligations provided for
in previously issued bonds, notes, warrants, or other evidence of indebtedness.
   (D)   Measures subject to limited referendum shall ordinarily take effect 30
days after their passage by the governing body. Referendum petitions directed
at measures subject to limited referendum shall be filed for signature
verification pursuant to Neb. Rev. Stat. 18-2518 within 30 days after such
measure’s passage by the governing body or after notice is first published
pursuant to division (E)(3)below. If the necessary number of signatures as
provided in Neb. Rev. Stat. 18-2529 or 18-2530 has been obtained within the
time limitation, the effectiveness of the measure shall be suspended unless
approved by the voters.
   (E)   For any measure relating to the acquisition, construction,
installation, improvement, or enlargement of public ways, public property,
utility systems, or other capital projects or any measure relating to any
facility or system adopted or enacted pursuant to the Integrated Solid Waste
Management Act, the municipality may exempt all subsequent measures relating to
the same project from the referendum and limited referendum procedures provided
for in this subchapter by the following procedure:
      (1)   By holding a public hearing on the project, the time and place of
such hearing being published at least once not less than five days prior to the
date set for hearing in a newspaper of general circulation within the
municipality;
      (2)   By passage of a measure approving the project at a meeting held on
any date subsequent to the date of hearing; and
      (3)   After passage of such measure by giving notice as follows:
         (a)   For those projects for which applicable statutes require an
ordinance or resolution of necessity, creating a district or otherwise
establishing the project, notice shall be given for such project by including
either as part of such ordinance or resolution or as part of any publicized
notice concerning such ordinance or resolution a statement that the project as
described in the ordinance or resolution is subject to limited referendum for a
period of 30 days after the first publication of such notice and that, after
such 30-day period, the project and measures related to it will not be subject
to any further right of referendum; and
         (b)   For projects for which applicable statutes do not require an
ordinance or resolution of necessity, notice shall be given by publication of a
notice concerning such projects stating in general terms the nature of the
project and the engineer’s estimate of costs of such project and stating that
the project described in the notice is subject to limited referendum for a
period of 30 days after the first publication of such notice and that, after
such 30-day period, the project and measures related to it will not be subject
to any further right of referendum. The notice required by this division (E)(3)
(b) shall be published in at least one newspaper of general circulation within
the municipality and shall be published not later than 15 days after passage by
the governing body of a measure approving the project.
      (4)   The right of the municipality to hold such a hearing prior to the
passage of the measure by the governing body and give such notice after passage
of such measure by the governing body to obtain exemption for any particular
project in a manner described in this division is optional, and the
municipality shall not be required to hold such a hearing or give such notice
for any particular project.
   (F)   Nothing in divisions (C) and (E) above shall be construed as
subjecting to limited referendum any measure related to matters subject to the
provisions of the Municipal Natural Gas System Condemnation Act.
   (G)   All measures, except as provided in divisions (B), (C), and (E) above,
shall be subject to the referendum procedure at any time after such measure has
been passed by the governing body or enacted by the voters’ by initiative.
(Prior Code, § 1-1012)  (Ord. 1993-4, passed 4-7-1993; Ord. 2002-20, passed 10-
16-2002; Ord. 2003-6, passed 5-7-2003)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. Rev. Stat. 18-2527 and 18-2528
§ 31.062  REFERENDUM, PASSAGE.
   (A)   (1)   Whenever a referendum petition bearing signatures equal in
number to at least 15% of the qualified electors of the municipality has been
filed with the Clerk and verified pursuant to §
31.055, it shall be the duty of the governing body to reconsider the measure or
portion of such measure which is the object of the referendum. If the governing
body fails to repeal or amend the measure or portion thereof in the manner
proposed by the referendum, including an override of any veto, if necessary,
within 30 days from the date the governing body receives notification pursuant
to §
31.055, the Clerk shall cause the measure to be submitted to a vote of the
people at the next regularly scheduled primary or general election held within
the municipality.
      (2)   If the governing body desires to submit the measure to a vote of
the people at a special election prior to the next regularly scheduled primary
or general election held within the municipality, the governing body shall, by
resolution, direct the Clerk to cause the measure to be submitted at a special
election. Such resolution shall not be subject to referendum or limited
referendum.
   (B)   (1)   Whenever a referendum petition bearing signatures equal in
number to at least 20% of the qualified voters of the municipality which
requests that a special election be called to submit the referendum measure to
a vote of the people, has been filed with the Clerk and verified, it shall be
the duty of the governing body to reconsider the measure or portion of such
measure which is the object of the referendum.
      (2)   If the governing body fails to repeal or amend the measure or
portion thereof, in the manner proposed by the referendum, including an
override of any veto, if necessary, the Clerk shall cause the measure to be
submitted to a vote of the people at a special election called for such purpose
within 30 days from the date the governing body received notification. The date
of such special election shall not be less than 30 nor more than 60 days from
the date the governing body received notification.
   (C)   If a majority of the electors voting on the referendum measure shall
vote in favor of such measure, the law subject to the referendum shall be
repealed or amended. A measure repealed or amended by referendum shall not be
reenacted or returned to its original form except by a two-thirds majority of
the members of the governing body. No such attempt to reenact or return the
measure to its original form shall be made within one year of the repeal or
amendment of the measure by the electors. If the referendum measure does not
receive a majority vote, the ordinance shall immediately become effective or
remain in effect.
(Prior Code, § 1-1013)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. Rev. Stat. 18-2529 through 18-2531
§ 31.063  APPLICATION.
   (A)   The provisions of the statutes of the state relating to election
officers, voting places, election apparatus and blanks, preparation and form of
ballots, information to voters, delivery of ballots, calling of elections,
conduct of elections, manner of voting, counting of votes, records and
certificates of election, and recounts of votes, so far as applicable, shall
apply to voting on ordinances by the electors pursuant to this subchapter.
   (B)   Nothing in this subchapter shall apply to procedures for initiatives
or referendums provided in Neb. Rev. Stat. 18-412 and 18-412.02 relating to
municipal light and power plants; Neb. Rev. Stat. 70-504, 70-650.01, and 70-
650.02 relating to public power districts; and Neb. Rev. Stat. 80-203 through
80-205 relating to soldiers and sailors monuments.
(Prior Code, § 1-1015)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. Rev. Stat. 18-2536 and 18-2537
FEE SCHEDULE
§ 31.075  FEE SCHEDULE.
   The Board of Trustees has determined that the fee structure for services and
products provided by the village shall be as follows.
Building permit and infrastructure fees
Building permit fee                                              $25
Sewer tap fee                                                    $750
Voluntary water reconnection fee                                 $75
Voluntary water shut-off fee (customers requesting water to be
shut-off shall not be billed for water, sewer, or solid waste    $75
collection and disposal fees until water service is resumed)
Water reconnection fee (reconnection fee after water service has $250
been discontinued for failure to pay water and/or sewer bills)
Water tap fee                                                    $1,250
Community Center damage deposit and rental fees
Damage deposit (cash only)                                       $250
Gym rental                                                       $75
    Citizens of Cortland; less than four hours                 $100
    Citizens of Cortland; greater than four hours              $200
    Residing within 15 mile radius of corporate limits         $500
    Residing outside 15 mile radius of corporate limits        $25
    Use of kitchen along with gym; additional fee              $25
    Sports teams; per practice session
Kitchen only                                                     $75
    Less than four hours                                       $100
    Greater than four hours
Storm shelter                                                    $75
    Less than four hours                                       $100
    Greater than four hours
SE room                                                          $50
    Less than four hours                                       $75
    Greater than four hours
SW room                                                          $50
    Less than four hours                                       $75
    Greater than four hours
Planning and zoning fees
Administrative subdivision application fee                       $100
Engineering review fee                                           Actual charges
Special use permit application fee                               $100
Subdivision final plat fee                                       $150
Subdivision preliminary plat fee                                 $150
Variance request fee                                             $150
Zoning change request fee                                        $150
 
(Ord. 2018-1, passed 2-14-2018)
§ 31.999  PENALTY.
   (A)   Whoever knowingly or willfully makes a false affidavit or takes a
false oath regarding the qualifications of any person to sign petitions under
Neb. Rev. Stat. 18-2501 through 18-2531 shall be guilty of a Class I
misdemeanor with a limit of $300 on the fine.
   (B)   Whoever falsely makes or willfully destroys a petition or any part
thereof, or signs a false name thereto, or signs or files any petition knowing
the same or any part thereof to be falsely made, or suppresses any petition, or
any part thereof, which has been duly filed, pursuant to Neb. Rev. Stat. 18-
2501 through 18-2531, shall be guilty of a Class I misdemeanor with a limit of
$500 on the fine.
   (C)   Whoever signs any petition under Neb. Rev. Stat. 18-2501 through 18-
2531 knowing that he or she is not a registered voter in the place where such
petition is made, aids or abets any other person in doing any of the acts
mentioned in this section, bribes or gives or pays any money or thing of value
to any person directly or indirectly to induce him or her to sign such
petition, or engages in any deceptive practice intended to induce any person to
sign a petition, shall be guilty of a Class I misdemeanor with a limit of $300
on the fine.
   (D)   Any Clerk who willfully refuses to comply with the provisions of Neb.
Rev. Stat. 18-2501 through 18-2531 or who willfully causes unreasonable delay
in the execution of his or her duties under such sections shall be guilty of a
Class I misdemeanor, but imprisonment shall not be included as part of the
punishment.
(Prior Code, § 1-1014)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. Rev. Stat. 18-2532 through 18-2535
CHAPTER 32:  FIRE DEPARTMENT
Section
   
32.01   Operation and funding
   
32.02   Fire Chief
   
32.03   Membership
   
32.04   Distant fires
   
32.05   Fighting distant fires
   
32.06   Preservation of property
   
32.07   Impersonating firefighters
   
32.08   Mandatory assistance
   
32.09   Power of arrest
   
32.10   Fire investigation
§ 32.01  OPERATION AND FUNDING.
   (A)   The village may operate a Fire Department through the Fire Chief and
firefighters.
   (B)   If the village has only a voluntary fire department or companies, the
Board of Trustees may levy a tax annually of not more than $0.07 on each $100
upon the taxable value of all the taxable property within the village for the
maintenance and benefit of the fire department or companies. The amount of such
tax shall be established at the beginning of the year and shall be included in
the adopted budget statement. Upon collection of such tax, the Village
Treasurer shall disburse the same upon the order of the Fire Chief with the
approval of the Board of Trustees.
(Neb. Rev. Stat. 17-718)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. Rev. Stat. 17-953 et seq.
§ 32.02  FIRE CHIEF.
   The Fire Chief shall manage the Fire Department, and it shall be his or her
duty to inform the Board of Trustees when any of the fire engines, hose,
ladders, or other apparatus needs repair. Upon the written consent and
directive of the Board of Trustees, the Fire Chief shall cause the repair,
improvement, or maintenance of the equipment and shall personally supervise and
approve of the same. It shall be the duty of the Fire Chief to come before the
Board of Trustees at the regular meeting in January of each year to give an
annual report to the Board of Trustees of the general condition and the
proposed additions or improvements recommended by him or her.
§ 32.03  MEMBERSHIP.
   (A)   The Fire Chief shall appoint no more than 25 members for each Fire
Department Company subject to the review and approval of the governing body.
All vacancies shall be filled in this manner. Said members shall be considered
to be employees of the municipality for the purpose of providing them with
worker’s compensation and other benefits. Each member shall be entitled to a
term life insurance policy in the amount of at least $5,000 for death from any
cause to age 65 and such policy shall, at the option of the individual
firefighter, be convertible to a permanent form of life insurance at age 65;
provided, that the firefighters covered are actively and faithfully performing
the duties of their position. The Fire Department shall consist of so many
members as may be decided by the governing body. The members may organize
themselves in any way they may decide, subject to the review of the governing
body. They may hold meetings and engage in social activities with the approval
of the governing body. The Secretary shall, upon request, keep a record of all
meetings and shall make a report to the governing body of all meetings and
activities of the Fire Department. The governing body may, for services
rendered, compensate or reward any member or members of the Fire Department in
an amount set by resolution. All members of the Fire Department shall be
subject to such rules and regulations, and shall perform such duties, as may be
prescribed or required of them by the Fire Chief or the governing body. The
members of the Fire Department shall, during the time of a fire or great public
danger, have and exercise the powers and duties of police officers and shall
have full power and authority to arrest all persons guilty of any violation of
the Municipal Code, or the laws of the state.
   (B)   Provided, however, volunteer firefighters and rescue squad members
testifying as a witness in connection with his or her officially assigned
duties in that capacity alone shall not be deemed employees of the state or of
the municipality.
(Prior Code, § 3-303)  (Ord. 1985-10, passed 12-4-1985)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. Rev. Stat. 33-139.01, 35-101 through 35-103,
and 35-108
§ 32.04  DISTANT FIRES.
   (A)   Upon the permission of the Chairperson of the Board of Trustees or the
Fire Chief, or pursuant to any agreement with a rural fire district for mutual
aid protection, such fire equipment of the village as may be designated by the
Board of Trustees as rural equipment may be used beyond the corporate limits to
extinguish reported fires.
   (B)   The firefighters of the village shall be considered as acting in the
performance and within the scope of their duties in fighting fire or saving
property or life outside the corporate limits of the village when directed to
do so by the Board of Trustees or the Fire Chief or some person authorized to
act for the Chief, and in so doing, may take such fire equipment of the village
as may be designated by the Board of Trustees.
§ 32.05  FIGHTING DISTANT FIRES.
   The firefighters of the municipality shall be considered as acting in the
performance and within the scope of their duties in fighting fire or saving
property or life outside the corporate limits of the municipality when directed
to do so by the Chairperson of the Board of Trustees or Chief of the Fire
Department, or some person authorized to act for such Chief, and in so doing,
may take such fire equipment of the municipality as may be designated by the
governing body.
(Prior Code, § 3-305)
§ 32.06  PRESERVATION OF PROPERTY.
   (A)   Any official of the Municipal Fire Department shall have the power
during the time of a fire to cause the removal of any private or public
property whenever it shall become necessary to do so for the preservation of
such property from fire, to prevent the spreading of fire, or to protect
adjoining property.
   (B)   The said officials may direct the municipal firefighters to remove any
building, structure, or fence for the purpose of checking the progress of any
fire, and the official in charge of the firefighting effort shall have the
power to blow up, or cause to be blown up, with powder or otherwise, any
building or erection during the progress of a fire for the purpose of
extinguishing or checking the same.
(Prior Code, § 3-306)
§ 32.07  IMPERSONATING FIREFIGHTERS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to falsely impersonate a
firefighter by wearing a badge or other apparel usually worn by a firefighter
for the purpose of obtaining any benefit whatsoever.
   (B)   Nothing herein shall be construed to prohibit the theatrical
representation of a firefighter for bona fide entertainment purposes when there
is no intent to defraud.
(Prior Code, § 3-307)  Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. Rev. Stat. 28-609
§ 32.08  MANDATORY ASSISTANCE.
   Any official of the Municipal Fire Department may command the assistance and
services of any person present at a fire to help in extinguishing the fire, or
in the removal and protection of property. In the event that a spectator
refuses, neglects, or fails to assist the Fire Department after a lawful order
to do so, he or she shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor.
(Prior Code, § 3-308)
§ 32.09  POWER OF ARREST.
   The Fire Chief or the Assistant Fire Chief shall have the power, during the
time of a fire and for a period of 36 hours after its extinguishment, to arrest
any suspected arsonist, or other person hindering or resisting the firefighting
effort, or any person who conducts himself or herself in a noisy or disorderly
manner. The officials shall be severally vested with the usual powers and
authority of village police officers to command all persons to assist them in
the performance of their duties. Failure to obey a lawful order of the Fire
Chief or Assistant Fire Chief shall be an offense.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 32.10  FIRE INVESTIGATION.
   The Fire Chief shall investigate or cause to be investigated the cause,
origin, and circumstances of every fire occurring in the village by which
property has been destroyed or damaged. All fires of unknown origin shall be
reported, and such officer shall especially make an investigation and report as
to whether such fire was the result of carelessness, accident, or design. The
investigation shall begin immediately after the occurrence of the fire, and the
State Fire Marshal shall have the right to supervise and direct the
investigation whenever he or she deems it expedient or necessary. The officer
making the investigation of fires occurring in the village shall forthwith
notify the State Fire Marshal and shall, within one week of the occurrence of
the fire, furnish him or her a written statement of all the facts relating to
the cause and origin of the fire and such further information as he or she may
call for.
(Neb. Rev. Stat. 81-506)
CHAPTER 33:  HEALTH AND SANITATION
Section
   
33.01   Regulations
   
33.02   Enforcement official
   
33.03   County Health Board
§ 33.01  REGULATIONS.
   For the purpose of promoting the health and safety of the residents of the
municipality, the Board of Health shall, from time to time, adopt rules and
regulations relative thereto, and shall make such inspections, prescribe such
penalties, and make such reports as may be necessary toward that purpose.
(Prior Code, § 4-101)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. Rev. Stat. 17-208
§ 33.02  ENFORCEMENT OFFICIAL.
   The County Sheriff, as the quarantine officer, shall be the Chief Health
Officer of the municipality. It shall be his or her duty to notify the Board of
Trustees and the Board of Health of health nuisances within the municipality
and its zoning jurisdiction.
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. Rev. Stat. 17-208
§ 33.03  COUNTY HEALTH BOARD.
   It shall be the duty of the Board of Health to work closely with the County
Health Board in protecting the health and welfare of the residents of the
municipality.
(Prior Code, § 4-104)
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
   Chapter
      
50.   UTILITIES GENERALLY
      
51.   WATER
      
52.   SEWER
      
53.   GARBAGE
CHAPTER 50:  UTILITIES GENERALLY
Section
   
50.01   Discontinuance of service, notice procedure
   
50.02   Diversion of services; civil action
   
50.03   Fee for beginning utility services
   
50.04   Backflow prevention devices required; customer installation and
maintenance; testing
   
50.05   Unsafe connection to water distribution system prohibited; potential
backflow hazards; customer assessment
   
50.06   Denial of utility service; when prohibited
   
50.07   Meter tampering, unauthorized reconnection, prohibited; evidence
 
   
50.99   Penalty
§ 50.01  DISCONTINUANCE OF SERVICE, NOTICE PROCEDURE.
   (A)   No municipal utility shall discontinue service to any domestic
subscriber for non-payment of any due account unless such utility shall first
give written notice by mail to any subscriber whose service is proposed to be
terminated at least seven days prior to termination, weekends and holidays
excluded. As to any subscriber who has previously been identified as a welfare
recipient to the utility by the Department of Social Services, such notice
shall be by certified mail and notice of such proposed termination shall be
given to the Department of Social Services.
   (B)   Prior to the discontinuance of service to any domestic subscriber by a
municipal utility, the domestic subscriber, upon request, shall be provided a
conference with the Board of Trustees. The Board of Trustees has established
procedures to resolve utility bills when a conference is requested by a
domestic subscriber. These procedures, three copies of which are on file in the
office of the Village Clerk, are hereby incorporated by reference in addition
to any amendments thereto and are made a part hereof as though set out in full.
A copy of such procedures shall be furnished upon the request of any domestic
subscriber. The Board of Trustees shall notify the domestic subscriber of the
time, place, and date scheduled for such conference.
   (C)   A fee of $5 shall be assessed to any domestic subscriber who has been
mailed such notice. The fee shall be added to and billed as a part of the
subscriber’s utility account.
(Prior Code, § 3-701)  (Ord. 1982-4, passed 10-6-1982; Ord. 184-2, passed 11-7-
1984; Ord. 1990-1, passed 1-3-1990)
§ 50.02  DIVERSION OF SERVICES; CIVIL ACTION.
   (A)   For purposes of this section, the definitions found in Neb. Rev. Stat.
25-21,275 shall apply.
   (B)   (1)   The municipality may bring a civil action for damages against
any person who commits, authorizes, solicits, aids, abets, or attempts:
         (a)   Bypassing;
         (b)   Tampering; or
         (c)   Unauthorized metering when such act results in damages to a
municipal utility.
      (2)   The municipality may bring a civil action for damages pursuant to
this section against any person receiving the benefit of utility service
through means of bypassing, tampering, or unauthorized metering.
      (3)   In any civil action brought pursuant to this section, the
municipality shall be entitled, upon proof of willful or intentional bypassing,
tampering, or unauthorized metering to recover as damages:
         (a)   The amount of actual damage or loss if the amount of the damage
or loss is susceptible of reasonable calculation; or
         (b)   Liquidated damages of $750 if the amount of actual damage or
loss is not susceptible of reasonable calculation.
      (4)   In addition to damage or loss under divisions (B)(3)(a) or (B)(3)
(b) above, the municipality may recover all reasonable expenses and costs
incurred on account of the bypassing, tampering, or unauthorized metering
including, but not limited to, disconnection, reconnection, service calls,
equipment, costs of the suit, and reasonable attorneys’ fees in cases within
the scope of Neb. Rev. Stat. 25-1801.
   (C)   (1)   There shall be a rebuttable presumption that a tenant or
occupant at any premises where bypassing, tampering, or unauthorized metering
is proven to exist caused or had knowledge of such bypassing, tampering, or
unauthorized metering if the tenant or occupant:
         (a)   Had access to the part of the utility supply system on the
premises where the bypassing, tampering, or unauthorized metering is proven to
exist; and
         (b)   Was responsible or partially responsible for payment, either
directly or indirectly, to the utility or to any other person for utility
services to the premises.
      (2)   There shall be a rebuttable presumption that a customer at any
premises where bypassing, tampering, or unauthorized metering is proven to
exist caused or had knowledge of such bypassing, tampering, or unauthorized
metering if the customer controlled access to the part of the utility supply
system on the premises where the bypassing, tampering, or unauthorized metering
was proven to exist.
   (D)   The remedies provided by this section shall be deemed to be
supplemental and additional to powers conferred by existing laws. The remedies
provided in this section are in addition to and not in limitation of any other
civil or criminal statutory or common law remedies.
(Prior Code, § 3-702)  (Ord. 1983-10, passed 11-2-1983; Ord. 2003-15, passed 5-
7-2003)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. Rev. Stat. 25-21,276, 25-21,277, and 25-21,278
§ 50.03  FEE FOR BEGINNING UTILITY SERVICES.
   Customers of the Municipal Water and/or Sewer Departments and collection
service contracted with by the municipality for the collection of garbage shall
pay a fee equivalent to $5 per month, but not to exceed a total of $60, for
each month any or all of said services have been terminated each time it is
necessary for the municipality to recommence any or all of the above services
after termination to compensate the municipality for additional expenses for
recommencing such service or services.
(Prior Code, § 3-703)  (Ord. 1986-10, passed 11-5-1986; Ord. 1987-3, passed 5-
6-1987)
§ 50.04  BACKFLOW PREVENTION DEVICES REQUIRED; CUSTOMER INSTALLATION AND
MAINTENANCE; TESTING.
   (A)   A customer of the Municipal Water Department may be required by the
Utilities Superintendent to install and maintain a properly located backflow
prevention device at his or her expense appropriate to the potential hazards
set forth in Title 179, Nebraska Department of Health, and approved by the
Utilities Superintendent.
   (B)   The customer shall make application to the Utilities Superintendent to
install a required backflow prevention device on a form provided by the
municipality. The application shall contain at a minimum the name and address
of the applicant, the type of potential hazard required, protection, and the
type of backflow device to be installed, including brand and model number.
   (C)   The Utilities Superintendent shall approve the application if such
installation will protect the municipal water distribution system from
potential backflow and back siphonage hazards.
   (D)   The installation of the device shall be subject to all other sections
of this code dealing with installation of plumbing.
   (E)   Such customer shall also certify to the municipality at least one time
annually that the backflow prevention device has been tested by a State
Department of Health Grade VI Certified Water Operator if the device is
equipped with a test port. Such certification shall be made on a form available
at the office of the Village Clerk.
   (F)   Any decision of the Utilities Superintendent may be appealed to the
municipal governing body.
   (G)   (1)   A cross-connection control officer shall be appointed by the
Village Board of Trustees to oversee the enforcement of this section. This
person shall be responsible for reviewing the surveys submitted by the
customers of the Municipal Water Department and determining if a backflow
prevention device required to comply with Title 179, NAC 2, “Regulations
Governing Public Water Supply Systems”.
      (2)   All customers of the Municipal Water Department shall be required
to report to the cross- connection control officer any potential cross-
connections which may be on their premises. This report shall be made at least
every five years.
      (3)   (a)   A customer of the Municipal Water Department may be required
by the cross- connection control officer to install and maintain a properly
located backflow prevention device at the customer’s expense appropriate to the
potential hazard as set forth in Title 179, NAC 2, “Regulations Governing
Public Water Supply Systems” and approved by the cross-connection control
officer.
         (b)   The customer shall make application to the cross-connection
control officer to install a required backflow prevention device on a form
provided by the municipality. The application shall contain at a minimum the
name and address of the applicant, the type of backflow prevention device to be
installed, including make and model number, and the location of the proposed
installation.
         (c)   The cross-connection control officer shall approve or disapprove
the application based on whether such installation will protect the municipal
water distribution system from potential backflow and back siphonage hazards.
         (d)   When a testable backflow prevention device shall be required,
the customer shall also certify to the municipality at least one time annually
that the backflow prevention device has been tested by a State Health and Human
Services System Grade VI Certified Water Operator. Such certification shall be
made on a form available at the office of the Village Clerk.
         (e)   Any decision of the cross-connection control officer may be
appealed to the Board of Trustees of the village, whose decision shall be
final.
      (4)   (a)   Any customer refusing to report on possible cross-connections
on their premises, refusing to install the necessary backflow prevention
device, or failing to have a testable backflow prevention device tested at
least annually shall be in violation of this section and may have their water
service discontinued.
         (b)   Any customer who has had their service discontinued for
violation of this section shall be subject to a $100 reconnect fee to have the
service reinstated after supplying proof that the potential cross-connection
has been eliminated or properly protected.
(Prior Code, § 3-704)  (Ord. 93-5, passed 7-7-1993; Ord. 2006-1, passed 2-8-
2006)
§ 50.05  UNSAFE CONNECTION TO WATER DISTRIBUTION SYSTEM PROHIBITED; POTENTIAL
BACKFLOW HAZARDS; CUSTOMER ASSESSMENT.
   (A)   No customer or other person shall cause, allow, or create any physical
connection between the municipal water distribution system and any pipes,
pumps, hydrants, tanks, steam condensate returns, engine jackets, heat
exchangers, other water supplied or any other connection whereby potentially
unsafe or contaminating materials may be discharged or drawn into the municipal
water distribution system.
   (B)   At least one time every five years, customers of the municipal water
distribution and supply system shall be required to assess and report potential
backflow and back siphonage hazards to the municipality on a form supplied by
the municipality to the customer. The customer shall take any steps necessary
for protection of public health and safety as determined by the Utilities
Superintendent.
(Prior Code, § 3-705)  (Ord. 1993-7, passed 9-1-1993)
§ 50.06  DENIAL OF UTILITY SERVICE; WHEN PROHIBITED.
   No applicant for the services of a public or private utility company
furnishing water, natural gas, or electricity at retail in this municipality
shall be denied service because of unpaid bills for similar service which are
not collectible at law because of statutes of limitations or discharge in
bankruptcy proceedings.
(Prior Code, § 3-706)  (Ord. 2002-6, passed 10-16-2002)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. Rev. Stat. 70-1601
§ 50.07  METER TAMPERING, UNAUTHORIZED RECONNECTION, PROHIBITED; EVIDENCE.
   (A)   It is an offense for any person:
      (1)   To connect any pipe or conduit supplying water, without the
knowledge and consent of the municipality, in such manner that any portion
thereof may be supplied to any instrument by or at which water may be consumed
without passing through the meter made or provided for measuring or registering
the amount or quantity thereof passing through it;
      (2)   To knowingly use or knowingly permit the use of water obtained
unlawfully pursuant to this section;
      (3)   To reconnect water service without the knowledge and consent of the
municipality if the service has been disconnected pursuant to Neb. Rev. Stat.
70-1601 through 70-1615 or §
50.01; or
      (4)   To willfully injure, alter, or by any instrument, device, or
contrivance in any manner interfere with or obstruct the action or operation of
any meter made or provided for measuring or registering the amount or quantity
of water passing through it, without the knowledge and consent of the
municipality.
   (B)   Proof of the existence of any pipe or conduit connection or
reconnection or of any injury, alteration, interference, or obstruction of a
meter is prima facie evidence of the guilt of the person in possession of the
premises where such connection, reconnection, injury, alteration, interference,
or obstruction is proved to exist.
(Prior Code, § 3-707)  (Ord. 2003-14, passed 5-7-2003)  Penalty, see §
50.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. Rev. Stat. 28-515.02
§ 50.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who shall violate or refuse to comply with the enforcement
of any of the provisions of this chapter set forth at full length herein or
incorporated by reference, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and upon conviction
thereof shall be fined not more than $500 for each offense. A new violation
shall be deemed to have been committed every 24 hours of such failure to
comply.
   (B)   Each day that a violation of any section of this chapter continues
shall constitute a separate and distinct offense and shall be punishable as
such. The penalties herein provided shall be cumulative with and in addition to
any penalty or forfeiture elsewhere in this chapter provided.
   (C)   (1)   Whenever a nuisance exists as defined in this chapter, the
municipality may proceed by a suit in equity to enjoin, abate, and remove the
same in the manner provided by law.
      (2)   Whenever, in any action, it is established that a nuisance exists,
the court may, together with the fine or penalty imposed, enter an order of
abatement as a part of the judgment in the case.
(Prior Code, § 3-801)  (Ord. 2002-16, passed 10-16-2002; Ord. 2004-18, passed
10-6-2004; Ord. 2006-1, passed 2-8-2006)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. Rev. Stat. 17-207, 17-505, 18-1720, and 18-1722
CHAPTER 51:  WATER
Section
General Provisions
   
51.01   Operation and funding
   
51.02   Definitions
   
51.03   Consumer’s application
   
51.04   Water contract
   
51.05   Installation procedure
   
51.06   Installation expense
   
51.07   Repairs
   
51.08   Fees and collections
   
51.09   Minimum rates
   
51.10   Water bills
   
51.11   Lien
   
51.12   Single premises
   
51.13   Restricted use
   
51.14   Fire hydrants
   
51.15   Pollution
   
51.16   Mandatory hook-up
   
51.17   Water service contracts
   
51.18   Inspection
   
51.19   Destruction of property
   
51.20   Licensed plumber
   
51.21   Complaints
   
51.22   Water meters; installation procedure; cost; and ownership
   
51.23   Wellhead protections; adoption of Wellhead Protection Area boundaries
Water Wells
   
51.35   Permit required
   
51.36   Procedure to obtain permit
   
51.37   Designated distance from municipal water sources
 
   
51.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 51.01  OPERATION AND FUNDING.
   (A)   The municipality owns and operates the Municipal Water Department
through the Utilities Superintendent. The governing body, for the purpose of
defraying the cost of the care, management, and maintenance of the Municipal
Water Department, may each year levy a tax not exceeding the maximum limit
prescribed by state law, on the actual valuation of all real estate and
personal property within the corporate limits that is subject to taxation. The
revenue from the said tax shall be known as the Water Fund and shall remain in
the custody of the Municipal Treasurer.
   (B)   The Utilities Superintendent shall have the direct management and
control of the Municipal Water Department and shall faithfully carry out the
duties of his or her office. The governing body shall have the authority to
adopt rules and regulations for the sanitary and efficient management of the
Water Department subject to the supervision and review of the governing body.
The governing body shall set the rates to be charged for services rendered by
ordinance and shall file a copy of the rates in the office of the Village Clerk
for public inspection at any reasonable time.
(Prior Code, § 3-101)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. Rev. Stat. 17-531, 17-534, and 19-1305
§ 51.02  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   MAIN. Any pipe other than a supply or service pipe that is used for the
purpose of carrying water to, and dispersing the same in the municipality.
   SEPARATE PREMISES. More than one consumer procuring water from the same
service or supply pipe. The second premises may be a separate dwelling,
apartment, building, or structure used for a separate business.
   SERVICE PIPE. Any pipe extending from the shut-off, stop box, or curb cock
at or near the lot line to and beyond the property line of the consumer to the
location on the premises where the water is to be dispersed.
   SUPPLY PIPE. Any pipe tapped into a main and extending from there to a point
at or near the lot line of the consumer’s premises where the shut-off, stop
box, or curb cock is located.
(Prior Code, § 3-102)
§ 51.03  CONSUMER’S APPLICATION.
   Every person or persons desiring a supply of water must make application
therefor to the Village Clerk. The Clerk shall then forward the application to
the Utilities Superintendent. Water may not be supplied to any house or private
service pipe except upon the order of the Superintendent. The Department shall
not supply water service to any person outside the corporate limits without
special permission from the governing body; provided, the entire cost of laying
mains, service pipe, and supply pipe shall be paid by the consumer. Nothing
herein shall be construed to obligate the municipality to provide water service
to nonresidents.
(Prior Code, § 3-103)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. Rev. Stat. 17-537 and 19-2701
§ 51.04  WATER CONTRACT.
   (A)   The municipality, through its Water Department, shall furnish water to
persons within its corporate limits whose premises abut a street or alley in
which a commercial main now is or may hereafter be laid. The municipality may
furnish water to persons within its corporate limits whose premises do not abut
a street or alley in which a municipal commercial main is now or may hereafter
be laid and may also furnish water to persons whose premises are situated
outside the corporate limits of the municipality, as and when, according to
law, the governing body may see fit to do so. The rules, regulations, and water
rates hereinafter named in this subchapter, shall be considered a part of every
application hereafter made for water service and shall be considered a part of
the contract between every consumer now or hereafter served.
   (B)   Without further formality, the making of application on the part of
any applicant or the use or consumption of water service by present consumers
thereof and the furnishing of water service to said consumer shall constitute a
contract between the consumer and the municipality, to which said contract both
parties are bound. If the consumer shall violate any of the provisions of said
contract or any reasonable rules and regulations that the governing body may
hereafter adopt, the Utilities Superintendent or his or her agent may cut off
or disconnect the water service from the building or premises or place of such
violation. No further connection for water service to said building, premises,
or place shall again be made save or except by order of said Superintendent or
his or her agent.
(Prior Code, § 3-104)
§ 51.05  INSTALLATION PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Upon approval of the prospective consumer’s application, the
consumer’s plumber shall be allowed to tap into the municipal water main and
install the supply pipe from the main to the consumer’s lot line, including the
stop cock and corporation cock. The consumer shall also be responsible for
installation of the service pipe from his or her lot line to the premises to be
served. The municipality shall provide the consumer’s water meter which shall
be installed by the consumer, but said meter shall remain the property of the
municipality.
   (B)   No municipal water main shall be tapped except under the direct
supervision of the Utilities Superintendent. It shall be an offense for any
person to tap into a municipal water main without the Utilities Superintendent
being present.
   (C)   In making excavations in streets, alleys, or sidewalks for the purpose
of installing pipe or making repairs, the consumer shall comply with §
94.28.
(Prior Code, § 3-105)  (Ord. 2008-1, passed 1-9-2008)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. Rev. Stat. 17-505 and 17-537
§ 51.06  INSTALLATION EXPENSE.
   The expense of providing water service to the lot line shall be paid by the
municipality. The consumer shall pay to the municipality a hook-up fee. The
governing body has the power and authority to fix the hook-up fee by
resolution. All such hook-up fees shall be on file for public inspection at the
office of the Village Clerk. The consumer shall then pay the cost of
installation and pipe from the lot line to the place of disbursement. The cost
of procuring the water meter shall be borne by the municipality but all
installation costs of the meter shall be the responsibility of the consumer.
(Prior Code, § 3-106)  (Ord. 1994-2, passed 3-2-1994; Ord. 2004-15, passed 10-
6-2004)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. Rev. Stat. 17-542
§ 51.07  REPAIRS.
   (A)   Repairs to the service pipe shall be made by and at the expense of the
customer. All other repairs to the property of the Water Department shall be
made by the municipality. All water meters shall be kept in repair by the
municipality at the expense of the municipality. When meters are worn out, they
shall be replaced and reset by the municipality at the expense of the
municipality; provided, that if the customer permits or allows a water meter to
be damaged, injured, or destroyed through his or her own recklessness,
carelessness, or neglect so that the meter must be repaired or replaced, the
Utilities Superintendent shall bill and collect from the customer the cost of
such meter repair or replacement in the same manner as water rent is collected.
Permitting a water meter to be damaged or destroyed by freezing shall always be
considered negligence on the part of the customer.
   (B)   All meters shall be tested at the customer’s request at the expense of
the customer any reasonable number of times; provided, that if the test shows
the water meter to be running 2% or more fast, the expense of such test shall
be borne by the municipality. The municipality reserves the right to test any
water service meter at any time, and if said meter is found to be beyond repair
the municipality shall always have the right to place a new meter on the
customer’s water service fixtures at municipal expense. Should a consumer’s
meter fail to register properly, the customer shall be charged for water during
the time the meter is out of repair on the basis of the monthly consumption
during the same month of the preceding year; provided, that if no such basis
for comparison exists, the customer shall be charged such amount as may be
reasonably fixed by the governing body.
(Prior Code, § 3-107)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. Rev. Stat. 17-542
§ 51.08  FEES AND COLLECTIONS.
   The governing body has the power and authority to fix the rates to be paid
by the water consumers for the use of water from the Water Department. All such
fees shall be on file for public inspection at the office of the Village Clerk.
The Village Clerk or his or her designated collection agent shall bill the
consumers and collect all money received by the municipality on the account of
the Water Department. He or she shall faithfully account for and pay to the
Municipal Treasurer all revenue collected by him or her, taking his or her
receipt therefor in duplicate, filing one with the Village Clerk and keeping
the other on file in the Water Department’s official records.
(Prior Code, § 3-108)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. Rev. Stat. 17-540
§ 51.09  MINIMUM RATES.
   (A)   The governing body has the power and authority to fix the rates to be
paid by the water consumers for the use of water from the Water Department. No
flat rates shall be quoted or allowed. All water must be metered and charged
for at the metered rate. No water service shall be furnished to any customer
inside or outside the municipality under any other rate than is allowed by this
section, provided, that temporary users, including other branches or agencies
of the municipality, or other political subdivisions, shall pay such rates as
the governing body shall in each instance fix by resolution. It shall be the
duty of the Village Clerk to keep, or cause to be kept, a separate, detailed,
and accurate account of all water rents and charges received and due from each
consumer in such bookkeeping method the governing body may prescribe.
   (B)   Except as otherwise specifically provided, the following is hereby
established as a tariff of water rates to consumers from the Municipal Water
Department based on a monthly consumption.
      (1)   Consumers residing inside corporate limits:
         (a)   Minimum bill of $39; and
         (b)   All gallons used or consumed in any month, $2.25 per 1,000
gallons; prorated to the actual amount of water consumed.
      (2)   Consumers residing outside corporate limits:
         (a)   Minimum bill of $49; and
         (b)   All gallons used or consumed in any month, $2.25 per 1,000
gallons; prorated to the actual amount of water consumed.
   (C)   Provided, however, that in no event shall the minimum monthly rate be
less than $39 per month for each tap through which water is furnished to
consumers residing inside the corporate limits, and $49 per month for each tap
through which water is furnished to consumers residing outside the corporate
limits. In the event the service is discontinued after notice to the Utilities
Superintendent, the consumer shall pay the amount of the minimum monthly
charge.
(Prior Code, § 3-109)  (Ord. 2014-5, passed 12-10-2014; Ord. 2019-1, passed 1-
9-2019)
§ 51.10  WATER BILLS.
   (A)   Water bills shall be due and payable at the office of Norris Public
Power District. Meters shall be read monthly at the end of the month and Norris
Public Power District shall charge and collect from each consumer for the
amount of water consumed since the last examination together with any other
charges, properly itemized, due the Water Department. If meters are not in use,
Norris Public Power District shall charge and collect the rate set by the
governing body. Bills shall be mailed on the second day of each month in which
they are received. Bills paid after the fifteenth day of the month shall be
deemed delinquent. Upon being deemed delinquent, as herein defined, Norris
Public Power District shall send a written notice to the consumer of such
delinquency and possible discontinuance of service in accordance with state
statutes.
   (B)   In the event that the bill is not paid within ten days after the
sending of said notice, the governing body shall order the Utilities
Superintendent to discontinue service. Norris Public Power District shall
assess an additional fee of $150 in the event that water is shut off for the
nonpayment of any water bill, to compensate the municipality for the additional
hook-up necessary to again provide water service to the delinquent customer.
Norris Public Power District shall bill the owner of the real estate receiving
water service and such owner shall be liable for the water bill pursuant to the
procedure set forth above.
(Prior Code, § 3-110)  (Ord. 1986-6, passed 10-1-1986; Ord. 1991-1, passed 2-6-
1991; Ord. 2004-14, passed 7-7-2004; Ord. 2011-01, passed 6-16-2011)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. Rev. Stat. 17-542 and 18-416
§ 51.11  LIEN.
   In addition to all other remedies, if a customer shall for any reason remain
indebted to the municipality for water service furnished, such amount due,
together with any rents and charges in arrears, shall be considered a
delinquent water rent which is hereby declared to be a lien upon the real
estate for which the same was used. The Village Clerk shall notify in writing
or cause to be notified in writing, all owners of premises or their agents
whenever their tenants or lessees are 60 days or more delinquent in the payment
of water rent. It shall be the duty of the Norris Public Power District on June
1 of each year to report to the governing body a list of all unpaid accounts
due for water together with a description of the premises upon which the same
was used. The report shall be examined, and if approved by the governing body,
shall be certified by the Village Clerk to the County Clerk to be collected as
a special tax in the manner provided by law.
(Prior Code, § 3-111)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. Rev. Stat. 17-538
§ 51.12  SINGLE PREMISES.
   No consumer shall supply water to other families, or allow them to take
water from his or her premises, nor after water is supplied into a building
shall any person make or employ a plumber or other person to make a tap or
connection with the pipe upon the premises for alteration, extension, or
attachment without the written permission of the governing body. It shall
further be unlawful for any person to tamper with any water meter or by means
of any contrivance or device to divert the water from the service pipe so that
the water will not pass through the meter or while passing through said meter
to cause the meter to register inaccurately.
(Prior Code, § 3-112)  Penalty, see §
51.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. Rev. Stat. 17-537
§ 51.13  RESTRICTED USE.
   The governing body or the Utilities Superintendent may order a reduction in
the use of water or shut off the water on any premises in the event of a water
shortage due to fire or other good and sufficient cause. The municipality shall
not be liable for any damages caused by shutting off the supply of water of any
consumer while the system or any part thereof is undergoing repairs or when
there is a shortage of water due to circumstances over which the municipality
has no control.
(Prior Code, § 3-113)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. Rev. Stat. 17-537
§ 51.14  FIRE HYDRANTS.
   All hydrants for the purpose of extinguishing fires are hereby declared to
be public hydrants, and it shall be unlawful for any person other than members
of the Municipal Fire Department under the orders of the Fire Chief, or the
Assistant Fire Chief, or members of the Water Department to open or attempt to
open any of the hydrants and draw water from the same, or in any manner to
interfere with the hydrants.
(Prior Code, § 3-114)  Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.15  POLLUTION.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to pollute or attempt to pollute any
stream or source of water for the supply of the Municipal Water Department.
(Prior Code, § 3-115)  Penalty, see §
51.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. Rev. Stat. 17-536
§ 51.16  MANDATORY HOOK-UP.
   All persons within 300 feet of a water main shall be required, upon notice
by the governing body, to hook-up with the Municipal Water System.
(Prior Code, § 3-116)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. Rev. Stat. 17-539
§ 51.17  WATER SERVICE CONTRACTS.
   (A)   Contracts for water service are not transferable. Any person wishing
to change from one location to another shall make a new application and sign a
new contract.
   (B)   If any consumer shall move from the premises where service is
furnished, or if the said premises is destroyed by fire or other casualty, he
or she shall at once inform the Utilities Superintendent who shall cause the
water service to be shut off at the said premises.
   (C)   If the consumer should fail to give such notice, he or she shall be
charged for all water used on the said premises until the Utilities
Superintendent is otherwise advised of such circumstances.
(Prior Code, § 3-117)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. Rev. Stat. 17-537
§ 51.18  INSPECTION.
   The Utilities Superintendent, or his or her duly authorized agents, shall
have free access, at any reasonable time, to all parts of each premises and
building to, or in which, water is delivered for the purpose of examining the
pipes, fixtures, and other portions of the system to ascertain whether there is
any disrepair or unnecessary waste of water.
(Prior Code, § 3-118)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. Rev. Stat. 17-537
§ 51.19  DESTRUCTION OF PROPERTY.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to willfully or carelessly break,
injure, or deface any building, machinery, apparatus, fixture, attachment, or
appurtenance of the Municipal Water Department. No person may deposit anything
in a stop box or commit any act tending to obstruct or impair the intended use
of any of the above mentioned property without the written permission of the
Utilities Superintendent.
(Prior Code, § 3-119)  Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.20  LICENSED PLUMBER.
   It shall be unlawful for any plumber or pipe fitter to do any work upon any
of the pipes or appurtenances of the system of waterworks, or to make any
connection with or extension of the supply pipes of any consumer taking water
from the said system until such plumber or pipe fitter shall have first
procured a license or permit from the municipality. All plumbing shall be done
in the manner required by the Utilities Superintendent. The said licensed
plumber shall be at all times subject to the inspection and approval of the
Utilities Superintendent and it shall be further unlawful to cover or conceal
willfully any defective or unsatisfactory plumbing work.
(Prior Code, § 3-120)  Penalty, see §
51.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. Rev. Stat. 17-537
§ 51.21  COMPLAINTS.
   Any consumer feeling himself or herself aggrieved by reason of any
controversy with the Utilities Superintendent or Village Clerk or his or her
designated collection agent may appear before the governing body and present
his or her grievance. Any consumer who considers himself or herself aggrieved
by being required to pay the charge demanded for the use of water, or for the
resumption of water service after the same shall have been shut off, shall pay
such charge under protest, in which event the Village Clerk shall write on the
receipt given such customer the words, “Paid Under Protest”. Such consumer may
then present his or her verified claim in the manner provided for presenting
claims to the governing body for a refund of the amount so paid under protest.
Such claims shall then be considered by the governing body in the same manner
as other claims against the municipality.
(Prior Code, § 3-121)
§ 51.22  WATER METERS; INSTALLATION PROCEDURE; COST; AND OWNERSHIP.
   (A)   All consumers receiving water from the Municipal Water Supply System
shall be required to have a water meter installed to record the amount of water
consumed by the consumer for billing purposes.
   (B)   If the consumer has a basement, or a crawl space that is easily
accessible, the water meter shall be installed in said basement or crawl space.
If the consumer does not have a basement or an easily accessible crawl space,
the water meter shall be installed in a meter pit in the right-of-way adjacent
to the consumer’s property line.
   (C)   The municipality shall be responsible for the cost of the water meter,
the meter pit, if applicable, and the entire installation expense. If the
consumer refuses or fails to provide the municipality or its contractor access
to the consumer’s premises for the installation of the water meter in the
basement or easily accessible crawl space, then the consumer shall be
responsible for the entire cost of the water meter and meter pit, and the cost
of the installation of the water meter and meter pit. For new construction
after the initial installation of water meters, the municipality shall supply
the water meter and the meter pit, if applicable, and the consumer shall be
responsible for the cost of the installation of the water meter and meter pit.
   (D)   The municipality shall retain ownership of all water meters.
(Ord. 2012-01, passed 3-14-2012)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. Rev. Stat. 17-505 and 17-537
§ 51.23  WELLHEAD PROTECTIONS; ADOPTION OF WELLHEAD PROTECTION AREA BOUNDARIES.
   (A)   In order to continue to provide safe drinking water to the residents
of the village and to protect the municipality’s investment in its existing
municipal water wells, the Wellhead Protection Area boundaries as drawn by the
state’s Department of Environmental Quality on the map attached to the
ordinance codified herein are hereby adopted, and the area within said
boundaries shall be known as the “Village of Cortland Wellhead Protection
Area”.
   (B)   The map of the Village Wellhead Protection Area, as prepared by the
state’s Department of Environmental Quality, is incorporated by reference into
this section as if fully set forth herein.
(Ord. 2015-07, passed 8-12-2015)
WATER WELLS
§ 51.35  PERMIT REQUIRED.
   From and after the effective date of this subchapter, it shall be unlawful
for any person, corporation, or other legal entity to drill and/or operate any
of the following facilities within the corporate limits of the village without
first having obtained the proper permit from the governing body of the village
potable water well; any other well; sewage lagoon; absorption or disposal field
for water; cesspool; dumping grounds; feedlots; livestock pasture or corral;
chemical product storage facility; petroleum product storage facility; pit
toilet; sanitary landfill; septic tank; sewage treatment plant; or sewage wet
well.
(Ord. 2006-2, passed 2-8-2006)  Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.36  PROCEDURE TO OBTAIN PERMIT.
   In order to obtain a permit to drill and/or operate any of the facilities
listed in §
51.35, the owner of the property on which the proposed facility is to be
located must make application on the proper form provided by the governing body
of the village. Such application must be presented to the Village Board of
Trustees at any regular or special meeting. After reviewing the application of
any person desiring to drill or operate any of the above described facilities,
the Village Board of Trustees shall approve or deny said permit.
(Ord. 2006-2, passed 2-8-2006)
§ 51.37  DESIGNATED DISTANCE FROM MUNICIPAL WATER SOURCES.
   Under no circumstances shall the Village Board of Trustees approve any
permit to drill or operate any of the below described facilities within the
indicated number of feet from any village municipal water well.
Category Distance
Category                                      Distance
Absorption or disposal field for waste        500 feet
Cesspool                                      500 feet
Chemical or petroleum product storage         500 feet
Corral                                        500 feet
Dump                                          500 feet
Feedlot or feedlot runoff                     500 feet
Non-potable water well                        1,000 feet
Pit toilet                                    500 feet
Sanitary landfill                             500 feet
Sanitary sewer connection                     100 feet
Sanitary sewer line                           100 feet
Sanitary sewer line (permanently water tight) 10 feet
Sanitary sewer manhole                        100 feet
Septic tank                                   500 feet
Sewage lagoon                                 1,000 feet
Sewage treatment plant                        500 feet
Sewage wet well                               500 feet
 
(Ord. 2006-2, passed 2-8-2006)
§ 51.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   In the event any of the above described facilities are installed or
operated without first having obtained a permit from the village and/or within
the designated number of feet from any municipal water supply, then such
facilities shall be deemed a nuisance and the governing body shall abate such
facility as a public nuisance. In addition thereto, any person violating any of
the terms of this chapter is hereby determined to be guilty of a Class 3
misdemeanor as the same is defined by state statute. The penalty for such
violation shall be that as defined by state law for the violation of a Class 3
misdemeanor.
   (B)   Any person who shall violate §
51.05 shall be deemed guilty of an offense, and upon conviction thereof, shall
be fined $500 for each offense.
(Ord. 2006-2, passed 2-8-2006; Ord. 2008-1, passed 1-9-2008)
CHAPTER 52:  SEWER
Section
   
52.01   Operation and funding
   
52.02   Definitions
   
52.03   Application for permit
   
52.04   Sewer contract
   
52.05   Mandatory hook-up
   
52.06   Direct connections
   
52.07   Installation procedure
   
52.08   Installation expense
   
52.09   Repairs and maintenance
   
52.10   Rate setting
   
52.11   Collection of sewer bills
   
52.12   Old house sewers
   
52.13   Unlawful use
   
52.14   Special equipment
   
52.15   Manholes
   
52.16   Inspections
   
52.17   Lien
   
52.18   Complaints
   
52.19   Repairs and replacement
Cross-reference:
   Utilities generally, see
Ch. 50
   Water, see
Ch. 51
§ 52.01  OPERATION AND FUNDING.
   (A)   The municipality owns and operates the Municipal Sewer System through
the governing body.
   (B)   For the purpose of defraying the cost of the maintenance and repairing
of any sewer or water utilities in the municipality, the governing body may
each year levy a tax not exceeding the maximum limit prescribed by state law on
the taxable value of all the taxable property in the municipality. The revenue
from the tax shall be known as the Water and Sewer Maintenance Fund and shall
be used exclusively for the purpose of maintenance and repairs of the water and
sewer system.
   (C)   The governing body shall have the direct management and control of the
Sewer Department, shall faithfully carry out the duties of the office, and
shall have the authority to adopt rules and regulations for the sanitary and
efficient management of the Department subject to the supervision and review of
the governing body.
(Prior Code, § 3-201)  (Ord. 1998-16, passed 10-7-1998)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. Rev. Stat. 17-925.01
§ 52.02  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BIOLOGICAL OXYGEN DEMAND. The quantity of oxygen utilized in the biochemical
oxidation of organic matter under standard laboratory procedure in five days at
20°C, expressed in parts per million by weight.
   BUILDING SEWER or HOUSE SEWER. The part of a house or building drainage
system extending from the house or building drain to its connection with the
main sewer.
   GARBAGE. Solid wastes from the preparation of cooking and dispensing of food
and produce.
   pH. The logarithm of the reciprocal of the weight of hydrogen ions in grams
per liter of solution.
   PROPERLY SHREDDED. Include shredding to such a degree that all particles
will be carried freely under the flow conditions normally prevailing in public
sewers with no particle larger than one-half inch in diameter.
   SANITARY SEWER. Include a sewer which carries sewage and to which storm,
surface, and ground waters are not intentionally admitted.
   SEWAGE. Include a combination of the water-carried wastes from residences,
business buildings, institutions, and industrial establishments together with
such ground, surface, and storm waters as may be present.
   SEWER SYSTEM. Include all facilities for collecting, pumping, treating, and
disposing of sewage.
   STORM SEWER. Include a sewer which carries storm and surface drainage, but
excludes sewage and polluted industrial wastes.
   SUSPENDED SOLIDS. Include solids that either float on the surface of, or are
in immersion in water, sewage, or other liquids, and are removable by
filtering.
   TRAP. Include a fitting or device so constructed as to prevent the passage
of air or gas through a pipe without materially affecting the flow of sewage or
waste through it.
(Prior Code, § 3-202)
§ 52.03  APPLICATION FOR PERMIT.
   Any person wishing to connect with the Sewer System shall make an
application therefor to the Utilities Superintendent. Sewer service may not be
supplied to any house or building except upon the order of the Superintendent.
(Prior Code, § 3-203)
§ 52.04  SEWER CONTRACT.
   The municipality, through the Municipal Sewer Department, shall furnish
sewer services to persons within its corporate limits whose premises abut a
street or alley in which a commercial main is now or may hereafter be laid. The
rules, regulations, and sewer rental rates hereinafter named in this chapter,
shall be considered a part of every application hereafter made for sewer
service and shall be considered a part of the contract between every customer
now or hereafter served. Without further formality, the making of the
application on the part of any applicant or the use of sewer service by present
customers thereof shall constitute a contract between the customer and the
municipality to which said contract both parties are bound. If the customer
shall violate any of the provisions of said contract or any reasonable rules
and regulations that the governing body may hereafter adopt, the Utilities
Superintendent or his or her agent may cut off or disconnect the sewer service
from the building or premises of such violation. No further connection for
sewer service to said building or premises shall again be made, save or except
by order of the Superintendent or his or her agent.
(Prior Code, § 3-204)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. Rev. Stat. 17-901 and 17-902
§ 52.05  MANDATORY HOOK-UP.
   Upon written notice by the governing body, the property owner, occupant, or
lessee of any premises within the municipality shall without delay cause the
said building to be connected with the Sewer System and equipped with inside
sewerage facilities. Every building hereafter erected shall be connected with
the Sewer System at the time of its construction. In the event that any
property owner, occupant, or lessee shall neglect, fail, or refuse, within a
period of ten days after notice has been given to him or her to do so by
registered mail or by publication in a newspaper in or of general circulation
in the municipality, to make such connection, the governing body shall have the
power to cause the same to be done, to assess the cost thereof against the
property, and to collect the assessment thus made in the manner provided for
collection of other special taxes and assessments.
(Prior Code, § 3-205)
§ 52.06  DIRECT CONNECTIONS.
   Each and every building must make a direct connection with the main sewer
line. Under no circumstances will two or more houses be allowed to make such
connections through one pipe.
(Prior Code, § 3-206)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. Rev. Stat. 18-503
§ 52.07  INSTALLATION PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Upon approval of his or her application, the customer shall be
responsible for installation of the house sewer from the municipal main to the
premises to be served, including the actual tap into the main.
   (B)   No municipal sewer main shall be tapped except under the direct
supervision of the Utilities Superintendent. It shall be an offense for any
person to tap into a municipal sewer main without the Utilities Superintendent
being present.
   (C)   In making excavations in streets, alleys, or sidewalks for the purpose
of installing pipe or making repairs, the consumer shall comply with §
94.28.
(Prior Code, § 3-207)  (Ord. 2008-6, passed 6-11-2008)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. Rev. Stat. 17-505 and 17-537
§ 52.08  INSTALLATION EXPENSE.
   The customer, upon approval of his or her application for sewer service,
shall pay to the Village Clerk a tap fee of $25 which shall compensate the
municipality for the expense of inspecting the installation of his or her
building sewer and to partially compensate the municipality for the expense of
providing sewer service. The customer shall then be required to pay the expense
of procuring the materials required as well as the services of a licensed
plumber and shall pay all other costs of installation from the main to the
premises served including tapping into the municipal main.
(Prior Code, § 3-208)  (Ord. 1994-2, passed 3-2-1993)
§ 52.09  REPAIRS AND MAINTENANCE.
   The municipality shall repair or replace, as the case may be, all pipe
constituting major sewer mains. It shall be the responsibility of the customer
to repair or replace all other sewer pipe and appurtenances from the main to,
and including, the customer’s property. All replacements and repairs made by
the customer shall be done in the manner and with the materials approved by the
Utilities Superintendent; provided, that the same have been previously approved
by the governing body.
(Prior Code, § 3-209)
§ 52.10  RATE SETTING.
   All customers of the Municipal Sewer Department shall be charged rates for
the use of sewer service which may by ordinance from time to time be adopted by
the Village Board. Rates shall be set by ordinance and shall be on file at the
office of the Village Clerk for public inspection at any reasonable time. Any
unpaid bills or fees for such service shall be a lien against the real estate
receiving the sewer service and may be foreclosed or certified to the County
Clerk to be collected as a special tax in the manner provided by law.
(Prior Code, § 3-210)  (Ord. 84-4, passed 6-6-1984; Ord. 2001-2, passed 3-7-
2001)
§ 52.11  COLLECTION OF SEWER BILLS.
   Sewer rental bills shall be due and payable quarterly at the office of the
Village Clerk or his or her designated collection agent on the same dates as
water bills. Bills not paid within 30 days shall be deemed delinquent. Upon
being deemed to be delinquent, as herein defined, the Village Clerk or his or
her designated collection agent shall give a written notice to the customer of
such delinquency and shall demand payment immediately. In the event that the
bill is not paid within ten days after the sending of the said notice, the
governing body shall order the Utilities Superintendent to cut off water
service at any time; provided, if the delinquent customer is a known welfare
recipient, it shall be the duty of the Village Clerk or his or her designated
collection agent to notify the customer and the County Welfare Department by
certified mail of the proposed termination. The Village Clerk or his or her
designated collection agent shall bill the owner of the real estate receiving
sewer service and such owner shall be liable for the sewer bill pursuant to the
procedure set forth above. Any unpaid bills or fees for such service shall be a
lien against the real estate receiving the sewer service and may be foreclosed
or certified to the County Clerk to be collected as a special tax in the manner
provided by law.
(Prior Code, § 3-211)  (Ord. 1986-7, passed 10-1-1986)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. Rev. Stat. 17-925.01
§ 52.12  OLD HOUSE SEWERS.
   Old house sewers and drains may be used in connection with new buildings or
new plumbing only when they are found, on examination by the Utilities
Superintendent, to conform in all respects to the requirements governing new
sewers and drains. If the old work is found defective or otherwise
unsatisfactory, he or she shall notify the owner to make the necessary changes
to conform with the provisions of the Municipal Code.
(Prior Code, § 3-212)
§ 52.13  UNLAWFUL USE.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to discharge or cause to be
discharged any storm water, surface water, ground water, roof runoff, surface
drainage, or unpolluted industrial process waters into the sanitary sewer.
   (B)   Except as hereinafter provided, no person shall discharge or cause to
be discharged any of the following described waters or wastes into the
Municipal Sewer System:
      (1)   Liquids or vapors having a temperature higher than 150°F;
      (2)   Water or waste which may contain more than 100 parts per million by
weight of fat, oil, or grease;
      (3)   Gasoline, benzene, naphtha, fuel oil, other flammable or explosive
liquid, solid, or gas;
      (4)   Garbage that has not been properly shredded;
      (5)   Sand, mud, metal, rags, paper, or other solid or viscous substance
capable of causing obstruction to the flow in the sewer system;
      (6)   Toxic or poisonous substances in sufficient quantity to interfere
with or injure the sewage treatment process, constitute a hazard to humans,
animals, or fish, or create any hazard in the receiving area of the sewage
treatment plant;
      (7)   Suspended solids of such character and quantity that unusual
attention or expense is required to handle such materials;
      (8)   Waters or wastes having a pH lower than 5.5 or higher than 9.0 or
having other corrosive properties capable of causing damage to the structures,
equipment, and personnel of the Municipal Sewer Department; and
      (9)   Any noxious or malodorous gas or substance capable of creating a
public nuisance.
(Prior Code, § 3-213)  (Ord. 2008-7, passed 8-13-2008)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 52.14  SPECIAL EQUIPMENT.
   In the event a customer of the Municipal Sewer Department discharges an
unusually large amount of waste daily, an unusually large amount of grease or
oil, or waste with an unusually high biochemical oxygen demand, the governing
body may require the said customer to install interceptors or other preliminary
treatment equipment to reduce the objectionable characteristics of the waste to
within such maximum limits as he or she shall prescribe. All preliminary
treatment facilities shall be purchased and maintained continuously in
satisfactory and efficient operation at the customer’s expense. Nothing herein
shall be construed to prohibit a special agreement or arrangement between the
governing body and an industrial concern whereby an industrial waste of unusual
strength or character may be accepted by the municipality for treatment subject
to additional rental fees or other charges.
(Prior Code, § 3-214)
§ 52.15  MANHOLES.
   Entrance into a manhole or opening for any purpose except by authorized
persons is hereby prohibited. It shall be unlawful to deposit or cause to be
deposited in any receptacle connected with the Sewer System any substance which
is not the usual and natural waste carried by the Sewer System.
(Prior Code, § 3-215)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 52.16  INSPECTIONS.
   The Utilities Superintendent or his or her authorized agents shall have free
access at any reasonable time to all parts of each premises and building which
is connected with the Sewer System to ascertain whether there is any disrepair
or violations of this chapter therein.
(Prior Code, § 3-216)
§ 52.17  LIEN.
   In addition to all other remedies, if a customer shall for any reason remain
indebted to the municipality for sewer service furnished, such amount due,
together with any rents and charges in arrears shall be considered a delinquent
sewer rent which is hereby declared to be a lien upon the real estate for which
the same was furnished. The Village Clerk shall notify in writing or cause to
be notified in writing, all owners of premises or their agents whenever their
tenants or lessees are 60 days or more delinquent in the payment of sewer rent.
It shall be the duty of the Norris Public Power District on June 1 of each year
to report to the governing body a list of all unpaid accounts due for sewer
service together with a description of the premises served. The report shall be
examined, and if approved by the governing body, shall be certified by the
Village Clerk to the County Clerk to be collected as a special tax in the
manner provided by law.
(Prior Code, § 3-217)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. Rev. Stat. 17-925.01
§ 52.18  COMPLAINTS.
   Any consumer feeling himself or herself aggrieved by reason of any
controversy with the Utilities Superintendent or Village Clerk or his or her
designated collection agent may appear before the governing body and present
his or her grievance. Any consumer who considers himself or herself aggrieved
by being required to pay the charge demanded for the use of the sewer, or for
the resumption of sewer service after the same shall have been shut off, shall
pay such charge under protest, in which event the Village Clerk shall write on
the receipt given such customer the words, “Paid Under Protest”. Such consumer
may then present his or her verified claim in the manner provided for
presenting claims to the governing body for a refund of the amount so paid
under protest. Such claims shall then be considered by the governing body in
the same manner as other claims against the municipality.
(Prior Code, § 3-218)
§ 52.19  REPAIRS AND REPLACEMENT.
   (A)   The Municipal Sewer Department may require the owner of any property
which is within the municipality and connected to the public sewers or drains
to repair or replace any connection line which serves the owner’s property and
is broken, clogged, or otherwise in need of repair or replacement. The property
owner’s duty to repair or replace such a connection line shall include those
portions upon the owner’s property and those portions upon public property or
easements up to and including the point of junction with the public main. The
Village Clerk shall give the property owner notice by registered letter or
certified mail, directed to the last-known address of such owner or the agent
of such owner, directing the repair or replacement of such connection line. If
within 30 days of mailing such notice the property owner fails or neglects to
cause such repairs or replacements to be made, the Utilities Superintendent may
cause such work to be done and assess the cost upon the property served by such
connection.
   (B)   Any person who shall violate §
52.07 shall be deemed guilty of an offense, and upon conviction thereof, shall
be fined $500 for each offense.
   (C)   Any person who shall violate §
52.13 shall be deemed guilty of an offense and, upon conviction thereof, shall
be fined $500 for each offense.
(Prior Code, § 3-219)  (Ord. 1984-10, passed 11-7-1984; Ord. 2008-6, passed 6-
11-2008; Ord. 2008-7, passed 8-13-2008)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. Rev. Stat. 18-1748
CHAPTER 53:  GARBAGE
Section
   
53.01   Definitions
   
53.02   Trash and waste
   
53.03   Containers
   
53.04   Fees
   
53.05   Eligibility for service
   
53.06   Dead animals
   
53.07   Village burn site
   
53.08   Authority
   
53.09   Notice; removal
   
53.10   Nuisances
   
53.11   Lien
 
   
53.99   Penalty
§ 53.01  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   GARBAGE. Kitchen refuse, decayed waste, dead animals, or anything that may
decompose and become offensive to the public health.
(Prior Code, § 4-201)
   RUBBISH or TRASH. Discarded machinery, chips, pieces of wood, sticks, dead
trees, branches, bottles, broken glass, crockery, tin cans, boxes, papers,
rags, or any other litter or debris that is not an immediate hazard to the
health of the residents of the municipality.
(Prior Code, § 4-202)
   WASTE. Cinders, ashes, plaster, brick, stone, sawdust, or sand.
(Prior Code, § 4-203)
§ 53.02  TRASH AND WASTE.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to keep in, on, or about any
dwelling, building, or premises, or any other place in the municipality,
decayed vegetable or animal substance, garbage, or refuse matter of any kind
that may be injurious to the public health or offensive to the residents of the
municipality unless the same is kept in receptacles not exceeding a 30-gallon
capacity and as nearly air-tight as may be practical.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to throw or sweep into the streets, alleys,
parks, or other public grounds any dirt, paper, nails, pieces of glass, refuse,
waste, or rubbish of any kind. No person may permit garbage, rubbish, waste, or
refuse to collect and all persons shall remove the same from their property
within 24 hours after being notified to do so by the Utilities Superintendent
or Chairperson who shall represent the Board of Health.
   (C)   Any person having garbage, rubbish, waste, or refuse that is subject
to decay or fermentation within a short period of time shall be required to
place the same in a standard garbage can with a tight cover, or a durable
plastic container that is securely tied at its opening. All persons shall have
the contents of their garbage cans removed at least once a week.
(Prior Code, § 4-204)  Penalty, see §
53.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. Rev. Stat. 19-2106
§ 53.03  CONTAINERS.
   Any person, firm, or corporation subscribing to a collection service
contracted with by the municipality shall provide receptacles not exceeding a
30-gallon capacity for disposal and collection of any garbage or rubbish. The
governing body may, by resolution, determine such other regulations as it deems
necessary.
(Prior Code, § 4-205)
§ 53.04  FEES.
   Fees due the municipality for collection service shall be set prospectively
by ordinance by the governing body, as from time to time shall be deemed
necessary by the Village Board, and shall be on file in the office of the
Village Clerk and available for inspection at any reasonable time. The Village
Clerk or his or her designated collection agent shall bill the owner of the
real estate receiving collection service and such owner shall be liable for the
collection bill pursuant to the procedure set forth above. Any unpaid bills or
fees for such service shall be a lien against the real estate receiving the
collection service and may be foreclosed or certified to the County Clerk to be
collected as a special tax in the manner provided by law.
(Prior Code, § 4-206)  (Ord. 1982-1, passed 4-7-1982; Ord. 1986-8, passed 10-1-
1986; Ord. 1988-2, passed 6-1-1988; Ord. 1988-4, passed 10-5-1988; Ord. 1993-9,
passed 10-20-1993; Ord. 2001-3, passed 3-7-2001)
§ 53.05  ELIGIBILITY FOR SERVICE.
   All persons, firms, corporations, and institutions within the corporate
limits of the municipality who are customers of the Municipal Water and/or
Sewer Departments shall be subscribers to the collection service contracted
with by the municipality for collection of garbage, rubbish, and refuse
accumulating within the municipality, subject to the regulations set by the
governing body. If any person, firm, corporation, or institution is outside the
corporate limits, it may subscribe to the collection service only if it
receives municipal water and sewer service.
(Prior Code, § 4-207)  (Ord. 1985-5, passed 8-7-1985)
§ 53.06  DEAD ANIMALS.
   All dead animals shall be immediately removed and buried by the owner of
such animals; and if the owner of such animal cannot be found within two hours
after discovering the same, then such animal shall be removed by and at the
expense of the municipality. Dead animals shall not be buried within the
corporate limits of the municipality, nor within one mile thereof, nor in or
above the course of ground water that is used for drinking purposes by the
municipality or its inhabitants. Such animals may, however, be buried in the
municipal dumping ground.
(Prior Code, § 4-208)  Penalty, see §
53.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. Rev. Stat. 17-207
§ 53.07  VILLAGE BURN SITE.
   (A)   The governing body may establish an appropriate place for the deposit
of wood, grass, and leaves by village residents known as the village burn site,
and may establish reasonable regulations governing the use of the same in
addition to those contained in this section. The Village Board may cause an
appropriate sign to be erected stating regulations for the use of the burn
site. Any person violating the provisions of this section or such regulations
shall be subject to the penal provisions of the chapter.
   (B)   (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person not a resident of the
municipality to dispose of or dump any waste whatsoever at the municipal burn
site.
      (2)   It shall be unlawful for any person to dispose of or dump at the
municipal burn site any solid wastes other than grass clippings, leaves, brush,
tree limbs, and untreated or unpainted lumber. All nails shall be removed from
lumber prior to disposal at the municipal burn site.
(Prior Code, § 4-209)  (Ord. 1989-2, passed 5-3-1989; Ord. 2013-3, passed 12-
11-2013)  Penalty, see §
53.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. Rev. Stat. 17-505
§ 53.08  AUTHORITY.
   The governing body for the village may provide for the collection and
removal of garbage or refuse found upon any lot or land within its corporate
roads, or alleys abutting such lot or land which constitutes a public nuisance.
The village may require the owner, duly authorized agent, or tenant of such lot
or land to remove the garbage or refuse from such lot or land and streets,
roads, or alleys.
(Prior Code, § 4-210)  (Ord. 1988-8, passed 10-5-1988)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. Rev. Stat. 18-1303
§ 53.09  NOTICE; REMOVAL.
   Notice that removal of garbage or refuse is necessary shall be given to each
owner or owner’s duly authorized agent and to the tenant if any. Such notice
shall be provided by personal service or by certified mail. After providing
such notice, the village through its proper offices shall, in addition to other
proper remedies, remove the garbage or refuse, or cause it to be removed, from
such lot or land and streets, roads, or alleys.
(Prior Code, § 4-211)  (Ord. 1988-8, passed 10-5-1988)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. Rev. Stat. 18-1303
§ 53.10  NUISANCES.
   If the Chairperson declares that the accumulation of such garbage or refuse
upon any lot or land constitutes an immediate nuisance and hazard to public
health and safety, the village shall remove the garbage or refuse, or cause it
to be removed, from such lot or land within 48 hours after notice by personal
service or following receipt of a certified letter in accordance with §
53.09 if such garbage or refuse has not been removed.
(Prior Code, § 4-212)  (Ord. 1988-8, passed 10-5-1988)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. Rev. Stat. 18-1303
§ 53.11  LIEN.
   Whenever a village removes any garbage or refuse, or causes it to be
removed, from any lot or land pursuant to this chapter, it shall, after a
hearing conducted by the governing board, assess the cost of the removal
against such lot or land.
(Prior Code, § 4-213)  (Ord. 1988-8, passed 10-5-1985)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. Rev. Stat. 18-1303
§ 53.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who shall violate or refuse to comply with the enforcement
of any of the provisions of this chapter set forth at full length herein or
incorporated by reference, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and upon conviction
thereof shall be fined not more than $500 for each offense. A new violation
shall be deemed to have been committed every 24 hours of such failure to
comply.
   (B)   Any person convicted of violating §
53.07 shall be fined not less than $75 nor more than $500.
(Ord. 2013-3, passed 12-11-2013)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. Rev. Stat. 17-505
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
   Chapter
      
70.   VEHICLE REGULATIONS
      
71.   RECREATIONAL VEHICLES
      
72.   PARKING REGULATIONS
      
73.   TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
      
74.   PARKING SCHEDULES
CHAPTER 70:  VEHICLE REGULATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
70.01   Definitions
   
70.02   Truck routes
   
70.03   One-way traffic
   
70.04   Traffic lanes
   
70.05   Arterial streets
   
70.06   U turns
   
70.07   Turning generally
   
70.08   Right-of-way
   
70.09   Position of vehicle on highway; generally
   
70.10   Crosswalks
   
70.11   Signs, signals
   
70.12   Stop signs
   
70.13   Signs, traffic-control devices, traffic surveillance devices; defacing
or interfering with devices
   
70.14   Accident; driver’s duties
Prohibitions and Enforcement
   
70.25   Littering
   
70.26   Signs; defacing or interfering with
   
70.27   Signs; unauthorized display
   
70.28   Reckless driving
   
70.29   Careless driving
   
70.30   Negligent driving
   
70.31   Backing
   
70.32   Unnecessary stopping
   
70.33   Passing; intersections
   
70.34   Driving abreast
   
70.35   Following distance
   
70.36   Crowding; front seat
   
70.37   Driving in sidewalk space
   
70.38   Mufflers
   
70.39   Emergency regulations
   
70.40   Loads; spilling or shifting
   
70.41   Child passengers; use of restraint system or occupant protection system
   
70.42   Occupant protection systems; requirements
   
70.43   Compression brakes
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 70.01  DEFINITIONS.
   The words and phrases used in this subchapter, pertaining to motor vehicles
and traffic regulations, shall be construed as defined in Neb. Rev. Stat.
Chapter 60, Article 6, as now existing or hereafter amended. If not defined in
the designated statutes, the word or phrase shall have its common meaning.
   BUSINESS DISTRICT. The portion of the municipality as follows: all of Blocks
7, 8, 9, 10, 11, and 12, all in the original town.
   MUFFLER. A device consisting of a series of chamber or baffle plates, or
other mechanical design for the purpose of receiving exhaust gas from an
internal combustion engine, and effective in reducing noise.
   RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT. Include all parts of the municipality not included in
the business district.
(Prior Code, § 5-101)  (Ord. 1994-9, passed 10-5-1994)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. Rev. Stat. 60-606 through 60-676
§ 70.02  TRUCK ROUTES.
   (A)   The Board of Trustees may, by resolution, designate certain streets in
the municipality that trucks shall travel upon, and it shall be unlawful for
persons operating trucks to travel on other streets than those designated for
trucks, unless to pick up or deliver goods, wares, or merchandise, and in that
event, the operator of the truck shall return to the truck routes as soon as
possible in traveling through or about the municipality.
   (B)   The Board of Trustees shall cause notices to be posted or shall erect
signs indicating the streets so designated as truck routes.
Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. Rev. Stat. 60-681
§ 70.03  ONE-WAY TRAFFIC.
   The Board of Trustees may, by resolution, provide for one-way travel in any
street or alley located in the municipality and shall provide for appropriate
signs and markings when those streets have been so designated by resolution.
§ 70.04  TRAFFIC LANES.
   The Board of Trustees may, by resolution, mark lanes for traffic on street
pavements at such places as it may deem advisable.
§ 70.05  ARTERIAL STREETS.
   The governing body may, by resolution, designate any street or portion
thereof as an arterial street and shall provide for appropriate signs or
markings when such street has been so designated.
(Prior Code, § 5-204)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. Rev. Stat. 60-680
§ 70.06  U-TURNS.
   No vehicle shall be turned so as to proceed in the opposite direction,
except at a street intersection. No vehicle shall be turned so as to proceed in
the opposite direction at any intersection where an automatic signal is in
operation, or where a sign is posted indicating that U-turns are prohibited.
(Prior Code, § 5-205)  Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. Rev. Stat. 60-680 and 60-6,160
§ 70.07  TURNING GENERALLY.
   Vehicles turning to the right into an intersecting street shall approach
such intersection in the lane of traffic nearest to the right hand side of the
highway and must turn the corner as near the right hand curb as possible to
keep between the curb to the right and the center of the intersection of the
two streets. The driver of a vehicle intending to turn to the left shall
approach such center line of the highway, and in turning shall pass as near as
possible to the center of the intersection, passing as closely as practicable
to the right thereof before turning such vehicle to the left. For the purposes
of this section, the CENTER OF THE INTERSECTION shall mean the meeting point of
the medial lines of the highways intersecting one another.
(Prior Code, § 5-206)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. Rev. Stat. 60-6,159
§ 70.08  RIGHT-OF-WAY.
   (A)   When two vehicles approach, or enter an intersection at approximately
the same time, the driver of the vehicle on the left shall yield the right-of-
way to the vehicle on the right when the paths of such vehicles intersect and
there is danger of a collision, unless otherwise directed by a municipal police
officer stationed at the intersection.
   (B)   The driver of a vehicle intending to turn to the left within an
intersection, or into an alley, private road, or driveway shall yield the
right-of-way to any vehicle approaching from the opposite direction which is
within the intersection or so close thereto as to constitute an immediate
hazard.
   (C)   The driver of a vehicle on any street shall yield the right-of-way to
a pedestrian crossing such street within any clearly marked crosswalk, or at
any regular pedestrian crossing at the end of a block where the movement of
traffic is being regulated by traffic officers or traffic direction devices.
Every pedestrian crossing a street at any point other than a pedestrian
crossing, crosswalk, or intersection shall yield the right-of-way to vehicles
upon the street.
   (D)   The driver of a vehicle emerging from or entering an alley, building,
private road, or driveway shall yield the right-of-way to any pedestrian
approaching on any sidewalk.
   (E)   The driver of a vehicle entering a municipal street from a private
road or drive shall yield the right-of-way to all vehicles approaching on such
streets.
   (F)   The driver of a vehicle upon a street shall yield the right-of-way to
authorized emergency vehicles when the latter are operated upon official
business and the drivers thereof make proper use of visual or audible signals.
(Prior Code, § 5-207)  (Ord. 1994-10, passed 10-5-1994)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. Rev. Stat. 60-6,146 through 60-6,154
§ 70.09  POSITION OF VEHICLE ON HIGHWAY; GENERALLY.
   (A)   Upon all highways of sufficient width, one-way streets excepted, the
driver of a vehicle shall drive the same on the right half of the roadway.
   (B)   In passing or meeting other vehicles, drivers shall give each other at
least one-half of the main traveled portion of the roadway.
(Prior Code, § 5-208)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. Rev. Stat. 60-6,131
§ 70.10  CROSSWALKS.
   The Board of Trustees may, by resolution, establish and maintain by
appropriate devices, markers, or lines upon the street crosswalks at
intersections where there is particular danger to pedestrians crossing the
street, and at such other places as it may deem necessary.
§ 70.11  SIGNS, SIGNALS.
   (A)   The Board of Trustees may, by resolution, provide for the placing of
stop signs or other signs, signals, standards, or mechanical devices in any
street or alley under the municipality’s jurisdiction for the purpose of
regulating or prohibiting traffic thereon.
   (B)   The resolution shall describe the portion of the street or alley
wherein traffic is to be regulated or prohibited, the regulation or
prohibition, the location where the sign, signal, standard, or mechanical
device shall be placed, and the hours when the regulation or prohibition shall
be effective.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person to fail, neglect, or refuse to
comply with that regulation or prohibition.
Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. Rev. Stat. 60-6,119 through 60-6,121
§ 70.12  STOP SIGNS.
   Every person operating any vehicle shall, upon approaching any stop sign
erected in accordance with the resolution prescribed heretofore, cause the
vehicle to come to a complete stop before entering or crossing any street,
highway, or railroad crossing. The vehicle operator shall stop at a marked stop
line, or, if there is no stop line, before entering the crosswalk; but if
neither is indicated, then as near the right-of-way line of the intersecting
roadway as possible.
§ 70.13  SIGNS, TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES, TRAFFIC SURVEILLANCE DEVICES; DEFACING
OR WITH INTERFERING DEVICES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to willfully or maliciously deface,
injure, remove, obstruct, knock down, or interfere with any official traffic
sign or signal, traffic-control device, or traffic-control surveillance device.
(Prior Code, § 5-212)  (Ord. 1989-5, passed 12-6-1989)  Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. Rev. Stat. 60-6,129 and 60-6,130
§ 70.14  ACCIDENT; DRIVER’S DUTIES.
   (A)   (1)   Except as provided in division (A)(2) below, the driver of any
vehicle involved in an accident either upon a public highway, private road, or
private drive, resulting in damage to property, shall:
         (a)   Immediately stop such vehicle at the scene of such accident; and
         (b)   Give his or her name, address, telephone number, and operator’s
license number to the owner of the property struck or the driver or occupants
of any other vehicle involved in the collision.
      (2)   The driver of any vehicle involved in an accident either upon a
public highway, private road, or private drive, resulting in damage to an
unattended vehicle or property, shall immediately stop such vehicle and leave
in a conspicuous place in or on the unattended vehicle or property a written
notice containing the information required by division (A)(1) above. In
addition, such driver shall, without unnecessary delay, report the collision,
by telephone or otherwise, to an appropriate peace officer.
   (B)   The driver of any vehicle involved in an accident upon either a public
highway, private road, or private drive, resulting in injury or death to any
person, shall:
      (1)   Immediately stop such vehicle at the scene of such accident;
      (2)   Give his or her name and address and the registration number of the
vehicle and exhibit his or her operator’s license to the person struck or the
driver or occupants of any vehicle collided with; and
      (3)   Render to any person injured in such accident reasonable
assistance, including the carrying of such person to a physician or surgeon for
medical or surgical treatment if it is apparent that such treatment is
necessary or is requested by the injured person.
(Prior Code, § 5-213)  (Ord. 2002-28, passed 10-16-2002)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. Rev. Stat. 60-696 and 60-697
PROHIBITIONS AND ENFORCEMENT
§ 70.25  LITTERING.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to drop, or cause to be left, upon any
municipal highway, street, or alley, except at places designated by the
governing body, any rubbish, debris, or waste, and any person so doing shall be
guilty of littering.
(Prior Code, § 5-301)  Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. Rev. Stat. 39-311
§ 70.26  SIGNS; DEFACING OR INTERFERING WITH.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to willfully deface, injure, remove,
obstruct, or interfere with any official traffic sign or signal.
(Prior Code, § 5-302)  Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. Rev. Stat. 60-6,129
§ 70.27  SIGNS; UNAUTHORIZED DISPLAY.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to maintain or display upon, or in view
of any street, any unofficial sign, signal, or device which purports to be, is
an imitation of, or resembles an official traffic sign or signal which attempts
to direct the movement of traffic, or which hides from view, or interferes with
the effectiveness of any official sign or signal. Every such prohibited sign,
signal, or device is hereby declared to be a public nuisance, and any police
officer is hereby empowered to remove the same, or cause it to be removed,
without notice.
(Prior Code, § 5-303)  Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. Rev. Stat. 60-6,127
§ 70.28  RECKLESS DRIVING.
   Any person who drives a motor vehicle in such a manner as to indicate an
indifferent or wanton disregard for the safety of persons or property shall be
deemed to be guilty of reckless driving, and as such shall be punished as
provided by statute.
(Prior Code, § 5-306)  Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. Rev. Stat. 60-6,213, 60-6,215, and 60-4,182
§ 70.29  CARELESS DRIVING.
   Any person who operates a motor vehicle in a careless manner or without due
caution and circumspection, in a manner so as to endanger, or be likely to
endanger, a person or property shall be guilty of careless driving and shall be
punished as provided by statute.
(Prior Code, § 5-307)  Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. Rev. Stat. 60-6,212
§ 70.30  NEGLIGENT DRIVING.
   Any person who operates a motor vehicle in such a manner as to indicate a
want of ordinary care and caution that a person of ordinary prudence would use
under like circumstances shall be deemed guilty of negligent driving.
(Prior Code, § 5-308)  Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. Rev. Stat. 60-4,182
§ 70.31  BACKING.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to back a motor vehicle on the municipal
streets except to park in or to remove the vehicle from a permitted parking
position, to move the vehicle from a driveway, or to back to the curb for
unloading where such unloading is permitted; provided, a vehicle shall be
backed only when such movement can be made in safety and in no case shall the
distance of the backing exceed one and one-half lengths of the vehicle.
(Prior Code, § 5-309)  Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. Rev. Stat. 60-680 and 60-6,169
§ 70.32  UNNECESSARY STOPPING.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to stop any vehicle on any public street
or alley, other than in permitted parking areas, except when such a stop is
necessary for emergency situations, to comply with traffic-control devices and
regulations, or to yield the right-of-way to pedestrians or to other vehicles.
(Prior Code, § 5-310)  Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. Rev. Stat. 60-680 and 60-6,166
§ 70.33  PASSING; INTERSECTIONS.
   The driver of a vehicle shall not overtake and pass another vehicle
proceeding in the same direction, while traversing a street intersection, if
such passing requires such overtaking vehicle to drive to the left of the
center of the street.
(Prior Code, § 5-311)  Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. Rev. Stat. 60-6,136
§ 70.34  DRIVING ABREAST.
   Two or more vehicles shall not be driven abreast except when passing, or
when traversing a multi-lane or one-way street; provided, motorcycles may be
driven no more than two abreast in a single lane.
(Prior Code, § 5-312)  Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. Rev. Stat. 60-6,139 and 60-6,308
§ 70.35  FOLLOWING DISTANCE.
   The operator of a vehicle shall not follow another vehicle more closely than
is reasonable and prudent having due regard for the speed of the vehicles, and
the traffic and condition of the street.
(Prior Code, § 5-313)  Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. Rev. Stat. 60-6,140
§ 70.36  CROWDING; FRONT SEAT.
   No person shall drive a motor vehicle when it is so loaded, or when there is
in the front seat such a number of persons, exceeding three, as to obstruct the
view of the driver to the front or sides of the vehicle or to interfere with
the driver’s control over the driving mechanism of such vehicle.
(Prior Code, § 5-314)  Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. Rev. Stat. 60-6,179
§ 70.37  DRIVING IN SIDEWALK SPACE.
   No motor vehicle shall be driven or ridden within any sidewalk space, except
a permanent or temporary driveway.
(Prior Code, § 5-315)  Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. Rev. Stat. 60-6,178
§ 70.38  MUFFLERS.
   Every motor vehicle operated within this municipality shall be provided with
a muffler in good working order to prevent excessive or unusual noise or smoke.
No person shall modify or change the exhaust muffler, intake muffler, or any
other noise abatement device of a motor vehicle in a manner such that the noise
emitted by the motor vehicle is increased above that emitted by the vehicle as
originally manufactured. It shall be unlawful to use a “muffler cut-out” on any
motor vehicle upon any streets; provided, the provisions of this section shall
not apply to authorized emergency vehicles.
(Prior Code, § 5-316)  Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. Rev. Stat. 60-6,286 and 60-2209
§ 70.39  EMERGENCY REGULATIONS.
   The Utilities Superintendent is hereby empowered to make and enforce
temporary traffic regulations to cover emergencies.
(Prior Code, § 5-317)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. Rev. Stat. 81-2005
§ 70.40  LOADS; SPILLING OR SHIFTING.
   (A)   No vehicle shall be driven or moved on any highway unless the vehicle
is so constructed or loaded as to prevent its contents from dropping, sifting,
leaking, or otherwise escaping from the vehicle.
   (B)   No person shall transport any sand, gravel, rock less than two inches
in diameter, or refuse in any vehicle on any hard-surfaced highway if such
material protrudes above the sides of that part of the vehicle in which it is
being transported unless such material is enclosed or completely covered with
canvas or similar covering.
   (C)   No person shall drive or move a motor vehicle, trailer, or semitrailer
upon any highway unless the cargo or contents carried by the motor vehicle,
trailer, or semitrailer are properly distributed and adequately secured to
prevent the falling of cargo or contents from the vehicle. The tailgate, doors,
tarpaulins, and any other equipment used in the operation of the motor vehicle,
trailer, or semitrailer or in the distributing or securing of the cargo or
contents carried by the motor vehicle, trailer, or semitrailer shall be secured
to prevent cargo or contents falling from the vehicle. The means of securement
to the motor vehicle, trailer, or semitrailer must be either tie downs and tie
down assemblies of adequate strength or sides, sideboards, or stakes and a rear
end gate, end board, or stakes strong enough and high enough to assure that
cargo or contents will not fall from the vehicle.
(Prior Code, § 5-318)  (Ord. 2003-16, passed 5-7-2003)  Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. Rev. Stat. 60-6,304
§ 70.41  CHILD PASSENGERS; USE OF RESTRAINT SYSTEM OR OCCUPANT PROTECTION
SYSTEM.
   (A)   For purposes of this section, OCCUPANT PROTECTION SYSTEM has the
meaning provided in Neb. Rev. Stat. 60-6.265.
   (B)   (1)   Any person who drives any motor vehicle which has or is required
to have an occupant protection system shall ensure that:
         (a)   All children up to six years of age being transported by such
vehicle use a child passenger restraint system of a type which meets Federal
Motor Vehicle Safety Standard 213 as developed by the National Highway Traffic
Safety Administration, as such standard existed on January 1, 2004, and which
is correctly installed in such vehicle; and
         (b)   All children six years of age and less than 18 years of age
being transported by such vehicle use an occupant protection system.
      (2)   Division (B)(1) shall apply to every motor vehicle which is
equipped with an occupant protection system or is required to be equipped with
restraint systems pursuant to Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standard 208, as
such standard existed on January 1, 2004, except taxicabs, mopeds, motorcycles,
and any motor vehicle designated by the manufacturer as a 1963 year model or
earlier which is not equipped with an occupant protection system.
   (C)   Whenever any licensed physician determines, through accepted medical
procedures, that use of a child passenger restraint system by a particular
child would be harmful by reason of the child’s weight, physical condition, or
other medical reason, the provisions of division (B) above shall be waived. The
driver of any vehicle transporting such a child shall carry on his or her
person or in the vehicle a signed written statement of the physician
identifying the child and stating the grounds for such waiver.
   (D)   The drivers of authorized emergency vehicles shall not be subject to
the requirements of division (B) above when operating such authorized emergency
vehicles pursuant to their employment.
   (E)   A driver of a motor vehicle shall not be subject to the requirements
of division (B) above if the motor vehicle is being operated in a parade or
exhibition and the parade or exhibition is being conducted in accordance with
applicable state law and local ordinances and resolutions.
   (F)   (1)   A person violating any provision of division (B) above is guilty
of an offense. The failure to provide a child restraint system for more than
one child in the same vehicle at the same time, as required in division (B)
above, shall not be treated as a separate offense.
      (2)   Enforcement of division (B)(1)(b) above shall be accomplished only
as a secondary action when an operator of a motor vehicle has been cited or
charged with a violation of some other offense unless the violation involves a
person under the age of 18 years riding in or on any portion of the vehicle not
designed or intended for the use of passengers when the vehicle is in motion.
(Prior Code, § 5-319)  (Ord. 2003-17, passed 5-7-2003; Ord. 2005-8, passed 3-2-
2005)  Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. Rev. Stat. 60-6,267 and 60-6,268
§ 70.42  OCCUPANT PROTECTION SYSTEMS; REQUIREMENTS.
   (A) For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      MOTOR VEHICLE. A vehicle required by Neb. Rev. Stat. 60-6,266 to be
equipped with an occupant protection system.
      OCCUPANT PROTECTION SYSTEM. Has the meaning provided in Neb. Rev. Stat.
60-6,265.
   (B)   (1)   Except as provided in division (B)(2) below, no driver shall
operate a motor vehicle upon a highway or street unless the driver and each
front-seat occupant in the vehicle are wearing occupant protection systems and
all occupant protection systems worn are properly adjusted and fastened.
      (2)   The following persons shall not be required to wear an occupant
protection system:
         (a)   A person who possesses written verification from a physician
that the person is unable to wear an occupant protection system for medical
reasons;
         (b)   A rural letter carrier of the United States Postal Service while
performing his or her duties as a rural letter carrier between the first and
last delivery points; and
         (c)   A member of an emergency medical service while involved in
patient care.
   (C)   All persons being transported in a motor vehicle operated by a holder
of a provisional operator’s permit or a school permit shall use such motor
vehicle’s occupant protection system.
   (D)   Enforcement of divisions (B) and (C) above shall be accomplished only
as a secondary action when an operator of a motor vehicle has been cited or
charged with a violation of some other offense.
   (E)   Regardless of the number of persons in such vehicle not wearing an
occupant protection system pursuant to division (B) above, only one violation
shall be assessed against the driver of such motor vehicle for each time the
motor vehicle is stopped and a violation of such section is found.
(Prior Code, § 5-320)  (Ord. 2003-18, passed 5-7-2003)  Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. Rev. Stat. 60-6,267, 60-6,268, 60-6,270, 60-
6,271, and 60-6,272
§ 70.43  COMPRESSION BRAKES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to attempt to retard the forward
movement of any vehicle on any portion of a street within the city limits that
has a grade of less that five degrees by using motor vehicle brakes that are in
any way activated or operated by the compression of an engine of any such
vehicle or any unit or part thereof.
(Ord. 2006-4, passed 9-13-2006)  Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 71:  RECREATIONAL VEHICLES
Section
Minibikes and Snowmobiles
   
71.01   Unlawful operation of minibikes
   
71.02   Traffic laws inapplicable
   
71.03   Emergencies and parades
   
71.04   Minibikes on public lands
   
71.05   Snowmobile equipment
   
71.06   Unlawful acts
   
71.07   Snowmobiles on public lands
All-Terrain Vehicles
   
71.20   Definitions
   
71.21   Compliance required
   
71.22   Operation regulations
   
71.23   Permit and insurance requirements
   
71.24   Exceptions
   
71.25   Operation on streets
   
71.26   Crossing streets
Utility-Type Vehicles
   
71.40   Definitions
   
71.41   Hours of operation
   
71.42   License and insurance
   
71.43   Exceptions
   
71.44   Use of streets and highways
   
71.45   Crossing highways
Cross-reference:
   Parking regulations, see
Ch. 72
   Streets and sidewalks, see
Ch. 94
   Vehicle regulations, see
Ch. 70
MINIBIKES AND SNOWMOBILES
§ 71.01  UNLAWFUL OPERATION OF MINIBIKES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate a minibike upon any street or
highway within the corporate limits of the municipality. For purposes of this
subchapter, MINIBIKE shall mean a two-wheel motor vehicle which has a total
wheel and tire diameter of less than 14 inches or an engine rated capacity of
less than 45 cubic centimeters displacement or any other two-wheel motor
vehicle primarily designed by the manufacturer for off-road use only.
(Prior Code, § 5-401)  (Ord.1981-3, passed 12-2-1981)  Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. Rev. Stat. 60-2101.01 and 60-2107
§ 71.02  TRAFFIC LAWS INAPPLICABLE.
   Minibikes, their owners, and their operators shall be exempt from the
requirements of Neb. Rev. Stat. Chapter 60, Articles 3, 4, and 5.
(Prior Code, § 5-401.01)  (Ord. 2005-9, passed 3-2-2005)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. Rev. Stat. 60-6,347
§ 71.03  EMERGENCIES AND PARADES.
   Minibikes shall be exempt from the provisions of this subchapter during any
public emergency or while being used in parades by regularly organized units of
any recognized charitable, social, educational, or community service
organization.
(Prior Code, § 5-402)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. Rev. Stat. 60-2102
§ 71.04  MINIBIKES ON PUBLIC LANDS.
   Minibikes shall be prohibited upon the public lands owned by the
municipality except where allowed by resolution of the governing body.
(Prior Code, § 5-403)  Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. Rev. Stat. 60-2106
§ 71.05  SNOWMOBILE EQUIPMENT.
   Every snowmobile operated within the municipality shall be registered with
the state, as required by law. No snowmobile shall be operated upon a public
street or highway unless it is equipped with at least one head lamp, one tail
lamp, reflector material of a minimum area of 16 square inches mounted on each
side forward of the handle bars, and with brakes as prescribed by the Director
of Motor Vehicles. All laws applying to the operation of other motor vehicles
shall apply to snowmobiles, except those relating to required equipment and
those which, by their nature, have no application.
(Prior Code, § 5-404)  Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. Rev. Stat. 60-2002 and 60-2013
§ 71.06  UNLAWFUL ACTS.
   It shall be deemed a misdemeanor for any person to allow a snowmobile,
either owned or operated by him or her, to be operated:
   (A)   Within the congested area of the municipality unless weather
conditions are such that it provides the only practicable method of safe
vehicular travel, or said snowmobile is engaged in responding to an emergency;
   (B)   At a rate of speed greater than reasonable or proper under the
surrounding circumstances;
   (C)   In a careless, reckless, or negligent manner so as to endanger person
or property;
   (D)   Without a lighted headlight and taillight when such would be required
by conditions;
   (E)   In any tree nursery or planting in a manner which damages or destroys
growing stock; and
   (F)   Upon any private lands without first having obtained permission of the
owner, lessee, or operator of such lands.
(Prior Code, § 5-405)  Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. Rev. Stat. 60-2013 and 60-2015
§ 71.07  SNOWMOBILES ON PUBLIC LANDS.
   Snowmobiles shall be prohibited from operation on the public lands owned by
the municipality, except where allowed by resolution of the governing body.
(Prior Code, § 5-406)  Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. Rev. Stat. 60-2016
ALL-TERRAIN VEHICLES
§ 71.20  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ALL-TERRAIN VEHICLE. Any motorized off-highway vehicle which:
      (1)   Is 50 inches or less in width;
      (2)   Has a dry weight of 900 pounds or less;
      (3)   Travels on three or more low pressure tires;
      (4)   Is designed for operator use only with no passengers or is
specifically designed by the original manufacturer for the operator and one
passenger;
      (5)   Has a seat or saddle designed to be straddled by the operator; and
      (6)   Has handlebars or any other steering assembly for steering control.
   STREET or HIGHWAY. The entire width between the boundary limits of any
street, road, avenue, boulevard, or way which is publicly maintained when any
part thereof is open to the use of the public for purposes of vehicular travel.
(Ord. 2008-9, passed 10-8-2008)
§ 71.21  COMPLIANCE REQUIRED.
   An all-terrain vehicle may be operated on streets and highway within the
corporate limits of the municipality only if the operator and the vehicle
comply with the provisions of this subchapter.
(Ord. 2008-9, passed 10-8-2008)
§ 71.22  OPERATION REGULATIONS.
   An all-terrain vehicle may be operated only between the hours of sunrise and
sunset and shall not be operated at a speed in excess of 30 mph. When operating
an all-terrain vehicle as authorized in §
71.21, the headlight and taillight of the vehicle shall be on and the vehicle
shall be equipped with a bicycle safety flag which extends not less than five
feet above the ground attached to the rear of such vehicle. The bicycle safety
flag shall be triangular in shape with an area of not less than 30 square
inches and shall be day-glow in color.
(Ord. 2008-9, passed 10-8-2008)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 71.23  PERMIT AND INSURANCE REQUIREMENTS.
   Any person operating an all-terrain vehicle as authorized in §
71.21 shall have:
   (A)   A valid Class O operator’s license or a farm permit provided in Neb.
Rev. Stat. 60-4,126; and
   (B)   Liability insurance coverage for the all-terrain vehicle while
operating the all-terrain vehicle on a street or highway. The person operating
the all-terrain vehicle shall provide proof of such insurance coverage to any
peace officer requesting such proof within five days of such a request.
(Ord. 2008-9, passed 10-8-2008)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 71.24  EXCEPTIONS.
   All terrain vehicles may be operated without complying with §§
71.22 and
71.23 on streets and highways in parades which have been authorized by the
state or any department, board, commission, or political subdivision of the
state.
(Ord. 2008-9, passed 10-8-2008)
§ 71.25  OPERATION ON STREETS.
   An all-terrain vehicle shall not be operated on any controlled-access
highway with more than two marked traffic lanes, and the crossing of any
controlled-access highway with more than two marked traffic lanes shall not be
permitted. Sections
71.21 through
71.23 and
71.26 authorize and apply to operation of an all-terrain vehicle only on a
street or highway other than a controlled-access highway with more than two
marked traffic lanes.
(Ord. 2008-9, passed 10-8-2008)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 71.26  CROSSING STREETS.
   Subject to §
71.25, the crossing of a street or highway shall be permitted by an all-terrain
vehicle without complying with §§
71.22 and
71.23 only if:
   (A)   The crossing is made at an angle approximately 90 degrees to the
direction of the street or highway and at a place where no obstruction prevents
and quick and safe crossing;
   (B)   The vehicle is brought to a complete stop before crossing the shoulder
or roadway of the street or highway;
   (C)   The operator yields the right-of-way to all oncoming traffic that
constitutes an immediate potential hazard;
   (D)   In crossing a divided highway, the crossing is made only at an
intersection of such highway with another highway; and
   (E)   Both the headlight and the taillight of the vehicle are on when the
crossing is made.
(Ord. 2008-9, passed 10-8-2008)  Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. Rev. Stat. 17-505, 60-624, 60-680, 60-6,355,
and 60-6,356
UTILITY-TYPE VEHICLES
§ 71.40  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   STREET or HIGHWAY. The entire width between the boundary limits of any
street, road, avenue, boulevard, or way which is publicly maintained when any
part thereof is open to the use of the public for purposes of vehicular travel.
   UTILITY-TYPE VEHICLE.
      (1)   Any motorized off-highway vehicle which:
         (a)   Is not less than 48 inches nor more than 74 inches in width;
         (b)   Is not more than 135 inches, including the bumper, in length;
         (c)   Has a dry weight of not less than 900 pounds or more than 2,000
pounds;
         (d)   Travels on four or more low-pressure tires; and
         (e)   Is equipped with a steering wheel and bench or bucket-type
seating designed for at least two people to sit side-by-side.
      (2)   UTILITY-TYPE VEHICLE does not include golf carts or low-speed
vehicles.
(Ord. 2014-3, passed 9-10-2014)
§ 71.41  HOURS OF OPERATION.
   A utility-type vehicle may be operated only between the hours of sunrise and
sunset and shall not be operated at a speed in excess of 30 mph. When operating
a utility-type vehicle as authorized in this section, the headlight and
taillight of the vehicle shall be on and the vehicle shall be equipped with a
bicycle safety flag which extends not less than five feet above the ground
attached to the rear of such vehicle. The bicycle safety flag shall be
triangular in shape with an area of not less than 30 square inches and shall be
day-glow in color.
(Ord. 2014-3, passed 9-10-2014)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 71.42  LICENSE AND INSURANCE.
   Any person operating an utility-type vehicle as authorized in §
71.41 shall have:
   (A)   Obtained the age of 18 and have a valid Class O operator’s license;
and
   (B)   Liability insurance coverage for the utility-type vehicle while
operating the utility-type vehicle on a street or highway. The person operating
the utility-type vehicle shall provide proof of such insurance coverage to any
peace officer requesting such proof within five days of such a request.
(Ord. 2014-3, passed 9-10-2014)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 71.43  EXCEPTIONS.
   Utility-type vehicles may be operated without complying with §§
71.41 and
71.42 on streets and highways in parades which have been authorized by the
state or any department, board, commission, or political subdivision of the
state.
(Ord. 2014-3, passed 9-10-2014)
§ 71.44  USE OF STREETS AND HIGHWAYS.
   A utility-type vehicle shall not be operated on any controlled-access
highway with more than two marked traffic lanes, and the crossing of any
controlled-access highway with more than two marked traffic lanes shall not be
permitted. This section and §§
71.41 and
71.42 authorize and apply to operation of a utility-type vehicle only on a
street or highway other than a controlled-access highway with more than two
marked traffic lanes.
(Ord. 2014-3, passed 9-10-2014)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 71.45  CROSSING HIGHWAYS.
   Subject to §
71.44, the crossing of a street or highway shall be permitted by a utility-type
vehicle without complying with §§
71.41 and
71.42 only if:
   (A)   The crossing is made at an angle approximately 90 degrees to the
direction of the street or highway and at a place where no obstruction prevents
and quick and safe crossing;
   (B)   The vehicle is brought to a complete stop before crossing the shoulder
or roadway of the street or highway;
   (C)   The operator yields the right-of-way to all oncoming traffic that
constitutes an immediate potential hazard;
   (D)   In crossing a divided highway, the crossing is made only at an
intersection of such highway with another highway; and
   (E)   Both the headlight and the taillight of the vehicle are on when the
crossing is made.
(Ord. 2014-3, passed 9-10-2014)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. Rev. Stat. 17-505, 60-624, 60-680, 60-6,355,
and 60-6,356
CHAPTER 72:  PARKING REGULATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
72.01   Brakes and turned wheels required
   
72.02   Parallel parking required; exceptions
   
72.03   Designation of type of parking
   
72.04   Areas of prohibited parking
   
72.05   Alleys; restrictions
   
72.06   Unloading; freight vehicles
   
72.07   Fire hydrants and stations
   
72.08   Schools, theaters
   
72.09   Street intersections
   
72.10   Obstructing traffic
   
72.11   Curb parking; painting of curbs
   
72.12   Display or repair
   
72.13   Current registration
   
72.14   Time limit
   
72.15   Snow removal and maintenance
   
72.16   Emergency vehicles
   
72.17   Truck parking and unloading
   
72.18   Bureau of Violations
   
72.19   Removal of illegally parked vehicles
Handicapped or Disabled Parking Areas
   
72.30   Definitions
   
72.31   Designation of on-street parking spaces and access aisles; display of
permits
   
72.32   Designation of off-street parking stalls, places, and access aisles
   
72.33   Personal permit; issuance; renewal
   
72.34   Motor vehicles permit; issuance; renewal
   
72.35   Permits; prohibited issuance; duplicate permits
   
72.36   Permits; period valid; renewal of temporary permits
   
72.37   Permits nontransferable; violations; suspension
   
72.38   Removal of unauthorized vehicle
   
72.39   Unregistered motor vehicles or trailers; notice; towing; payment of
fees
 
   
72.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 72.01  BRAKES AND TURNED WHEELS REQUIRED.
   No person having control or charge of a motor vehicle shall allow the
vehicle to stand unattended without first effectively setting the brakes
thereon and, when standing upon any grade, without turning the front wheels of
the vehicle to the curb or side of the street.
Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.02  PARALLEL PARKING REQUIRED; EXCEPTIONS.
   No person shall park any vehicle or approach the curb with a vehicle, except
when headed in the direction of the traffic. Vehicles, when parked, shall stand
parallel with and adjacent to the curb or edge of the roadway in a manner so as
to have both right wheels within 12 inches of the curb or edge of the roadway
and so as to leave at least four feet between the vehicle so parked and any
other parked vehicles, except where the Board of Trustees designates that
vehicles shall be parked at an angle so as to have the front right wheel at the
curb or edge of the roadway. Where stalls are designated either on the curb or
pavement, vehicles shall be parked within those stalls. No vehicle shall be
parked upon a roadway when there is a shoulder adjacent to the roadway which is
available for parking.
Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.03  DESIGNATION OF TYPE OF PARKING.
   The Board of Trustees may, by resolution, designate any street, or portion
thereof, where vehicles shall be parked parallel with and adjacent to the curb
or at an angle so as to have the right front wheel at the curb.
§ 72.04  AREAS OF PROHIBITED PARKING.
   (A)   The Board of Trustees may, by resolution, set aside any street, alley,
public way, or portion thereof where the parking of a particular kind or class
of vehicle shall be prohibited, or where the parking of any vehicle shall be
prohibited.
   (B)   No vehicle prohibited from parking thereon shall stand or be parked
adjacent to the curb of the street, alley, public way, or portion thereof,
longer than a period of time necessary to load and unload freight or
passengers.
Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.05  ALLEYS; RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   No vehicle, while parked, shall have any portion thereof projecting
into any alley entrance.
   (B)   No vehicle shall be parked in any alley, except for the purpose of
loading or unloading during the time necessary to load or unload, which shall
not exceed the maximum limit of one-half hour. Every vehicle while loading or
unloading in any alley shall be parked in such a manner as will cause the least
obstruction possible to traffic in the alley.
Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.06  UNLOADING; FREIGHT VEHICLES.
   Vehicles of an overall length less than 20 feet, including load, while
discharging or loading freight may back to the curb but shall occupy as little
of the street as possible.
§ 72.07  FIRE HYDRANTS AND STATIONS.
   No vehicle shall be parked within 15 feet in either direction of any fire
hydrant nor within 20 feet of the driveway entrance to any fire station. The
curb space within the area of 15 feet in either direction of the fire hydrant
shall be painted red to indicate this prohibition.
(Neb. Rev. Stat. 60-6,166)  Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.08  SCHOOLS, THEATERS.
   The Board of Trustees may, by resolution, prohibit the parking or stopping
except for loading or unloading of passengers or freight, of vehicles at the
curb on streets directly in front of any entrance to a school house, school
building, or theater, and the curbs adjacent to the entrance of the school
house, school building, or theater shall be painted red to indicate this
prohibition.
§ 72.09  STREET INTERSECTIONS.
   Except in compliance with traffic-control devices, no vehicle shall be
parked or left standing for any purpose, except momentarily to load or
discharge passengers, within 25 feet of the intersection or curb lines, or, if
none, then within 15 feet of the intersection of property lines, nor where the
curb lines are painted red to indicate this prohibition.
Penalty, see §
72.99
Statutory reference:
   Authority, see Neb. Rev. Stat. 60-6,166
§ 72.10  OBSTRUCTING TRAFFIC.
   No person shall, except in case of an accident or emergency, stop any
vehicle in any location where that stopping will obstruct any street,
intersection, or entrance to an alley or public or private drive.
Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.11  CURB PARKING; PAINTING OF CURBS.
   (A)   No vehicle shall park on any street with its left side to the curb,
unless the street has been designated to be a one-way street by the Board of
Trustees. Vehicles must not be parked at any curb in such a position as to
prevent another vehicle already parked at the curb from moving away.
   (B)   It shall be the duty of the Board of Trustees or its agent to cause
the curb space to be painted and keep the same painted as provided in this
chapter. No person, firm, or corporation shall paint the curb of any street or
in any manner set aside or attempt to prevent the parking of vehicles in any
street, or part thereof, except at those places where the parking of vehicles
is prohibited by the provisions of this chapter. The marking or designating of
portions of streets or alleys where the parking of vehicles is prohibited or
limited shall be done only by the municipality through its proper officers, at
the direction of the Board of Trustees.
Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.12  DISPLAY OR REPAIR.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to park upon any street, alley, or
public place within this municipality any vehicle displayed for sale. No person
shall adjust or repair any automobile or motorcycle, or race the motor of same,
while standing on the public streets or alleys of this municipality, except in
case of breakdown or other emergency requiring same. No person or employee
connected with a garage or repair shop shall use sidewalks, streets, or alleys
in the vicinity of the garage or shop for the purpose of working on automobiles
or vehicles of any description.
Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.13  CURRENT REGISTRATION.
   It shall be unlawful to park or place on the streets, alleys, or other
public property any vehicle without first securing a current registration as
provided by law.
Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.14  TIME LIMIT.
   (A)   The Board of Trustees may, by resolution, entirely prohibit or fix a
time limit for the parking and stopping of vehicles on any street, streets, or
district designated by that resolution, and the parking, or stopping, of any
vehicle in any such street, streets, or district, for a period of time longer
than fixed in the resolution shall constitute a violation of this chapter.
   (B)   The parking of a motor vehicle on a public street for over 24
consecutive hours is unlawful, except where a different maximum time limit is
posted.
Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.15  SNOW REMOVAL AND MAINTENANCE.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to park or stand any vehicle on any street or
alley in the municipality at any time within 12 hours after a snowfall of three
inches or more has occurred within a 24-hour period unless the snow has been
removed within that time.
   (B)   The Board of Trustees or the County Sheriff may order any street or
alley, or portion thereof, vacated for weather emergencies or street
maintenance. Notice shall be given by personally notifying the owner or
operator of a vehicle parked on that street or alley or by posting appropriate
signs along those streets or alleys. These signs shall be posted not less than
four hours prior to the time that the vacation order is to be effective. Any
person parking a vehicle in violation of this section shall be subject to the
penalties provided for violation in this chapter, and the vehicle may be
removed and parked, under the supervision of the County Sheriff, to a suitable
nearby location without further notice to the owner or operator of the vehicle.
Penalty, see §
72.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. Rev. Stat. 17-557
§ 72.16  EMERGENCY VEHICLES.
   The provisions of this chapter regulating the movement, parking, and
standing of vehicles shall not apply to authorized emergency vehicles, as
defined in this title, while the driver of the vehicle is operating the same in
an emergency in the necessary performance of public duties.
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. Rev. Stat. 60-6,114
§ 72.17  TRUCK PARKING AND UNLOADING.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the operator of any truck with an overall
length of more than 20 feet to stop or park any such vehicle on a street which
the Board of Trustees has designated to be within the business district, except
to load or unload, and then only when loading or unloading in an alley is
impossible. Vehicles may stop or stand for a period of time not to exceed what
is reasonably necessary to load or unload.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for the operator of any truck, regardless of
length, to park the vehicle within a street intersection, on a crosswalk, in
front of a private driveway, or on a sidewalk.
   (C)   The Board may, by resolution, provide truck parking areas adjoining or
adjacent to the business district, and when such parking areas are provided, it
shall be the duty of all truck operators to use those parking areas for all
parking purposes.
   (D)   No truck, including oil tankers, shall park or stop for any period of
time, within the limits of any street outside the business district, except for
the purpose of loading or unloading the cargo thereof in the ordinary course of
business except in the area or areas provided for by the Board by resolution.
Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.18  BUREAU OF VIOLATIONS.
   There is hereby created the Bureau of Violations within the powers and
duties of the office of the Village Clerk. A copy of each citation issued for
non-moving traffic violations shall be deposited with the Village Clerk, whose
duty it shall be to collect all fines and to maintain appropriate and accurate
records of all such fines paid to him or her. Fines shall be payable at the
office of the Clerk. Such fines shall be in the amount of $5 for each violation
if paid within 30 days from the date of issuance. Should any such fine not be
paid within the 30-day period, the Clerk shall ask the Municipal Attorney to
file a complaint in the appropriate court. The fine for any such violation
after 30 days or after judgment is entered against the violator shall be $10
plus costs. All money collected by the Village Clerk under this section shall
be transferred to the school district in which the municipality lies.
(Prior Code, § 5-513)  (Ord. 1977-1, passed 4-6-1977)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. Rev. Stat. 18-1729
§ 72.19  REMOVAL OF ILLEGALLY PARKED VEHICLES.
   (A)   Whenever any police officer shall find a vehicle standing upon a
street or alley in violation of any of the provisions of this subchapter, such
individual may remove or have such vehicle removed, or require the driver or
other person in charge of the vehicle to move such vehicle, to a position off
the roadway of such street or alley or from such street or alley.
   (B)   The owner or other person lawfully entitled to the possession of such
vehicle shall be charged with the reasonable cost of towing and storage fees.
Any such towing or storage fee shall become a lien upon the vehicle prior to
all other claims. Any person towing or storing a vehicle shall be entitled to
retain possession of such vehicle until such charges are paid. The lien
provided for in this section shall not apply to the contents of any vehicles.
(Prior Code, § 5-514)  (Ord. 1984-11, passed 11-7-1984; Ord. 1988-7, passed 10-
5-1988)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. Rev. Stat. 39-671 and 60-680
HANDICAPPED OR DISABLED PARKING AREAS
§ 72.30  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACCESS AISLE. A space adjacent to a handicapped parking space or passenger
loading zone which is constructed and designed in compliance with the Federal
Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990 and the federal rules and regulations
adopted and promulgated in response to the Act.
   HANDICAPPED OR DISABLED PERSON.
      (1)   Any individual with a severe visual or physical impairment which
limits personal mobility and results in an inability to travel unassisted more
than 200 feet without the use of a wheelchair, crutch, walker, or prosthetic,
orthotic, or other assistant device, any individual whose personal mobility is
limited as a result of respiratory problems, any individual who has a cardiac
condition to the extent that his or her functional limitations are classified
in severity as being Class III or Class IV, according to standards set by the
American Heart Association, and any individual who has permanently lost all or
substantially all the use of one or more limbs.
      (2)   TEMPORARILY HANDICAPPED OR DISABLED PERSON. Any handicapped or
disabled person whose personal mobility is expected to be limited in such
manner for no longer than one year.
   HANDICAPPED PARKING INFRACTION. The violation of any section of this
subchapter regulating:
      (1)   The use of parking spaces, including access aisles, designated for
use by handicapped or disabled persons;
      (2)   The unauthorized possession, use, or display of handicapped or
disabled parking permits; or
      (3)   The obstruction of any wheelchair ramps constructed or created in
accordance and in conformity with the Federal Americans with Disabilities Act
of 1990.
(Prior Code, § 5-516)  (Ord. 2002-29, passed 10-16-2002)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. Rev. Stat. 18-1736, 18-1738, and 18-1741.01
§ 72.31  DESIGNATION OF ON-STREET PARKING SPACES AND ACCESS AISLES; DISPLAY OF
PERMITS.
   (A)   The governing body may designate parking spaces, including access
aisles, for the exclusive use of:
      (1)   Handicapped or disabled persons whose motor vehicles display the
distinguishing license plates issued to handicapped or disabled persons
pursuant to Neb. Rev. Stat. 60-311.14;
      (2)   Handicapped or disabled persons whose motor vehicles display a
distinguishing license plate issued to a handicapped or disabled person by
another state;
      (3)   Such other handicapped or disabled persons or temporarily
handicapped or disabled persons, as certified by the municipality, whose motor
vehicles display the permit specified in Neb. Rev. Stat. 18-1739; and
      (4)   Such other motor vehicles, as certified by the municipality, which
display such permit. All such permits shall be displayed by hanging the permit
from the motor vehicle’s rearview mirror so as to be clearly visible through
the front windshield. The permit shall be displayed on the dashboard only when
there is no rearview mirror.
   (B)   If the governing body so designates a parking space or access aisle,
it shall be indicated by posting aboveground and immediately adjacent to and
visible from each space or access aisle a sign as described in Neb. Rev. Stat.
18-1737. In addition to such sign, the space or access aisle may also be
indicated by blue paint on the curb or edge of the paved portion of the street
adjacent to the space or access aisle.
(Prior Code, § 5-517)  (Ord. 2002-30, passed 10-16-2002)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. Rev. Stat. 18-1736
§ 72.32  DESIGNATION OF OFF-STREET PARKING STALLS, PLACES, AND ACCESS AISLES.
   (A)   The municipality and any person in lawful possession of any off-street
parking facility may designate stalls or spaces, including access aisles, in
such facility owned or operated by the municipality or person for the exclusive
use of:
      (1)   Handicapped or disabled persons whose motor vehicles display the
distinguishing license plates issued to such individuals pursuant to Neb. Rev.
Stat. 60-311.14;
      (2)   Such other handicapped or disabled persons or temporarily
handicapped or disabled persons, as certified by the municipality, whose motor
vehicles display the permit specified in Neb. Rev. Stat. 18-1739; and
      (3)   Such other motor vehicles, as certified by the municipality, which
display such permit.
   (B)   Such designation shall be made by posting aboveground and immediately
adjacent to and visible from each stall or space, including access aisles, a
sign which is in conformance with the requirements in Neb. Rev. Stat. 18-1737.
(Prior Code, § 5-518)  (Ord. 2002-31, passed 10-16-2002)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. Rev. Stat. 18-1737
§ 72.33  PERSONAL PERMIT; ISSUANCE; RENEWAL.
   (A)   The Village Clerk shall take an application, on a form provided by the
Department of Motor Vehicles, from a handicapped or disabled person or
temporarily handicapped or disabled person or his or her parent, legal
guardian, or foster parent for a permit which will entitle the holder thereof
or a person driving a motor vehicle for the purpose of transporting such holder
to park in those spaces or access aisles provided for by this subchapter when
the holder of the permit will enter or exit the motor vehicle while it is
parked in such spaces or access aisles. For purposes of this section, the
handicapped or disabled person or temporarily handicapped or disabled person
shall be considered the holder of the permit.
   (B)   A person applying for a permit or for the renewal of a permit shall
complete an application, shall provide proof of identity, and shall submit a
completed medical form containing the statutory criteria for qualification and
signed by a physician, physician assistant, or advanced practice registered
nurse certifying that the person who will be the holder meets the definition of
handicapped or disabled person or temporarily handicapped or disabled person.
No applicant shall be required to provide his or her Social Security number. In
the case of a temporarily handicapped or disabled person, the certifying
physician, physician assistant, or advanced practice registered nurse shall
indicate the estimated date of recovery or that the temporary handicap or
disability will continue for a period of six months, whichever is less.
   (C)   A person may hold only one permit under this section and may hold
either a permit under this section or a permit under §
72.29, but not both.
   (D)   A copy of the completed application form shall be given to each
applicant. The Village Clerk shall submit to the Department of Motor Vehicles
the name, address, and license number of all persons applying for a permit
pursuant to this section.
   (E)   An application for the renewal of a permit under this section may be
filed within 30 days prior to the expiration of the permit. The existing permit
shall be invalid upon receipt of the new permit.
   (F)   The Village Clerk shall not accept the application for a permit of any
person making application contrary to the provisions of Neb. Rev. Stat. 18-
1738.02.
(Prior Code, § 5-519)  (Ord. 2002-17, passed 10-16-2002; Ord. 2002-32, passed
10-16-2002)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. Rev. Stat. 18-1738 and 18-1738.02
§ 72.34  MOTOR VEHICLES PERMIT; ISSUANCE; RENEWAL.
   (A)   The Village Clerk shall take an application from any person for a
motor vehicle permit which will entitle the holder thereof or a person driving
the motor vehicle for the purpose of transporting handicapped or disabled
persons or temporarily handicapped or disabled persons to park in those spaces
or access aisles provided for by this subchapter if the motor vehicle is used
primarily for the transportation of handicapped or disabled persons or
temporarily handicapped or disabled persons. Such parking permit shall be used
only when the motor vehicle for which it was issued is being used for the
transportation of a handicapped or disabled person or temporarily handicapped
or disabled person and such person will enter or exit the motor vehicle while
it is parked in such designated spaces or access aisles.
   (B)   A person applying for a permit or for the renewal of a permit pursuant
to this section shall apply for a permit for each motor vehicle used for the
transportation of handicapped or disabled persons or temporarily handicapped or
disabled persons, shall complete such forms as are provided to the Village
Clerk by the Department of Motor Vehicles, and shall demonstrate to the Village
Clerk that each such motor vehicle is used primarily for the transportation of
handicapped or disabled persons or temporarily handicapped or disabled persons.
A copy of the completed application form shall be given to each applicant.
   (C)   No more than one such permit shall be issued for each motor vehicle. A
person may hold either a permit under this section or a permit under §
72.28, but not both.
   (D)   An application for the renewal of a permit under this section may be
filed within 30 days prior to the expiration of the permit. The existing permit
shall be invalid upon receipt of the new permit.
   (E)   The Village Clerk shall submit to the Department of Motor Vehicles the
name, address, and license number of all persons applying for a permit pursuant
to this section.
   (F)   The Village Clerk shall not accept the application for a permit of any
person making application contrary to Neb. Rev. Stat. 18-1738.02.
(Prior Code, § 5-520)  (Ord 2002-33, passed 10-16-2002)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. Rev. Stat. 18-1738.01 and 18-1738.02
§ 72.35  PERMITS; PROHIBITED ISSUANCE; DUPLICATE PERMITS.
   (A)   No permit shall be issued to any person or for any motor vehicle if
any parking permit has been issued to such person or for such motor vehicle and
such permit has been suspended pursuant to §
72.32. At the expiration of such suspension, a permit may be renewed in the
manner provided for renewal in this subchapter.
   (B)   A duplicate permit may be provided without cost if the original permit
is destroyed, lost, or stolen. Such duplicate permit shall be issued in the
same manner as the original permit, except that a newly completed medical form
need not be provided if a completed medical form submitted at the time of the
most recent application for a permit or its renewal is on file with the Village
Clerk or the Department of Motor Vehicles. A duplicate permit shall be valid
for the remainder of the period for which the original permit was issued.
(Prior Code, § 5-521)  (Ord. 2002-34, passed 10-16-2002)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. Rev. Stat. 18-1739
§ 72.36  PERMITS; PERIOD VALID; RENEWAL OF TEMPORARY PERMITS.
   (A)   All permanently issued permits for handicapped or disabled parking
authorized by this subchapter shall be issued for a period ending on September
30 of the third year after the date of issuance and shall expire on that date.
   (B)   All permits authorized under this subchapter for temporarily
handicapped or disabled parking shall be issued for a period ending not more
than six months after the date of issuance but may be renewed one time for a
period not to exceed six months. For the renewal period, there shall be
submitted an additional application with proof of a handicap or disability.
(Prior Code, § 5-522)  (Ord. 2002-35, passed 10-16-2002)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. Rev. Stat. 18-1740
§ 72.37  PERMITS NONTRANSFERABLE; VIOLATIONS; SUSPENSION.
   (A)   Permits issued under this subchapter shall not be transferable and
shall be used only by the party to whom issued or for the motor vehicle for
which issued and only for the purpose for which it is issued. No person shall
alter or reproduce in any manner a permit issued pursuant to this subchapter.
No person shall knowingly hold more than one permit or knowingly provide false
information on an application for a permit.
   (B)   No person who is not the holder of a handicapped or disabled parking
permit issued to him or her as a handicapped or disabled person shall display a
handicapped or disabled parking permit and park in a space or access aisle
designated for the exclusive use of a handicapped or disabled person.
   (C)   No person who is the holder of a handicapped or disabled parking
permit issued for the use of such person when transporting a handicapped or
disabled person shall display his or her handicapped or disabled parking permit
and park in a space or access aisle designated for the exclusive use of a
handicapped or disabled person unless a handicapped or disabled person is
actually in the vehicle displaying the permit at the time it is parked, has
left the vehicle while it was parked, and will return to the vehicle before it
leaves the designated space or access aisle.
   (D)   No person who is not the holder of a handicapped or disabled parking
permit issued for use when a vehicle is transporting a handicapped or disabled
person shall display a handicapped or disabled parking permit and park in a
space or access aisle designated for the exclusive use of a handicapped or
disabled person unless a handicapped or disabled person is actually in the
vehicle displaying the permit at the time it is parked, has left the vehicle
while it was parked, and will return to the vehicle before it leaves the
designated space or access aisle.
(Prior Code, § 5-523)  (Ord. 2002-36, passed 10-16-2002)  Penalty, see §
72.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. Rev. Stat. 18-1741
§ 72.38  REMOVAL OF UNAUTHORIZED VEHICLE.
   (A)   The owner or person in lawful possession of an off-street parking
facility, after notifying the municipal police, and the municipality, if it
provides on-street parking or owns, operates, or provides an off-street parking
facility, may cause the removal from a stall or space, including access aisles,
designated exclusively for handicapped or disabled persons or temporarily
handicapped or disabled persons or motor vehicles for the transportation of
handicapped or disabled persons or temporarily handicapped or disabled persons,
of any vehicle not displaying the proper permit or the distinguishing license
plates specified in this subchapter if there is posted aboveground and
immediately adjacent to and visible from such stall or space, including access
aisles, a sign which clearly and conspicuously states the area so designated as
a tow-in zone.
   (B)   A person who parks a vehicle in any on-street parking space or access
aisle which has been designated exclusively for handicapped or disabled persons
or temporarily handicapped or disabled persons or motor vehicles for the
transportation of handicapped or disabled persons or temporarily handicapped or
disabled persons, or in any so exclusively designated parking space or access
aisle in any off-street parking facility, without properly displaying the
proper permit or when the handicapped or disabled person to whom or for whom,
as the case may be, the license plate or permit is issued will not enter or
exit the vehicle while it is parked in the designated space or access aisle
shall be guilty of a handicapped parking infraction and shall be subject to the
penalties and procedures set forth in state statutes regarding citation
issuance, complaint, trial, and dismissal. The display on a motor vehicle of a
distinguishing license plate or permit issued to a handicapped or disabled
person by and under the duly constituted authority of another state shall
constitute a full and complete defense in any action for a handicapped parking
infraction. If the identity of the person who parked the vehicle in violation
of this section cannot be readily determined, the owner or person in whose name
the vehicle is registered shall be held prima facie responsible for such
violation and shall be guilty and subject to the penalties and procedures
described in this section.
   (C)   In the case of a privately owned off-street parking facility, the
municipality shall not require the owner or person in lawful possession of such
facility to inform the municipality of a violation of this section prior to the
municipality issuing the violator a handicapped parking infraction citation.
(Prior Code, § 5-524)  (Ord. 2002-37, passed 10-16-2002)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. Rev. Stat. 18-1737
§ 72.39  UNREGISTERED MOTOR VEHICLES OR TRAILERS; NOTICE; TOWING; PAYMENT OF
FEES.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to park a motor vehicle or trailer
on any municipal street or alley which has not been registered as required by
Neb. Rev. Stat. 60-362.
   (B)   The municipality shall provide notice to the owner of the unregistered
motor vehicle or trailer by personal service or by certified mail, return
receipt requested, that the unregistered motor vehicle or trailer is required
to be moved from the street or alley within seven days of receipt of the
notice.
   (C)   The municipality may have the unregistered motor vehicle or trailer
towed if the owner has not moved the unregistered motor vehicle or trailer from
the street or alley within seven days after receiving notice as specified in
division (B) above.
   (D)   The owner of the unregistered motor vehicle or trailer shall be
responsible for the payment of all towing and impoundment fees.
(Ord. 2015-06, passed 8-12-2015)  Penalty, see §
72.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. Rev. Stat. 60-680
§ 72.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   (1)   Unless otherwise provided, any person upon whom a duty is placed
by the provisions of this chapter who shall fail, neglect, or refuse to perform
such duty, or who shall violate any of the provisions of this chapter, shall be
deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be punished
by imprisonment in the county jail for a period not to exceed three months or
by a fine in a sum not more than $500, recoverable with costs, or both, except
that each person so convicted shall be fined in a sum not less than $35 for the
first offense, not less than $50 for a second offense, and not less than $100
for the third offense and each offense thereafter.
      (2)   Each day that a violation of any section of this chapter continues
shall constitute a separate and distinct offense and shall be punishable as
such. The penalties herein provided shall be cumulative with and in addition to
any penalty or forfeiture elsewhere in this chapter provided.
      (3)   (a)   Whenever a nuisance exists as defined in this chapter, the
municipality may proceed by a suit in equity to enjoin, abate, and remove the
same in the manner provided by law.
         (b)   Whenever, in any action, it is established that a nuisance
exists, the court may, together with the fine or penalty imposed, enter an
order of abatement as a part of the judgment in the case.
(Prior Code, § 5-601)
   (B)   Any violation of §
72.37 shall constitute a handicapped parking infraction and shall be cause for
suspension of such permit for a period of six months and imposition of the
penalty provided for violation of this subchapter. In addition, the trial court
shall impose a fine of not more than $250 which may be waived by the court if,
at the time of sentencing, all handicapped parking permits issued to or in the
possession of the offender are returned to the court. At the expiration of such
six-month period, a suspended permit may be renewed in the manner provided for
renewal in this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 5-523)
(Ord. 2002-16, passed 10-16-2002; Ord. 2002-36, passed 10-16-2002; Ord. 2004-
18, passed 10-6-2004)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. Rev. Stat. 17-207, 17-505, 18-1720, and 18-1722
CHAPTER 73:  TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
Schedule
   
I.   Speed limits
SCHEDULE I.  SPEED LIMITS.
   (A)   No person shall operate a motor vehicle on any street, alley, or other
place at a rate of speed greater than 45 mph on that portion of State Highway
77 within the corporate limits of the village, greater than 25 mph within the
residential district except as hereinbefore provided, and 20 mph within the
business district, unless a different rate of speed is specifically permitted
by ordinance. In no instance shall a person drive a vehicle on a highway at a
speed greater than is reasonable and prudent under the conditions. Where a
different maximum speed is set by ordinance, appropriate signs shall be posted.
   (B)   No person shall operate a motor vehicle on First Street, also known as
Apple Road, within the corporate limits of the village at a rate of speed
greater than 25 mph. The municipality shall place speed limit signs on Apple
Street in accordance with the Manual on Uniform Traffic-Control Devices.
(Prior Code, § 5-304)  (Ord. 1988-1, passed 3-2-1988; Ord. 2010-1, passed 4-14-
2010)  Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. Rev. Stat. 17-505, 60-6,186, and 60-6,190
CHAPTER 74:  PARKING SCHEDULES
Schedule
   
I.   Angle parking
SCHEDULE I.  ANGLE PARKING.
   All vehicles shall park at an angle, as indicated by paint markings, on
Fourth Street from Highway 77 to Lincoln Avenue.
(Prior Code, § 5-503)  Penalty, see §
10.99
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
90.   ANIMALS
      
91.   NUISANCES
      
92.   FIRE PREVENTION
      
93.   PROPERTY MAINTENANCE
      
94.   STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
      
95.   PARKS AND RECREATION
CHAPTER 90:  ANIMALS
Section
General Provisions
   
90.01   Running at large
   
90.02   Wild animals
   
90.03   Cruelty to animals
   
90.04   Harming animals prohibited
   
90.05   Enclosures
   
90.06   Definitions
   
90.07   Law enforcement abilities
   
90.08   Cruelty to animals, defined
   
90.09   Farm animals prohibited
   
90.10   Pitting
Dogs
   
90.25   Licenses
   
90.26   License tags
   
90.27   Wrongful licensing
   
90.28   Owner defined
   
90.29   Proclamation for dangerous dogs
   
90.30   Running at large
   
90.31   Public parks
   
90.32   Vicious/rabid dogs
   
90.33   Harboring dangerous dogs
   
90.34   Interference with Utilities Superintendent or municipal pound
authorities
   
90.35   Harming dogs prohibited
   
90.36   Loud or offensive dogs
   
90.37   Fighting
   
90.38   Liability of owner
   
90.39   Removal of tags
   
90.40   Impounding
   
90.41   Rabies suspected
   
90.42   Definitions
   
90.43   Restraining dangerous dogs
   
90.44   Confining dangerous dogs
   
90.45   Confiscation of dangerous dogs
   
90.46   Additional regulations possible
Cats
   
90.60   Owner and possessor of cats
   
90.61   Running at large
   
90.62   Rabies
 
   
90.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 90.01  RUNNING AT LARGE.
   It shall be unlawful for the owner, keeper, or harborer of any animal, or
any person having the charge, custody, or control thereof, to permit a horse,
mule, cow, sheep, goat, swine, or other animal to be driven or run at large on
any of the public ways and property, or upon the property of another, or to be
tethered or staked out in a manner so as to allow the animal to reach or pass
into any public way. It shall be unlawful for any person to allow poultry,
chickens, turkeys, geese, or any other fowls to run at large within the
corporate limits, except in enclosed places on private property.
Penalty, see §
90.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. Rev. Stat. 17-547
§ 90.02  WILD ANIMALS.
   No wild animals may be kept within the corporate limits except those animals
kept for exhibition purposes by circuses and educational institutions.
Penalty, see §
90.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, Neb. Rev. Stat. 17-207
§ 90.03  CRUELTY TO ANIMALS.
   No person shall cruelly or unnecessarily beat, overwork, or insufficiently
shelter or feed any animal within the municipality.
(Prior Code, § 6-203)  Penalty, see §
90.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. Rev. Stat. 28-1001 and 28-1002
§ 90.04  HARMING ANIMALS PROHIBITED.
   No person shall kill or injure any animal by the use of firearms, stones,
clubs, poisons, or any other manner unless the animal is vicious or dangerous
and cannot be captured without danger to the persons attempting to effect a
capture of the animal.
Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.05  ENCLOSURES.
   All pens, cages, sheds, yards, or any other area or enclosure for the
confinement of animals and fowl not specifically barred within the corporate
limits shall be kept in a clean and orderly manner so as not to become a menace
or nuisance to the neighborhood in which the enclosure is located.
Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.06  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ABANDON. To leave any animal for any length of time without making effective
provision for its food, water, or other care as is reasonably necessary for the
animal’s health.
   ANIMAL. Any vertebrate member of the animal kingdom except humans. The term
shall not include an uncaptured wild creature.
   CRUELLY MISTREAT. To knowingly and intentionally kill, maim, disfigure,
torture, beat, mutilate, burn, scald, or otherwise set upon any animal.
   CRUELLY NEGLECT. To fail to provide any animal in one’s care, whether as
owner or custodian, with food, water, or other care as is reasonably necessary
for the animal’s health.
   HUMANE KILLING. The destruction of an animal by a method which causes the
animal a minimum of pain and suffering.
   LAW ENFORCEMENT OFFICER. Any member of the Nebraska State Patrol, any county
or deputy sheriff, any member of the police force of any city or village, or
any other public official authorized by a city or village to enforce state or
local animal control laws, rules, regulations, or ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 6-207)  (Ord. 1991-4, passed 2-6-1991)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. Rev. Stat. 28-1008
§ 90.07  LAW ENFORCEMENT ABILITIES.
   (A)   Any law enforcement officer who has reason to believe that an animal
has been abandoned or is being cruelly neglected or cruelly mistreated may seek
a warrant authorizing entry upon private property to inspect, care for, or
impound the animal.
   (B)   Any law enforcement officer who has reason to believe that an animal
has been abandoned or is being cruelly neglected or cruelly mistreated may
issue a citation to the owner as prescribed by law.
   (C)   Any law enforcement officer acting under this section shall not be
liable for damage to property if such damage is not the result of the officer’s
negligence.
(Prior Code, § 6-208)  (Ord. 1991-4, passed 2-6-1991)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. Rev. Stat. 28-1012
§ 90.08  CRUELTY TO ANIMALS, DEFINED.
   A person commits cruelty to animals if he or she abandons, cruelly
mistreats, or cruelly neglects an animal.
(Prior Code, § 6-209)  (Ord. 1991-4, passed 2-6-1991)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. Rev. Stat. 28-1009
§ 90.09  FARM ANIMALS PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to keep or harbor any of the following
animals within the corporate limits of the municipality: horse, mule, cow,
sheep, goat, swine, turkey, chicken, geese, ducks, or any other livestock or
poultry.
(Ord. 2011-02, passed 7-13-2011)  Penalty, see §
90.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. Rev. Stat. 17-505 and 17-547
§ 90.10  PITTING.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      BEARBAITING. The pitting of any animal against a bear.
      COCKFIGHTING. The pitting of a fowl against another fowl.
      DOGFIGHTING. The pitting of a dog against another dog.
      PITTING. Bringing animals together in combat.
(Neb. Rev. Stat. 28-1004)
   (B)   No person shall knowingly promote, engage in, or be employed at
dogfighting, cockfighting, bearbaiting, or pitting an animal against another.
Nor shall any person knowingly receive money for the admission of another
person to a place kept for that purpose. Nor shall any person knowingly own,
use, train, sell, or possess an animal for the purpose of animal pitting. Nor
shall any person knowingly permit any act as described in this section to occur
on any premises owned or controlled by him or her.
   (C)   No person shall knowingly and willingly be present at and witness as a
spectator dogfighting, cockfighting, bearbaiting, or the pitting of an animal
against another as prohibited in this section.
(Neb. Rev. Stat. 28-1005)  Penalty, see §
90.99
DOGS
§ 90.25  LICENSES.
   Any person who shall own, keep, or harbor a dog over the age of six months
within the municipality shall within 30 days after acquisition of the dog
acquire a license for each such dog annually by or before May 1 of each year.
The tax shall be delinquent from and after May 10, provided that the possessor
of any dog brought into or harbored within the corporate limits subsequent to
May 1 of any year, shall be liable for the payment of the dog tax levied
herein, and the tax shall be delinquent if not paid within ten days thereafter.
Licenses shall be issued by the Village Clerk upon the payment of a license fee
of $5 for each neutered dog and $8 for each unneutered dog, provided that the
tax shall be $7 for each neutered dog for every license issued after the fee
has become delinquent and $10 for each unneutered dog for every license issued
after the fee has become delinquent. The license shall not be transferable, and
no refund will be allowed in case of death, sale, or other disposition of the
licensed dog. The owner shall state at the time the application is made and
upon printed forms provided for the purpose his or her name and address and the
name, breed, color, and sex of each dog owned and kept by the owner. A
certificate that the dog has had a rabies shot, effective for the ensuing year
of the license, shall be presented when the license is applied for, and no
license or tag shall be issued until the certificate is shown.
Penalty, see §
90.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. Rev. Stat. 17-526 and 54-603
§ 90.26  LICENSE TAGS.
   (A)   Upon the payment of the license fee, the person designated by the
licensing authority shall issue to the owner of a dog a license certificate and
a metallic tag for each dog so licensed. The metallic tags shall be properly
attached to the collar or harness of all dogs so licensed and shall entitle the
owner to keep or harbor that dog until April 30 following the licensing.
   (B)   In the event that a license tag is lost and upon satisfactory evidence
that the original tag was issued in accordance with the provisions herein, the
person designated by the licensing authority shall issue a duplicate or new tag
for the balance of the year for which the license tax has been paid and shall
charge and collect a fee set by resolution of the Board of Trustees for each
duplicate or new tag so issued. All license fees and collections shall be
immediately credited to the General Fund. It shall be the duty of the person
designated by the licensing authority to issue tags of a suitable design that
are different in appearance each year.
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. Rev. Stat. 17-526 and 54-603
§ 90.27  WRONGFUL LICENSING.
   It shall be unlawful for the owner, keeper, or harborer of any dog to permit
or allow the dog to wear any license, metallic tag, or other municipal
identification than that issued by the Village Clerk for dogs, nor shall the
owner, keeper, or harborer wrongfully and knowingly license an unneutered dog
with a license prescribed for a neutered dog.
Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.28  OWNER DEFINED.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   OWNER. Any person who shall harbor or permit any dog to be for ten days or
more in or about his or her house, store, or enclosure, or to remain to be fed,
shall be deemed the OWNER and possessor of that dog and shall be deemed to be
liable for all penalties herein prescribed.
(Neb. Rev. Stat. 54-606)
§ 90.29  PROCLAMATION FOR DANGEROUS DOGS.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      ANIMAL CONTROL AUTHORITY. An entity authorized to enforce the animal
control laws of the municipality.
      ANIMAL CONTROL OFFICER. Any individual employed, appointed, or authorized
by an animal control authority for the purpose of aiding in the enforcement of
this section or any other law or ordinance relating to the licensing of
animals, control of animals, or seizure and impoundment of animals, and shall
include any state or local law enforcement or other employee whose duties in
whole or in part include assignments that involve the seizure and impoundment
of any animal.
      DANGEROUS DOG.
         (a)   Any dog that, according to the records of the animal control
authority:
            1.   Has killed or inflicted severe injury on a human being on
public or private property;
            2.   Has killed a domestic animal without provocation while the dog
was off the owner’s property; or
            3.   Has been previously determined to be a potentially dangerous
dog by an animal control authority and the owner has received notice of that
determination and the dog again aggressively bites, attacks, or endangers the
safety of humans or domestic animals.
         (b)   A dog shall not be defined as a DANGEROUS DOG if the threat, any
injury that is not a severe injury, or the damage was sustained by a person
who, at the time, was committing a willful trespass as defined in Neb. Rev.
Stat. 20-203, 28-520, or 28-521 or any other tort upon the property of the
owner of the dog, who was tormenting, abusing, or assaulting the dog, who has,
in the past, been observed or reported to have tormented, abused, or assaulted
the dog, or who was committing or attempting to commit a crime.
      DOMESTIC ANIMAL. A cat, a dog, or livestock.
      OWNER. Any person, firm, corporation, organization, political
subdivision, or department possessing, harboring, keeping, or having control or
custody of a dog.
      POTENTIALLY DANGEROUS DOG.
         (a)   Any dog that when unprovoked:
            1.   Inflicts a nonsevere injury on a human or injures a domestic
animal either on public or private property; or
            2.   Chases or approaches a person upon streets, sidewalks, or any
public grounds in a menacing fashion or apparent attitude of attack.
         (b)   Any specific dog with a known propensity, tendency, or
disposition to attack when unprovoked, to cause injury, or to threaten the
safety of humans or domestic animals.
      SEVERE INJURY. Any physical injury that results in disfiguring
lacerations requiring multiple sutures or cosmetic surgery or one or more
broken bones or that creates a potential danger to the life or health of the
victim.
(Neb. Rev. Stat. 54-617)
   (B)   Restraint. No owner of a dangerous dog shall permit the dog to go
beyond the property of the owner unless the dog is restrained securely by a
chain or leash.
(Neb. Rev. Stat. 54-618)
   (C)   Confinement. While unattended on the owner’s property, a dangerous dog
shall be securely confined, in a humane manner, indoors or in a securely
enclosed and locked pen or structure suitably designed to prevent the entry of
young children and to prevent the dog from escaping. The pen or structure shall
have secure sides and a secure top. If the pen or structure has no bottom
secured to the sides, the sides shall be embedded into the ground. The pen or
structure shall also protect the dog from the elements. The owner of a
dangerous dog shall post a warning sign on the property where the dog is kept
that is clearly visible and that informs persons that a dangerous dog is on the
property.
(Neb. Rev. Stat. 54-619)
   (D)   Failure to comply.
      (1)   Any dangerous dog may be immediately confiscated by an animal
control officer if the owner is in violation of this section. The owner shall
be responsible for the reasonable costs incurred by the animal control
authority for the care of a dangerous dog confiscated by an animal control
officer or for the destruction of any dangerous dog if the action by the animal
control authority is pursuant to law and if the owner violated this section.
(Neb. Rev. Stat. 54-620)
      (2)   In addition to any other penalty, a court may order the animal
control authority to dispose of a dangerous dog in an expeditious and humane
manner.
(Neb. Rev. Stat. 54-621)  Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.30  RUNNING AT LARGE.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the owner of any dog to allow such dog to run
at large, whether licensed or not, at any time within the village.
   (B)   RUNNING AT LARGE shall mean any dog that is not under control of the
owner, except that a dog shall not be considered under the control of its owner
unless on a leash, cord, or chain which is securely fastened or picketed in a
manner sufficient to keep the dog on the premises where picketed, or on a
leash, cord, or chain of six feet or less in length physically held by the
owner, or confined within a receptacle, enclosed vehicle, fenced enclosure or
shelter, or within the real property limits of the owner and in his or her
presence and under his or her direct and effective voice control.
   (C)   Failure to observe this section means any dog found to be running at
large within the municipality will be impounded and/or a citation to be issued
to the owner.
(Prior Code, § 6-106)  (Ord. 2005-17, passed 7-13-2005)  Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.31  PUBLIC PARKS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to have or allow any dog within the
public parks of the village at any time regardless of whether such dog is
running at large or under control of a person.
(Prior Code, § 6-106-01)  (Ord. 1986-9, passed 10-1-1986)  Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.32  VICIOUS/RABID DOGS.
   The Utilities Superintendent or municipal pound authorities shall have the
authority to kill any animals showing vicious tendencies, or characteristics of
rabies which make capture impossible because of the danger involved.
(Prior Code, § 6-107)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. Rev. Stat. 54-605
§ 90.33  HARBORING DANGEROUS DOGS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to own, keep, or harbor any dog of a
dangerous or ferocious disposition that habitually snaps or manifests a
disposition to bite, without the said dog being securely held by a chain not
over six feet long. If any vicious or dangerous dog is otherwise held,
confined, or allowed to run at large, the Utilities Superintendent or municipal
pound authorities shall have the authority to put the dog to death.
(Prior Code, § 6-108)  Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.34  INTERFERENCE WITH UTILITIES SUPERINTENDENT OR MUNICIPAL POUND
AUTHORITIES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to hinder, delay, or interfere with the
Utilities Superintendent or municipal pound authorities who are performing any
duty enjoined upon him or her by the provisions of this subchapter, or to break
open, or in any manner directly or indirectly aid, counsel, or advise the
breaking open of the animal shelter, any ambulance wagon, or other vehicle used
for the collecting or conveying of dogs to the shelter.
(Prior Code, § 6-109)  Penalty, see §
90.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. Rev. Stat. 28-906
§ 90.35  HARMING DOGS PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful to kill, or to administer, or cause to be administered,
poison of any sort to a dog, or in any manner to injure, maim, or destroy, or
in any manner attempt to injure, maim, or destroy any dog that is the property
of another person, or to place any poison or poisoned food where the same is
accessible to a dog; provided, that this section shall not apply to Utilities
Superintendent or municipal pound authorities acting within their power and
duty.
(Prior Code, § 6-110)  Penalty, see §
90.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. Rev. Stat. 28-1002
§ 90.36  LOUD OR OFFENSIVE DOGS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to own, keep, or harbor any dog which by
loud, continued, or frequent barking, howling, or yelping shall annoy or
disturb any neighborhood, or person, or which habitually barks at or chases
pedestrians, drivers, or owners of horses or vehicles while they are on any
public sidewalks, streets, or alleys in the municipality.
(Prior Code, § 6-111)  Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.37  FIGHTING.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, by agreement or otherwise, to set dogs
to fighting, or by any gesture or word to encourage the same to fight.
(Prior Code, § 6-112)  Penalty, see §
90.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. Rev. Stat. 17-526
§ 90.38  LIABILITY OF OWNER.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to allow a dog owned, kept, or harbored
by the owner, or under his or her charge or control, to injure or destroy any
real or personal property of any description belonging to another person. The
owner or possessor of any such dog, in addition to the usual judgment upon
conviction, may be made to be liable to the persons so injured in an amount
equal to the value of the damage so sustained.
Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.39  REMOVAL OF TAGS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to remove, or cause to be removed, the
collar, harness, or metallic tag from any licensed dog without the consent of
the owner, keeper, or possessor thereof.
Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.40  IMPOUNDING.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of the Utilities Superintendent or municipal
pound authorities to capture, secure, and remove in a humane manner to the
municipal animal shelter any dog violating any of the provisions of this
subchapter. The dogs so impounded shall be treated in a humane manner and shall
be provided with a sufficient supply of food and fresh water each day.
   (B)   Each impounded dog shall be kept and maintained at the pound for a
period of not less than three days after public notice has been given unless
reclaimed earlier by the owner. Notice of impoundment of all animals, including
any significant marks or identifications, shall be posted at the village
Community Center within 48 hours after impoundment as public notification of
such impoundment. Any dog may be reclaimed by its owner during the period of
impoundment by payment of the costs of impoundment and any fines. The owner
shall then be required to comply with the licensing and rabies vaccination
requirements within 72 hours after release.
   (C)   If during any 12-month period a dog is impounded one time, the owner
shall then be required to pay a $20 impoundment fee. If during any 12-month
period a dog is impounded two times, the owner shall then be required to pay a
$30 impoundment fee. If during any 12-month period a dog is impounded three
times or more, the owner shall then be required to pay a $45 fine each and
every time the animal is impounded during said period.
   (D)   If the dog is not claimed at the end of three days after public notice
has been given, the Utilities Superintendent or municipal pound authorities may
dispose of the dog in accordance with the applicable rules and regulations
pertaining to the same; provided, that if, in the judgment of the Utilities
Superintendent, or municipal pound authorities, a suitable home can be found
for any such dog within the municipality, the said dog shall be turned over to
that person and the new owner shall then be required to pay all fees and meet
all licensing and vaccinating requirements provided in this subchapter. The
municipality shall acquire legal title to any unlicensed dog impounded in the
animal shelter for a period longer than three days after giving notice. All
dogs shall be destroyed and buried in the summary and humane manner as
prescribed by the Board of Health unless a suitable home can be found for such
dog.
(Prior Code, § 6-115)  (Ord. 2004-17, passed 10-6-2004)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. Rev. Stat. 17-548 and 71-4408
§ 90.41  RABIES SUSPECTED.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of the Board of Trustees, whenever in its opinion
the danger to the public safety from rabid dogs is great or imminent, to issue
a proclamation ordering all persons owning, keeping, or harboring any dog to
muzzle the same, or to confine it for a period of not less than 30 days or more
than 90 days from the date of the proclamation, or until the danger is passed.
The dogs may be harbored by any good and sufficient means in a house, garage,
or yard on the premises wherein the owner may reside. Upon issuing the
proclamation it shall be the duty of all persons owning, keeping, or harboring
any dog to confine the same as herein provided.
   (B)   Any dog suspected of being afflicted with rabies, or any dog not
vaccinated in accordance with the provisions of this chapter which has bitten
any person and caused an abrasion of the skin, shall be seized and impounded
under the supervision of the Board of Health for a period of not less than ten
days. If upon examination by a veterinarian, the dog has no clinical signs of
rabies at the end of the impoundment, it may be released to the owner, or, in
the case of an unlicensed dog, it shall be disposed of in accordance with the
provisions herein. If the owner of the dog has proof of vaccination, it shall
be confined by the owner or some other responsible person for a period of at
least ten days, at which time the dog shall be examined by a licensed
veterinarian at the owner’s expense. If no signs of rabies are observed, the
dog may be released from confinement.
Penalty, see §
90.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. Rev. Stat. 71-4406
§ 90.42  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ANIMAL CONTROL AUTHORITY. An entity authorized to enforce the animal control
laws of a municipality.
   ANIMAL CONTROL OFFICER. Any individual employed, appointed, or authorized by
an animal control authority for the purpose of aiding in the enforcement of
this subchapter or any other law or ordinance relating to the licensing of
animals, control of animals, or seizure and impoundment of animals and shall
include any state or local law enforcement or other employee whose duties in
whole or in part include assignments that involve the seizure and impoundment
of any animal.
   DANGEROUS DOG.
      (1)   Any dog that, according to the records of an animal control
authority:
         (a)   Has killed or inflicted severe injury on a human being of public
or private property;
         (b)   Has killed a domestic animal without provocation while the dog
was off the owner’s property; or
         (c)   Has been previously determined to be a potentially dangerous dog
by an animal control authority and the owner has received notice of such
determination and such dog again aggressively bites, attacks, or endangers the
safety of humans or domestic animals.
      (2)   A dog shall not be defined as a DANGEROUS DOG if the threat, any
injury that is not a severe injury, or the damage was sustained by a person
who, at the time, was committing a willful trespass as defined in Neb. Rev.
Stat. 20-203, 28-520, or 28-521 or any other tort upon the property of the
owner of the dog, who was tormenting, abusing, or assaulting the dog, who has,
in the past, been observed or reported to have tormented, abused, or assaulted
the dog, or who was committing or attempting to commit a crime.
   DOMESTIC ANIMAL. A cat, a dog, or livestock.
   OWNER. Any person, firm, corporation, organization, political subdivision,
or department possessing , harboring, keeping, or having control or custody of
a dog.
   POTENTIALLY DANGEROUS DOG.
      (1)   Any dog that when unprovoked:
         (a)   Inflicts a nonsevere injury on a human or injures a domestic
animal either on public or private property; or
         (b)   Chases or approaches a person upon streets, sidewalks, or any
public grounds in a menacing fashion or apparent attitude of attack.
      (2)   Any specific dog with a known propensity, tendency, or disposition
to attack when unprovoked, to cause injury, or to threaten the safety of humans
or domestic animals.
   SEVERE INJURY. Any physical injury that results in disfiguring lacerations
requiring multiple sutures or cosmetic surgery or one or more broken bones or
that creates a potential danger to the life or health of the victim.
(Prior Code, § 6-117)  (Ord. 1989-7, passed 12-6-1989)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. Rev. Stat. 54-617
§ 90.43  RESTRAINING DANGEROUS DOGS.
   No owner of a dangerous dog shall permit the dog to go beyond the property
of the owner unless the dog is restrained securely by a chain or leash.
(Prior Code, § 6-118)  (Ord. 1989-7, passed 12-6-1989)  Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.44  CONFINING DANGEROUS DOGS.
   (A)   While unattended on the owner’s property, a dangerous dog shall be
securely confined, in a humane manner, indoors or in a securely enclosed and
locked pen or structure suitably designed to prevent the entry of young
children and to prevent the dog from escaping.
   (B)   The pen or structure shall have secure sides and a secure top. If the
pen or structure has no bottom secured to the sides, the sides shall be
embedded into the ground.
   (C)   The pen or structure shall also protect the dog from the elements.
   (D)   The owner of a dangerous dog shall post a warning sign on the property
where the dog is kept that is clearly visible and that informs persons that a
dangerous dog is on the property.
(Prior Code, § 6-119)  (Ord. 1989-7, passed 12-6-1989)  Penalty, see §
90.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. Rev. Stat. 54-619
§ 90.45  CONFISCATION OF DANGEROUS DOGS.
   (A)   (1)   Any dangerous dog may be immediately confiscated by an animal
control officer if the owner is in violation of this subchapter.
      (2)   The owner shall be responsible for the reasonable costs incurred by
the animal control authority for the care of a dangerous dog confiscated by an
animal control officer or for the destruction of any dangerous dog if the
action by the animal control authority is pursuant to law and if the owner
violated this subchapter.
   (B)   In addition to any other penalty, a court may order the animal control
authority to dispose of a dangerous dog in an expeditious and humane manner.
(Prior Code, § 6-120)  (Ord. 1989-7, passed 12-6-1989)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. Rev. Stat. 54-620
§ 90.46  ADDITIONAL REGULATIONS POSSIBLE.
   Nothing in this subchapter shall be construed to restrict or prohibit any
governing body of the municipality from establishing and enforcing laws or
ordinances at least as stringent as the provisions of this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 6-121)  (Ord. 1989-7, passed 12-6-1989)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. Rev. Stat. 54-624
CATS
§ 90.60  OWNER AND POSSESSOR OF CATS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   OWNER. Any person who shall harbor or permit any cat to be for ten days or
more in or about his or her house, store, or enclosure, or to remain to be fed,
shall be deemed the OWNER and possessor of that cat and shall be deemed to be
liable for all penalties prescribed.
§ 90.61  RUNNING AT LARGE.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the owner of any cat to allow the cat to run
at large at any time within the corporate limits of the municipality. It shall
be the duty of the County Sheriff or designated animal control officer to cause
any cat found to be running at large within the municipality to be taken up and
impounded.
   (B)   For the purpose of this section, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      RUNNING AT LARGE. Any cat found off the premises of the owner and not
under control of the owner or a responsible person, either by leash, cord,
chain, rope, cage or other suitable means of physical restraint.
Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.62  RABIES.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of the Board of Trustees, whenever in its opinion
the danger to the public safety from rabid cats is great or imminent, to issue
a proclamation ordering all persons owning, keeping, or harboring any cat to
confine it for a period of not less than 30 days or more than 90 days from the
date of the proclamation or until the danger is passed. The cats may be
harbored by any good and sufficient means in a house, garage, or yard on the
premises wherein the owner may reside. Upon issuing the proclamation, it shall
be the duty of all persons owning, keeping, or harboring any cat to confine the
same as herein provided.
   (B)   Any cat suspected of being afflicted with rabies, which has bitten any
person and caused an abrasion of the skin, shall be seized and impounded under
the supervision of the Board of Health for a period of not less than ten days.
If, upon examination by a veterinarian, the cat has no clinical signs of rabies
at the end of the impoundment, it may be released to the owner. If the owner of
the cat or animal has proof of vaccination, it shall be confined by the owner
or some other responsible person for a period of at least ten days, at which
time the cat shall be examined by a licensed veterinarian at the owner’s
expense. If no signs of rabies are observed, the cat may be released from
confinement.
§ 90.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who shall violate or refuse to comply with the enforcement
of any of the provisions of this chapter set forth at full length herein or
incorporated by reference, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and upon conviction
thereof shall be fined not more than $500 for each offense. A new violation
shall be deemed to have been committed every 24 hours of such failure to
comply.
   (B)   (1)   Whenever a nuisance exists as defined in this chapter, the
municipality may proceed by a suit in equity to enjoin, abate, and remove the
same in the manner provided by law.
      (2)   Whenever, in any action, it is established that a nuisance exists,
the court may, together with the fine or penalty imposed, enter an order of
abatement as a part of the judgment in the case.
(Prior Code, § 6-501)  (Ord. 2002-16, passed 10-16-2002; Ord. 2004-18, passed
10-6-2004)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. Rev. Stat. 17-207, 17-505, 18-1720, and 18-1722
CHAPTER 91:  NUISANCES
Section
   
91.01   Definition
   
91.02   Abatement procedure
   
91.03   Jurisdiction
   
91.04   Adjoining land owners; intervention before trial
   
91.05   Maintaining a nuisance
   
91.06   Appliances in yard
   
91.07   Putting carcass or filthy substance into well, spring, brook, or stream
   
91.08   Littering
   
91.09   Raising or producing stagnant water
 
   
91.99   Penalty
§ 91.01  DEFINITION.
   (A)   General definition. For the purpose of this chapter, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      NUISANCE. Consists in doing any unlawful act, or omitting to perform a
duty, or suffering or permitting any condition or thing to be or exist, which
act, omission, condition, or thing either:
         (a)   Injures or endangers the comfort, repose, health, or safety of
others;
         (b)   Offends decency;
         (c)   Is offensive to the senses;
         (d)   Unlawfully interferes with, obstructs, tends to obstruct, or
renders dangerous for passage any stream, public park, parkway, square, street,
or highway in the municipality;
         (e)   In any way renders other persons insecure in life or the use of
property; or
         (f)   Essentially interferes with the comfortable enjoyment of life
and property, or tends to depreciate the value of the property of others.
   (B)   Specific definition. The maintaining, using, placing, depositing,
leaving, or permitting of any of the following specific acts, omissions,
places, conditions, and things are hereby declared to be NUISANCES:
      (1)   Any odorous, putrid, unsound, or unwholesome grain, meat, hides,
skins, feathers, vegetable matter, or the whole or any part of any dead animal,
fish, or fowl;
      (2)   Privies, vaults, cesspools, dumps, pits, or like places which are
not securely protected from flies or rats, or which are foul or malodorous;
      (3)   Filthy, littered, or trash-covered cellars, houseyards, barnyards,
stableyards, factory yards, mill yards, vacant areas in rear of stores,
granaries, vacant lots, houses, buildings, or premises;
      (4)   Animal manure in any quantity which is not securely protected from
flies and the elements, or which is kept or handled in violation of any
ordinance of the municipality;
      (5)   Liquid household waste, human excreta, garbage, butcher's trimmings
and offal, parts of fish, or any waste vegetable or animal matter in any
quantity; provided, that nothing herein contained shall prevent the temporary
retention of waste in receptacles in a manner provided by the health officer of
the municipality, nor the dumping of non-putrefying waste in a place and manner
approved by the health officer;
      (6)   Tin cans, bottles, glass, cans, ashes, small pieces of scrap iron,
wire metal articles, bric-a- brac, broken stone or cement, broken crockery,
broken glass, broken plaster, and all trash or abandoned material, unless the
same be kept in covered bins or galvanized iron receptacles;
      (7)   Trash, litter, rags, accumulations of barrels, boxes, crates,
packing crates, mattresses, bedding, excelsior, packing hay, straw, or other
packing material, lumber not neatly piled, scrap iron, tin, or other metal not
neatly piled, old automobiles or parts thereof, or any other waste materials
when any of the articles or materials create a condition in which flies or rats
may breed or multiply, or which may be a fire danger, or which are so unsightly
as to depreciate property values in the vicinity thereof;
      (8)   Any unsightly building, billboard, or other structure, or any old,
abandoned, or partially destroyed building or structure or any building or
structure commenced and left unfinished, which buildings, billboards, or other
structures are either a fire hazard, a menace to the public health or safety,
or are so unsightly as to depreciate the value of property in the vicinity
thereof;
      (9)   All places used or maintained as junk yards, or dumping grounds, or
for the wrecking and disassembling of automobiles, trucks, tractors, or
machinery of any kind, or for the storing or leaving of worn-out, wrecked, or
abandoned automobiles, trucks, tractors, or machinery of any kind, or of any of
the parts thereof, or for the storing or leaving of any machinery or equipment
used by contractors or builders or by other persons, which places are kept or
maintained so as to essentially interfere with the comfortable enjoyment of
life or property by others, or which are so unsightly as to tend to depreciate
property values in the vicinity thereof;
      (10)   Stagnant water permitted or maintained on any lot or piece of
ground;
      (11)   Stockyards, granaries, mills, pig pens, cattle pens, chicken pens,
or any other place, building, or enclosure, in which animals or fowl of any
kind are confined or on which is stored tankage or any other animal or
vegetable matter, or on which any animal or vegetable matter including grain is
being processed, when the places in which the animals are confined, or the
premises on which the vegetable or animal matter is located, are maintained and
kept in such a manner that foul and noxious odors are permitted to emanate
therefrom to the annoyance of inhabitants of the municipality or are maintained
and kept in such a manner as to be injurious to the public health; or
      (12)   All other things specifically designated as nuisances elsewhere in
this code.
Penalty, see §
91.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. Rev. Stat. 18-1720
§ 91.02  ABATEMENT PROCEDURE.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of every owner or occupant of real estate in the
municipality to keep that real estate free of public nuisances. Upon
determination by the Board of Health that the owner or occupant has failed to
keep that real estate free of public nuisances, notice to abate and remove the
nuisance and notice of the right to a hearing before the Board of Trustees and
the manner in which it may be requested shall be given to the owner or
occupant, or the owner's or occupant's duly authorized agent, by personal
service or certified mail. The notice shall describe the condition as found by
the Board of Health and state that the condition has been declared a public
nuisance and that the condition must be remedied at once. Within ten days after
the receipt of the notice, if the owner or occupant of the real estate does not
request a hearing or fails to comply with the order to abate and remove the
nuisance, the municipality shall have the work done and may levy and assess the
costs and expenses of the work upon the real estate so benefitted in the same
manner as other special taxes for improvements are levied and assessed.
   (B)   If the owner or occupant requests in writing a hearing with the Board
of Trustees, the Board of Trustees shall fix a time and place at which a
hearing will be held. Notice of the hearing shall be given by personal service
or certified mail and require the owner or occupant to appear before the Board
of Trustees to show cause why that condition should not be found to be a public
nuisance and remedied. This notice shall be given not less than seven nor more
than 14 days before the time of the hearing. Upon the date fixed for the
hearing and pursuant to the notice, the Board of Trustees shall hear all
objections made by the owner or occupant and shall hear evidence submitted by
the Board of Health. If, after consideration of all the evidence, the Board of
Trustees finds that the condition is a public nuisance, it shall, by
resolution, order and direct the owner or occupant to remedy the public
nuisance at once. If the owner or occupant refuses or neglects to promptly
comply with the order of the Board of Trustees, the Board of Trustees shall
proceed to cause the abatement of the described public nuisance and may levy
and assess the costs and expenses of the work upon the real estate so
benefitted in the same manner as other special taxes for improvements are
levied and assessed.
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. Rev. Stat. 18-1720
§ 91.03  JURISDICTION.
   The Board of Health is directed to enforce this municipal code against all
nuisances. The jurisdiction of the Board of Health, County Sheriff, and court
shall extend to and the territorial application of this chapter shall include
all territory adjacent to the limits of the municipality within one mile
thereof and all territory within the corporate limits.
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. Rev. Stat. 17-1001 and 18-1720
§ 91.04  ADJOINING LAND OWNERS; INTERVENTION BEFORE TRIAL.
   In cases of appeal from an action of the governing body condemning real
property as a nuisance or as dangerous under the police powers of the
municipality, the owners of the adjoining property may intervene in the action
at any time before trial.
(Prior Code, § 4-305)  (Ord. 1985-11, passed 12-4-1985)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. Rev. Stat. 19-710
§ 91.05  MAINTAINING A NUISANCE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to erect, keep up, or continue and
maintain any nuisance to the injury of any part of the citizens of the
municipality.
(Neb. Rev. Stat. 28-1321(1))  Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.06  APPLIANCES IN YARD.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to permit a refrigerator, icebox,
freezer, or any other dangerous appliance to be in the open and accessible to
children whether on private or public property unless the person first removes
all doors and makes the same reasonably safe.
Penalty, see §
91.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. Rev. Stat. 18-1720 and 28-1321
§ 91.07  PUTTING CARCASS OR FILTHY SUBSTANCE INTO WELL, SPRING, BROOK, OR
STREAM.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to put any dead animal, carcass, or part
thereof, or other filthy substance into any well, or into any spring, brook, or
branch of running water, of which use is made for domestic purposes.
(Neb. Rev. Stat. 28-1304)  Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.08  LITTERING.
   (A)   Any person who deposits, throws, discards, or otherwise disposes of
any litter on any public or private property or in any waters commits the
offense of littering unless:
      (1)   The property is an area designated by law for the disposal of that
type of material and the person is authorized by the proper public authority to
so use the property; or
      (2)   The litter is placed in a receptacle or container installed on the
property for that purpose.
   (B)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      LITTER. Includes all waste material susceptible of being dropped,
deposited, discarded, or otherwise disposed of by any person upon any property
in the state, but does not include wastes of primary processes of farming or
manufacturing.
      WASTE MATERIAL. Any material appearing in a place or in a context not
associated with that material’s function or origin.
   (C)   Whenever litter is thrown, deposited, dropped, or dumped from any
motor vehicle or watercraft in violation of this section, the operator of the
motor vehicle or watercraft commits the offense of littering.
(Neb. Rev. Stat. 28-523)  Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.09  RAISING OR PRODUCING STAGNANT WATER.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to build, erect, continue, or keep up
any dam or other obstruction in any river or stream of water in the village and
thereby raise an artificial pond or produce stagnant waters which shall be
manifestly injurious to the public health and safety.
(Neb. Rev. Stat. 28-1303)  Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who shall violate or refuse to comply with the enforcement
of any of the provisions of this chapter set forth at full length herein or
incorporated by reference, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and upon conviction
thereof shall be fined not more than $500 for each offense. A new violation
shall be deemed to have been committed every 24 hours of such failure to
comply.
   (B)   (1)   Whenever a nuisance exists as defined in this chapter, the
municipality may proceed by a suit in equity to enjoin, abate, and remove the
same in the manner provided by law.
      (2)   Whenever, in any action, it is established that a nuisance exists,
the court may, together with the fine or penalty imposed, enter an order of
abatement as a part of the judgment in the case.
(Prior Code, § 4-401)  (Ord. 2002-16, passed 10-16-2002; Ord. 2004-18, passed
10-6-2004)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. Rev. Stat. 17-207, 17-505, 18-1720, and 18-1722
CHAPTER 92:  FIRE PREVENTION
Section
General Provisions
   
92.01   Preservation of property
   
92.02   Disorderly spectator
   
92.03   Equipment
   
92.04   Interference
   
92.05   Obstruction
   
92.06   Assistance
   
92.07   Driving over hose
   
92.08   False alarm
   
92.09   Fire Prevention Code
   
92.10   Code enforcement
   
92.11   Fire limits defined
   
92.12   Fire limits materials
   
92.13   Fire prohibited
   
92.14   Fires regulated
   
92.15   Open burning ban, waiver
   
92.16   Poisonous and flammable gases
   
92.17   Outdoor fireplaces; enumerated
Explosives
   
92.30   Storage registration; requirements
   
92.31   Blasting permits
   
92.32   Transportation
   
92.33   No storage or keeping of anhydrous ammonia
Fireworks
   
92.45   Definition
   
92.46   Permitted fireworks
   
92.47   Throwing firecrackers
   
92.48   Sale
 
   
92.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Fireworks sales, see §
110.39
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 92.01  PRESERVATION OF PROPERTY.
   The Fire Chief, or any officer in charge of the Fire Department, shall have
the authority and power to cause the removal of property whenever it shall
become necessary for the preservation of more valuable property, the protection
of human life, or to prevent the spreading of fire to adjoining property. The
Fire Chief may direct the municipal firefighters to remove any building,
structure, or fence for the purpose of checking the progress of any fire. The
Fire Chief shall have the authority to blow up, or cause to be blown up, with
explosives any building or structure during the progress of a fire for the
purpose of checking the progress of the same.
(Prior Code, § 7-101)
§ 92.02  DISORDERLY SPECTATOR.
   It shall be unlawful for any person during the time of a fire and for a
period of 36 hours after its extinguishment to hinder, resist, or refuse to
obey the Municipal Fire Chief, or to act in a noisy or disorderly manner. The
Fire Chief and Assistant Fire Chief shall have the power and authority during
such time to arrest or command any such person to assist them in the
performance of their official duties. (Prior Code, § 7-102)  Penalty, see §
92.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. Rev. Stat. 28-908
§ 92.03  EQUIPMENT.
   It shall be unlawful for any person except the Fire Chief and the members of
the Municipal Fire Department to molest, destroy, handle, or in any other way
to interfere with the use and storage of any of the fire trucks and other
apparatus belonging to the municipality.
(Prior Code, § 7-103)  Penalty, see §
92.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. Rev. Stat. 28-519
§ 92.04  INTERFERENCE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person or persons to hinder or obstruct the
Municipal Fire Chief or the members of the Fire Department in the performance
of their duty.
(Prior Code, § 7-104)  Penalty, see §
92.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. Rev. Stat. 28-908
§ 92.05  OBSTRUCTION.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to obstruct the use of a fire hydrant,
or have or place any material within 15 feet of the said hydrant. Any vehicle
or material found as an obstruction may be immediately removed by the Fire
Chief or any member of the Fire Department, at the risk, cost, and expense of
the owner or claimant.
(Prior Code, § 7-105)  Penalty, see §
92.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. Rev. Stat. 39-672
§ 92.06  ASSISTANCE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to refuse, after the command of the Fire
Chief or Assistant Fire Chief, to aid in extinguishing a fire or to assist in
the removal and protection of property.
(Prior Code, § 7-106)  Penalty, see §
92.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. Rev. Stat. 28-908
§ 92.07  DRIVING OVER HOSE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, without the consent of the Fire Chief
or Assistant Fire Chief, to drive any vehicle over unprotected hose of the Fire
Department.
(Prior Code, § 7-107)  Penalty, see §
92.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. Rev. Stat. 39-682
§ 92.08  FALSE ALARM.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to intentionally and without good and
reasonable cause raise any false alarm of fire.
(Prior Code, § 7-108)  Penalty, see §
92.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. Rev. Stat. 28-907 and 35-520
§ 92.09  FIRE PREVENTION CODE.
   Incorporated by reference into this chapter are the standards recommended by
the American Insurance Association, known as the Fire Prevention Code, 1972
Edition, and all subsequent amendments. This Code shall have the same force and
effect as if set out verbatim herein. Three copies of the Fire Prevention Code
are on file with the Village Clerk and shall be available for public inspection
at any reasonable time.
(Prior Code, § 7-201)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. Rev. Stat. 18-132, 19-902, and 81-502
§ 92.10  CODE ENFORCEMENT.
   It shall be the duty of all municipal officials to enforce the incorporated
fire code provisions and all infractions shall be immediately brought to the
attention of the Fire Chief.
(Prior Code, § 7-202)
§ 92.11  FIRE LIMITS DEFINED.
   The following described territory in the municipality shall be and
constitute the fire limits: all of Blocks 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, and 12, all in the
original Town of Cortland, Nebraska.
(Prior Code, § 7-203)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. Rev. Stat. 17-550
§ 92.12  FIRE LIMITS MATERIALS.
   Within the aforesaid fire limits, no structure shall be built, altered,
moved, or enlarged unless such structure will be enclosed with walls
constructed wholly of stone, well-burned brick, terra cotta, concrete, or other
such noncombustible materials as will satisfy the Fire Chief that the said
structure will be reasonably fireproof.
(Prior Code, § 7-204)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. Rev. Stat. 17-550
§ 92.13  FIRE PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to set out a fire on the pavement, or
near any curb, now built or hereafter to be built, within the municipality.
(Prior Code, § 7-206)  Penalty, see §
92.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. Rev. Stat. 17-556
§ 92.14  FIRES REGULATED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person without a written permit from the
governing body to build, set, or cause to be built or set any fire in the open,
or for any person to burn leaves, trash, garbage, refuse, or any substance in
any outside incinerator, stove, container, or open fire; provided, however,
that an outdoor fireplace as defined in §
92.17 and the burning of charcoal briquettes or wood for the purpose of cooking
food on a commercially manufactured barbecue grill shall not be deemed to be a
violation of this section.
(Prior Code, § 7-207)  (Ord. 2020-04, passed 8-12-2020)  Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.15  OPEN BURNING BAN, WAIVER.
   There shall be a state-wide open burning ban on all bonfires, outdoor
rubbish fires, and fires for the purpose of clearing land. The Fire Chief of
the Municipal Fire Department or his or her designee may waive an open burning
ban issued under this section for an area under his or her jurisdiction by
issuing an open burning permit to a person requesting permission to conduct
open burning. Said permit issued by the Fire Chief shall be in writing, signed
by the Fire Chief, and on a form provided by the State Fire Marshal. The
Municipal Fire Chief or his or her designee may waive the open burning ban in
his or her district when conditions are acceptable to the Chief. Anyone burning
in such district when the open burning ban has been waived must notify the Fire
Department of his or her intention to burn.
(Prior Code, § 7-208)  (Ord. 1982-5, passed 10-6-1982)  Penalty, see §
92.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. Rev. Stat. 81-520.01
§ 92.16  POISONOUS AND FLAMMABLE GASES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation to store or keep
in the residential district of the municipality for any period of time any form
of poisonous or flammable gas or liquified petroleum gas in excess of ten
gallons or add to, enlarge, or replace any facility used for the storage of
such gases. For the purposes of this section, POISONOUS AND FLAMMABLE GASES
shall include, but not be limited to, gasoline, kerosene, naphtha, turpentine,
benzine, acetone, ethyl ether, and benzol.
(Prior Code, § 7-301)  (Ord. 1994-14, passed 10-5-1994; Ord. 2001-7, passed 6-
6-2001)  Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.17  OUTDOOR FIREPLACES; ENUMERATED.
   (A)   Outdoor fireplaces, definitions and requirements. The term OUTDOOR
FIREPLACES shall include permanent fire pits, portable fire pits, chimineas,
and fire rings. These OUTDOOR FIREPLACES use wood as a fuel and are used for
contained recreational fires for the purpose of outdoor cooking and personal
enjoyment. OUTDOOR FIREPLACES for purposes of this section do not include
barbeque grills that use propane or charcoal as a fuel and used primarily for
outdoor cooking. PORTABLE FIRE PITS are defined as being commercially designed
and intended to confine and control outdoor wood fires. CHIMINEAS are defined
as an outdoor patio fireplace, usually made from clay, intended to confine and
control outdoor wood fires. All OUTDOOR FIREPLACES shall meet the following
requirements.
      (1)   Construction. The fire fuel area and openings shall be completely
enclosed by steel screening or an approved non-combustible screening material
with openings in screening to be not larger than one-half-inch square. Vent
stacks and chimneys shall have a steel screen cover made of heavy wire mesh or
other non-combustible material with openings not larger than one-half-inch
square. Fire fuel areas shall be covered with a steel screen cover made of
heavy wire mesh or other non-combustible material with openings not larger than
one-half-inch square. Not permitted are barrels, half-barrels, drums or
similarly constructed devices.
      (2)   Size. The fuel area for a fire pit shall not be larger than three
feet in diameter and a height of more than two feet.
      (3)   Location. Outdoor fireplaces shall be placed on a stable non-
combustible surface such as a concrete pad. All outdoor fireplaces will be
placed on a firm, noncombustible surface while in use and shall maintain a 25-
foot distance from the nearest structure. Outdoor fireplaces shall not be
located on combustible balconies or decks or on any balcony above the first
floor. Outdoor fireplaces shall not be located under any combustible balcony or
any overhanging part of a structure.
   (B)   Types of materials being burnt. Outdoor fireplaces shall only burn
commercial logs and untreated wood; natural sawn dry wood will be allowed to be
burned. Petroleum products, rubbish, grass, leaves, cardboard, plastics, rubber
or any material that may flow out of the containment or cause excessive heat,
smoke, or offensive smell shall not be permitted.
   (C)   Amount of materials being burnt. The amount of material being burnt
shall be limited to ensure the flames are confined inside the fuel area of the
outdoor fireplace and the flames do not extend into the chimney or above the
pit. The manufacturer’s recommendation on the maximum amount of fuel to be used
at one time shall be followed.
   (D)   Supervision. Outdoor fireplaces shall be under constant supervision by
at least one responsible person of age 18 or older from the ignition of the
fire until the fire is completely extinguished and embers are cool and the fire
will not rekindle.
   (E)   Provisions for protection. A garden hose connected to a water supply
or other approved fire extinguishing equipment shall be readily available for
use.
   (F)   Wind and weather conditions. Outdoor fireplaces shall not be operated
when winds are blowing over ten mph and wind direction will cause smoke,
embers, or other burning materials to be carried by the wind toward any
building or other combustible materials. Outdoor fireplaces shall not be
operated when weather conditions are extremely dry.
   (G)   Maintenance. The owner is responsible to ensure proper maintenance and
care is accomplished in accordance with manufacturer's instructions. The
outdoor fireplace will be checked regularly for the appearance of cracks and
other physical deterioration or loose parts.
   (H)   Smoke nuisance. Smoke from any outdoor fireplace shall not create a
nuisance for neighboring property owners. The fire shall be extinguished
immediately upon the complaint of the neighboring property owner of any smoke
nuisance. Outdoor fireplace use will be immediately discontinued if the use of
the outdoor fireplace is determined to constitute a hazardous or unpleasant
condition to occupants of surrounding property.
(Ord. 2020-04, passed 8-12-2020)  Penalty, see §
92.99
EXPLOSIVES
§ 92.30  STORAGE REGISTRATION; REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   In addition to notifying the Municipal Fire Department pursuant to
Neb. Rev. Stat. 28-1233(3), any person desiring to store or keep for any period
of time explosive materials as defined in Neb. Rev. Stat. 28-1213, shall
register such information with the Village Clerk 24 hours prior to such
storage. The transfer of explosive materials to another person within the
municipality shall require the person receiving the explosive materials to
register the transfer and the new location of the explosive materials with the
Village Clerk. The transfer of explosive materials to a new location by the
owner shall require registration of the new location with the Village Clerk.
   (B)   All explosive materials shall be stored in a proper receptacle made of
cement, metal, or stone and be closed at all times, except when in actual use.
Such receptacles shall not be located in any room where there are flames or
flammable materials. The area surrounding storage facilities shall be kept
clear of rubbish, brush, dry grass, or trees not less than 25 feet in all
directions. Any other combustible materials shall be kept a distance of not
less than 50 feet from outdoor storage facilities.
(Prior Code, § 7-401)  (Ord. 1994-12, passed 10-5-1994)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. Rev. Stat. 17-549, 17-556, 28-1229, and 28-1233
§ 92.31  BLASTING PERMITS.
   In addition to notifying the Municipal Fire Department pursuant to Neb. Rev.
Stat. 28-1233(3), any person desiring to discharge explosive materials, as
defined in Neb. Rev. Stat. 28-1213, within the municipality, shall apply for
and secure a permit from the governing body 24 hours prior to such discharge,
and shall discharge such explosive materials in conformance with the conditions
specified in the permit. In no case shall any person perform blasting
operations unless operating under the direct supervision of a person in
possession of a valid user’s permit issued by the State Patrol.
(Prior Code, § 7-402)  (Ord. 1989-8, passed 12-6-1989; Ord. 1994-13, passed 10-
5-1994)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. Rev. Stat. 17-549, 17-556, 28-1229, and 28-1233
§ 92.32  TRANSPORTATION.
   (A)   Any person wishing to transport high explosives in the municipality
shall first acquire a permit from the Utilities Superintendent or the governing
body and shall take such precautions and use such route as he or she may
prescribe. Nothing herein shall be construed to apply to the Utilities
Superintendent, or any of the Armed Services of the United States.
   (B)   No vehicle transporting explosives shall make an unscheduled stop for
longer than five minutes within the municipality and in the event of mechanical
failure, immediate notice of such breakdown shall be given the Utilities
Superintendent or governing body who shall then prescribe such precautions as
may be necessary to protect the residents of the municipality and a reasonable
time for removal of the vehicle from the municipality.
(Prior Code, § 7-403)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. Rev. Stat. 17-549 and 28-1235
§ 92.33  NO STORAGE OR KEEPING OF ANHYDROUS AMMONIA.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, partnership, or corporation to
store or keep for any period of time anhydrous ammonia in any form. The
provisions of this section shall extend to the zoning jurisdiction of the
village.
(Prior Code, § 7-404)  (Ord. 1985-6, passed 8-7-1985)  Penalty, see §
92.99
FIREWORKS
§ 92.45  DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   FIREWORKS. Any composition or device designed for the purpose of producing a
visible or audible effect by combustion, deflagration, or detonation and which
meets the definition of common or special fireworks set forth by the U.S.
Department of Transportation in C.F.R. Title 49.
(Neb. Rev. Stat. 28-1241)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. Rev. Stat. 17-556
§ 92.46  PERMITTED FIREWORKS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to ignite or cause to be exploded
fireworks or firecrackers of any description whatsoever, except sparklers,
vesuvius fountains, spray fountains, torches, color fire cones, star and comet
type color aerial shells without explosive charges for the purpose of making a
noise, color wheels, lady fingers, not exceeding seven-eighths inch in length
or one-eighths inch in diameter, total explosive composition not to exceed 50
milligrams each in weight, color wheels, and any other fireworks approved under
Neb. Rev. Stat. 28-1247.
(Neb. Rev. Stat. 28-1241(7))
   (B)   The provisions of this section shall not apply to any fireworks to be
used for purpose of public exhibitions or display under authorization of the
Board of Trustees or to fireworks furnished for agricultural purposes pursuant
to written authorization from the State Fire Marshal.
Penalty, see §
92.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. Rev. Stat. 17-556, 28-1244, and 28-1245
§ 92.47  THROWING FIREWORKS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to throw any firecracker, or any object
which explodes upon contact with another object, from or into a motor vehicle;
onto any street, highway, or sidewalk; at or near any person; into any
building; or into or at any group of persons.
Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.48  SALE.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to sell, hold for sale, or offer
for sale as distributor, jobber, or retailer any fireworks without first
obtaining a license from the State Fire Marshal for that calendar year.
(Neb. Rev. Stat. 28-1246)
   (B)   Licensees shall only sell fireworks that have been approved by the
State Fire Marshal.
(Neb. Rev. Stat. 28-1247)
   (C)   Permissible fireworks may be sold at retail only between June 24 and
July 5 of each year.
(Neb. Rev. Stat. 28-1249)  Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who shall violate or refuse to comply with the enforcement
of any of the provisions of this chapter set forth at full length herein or
incorporated by reference, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and upon conviction
thereof shall be fined not more than $500 for each offense. A new violation
shall be deemed to have been committed every 24 hours of such failure to
comply.
   (B)   (1)   Whenever a nuisance exists as defined in this chapter, the
municipality may proceed by a suit in equity to enjoin, abate, and remove the
same in the manner provided by law.
      (2)   Whenever, in any action, it is established that a nuisance exists,
the court may, together with the fine or penalty imposed, enter an order of
abatement as a part of the judgment in the case.
(Prior Code, § 7-501)  (Ord. 2002-16, passed 10-16-2002; Ord. 2004-18, passed
10-6-2004)
CHAPTER 93:  PROPERTY MAINTENANCE
Section
Trees
   
93.01   Definitions
   
93.02   Species to be planted
   
93.03   Spacing
   
93.04   Distance from curbs and sidewalks
   
93.05   Distance from street intersections, driveways, and alleys
   
93.06   Distance from utility lines
   
93.07   Care and removal
   
93.08   Tree topping
   
93.09   Obstruction; pruning, removal
   
93.10   Dead or diseased trees; pruning, removal
   
93.11   Abuse or mutilation
   
93.12   Protection of trees
   
93.13   Stumps
   
93.14   Interference with Village Board
Municipal Property
   
93.25   Definition
   
93.26   Maintenance and control
   
93.27   Sale and conveyance
   
93.28   Obstructions
   
93.29   Weeds
   
93.30   Special improvement district; assessment and creation procedure
   
93.31   Improvement district; and adjacent
 
   
93.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Building codes, see
Ch. 150
   Nuisances, see
Ch. 91
   Streets and sidewalks, see
Ch. 94
TREES
§ 93.01  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   LARGE TREES. Trees which by their nature attain heights greater than 45 feet
at maturity.
   MEDIUM TREES. Trees which by their nature normally attain heights of from 25
feet to 45 feet at maturity.
   PARK TREES. Trees, shrubs, bushes, and all other woody vegetation in public
parks and all areas owned by the village, or to which the public has free
access.
   SMALL TREES. Trees which by their nature do not normally attain heights
greater than 25 feet at maturity.
   STREET TREES. Trees, shrubs, bushes, and all other woody vegetation on land
lying between property lines on either side of all streets, avenues, or ways
within the village.
(Prior Code, § 6-401)
§ 93.02  SPECIES TO BE PLANTED.
   The following species of trees, listed by common name, constitutes the
official street tree species for the village. No species other than those
included in this list may be planted as street trees without permission of the
Village Board.
Small Trees
Cork Tree, Amur
Crabapples, Flowering
Goldenrain Tree
Hawthorns
Lilac, Japanese Tree
Maple, Amur
Pear, Bradford
Plum, Purpleleaf
Redbud, Eastern
Medium Trees
Ginkgo
Linden, Littleleaf
Linden, Redmond
Mountain Ash, European
Sweetgum
Large Trees
Ash, Green
Ash, White
Coffeetree, Kentucky
Hackberry
Honeylocust
Maple, Norway
Maple, Sugar
Oak, Bur
Oak, Northern Red
Pagodatree, Japanese
Sycamore, American
 
   (B)   Any request to plant street trees other than those listed above shall
be by written request to the Village Board which may grant the variance by a
majority vote.
(Prior Code, § 6-402)  Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.03  SPACING.
   The spacing of street trees and park trees will be in accordance with the
three species size classes listed in §§
93.01 and
93.02, and no trees may be planted closer together than the following: small
trees, 30 feet; medium trees, 40 feet; and large trees, 50 feet; except in
special plantings approved by the Village Board.
(Prior Code, § 6-403)
§ 93.04  DISTANCE FROM CURBS AND SIDEWALKS.
   (A)   The distance trees may be planted from curbs or curblines and
sidewalks will be in accordance with the tree species size classes listed in §
93.01 and 93.02, and no trees may be planted closer to any curb or sidewalk
that the following: small trees, two feet; medium trees, three feet; and large
trees, four feet.
   (B)   Street trees will be centered between the curb and sidewalk or aligned
with existing street trees, except in special situations approved by the
Village Board. In areas with no curbs or sidewalks, or less than four feet
between the curb and sidewalk, no street trees shall be planted without written
permission from the Village Board.
(Prior Code, § 6-404)  Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.05  DISTANCE FROM STREET INTERSECTIONS, DRIVEWAYS, AND ALLEYS.
   No street tree or park tree shall be planted within 35 feet of any street
intersection, measured from the point of nearest intersecting curbs or
curblines or within 15 feet of any driveway or alley.
(Prior Code, § 6-405)  Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.06  DISTANCE FROM UTILITY LINES.
   No street trees or park trees, other than those species listed as small
trees in §
93.02 or species specifically approved by the Village Board, may be planted
under or within ten lateral feet of any overhead utility wire, or over or
within five lateral feet of any underground water line, sewer line,
transmission line, or other utility line, wire, or main. No street tree shall
be planted within ten feet of any fireplug.
(Prior Code, § 6-406)  Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.07  CARE AND REMOVAL.
   (A)   The municipality shall have the right to plant, prune, maintain, or
remove street trees or park trees within the lines of all streets, alleys,
avenues, lanes, squares, and public grounds, as may be necessary to ensure
public safety or to preserve or enhance the symmetry and beauty of such public
grounds.
   (B)   The Village Board may remove or cause or order to be removed any
street tree or park tree or part thereof which is in an unsafe condition or
which, by reason of its nature, is injurious to sewers, electric power lines,
gas lines, water lines, or other public improvements, or is affected with an
injurious fungus, insect, or other pest.
   (C)   No person or property owner shall remove any live street tree or park
tree for any reason without written permission of the Village Board. Utility
companies may remove trees or parts thereof which are injurious to their
utility lines at their expense upon obtaining permission for such removal or
trimming from the Village Board. This section does not prohibit the planting of
street trees by abutting property owners providing that the selection and
location of said trees is in accordance with §§
93.02 through
93.06.
(Prior Code, § 6-407)
§ 93.08  TREE TOPPING.
   It shall be unlawful as a normal practice for any person, firm, or municipal
department to top any street tree, park tree, or other tree on public property.
TOPPING is defined as the severely cutting back of limbs to stubs larger than
three inches in diameter within the tree’s crown to such a degree so as to
remove the normal canopy and disfigure the tree. Trees severely damaged by
storms or other causes, or certain trees under utility wires or other
obstructions where other pruning practices are impractical, may be exempted
from this subchapter at the determination of the Village Board.
(Prior Code, § 6-408)  Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.09  OBSTRUCTION; PRUNING, REMOVAL.
   (A)   All trees and shrubs within the municipality shall be pruned or
removed when such trees or shrubs obstruct the light from any street lamp,
obstruct the visibility of any traffic-control device or sign, obstruct the
passage of pedestrians on sidewalks, or obstruct the view of any street or
alley intersection. The minimum clearance of any overhanging portion and
thereof shall be 12 feet over all streets and eight feet over sidewalks.
   (B)   The Village Board shall have the power and authority to prune or
remove, or order to be pruned or removed, any such trees or shrubs on private
property. The Village Board shall notify in writing the owners of such trees or
shrubs. Pruning or removal shall be done by said owners at their own expense
within 60 days after the date of notification. In the event of failure of
owners to comply with said notice, the municipality shall have the authority to
prune or remove said trees or shrubs and assess the cost of said pruning or
removal to the property owner. If the owner fails to reimburse the municipality
after being properly billed, the cost may be assessed against the real estate
and the governing body shall have the assessment certified to the County
Treasurer and the same shall be collected in the manner provided by law. In the
event the property owner is a nonresident of the county in which the property
lies, the municipality shall, before levying any special assessment against the
property, send a copy of any notice required by law to be published by means of
certified mail, return receipt requested, to the last known address of the
nonresident property owner. The last known address shall be that address listed
on the current tax roll at the time such required notice was first published.
(Prior Code, § 6-409)  Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.10  DEAD OR DISEASED TREES; PRUNING, REMOVAL.
   (A)   All trees and shrubs within the municipality shall be pruned or
removed when such trees or shrubs constitute a hazard to life and property, or
harbor insects or disease which constitute a threat to other trees or shrubs
within the village.
   (B)   (1)   The Village Board shall have the power and authority to prune or
remove or order to prune or remove any such trees or shrubs on private
property.
      (2)   The Village Board shall notify in writing the owners of such trees
or shrubs.
      (3)   Pruning or removal shall be done by said owners at their expense
within 60 days after the date of notification. In the event of failure of
owners to comply with said notice, the municipality shall have the authority to
prune or remove said trees or shrubs and assess the cost of said pruning or
removal to the property owner as provided in §
93.09.
(Prior Code, § 6-410)  Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.11  ABUSE OR MUTILATION.
   Unless specifically authorized by the Village Board, no person shall
intentionally damage, cut, carve, transplant, or remove any street tree or park
tree; attach any rope, wire, nails, advertising posters or other contrivance to
such trees; allow any gaseous, liquid, or solid substance which is harmful to
such trees to come in contact with them; or set fire or permit any fire to burn
when such fire or the heat thereof will injure any portion of such trees. The
preceding restrictions do not apply to proper planting, staking, and guying
practices.
(Prior Code, § 6-411)  Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.12  PROTECTION OF TREES.
   (A)   All street trees or park trees near any excavation or construction of
any building, structure, or street work shall be guarded with a substantial
fence, frame, or box not less than four feet high and eight feet square, and
all construction materials, soil, or other debris shall be kept outside the
barrier.
   (B)   No person shall deposit, place, store, or maintain upon any public
property of the municipality, any stone, brick, sand, soil, concrete, or other
material which may impede the free passage of water, air, and fertilizer to the
roots of any street tree or park tree, except by written permission of the
Village Board.
(Prior Code, § 6-412)  Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.13  STUMPS.
   All stumps of street and park trees shall be removed so that the top of the
stump shall not project more than six inches below the surface of the ground.
(Prior Code, § 6-413)  Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.14  INTERFERENCE WITH VILLAGE BOARD.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to prevent, delay, or interfere with the
Village Board, or any of its agents, while engaging in and about the planting,
cultivating, mulching, pruning, spraying, or removing of any street trees, park
trees, or trees on private grounds as authorized in this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 6-414)  Penalty, see §
93.99
MUNICIPAL PROPERTY
§ 93.25  DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   SIDEWALK SPACE. The portion of a street between curb lines and adjacent
property lines.
§ 93.26  MAINTENANCE AND CONTROL.
   The Board of Trustees shall have the care, supervision, and control of all
public highways, bridges, streets, alleys, public squares, and commons within
the village and shall cause the same to be kept open and in repair and free
from nuisances.
(Neb. Rev. Stat. 17-567(1))
§ 93.27  SALE AND CONVEYANCE.
   (A)   Except as provided in division (I) below, the power of the
municipality to convey any real and personal property owned by it, including
land used for park purposes and public squares, except real property used in
the operation of public utilities, shall be exercised by resolution, directing
the sale at public auction or by sealed bid of such real and personal property
and the manner and terms thereof, except that such real and personal property
shall not be sold at public auction or by sealed bid when:
      (1)   Such property is being sold in compliance with the requirements of
federal or state grants or programs;
      (2)   Such property is being conveyed to another public agency; or
      (3)   Such property consists of streets and alleys.
   (B)   The governing body may establish a minimum price for such real and
personal property at which bidding shall begin or shall serve as a minimum for
a sealed bid.
   (C)   After the passage of the resolution directing the sale, notice of all
proposed sales of real and personal property described in division (A) above
and the terms thereof shall be published once each week for three consecutive
weeks in a legal newspaper published in or of general circulation in the
municipality.
   (D)   If within 30 days after the third publication of the notice a
remonstrance against such sale is signed by registered voters of the
municipality equal in number to 30% of the registered voters of the
municipality voting at the last regular municipal election held therein and is
filed with the governing body, such property shall not then, nor within one
year thereafter, be sold. If the date for filing the remonstrance falls upon a
Saturday, Sunday, or legal holiday, the signatures shall be collected within
the 30-day period, but the filing shall be considered timely if filed or
postmarked on or before the next business day.
   (E)   Upon the receipt of the remonstrance, the governing body, with the aid
and assistance of the Election Commissioner or County Clerk, shall determine
the validity and sufficiency of signatures on the remonstrance. The governing
body shall deliver the remonstrance to the Election Commissioner or County
Clerk by hand carrier, by use of law enforcement officials, or by certified
mail, return receipt requested. Upon receipt of the remonstrance, the Election
Commissioner or County Clerk shall issue to the governing body a written
receipt that the remonstrance is in the custody of the Election Commissioner or
County Clerk. The Election Commissioner or County Clerk shall compare the
signature of each person signing the remonstrance with the voter registration
records to determine if each signer was a registered voter on or before the
date on which the remonstrance was filed with the governing body. The Election
Commissioner or County Clerk shall also compare the signer’s printed name,
street and number, or voting precinct, and municipal or post office address
with the voter registration records to determine whether the signer was a
registered voter. The signature and address shall be presumed to be valid only
if the Election Commissioner or County Clerk determines that the printed name,
street and number, or voting precinct, and municipal or post office address
matches the registration records and that the registration was received on or
before the date on which the remonstrance was filed with the governing body.
The determinations of the Election Commissioner or County Clerk may be rebutted
by any credible evidence which the governing body finds sufficient. The express
purpose of the comparison of names and addresses with the voter registration
records, in addition to helping to determine the validity of the remonstrance,
the sufficiency of the remonstrance, and the qualifications of the signer,
shall be to prevent fraud, deception, and misrepresentation in the remonstrance
process. Upon completion of the comparison of names and addresses with the
voter registration records, the Election Commissioner or County Clerk shall
prepare in writing a certification under seal setting forth the name and
address of each signer found not to be a registered voter and the signature
page number and line number where the name is found, and if the reason for the
invalidity of the signature or address is other than the nonregistration of the
signer, the Election Commissioner or County Clerk shall set forth the reason
for the invalidity of the signature. If the Election Commissioner or County
Clerk determines that a signer has affixed his or her signature more than once
to the remonstrance and that only one person is registered by that name, the
Election Commissioner or County Clerk shall prepare in writing a certification
under seal setting forth the name of the duplicate signature and shall count
only the earliest dated signature. The Election Commissioner or County Clerk
shall certify to the governing body the number of valid signatures necessary to
constitute a valid remonstrance. The Election Commissioner or County Clerk
shall deliver the remonstrance and the certifications to the governing body
within 40 days after the receipt of the remonstrance from the governing body.
The delivery shall be by hand carrier, by use of law enforcement officials, or
by certified mail, return receipt requested. Not more than 20 signatures on one
signature page shall be counted.
   (F)   The governing body shall, within 30 days after the receipt of the
remonstrance and certifications from the Election Commissioner or County Clerk,
hold a public hearing to review the remonstrance and certifications and receive
testimony regarding them. The governing body shall, following the hearing, vote
on whether or not the remonstrance is valid and shall uphold the remonstrance
if sufficient valid signatures have been received.
   (G)   Real estate now owned or hereafter owned by the municipality may be
conveyed without consideration to the state for state armory sites or, if
acquired for state armory sites, such property shall be conveyed strictly in
accordance with the conditions of Neb. Rev. Stat. 18-1001 through 18-1006.
   (H)   Following passage of the resolution directing a sale, publishing of
the notice of the proposed sale, and passing of the 30-day right-of-
remonstrance period, the property shall then be sold. Such sale shall be
confirmed by passage of an ordinance stating the name of the purchaser and
terms of the sale. The Village Clerk shall upon passage of such ordinance
certify the name of the purchaser to the Register of Deeds of the county in
which the property is located.
   (I)   Divisions (A) to (H) above shall not apply to the sale of real and
personal property if the authorizing resolution directs the sale of an item or
items of real and personal property, the total fair market value of which is
less than $5,000. Following passage of the resolution directing the sale of the
property, notice of the sale shall be posted in three prominent places within
the municipality for a period of not less than seven days prior to the sale of
the property. The notice shall give a general description of the property
offered for sale and state the terms and conditions of sale. Confirmation of
the sale by passage of an ordinance may be required.
(Prior Code, § 8-103)  (Ord. 1981-4, passed 12-2-1981; Ord. 1982-6, passed 10-
6-1982; Ord. 1994-15, passed 10-5-1994; Ord. 1996-12, passed 2-7-1996; Ord.
1998-17, passed 10-7-1998)
§ 93.28  OBSTRUCTIONS.
   (A)   Trees and shrubs growing upon or near the lot line, or upon public
ground, and interfering with the use or construction of any public
improvements, shall be deemed an obstruction under this chapter. Those trees
and shrubs and their roots may be removed by the village at the expense of the
owner of the property upon which the tree is located should the owner fail or
neglect, after notice, to do so. It shall be unlawful for any person, persons,
firm, or corporation to obstruct or encumber, by fences, gates, buildings,
structures, or otherwise, any of the streets, alleys, or sidewalks. The public
ways and property shall be considered to be obstructed when the owner or
occupant of the adjacent property shall permit or suffer to remain on any
premises owned or controlled by him or her any hedge, shrubbery, bush, or
similar growth within two feet adjacent to the lot line, whether there is a
sidewalk abutting or adjoining the premises or not. It shall be the duty of
owners and occupants to at all times keep trimmed and pruned all such similar
growth. Whenever any such growth is allowed to grow within two feet of the lot
line contrary to the provisions of this chapter, the Board of Trustees may pass
a resolution ordering the owner or occupant to remove those obstructions within
five days after having been served with a copy of the resolution by the village
stating that the village will do so and will charge the costs thereof to the
owner or occupant as a special assessment for improvements as herein provided,
or shall collect the same by civil suit brought in the name of the village
against the owner or occupant. It shall be the duty of an owner or occupant
engaged in construction of any building or improvement upon or near the public
ways and property to have all excavations or exposures of any kind protected
and guarded by suitable guards or barricades by day and by warning lights at
night. In the event of failure, neglect, or refusal to comply with the
provisions of this subchapter, it shall be the duty of the village to stop all
work upon the buildings and improvements until suitable guards are erected and
kept in the manner stated above. Trees and shrubs growing upon the lot line
partially on public ground and partially upon the abutting property, or wholly
upon the abutting property, but so close to the lot line as to interfere with
the making of any public improvement or so that the roots thereof interfere
with any utility wires or pipe, shall be deemed an obstruction, and those
trees, shrubs, and roots may be removed by the village pursuant to the
procedure prescribed above. In the event the property owner is a nonresident of
the county in which the property lies, the village shall, before levying any
special assessment against that property, send a copy of any notice required by
law to be published by means of certified mail, return receipt requested, to
the last known address of the nonresident property owner. The last known
address shall be that address listed on the current tax rolls at the time the
required notice was first published.
   (B)   Persons engaged in the erection, construction, reconstruction,
wrecking, or repairing of any building, or the construction, or repair, of a
sidewalk along any street, may occupy the public street space with the building
material and equipment as long as is necessary if those persons shall make
application to and receive a permit in writing from the municipal official in
charge of municipal streets to do so, provided that no permit for the occupancy
of the sidewalk space and more than one-third of the roadway of the public
space adjacent to the real estate on which that building is to be constructed,
erected, reconstructed, wrecked, or repaired shall be granted, and provided
further that a suitable passageway for pedestrians shall be maintained within
the public space included in the permit which shall be protected and lighted in
the manner required by the official issuing the permit.
Penalty, see §
93.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. Rev. Stat. 17-555, 17-557, and 17-557.01
§ 93.29  WEEDS.
   It is hereby the duty of the Utilities Superintendent or his or her duly
authorized agent to view and inspect the sidewalk space within the corporate
limits for growing weeds during the growing season, and if rank and noxious
weeds are found growing thereon, he or she shall notify the owner or occupant
thereof to cut down those weeds as close to the ground as can be practicably
done and keep the weeds cut thereon in like manner during the growing season
for weeds, provided that any weeds growing in excess of 12 inches on any
sidewalk space shall be considered a violation of this section. In the event
that the owner of the lot or parcel of land abutting that sidewalk space within
the village is a nonresident of the village or cannot be found therein, the
notice may be given to any person having the care, custody, or control of that
lot or parcel of land. In the event that there can be found no one within the
village to whom notice can be given, it shall be the duty of the Utilities
Superintendent or his or her agent to post a copy of the notice on the premises
and then to cut or cause the weeds thereon to be cut as therein provided and
report the cost thereof in writing to the Board of Trustees. The cost shall
then be audited and paid by the village, and the amount thereof shall be
assessed against the lot or parcel of land as a special tax thereon and shall
be collected as are other taxes of the village or may be recovered by civil
suit brought by the village against the owner of the parcel of land. In the
event the property owner is a nonresident of the county in which the property
lies, the village shall, before levying any special assessment against that
property, send a copy of any notice required by law to be published by means of
certified mail, return receipt requested, to the last known address of the
nonresident property owner. The last known address shall be that address listed
on the current tax rolls at the time the required notice was first published.
Penalty, see §
93.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. Rev. Stat. 17-563
§ 93.30  SPECIAL IMPROVEMENT DISTRICT; ASSESSMENT AND CREATION PROCEDURE.
   (A)   The municipality’s governing body may, by ordinance, create a special
improvement district for the purpose of replacing, reconstructing, or repairing
an existing water line, sewer line, or any other such improvement.
   (B)   Except as provided in Neb. Rev. Stat. 19-2428 through 19-2431, the
governing body shall have power to assess, to the extent of such benefits, the
costs of such improvements upon the properties found especially benefitted
thereby, whether or not such properties were previously assessed for the same
general purpose. In creating such special improvement district, the governing
body shall follow procedures applicable to the creation and assessment of the
same type of improvement district as otherwise provided by law.
(Prior Code, § 8-107)  (Ord. 1987-10, passed 10-7-1987)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. Rev. Stat. 18-1751
§ 93.31  IMPROVEMENT DISTRICT; AND ADJACENT.
   Supplemental to any existing law on the subject, a municipality may include
land adjacent to such municipality when creating an improvement as a sewer,
water, water extension, or sanitary sewer extension district. The governing
body shall have power to assess, to the extent of special benefits, the costs
of such improvements upon the properties found especially benefitted thereby,
except as provided in §
94.25.
(Prior Code, § 8-108)  (Ord. 1987-11, passed 10-7-1987)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. Rev. Stat. 19-2427
§ 93.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who shall violate or refuse to comply with the enforcement
of any of the provisions of this chapter set forth at full length herein or
incorporated by reference, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and upon conviction
thereof shall be fined not more than $500 for each offense. A new violation
shall be deemed to have been committed every 24 hours of such failure to
comply.
   (B)   (1)   Whenever a nuisance exists as defined in this chapter, the
municipality may proceed by a suit in equity to enjoin, abate, and remove the
same in the manner provided by law.
      (2)   Whenever, in any action, it is established that a nuisance exists,
the court may, together with the fine or penalty imposed, enter an order of
abatement as a part of the judgment in the case.
(Prior Code, § 6-501)  (Ord. 2002-16, passed 10-16-2002; Ord. 2004-18, passed
10-6-2004)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. Rev. Stat. 17-207, 17-505, 18-1720, and 18-1722
CHAPTER 94:  STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
Section
Sidewalks
   
94.01   Kept clean
   
94.02   Sidewalk repair
   
94.03   Use of space beneath
   
94.04   Dangerous stairway
   
94.05   Construction at owner’s initiative
   
94.06   Construction at municipal direction
Streets
   
94.15   Names and numbers
   
94.16   Opening, widening, improving, or vacating
   
94.17   Excavation
   
94.18   Driving stakes
   
94.19   Mixing concrete
   
94.20   Harmful liquids
   
94.21   Construction notice
   
94.22   Pipelines and wires
   
94.23   Construction assessment
   
94.24   Petition for improvements
   
94.25   Deferral from special assessments
   
94.26   Driveway approaches
   
94.27   Vacating public ways
   
94.28   Curb cutting
 
   
94.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Nuisances, see
Ch. 91
   Property maintenance, see
Ch. 93
   Zoning, see
Ch. 154
SIDEWALKS
§ 94.01  KEPT CLEAN.
   It shall be unlawful for the occupant of any lot or lots or the owner of any
vacant lot or lots within the corporate limits to allow snow, sleet, mud, ice,
or other substance to accumulate on the sidewalks or to permit any snow, sleet,
ice, mud, or other substance to remain upon the sidewalk. All sidewalks within
the business district shall be cleaned within five hours after the cessation of
a storm, unless the storm or fall of snow shall have taken place during the
night, in which case the sidewalk shall be cleaned before 9:00 a.m. the
following day, provided that sidewalks within the residential areas of the
village shall be cleaned within 24 hours after the cessation of the storm.
Penalty, see §
94.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. Rev. Stat. 17-557
§ 94.02  SIDEWALK REPAIR.
   (A)   The governing body may, by resolution, order the repair of a sidewalk
on any lot or piece of ground within the municipality and may assess the
expense thereof on the property in front of which such repairs are made, after
having given notice of its intention to do so:
      (1)   By publication in one issue of a legal newspaper of general
circulation in the municipality; and
      (2)   By either causing a written notice to be served upon the occupant
in possession of the property involved or to be posted upon such premises ten
days prior to the commencement of such repair.
   (B)   The notice shall:
      (1)   State that the governing body has ordered repair of the sidewalk;
      (2)   Contain the municipality’s estimate of the cost of the repair;
      (3)   Notify the property owner that he or she may, within ten days after
the date of publication of the notice, notify the municipality that he or she
will repair the sidewalk within 30 days after such date of publication; and
      (4)   Notify the property owner that if he or she fails to so notify the
municipality within the ten days or, having so notified the municipality, fails
to repair the sidewalk within the 30 days, the municipality will cause the
sidewalk to be repaired and the expense thereof to be assessed against the
property.
   (C)   (1)   Before the municipality imposes any special assessments for
sidewalk repair, a copy of the notice that is required to be published shall be
mailed to the last-known address of all nonresident property owners as shown on
the current tax rolls at the time such notice is first published.
      (2)   The Village Clerk shall mail the notice by certified mail with
return receipt requested.
      (3)   For purposes of this division, NONRESIDENT PROPERTY OWNER means any
person or corporation whose residence and mailing address as shown on the
current tax rolls is outside the boundaries of the county in which the property
subject to assessment is located and who is a record owner of the property.
   (D)   All sidewalks shall be repaired in conformity with such plans and
specifications as may be approved by the governing body.
   (E)   Assessments made under this section shall be made and assessed in the
manner provided in Neb. Rev. Stat. 17-524.
(Prior Code, § 8-205)  (Ord. 2005-10, passed 3-2-2005)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb.Rev. Stat. S 13-310, 13-312, 13-314, and 17-522
§ 94.03  USE OF SPACE BENEATH.
   No person shall be allowed to keep or use the space beneath the sidewalk
lying between lot line and curb line unless a permit therefor shall have been
obtained from the governing body. Before any permit shall be granted, the
applicant for that permit shall submit plans and specifications of any present
or proposed construction to the Municipal Engineer. Should those plans or
specifications be disapproved by the Engineer, no permit shall be granted
therefor. All permits hereafter granted shall continue only upon the condition
that the party receiving the same shall build, maintain, and keep in repair a
sidewalk over the space used or constructed to be used and pay all damages that
may be sustained by any person by reason of that use or by reason of that
sidewalk being defective or in a dangerous condition. As a condition precedent
to the issuance or continuance of any permit for the use of any space
underneath the municipal sidewalks as herein contemplated, the governing body
may require applicant to furnish a bond to the village as obligee for the
benefit of any person or persons who may suffer any damage or damages by reason
of that use. The bond shall be in that sum as the governing body, in its
discretion, may designate.
Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.04  DANGEROUS STAIRWAY.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to construct or maintain any stairway,
open cellarway, open basement way, or open entrance thereto in or adjacent to
any sidewalk, pavement, or street, and any such entrance is hereby declared to
be a public nuisance, provided that all existing stairways, open cellarways,
open basement ways, or open entrances thereto in sidewalks, pavements, or
streets may be permitted to remain from and after the passage, approval, and
publication of this code if the person owning or using the opening in the
sidewalk, or street, shall satisfy the Utilities Superintendent that the same
is properly protected by a balustrade or coping of durable material and shall
furnish the village with a bond in that amount as the governing body may set,
for the benefit of any person who might suffer an injury or damage by reason of
the use of the stairway, cellarway, or open basement way.
Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.05  CONSTRUCTION AT OWNER’S INITIATIVE.
   (A)   Any person desiring to construct or cause to be constructed any
sidewalk shall do so only as herein provided. It shall be unlawful for any
person to construct any sidewalk without first having obtained a permit.
   (B)   The owner shall make application in writing for a permit and file the
application in the office of the Village Clerk. The permit shall give a
description of the lot or piece of land along which the sidewalk is to be
constructed. The official in charge of sidewalks shall issue the desired permit
unless good cause shall appear why the permit should be denied, provided that
if it is desired to construct the sidewalk at any other than the regularly
prescribed location, grade, or elevation, the municipal official in charge of
sidewalks shall submit the application to the Board of Trustees, who shall
determine whether the permit should be granted or denied. It shall be unlawful
for any person to construct or cause to be constructed the sidewalk at any
other location, grade, or elevation than so designated by the village. All
sidewalks shall be built and constructed on the established grade or elevation,
and if there is no established grade, then on the grade or elevation indicated
by the municipal official in charge of sidewalks.
Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.06  CONSTRUCTION AT MUNICIPAL DIRECTION.
   (A)   The Board of Trustees may, by resolution, order the construction of a
sidewalk on any lot or piece of ground within the village. Notice of the Board
of Trustees’ intention to construct the sidewalk shall be given by the Village
Clerk by publication of notice one time in a legal newspaper of general
circulation in the village.
   (B)   A copy of the notice shall be personally served upon the occupant in
possession of the property, or, when personal service is not possible, the
notice shall be posted upon the premises ten days prior to the commencement of
construction. The notice required in this section shall be prepared by the
Municipal Attorney in accordance with the provisions of this section. Service
shall include a form of return evidencing personal service or posting as herein
required.
   (C)   The notice shall notify the owner of the premises of the passage of
the resolution ordering the owner to construct or cause to be constructed a
sidewalk within 30 days after the date of publication, and further, that if the
owner fails to construct the sidewalk or cause the same to be done within the
time allowed, the village will cause the sidewalk to be constructed, and the
cost thereof shall be levied and assessed as a special tax against the
premises, provided that the notice shall contain the official estimate of the
cost of construction, and no special assessment in excess of this estimate
shall be assessed against the property. In the event the property owner is a
nonresident of the county in which the property lies, the village shall, before
levying any special assessment against that property, send a copy of any notice
required by law to be published by means of certified mail, return receipt
requested, to the last known address of the nonresident property owner. The
last known address shall be that address listed on the current tax rolls at the
time the required notice was first published.
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. Rev. Stat. 17-522 through 17-524 and 19-2417
through 19-2419
STREETS
§ 94.15  NAMES AND NUMBERS.
   The governing body may at any time, by ordinance, rename any street or
provide a name for any new street. Buildings used for residence or business
purposes and located along such streets shall retain such numbers as the
governing body may require. It shall be the duty of the Street Commissioner in
charge of streets, upon the erection of any new building or buildings, to
assign the proper numbers to said building or buildings and give notice to the
owner or owners and occupant or occupants of the same.
(Prior Code, § 8-301)
§ 94.16  OPENING, WIDENING, IMPROVING, OR VACATING.
   (A)   The municipality shall have power to open, widen, or otherwise improve
or vacate any street, avenue, alley, or lane within the limits of the
municipality and also to create, open, and improve any new street, avenue,
alley, or lane. All damages sustained by the citizens of the municipality, or
by the owners of the property therein, shall be ascertained in such manner as
shall be provided by ordinance. Whenever any street or alley is vacated, the
same shall revert to the owners of the abutting real estate, one-half on each
side thereof, and become a part of such property. When a portion of a street,
avenue, alley, or lane is vacated only on one side of the center thereof, the
title to such land shall vest in the owner of the abutting property and become
a part of such property. When the municipality vacates all or any portion of a
street, avenue, alley, or lane, the municipality shall, within 30 days after
the effective date of the vacation, file a certified copy of the vacating
ordinance with the Register of Deeds for the county in which the vacated
property is located to be indexed against all affected lots.
   (B)   The municipality shall have power to create, open, widen, or extend
any street, avenue, alley, off-street parking area, or other public way, or
annul, vacate, or discontinue the same.
(Prior Code, § 8-302)  (Ord. 2002-38, passed 10-16-2002)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. Rev. Stat. 17-558 and 17-559
§ 94.17  EXCAVATION.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to make an excavation in any street or
streets for any purpose whatsoever unless a written permit is issued by the
governing body authorizing such excavations.
(Prior Code, § 8-303)  Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.18  DRIVING STAKES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to drive any peg or stake of any kind
into the pavement in any street or alley without first procuring the written
consent of the Street Commissioner.
(Prior Code, § 8-304)  Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.19  MIXING CONCRETE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to mix any concrete or plastering
material directly on the street pavement for any reason whatsoever.
(Prior Code, § 8-305)  Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.20  HARMFUL LIQUIDS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to place or permit to leak in the gutter
of any street, waste gasoline, kerosene, or high lubricating oils, which damage
or act as a solvent upon said streets.
(Prior Code, § 8-306)  Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.21  CONSTRUCTION NOTICE.
   The governing body shall notify the owners in fee simple of real estate
abutting a street, alley, or a part thereof which is to be put under contract
for paving or repaving. Notice shall also be given to all gas, electric
service, and telephone companies. Notice shall also be given to all consumers
of gas, water, and sewer services which will be discontinued during such
construction. Said notice shall be published one time in a legal newspaper at
least 20 days prior to the beginning of such construction by the party
undertaking such construction and said notice shall state at what date
connections must be made and excavation completed. All gas, water, sewer, and
underground connections must be made prior to the paving or repaving of the
street under construction. After expiration of such time, permits for
excavation will not be issued, nor will excavation be allowed, until after the
completion of the pavement in said street or alley, and the formal final
acceptance thereof by the proper officials of the municipality.
(Prior Code, § 8-307)
§ 94.22  PIPELINES AND WIRES.
   (A)   Poles, wires, gas mains, pipe lines, and other appurtenances of public
service companies shall be located, or erected over, upon, or under the
streets, alleys, and common grounds of the municipality. Application for
location of the above shall be made to the governing body in writing. Approval
by that body shall be issued in writing. Any public service company granted a
right-of-way for the erection and maintenance of poles, conduits, gas mains,
pipe lines, and wires shall at all times erect and locate their poles, wires,
gas mains, pipe lines, and other appurtenances at such places and in such
manner as shall be designated by the governing body. Such poles, wires, gas
mains, pipe lines, and other appurtenances, shall be removed or relocated by
said companies at their own expense when requested to do so by the governing
body. Any such relocation shall be ordered by resolution of the governing body
and the Village Clerk shall notify any and all companies affected. Said
companies shall, within 24 hours after receiving notice, at their own expense,
cause the poles, wires, gas mains, pipe lines, or other appurtenances to be
removed.
   (B)   The governing body shall designate another location as closely as
possible where said poles, wires, gas mains, pipe lines, or other
appurtenances, may be reset or placed. All poles, wires, gas mains, pipe lines,
or other appurtenances, shall be reset, placed, or erected in such a manner
that they will not interfere with the water system; sewerage system; poles,
wires, and mains of any public utility; adjacent buildings; or with travel on
the public ways and property. Whenever possible, all pole lines, wires, gas
mains, pipe lines, or appurtenances shall be confined to the alleys of the
municipality.
(Prior Code, § 8-308)
§ 94.23  CONSTRUCTION ASSESSMENT.
   To defray the costs and expenses of street improvements, as may be
authorized by law, the governing body shall have power and authority to levy
and collect special taxes and assessments upon the lots and pieces of ground
adjacent to, abutting upon, or especially benefitting from, the street, avenue,
alley, or sidewalk in whole or in part opened, widened, curbed, curbed and
guttered, graded, paved, repaired, graveled, macadamized, parked, extended,
constructed, or otherwise improved or repaired. The governing body sitting as
the Board of Equalization shall review all such improvements in accordance with
the procedure provided by law. All special assessments shall be made by the
governing body at a regular or special meeting by resolution, taking into
account the benefits derived or injuries sustained in consequence of such
improvements and the amount charged against same. The vote shall be recorded in
the minutes. Notice of the time of holding such meeting and the purpose for
which it is to be held shall be published in some legal newspaper published, or
of general circulation, in the municipality at least four weeks before the same
shall be held. In lieu of such aforementioned notice, personal service may be
had upon the persons owning or occupying the property to be assessed. Such
assessments shall be known as “special assessments for improvements” and with
the cost of notice shall be levied and collected as a special tax in addition
to the taxes for general revenue purposes, subject to the same penalties and
collected in like manner as other municipal taxes and shall be certified to the
County Clerk by the Village Clerk forthwith after the date of levy, for
collection by the Treasurer of said county unless otherwise specified. After it
shall become delinquent, said assessment shall draw interest at the legal
interest rate per annum. In the event the property owner is a nonresident of
the county in which the property lies, the municipality shall, before levying
any special assessment against that property, send a copy of any notice
required by law to be published by means of certified mail, return receipt
requested to the last known address of the nonresident property owner. The last
known address shall be that address listed on the current tax rolls at the time
such required notice was first published.
(Prior Code, § 8-309)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. Rev. Stat. 17-511 and 17-524
§ 94.24  PETITION FOR IMPROVEMENTS.
   Whenever a petition signed by the owners of record title representing more
than 60% of the front footage of the property directly abutting upon the
street, streets, alley, alleys, public way, or the public grounds proposed to
be improved, it shall be presented and filed with the Village Clerk,
petitioning therefor, the governing body shall by ordinance create a paving,
graveling, or other improvement district or districts, and shall cause such
work to be done or such improvement to be made, and shall contract therefor,
and shall levy assessments on the lots and parcels of land abutting on or
adjacent to such street, streets, alley, or alleys, especially benefitted
thereby in such district in proportion to such benefits, to pay the cost of
such improvement. The governing body shall have the discretion to deny the
formation of the proposed district when the area has not previously been
improved with a water system, sewer system, and grading of streets. If the
governing body should deny a requested improvement district formation, it shall
state the grounds for such denial in a written letter to interested parties.
(Prior Code, § 8-310)  (Ord. 1983-11, passed 11-2-1983)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. Rev. Stat. 17-510
§ 94.25  DEFERRAL FROM SPECIAL ASSESSMENTS.
   (A)   Whenever the governing body of a municipality creates an improvement
district as specified in §
93.31, which includes land adjacent to the municipality, which is within an
agricultural use zone and is used exclusively for agricultural use, the owners
of record title of such adjacent land may apply for a deferral from special
assessments. For purposes of this section, the terms AGRICULTURAL USE and
AGRICULTURAL USE ZONE shall have the meaning specified in Neb. Rev. Stat. 77-
1343.
   (B)   Any owner of record title eligible for the deferral granted by this
section shall, to secure such assessment, make application to the governing
body of the municipality within 90 days after creation of an improvement
district as specified in §
93.30. Any owner of record title who makes application for the deferral
provided by this section shall notify the County Register of Deeds of such
application in writing prior to approval by the governing body. The governing
body shall approve the application of any owner of record title upon
determination that the property is within an agricultural use zone and is used
exclusively for agricultural use, and the owner has met the requirements of
this section.
   (C)   The deferral provided for in this section shall be terminated upon any
of the following events:
      (1)   Notification by the owner of record title to the governing body to
remove such deferral;
      (2)   Sale or transfer to a new owner who does not make a new application
within 60 days of the sale or transfer, except as provided in division (C)(3)
below;
      (3)   Transfer by reason of death of a former owner to a new owner who
does not make application within 125 days of the transfer;
      (4)   The land is no longer being used as agricultural land; or
      (5)   Change of zoning to other than an agricultural zone. Whenever
property which has received a deferral pursuant to this section becomes
disqualified for such deferral, the owner of record title of such property
shall pay to the municipality an amount equal to:
         (a)   The total amount of special assessments which would have been
assessed against such property, to the extent of special benefits, had such
deferral not been granted; and
         (b)   Interest upon the special assessments not paid each year at the
rate of 6% from the dates at which such assessments would have been payable if
no deferral had been granted.
   (D)   In cases where the deferral provided by this section is terminated as
a result of a sale or transfer described in division (C)(2) or (C)(3) above the
lien for assessments and interest shall attach as of the day preceding such
sale or transfer.
(Prior Code, § 8-311)  (Ord. 1983-12, passed 11-2-1983; Ord. 1987-12, passed
10-7-1987)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. Rev. Stat. 19-2428 through 19-2431
§ 94.26  DRIVEWAY APPROACHES.
   (A)   The Street Commissioner may require the owner of property served by a
driveway approach constructed or maintained upon the street right-of-way to
repair or replace any such driveway approach which is cracked, broken, or
otherwise deteriorated to the extent that it is causing or is likely to cause
damage to or interfere with any street structure including pavement or
sidewalks.
   (B)   The Village Clerk shall give the property owner notice by registered
letter or certified mail, directed to the last-known address of such owner or
the agent of such owner, directing the repair or replacement of such driveway
approach. If within 30 days of mailing such notice the property owner fails or
neglects to cause such repairs or replacements to be made, the Street
Commissioner may cause such work to be done and assess the cost upon the
property served by such approach.
(Prior Code, § 8-312)  (Ord. 1984-12, passed 11-7-1984)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. Rev. Stat. 18-1748
§ 94.27  VACATING PUBLIC WAYS.
   (A)   SPECIAL DAMAGES shall mean only those losses or damages or injuries
which a property owner suffers that are peculiar or special or unique to his or
her property and which result from the Board of Trustees vacating a street,
avenue, alley, lane, or similar public way. SPECIAL DAMAGES shall not mean
those losses or damages or injuries that a property owner suffers that are in
common with the rest of the village or public at large, even though those
losses or damages or injuries suffered by the property owner are greater in
degree than the rest of the village or public at large.
   (B)   Whenever the Board of Trustees decides that it would be in the best
interests of the village to vacate a street, avenue, alley, lane, or similar
public way, the Board of Trustees shall comply with the following procedure.
      (1)   Notice. Notice shall be given to all abutting property owners
either by first class mail to their last known address or if there is no known
address then by publishing the notice in a newspaper that is of general
circulation in the village. The content of the notice shall advise the abutting
property owners that the Board of Trustees will consider vacating such street,
avenue, alley, lane, or similar public way at its next regular meeting or, if a
special meeting is scheduled for such discussion, then the date, time, and
place of such meeting.
      (2)   Consent; waiver. The Board of Trustees may have all the abutting
property owners sign a form stating that they consent to the action being taken
by the Board of Trustees and waive their right of access. The signing of such
form shall have no effect on claims for special damages by the abutting
property owners but shall create the presumption that the Board of Trustees’
action was proper. If the abutting property owners do not sign the consent/
waiver form, the Board of Trustees may still proceed with vacating the street,
avenue, alley, lane, or similar public way under the authority granted by Neb.
Rev. Stat. 17-558 and 17-559.
      (3)   Ordinance. The Board of Trustees shall pass an ordinance that
includes essentially the following provisions:
         (a)   A declaration that the action is expedient for the public good
or in the best interests of the village;
         (b)   A statement that the village will have an easement for
maintaining all utilities; and
         (c)   A method or procedure for ascertaining special damages to
abutting property owners.
   (C)   The Chairperson shall appoint three, five, or seven disinterested
residents of the village to a special commission to ascertain the amount of
special damages that the abutting property owners are entitled to receive and
which resulted from the Board of Trustees vacating the street, avenue, alley,
lane, or similar public way. The appointees of the special commission shall be
approved by the Board of Trustees. Only special damages shall be awarded to the
abutting property owners.
   (D)   In determining the amount of compensation to award the abutting
property owners as special damages, the commission shall use the following
rule: an abutting property owner is entitled to recover as compensation the
difference between the value of the property immediately before and immediately
after the vacating of such street, avenue, alley, lane, or similar public way.
If no difference in value exists, the abutting property owner is entitled to no
compensation.
(Prior Code, § 8-314)  (Ord. 1986-14, passed 11-5-1986; Ord. 2002-39, passed
10-16-2002)
§ 94.28  CURB CUTTING.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to cut into any paving, curb, or
sidewalk for the purpose of constructing a driveway or any other purpose
whatsoever without first having obtained a written permit from the governing
body therefor. Before any permit is issued by the governing body, the applicant
shall inform the Village Clerk of the place where such cutting is to be done,
audit shall be the Utility Superintendent’s duty to inspect the proposed place
of entry into the paving, sidewalk, or curb and report to the governing body
regarding the propriety of the location of the cuts. It shall be discretionary
with the governing body to order the Utility Superintendent to do the work of
cutting and closing the paving and charge the costs thereof to the party who
obtained the permit. The governing body may consent to the work of cutting and
closing the paving to be done by the party applying for the permit.
   (B)   Before any permit is issued by the governing body, the applicant shall
deposit with the Municipal Treasurer the sum of $1,000 for all paving, curb, or
sidewalk to be cut. The deposit shall be retained by the municipality for the
purpose of replacing the paving, curb, or sidewalk in the event the work is
done by the municipality. In the event the municipality consents to the work of
cutting and closing the paving to be done by the party applying for the permit,
the deposit shall be retained by the municipality until the work is completed
to the satisfaction of the governing body. If the work is not done to the
satisfaction of the governing body, the municipality may take corrective action
to remedy any deficiencies in the work done by the permit holder and apply the
deposit to cover the cost of the corrective action. If the deposit is
insufficient to cover the cost of the corrective action, the permit holder
shall be liable to the municipality for the balance of the cost of the
corrective action.
   (C)   When the permit holder is ready to close the opening made, the permit
holder shall inform the Utility Superintendent, who shall supervise and inspect
the materials and the work done in closing the opening. No paving or sidewalk
shall be replaced until the ground below is adequately backfilled and compacted
to the satisfaction of the Utility Superintendent.
(Prior Code, § 8-401)  (Ord. 2007-2, passed 5-9-2007)  Penalty, see §
94.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. Rev. Stat. 17-505
§ 94.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who shall violate or refuse to comply with the enforcement
of any of the provisions of this chapter set forth at full length herein or
incorporated by reference, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and upon conviction
thereof shall be fined not more than $500 for each offense. A new violation
shall be deemed to have been committed every 24 hours of such failure to
comply.
   (B)   (1)   Whenever a nuisance exists as defined in this chapter, the
municipality may proceed by a suit in equity to enjoin, abate, and remove the
same in the manner provided by law.
      (2)   Whenever, in any action, it is established that a nuisance exists,
the court may, together with the fine or penalty imposed, enter an order of
abatement as a part of the judgment in the case.
(Prior Code, § 8-501)  (Ord. 2002-16, passed 10-16-2002; Ord. 2004-18, passed
10-6-2004)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. Rev. Stat. 17-207, 17-505, 18-1720, and 18-1722
CHAPTER 95:  PARKS AND RECREATION
Section
General Provisions
   
95.01   Operation and funding
   
95.02   Injury to property
Community Center
   
95.15   Ownership
   
95.16   Rentals
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 95.01  OPERATION AND FUNDING.
   The municipality owns and operates the municipal parks and other
recreational areas through the governing body. The governing body, for the
purpose of defraying the cost of the care, management, and maintenance of the
municipal park may each year levy a tax not exceeding the maximum limit
prescribed by state law, on the actual valuation of all real estate and
personal property within the corporate limits that is subject to taxation. The
revenue from the said tax shall be known as the Park Fund and shall remain in
the custody of the Municipal Treasurer. The governing body shall have the
authority to adopt rules and regulations for the efficient management of the
municipal parks and other recreational areas of the municipality.
(Prior Code, § 3-501)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. Rev. Stat. 17-948 through 17-952
§ 95.02  INJURY TO PROPERTY.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to maliciously or willfully cut down,
injure, or destroy any tree, plant, or shrub. It shall be unlawful for any
person to injure or destroy any sodded or planted area, or injure or destroy
any building, structure, equipment, fence, bench, table, or any other property
of the municipal parks and recreational areas. No person shall commit any waste
on or litter the municipal parks or other public grounds.
(Prior Code, § 3-502)  Penalty, see §
10.99
COMMUNITY CENTER
§ 95.15  OWNERSHIP.
   The municipality owns and manages the village Community Center through the
governing body. The governing body, for the purpose of defraying the cost of
the management, maintenance, and improvements on the Community Center, may each
year levy a tax not exceeding the maximum limit prescribed by state law on the
actual valuation of all real estate and personal property within the
municipality that is subject to taxation. The revenue from the said tax shall
be known as the Community Center Fund and shall include all gifts, grants, deed
of conveyance, bequests, or other valuable income-producing personal property
and real estate from any source for the purpose of endowing the Community
Center. Said Fund shall at all times be in the custody of the Municipal
Treasurer. The governing body shall have the power to hire and supervise such
employees as they may deem necessary and shall pass such rules and regulations
for the operation of the Community Center as may be proper for its efficient
management.
(Prior Code, § 3-601)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. Rev. Stat. 17-953 through 17-955
§ 95.16  RENTALS.
   The governing body may, for the purpose of defraying the expenses involved
in maintaining, improving, managing, and beautifying the Community Center, make
a reasonable rental charge for the use by any person or organization of the
Community Center. Rental rates may be structured for classes of persons and
organizations in a reasonable manner; provided, that nothing herein shall be
construed to permit or allow discrimination on the basis of race, creed, color,
or national origin in the classification of persons and organizations for
rental purposes.
(Prior Code, § 3-602)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. Rev. Stat. 17-953
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
110.   BUSINESS REGULATIONS AND TAXES
      
111.   PEDDLERS
      
112.   ALCOHOL REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 110:  BUSINESS REGULATIONS AND TAXES
Section
Bingo and Lottery
   
110.01   General regulations
   
110.02   Incorporated regulation
   
110.03   Lottery; sales outlet location; approval required; qualification
standards
   
110.04   Lottery participation restrictions
Railroad Companies
   
110.15   Safe crossing
   
110.16   Lighting
   
110.17   Obstructing traffic
Occupation Taxes
   
110.30   Fire insurance companies
   
110.31   Collection date
   
110.32   Certificates
   
110.33   Failure to pay
   
110.34   Firework sales
Natural Gas Service
   
110.45   Rate filing fee
   
110.46   Rates
   
110.47   Franchise tax
 
   
110.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Fire Prevention, see
Ch. 92
   Nuisances, see
Ch. 91
   Peddlers, see
Ch. 111
BINGO AND LOTTERY
§ 110.01  GENERAL REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Games of bingo shall be conducted within the municipality in
accordance with all laws of the municipality and the state if the said game of
bingo is played for or involves profit or gain. Any association duly licensed
by the state to conduct the game of bingo shall obtain a written permit from
the governing body before commencing operation of said game.
   (B)   Application shall be made to the Village Clerk for such permit. Said
application form shall contain such information and documents or copies thereof
as the governing body deems necessary to determine whether to grant or reject
the application. Upon the determination that granting the application would be
proper, the governing body shall immediately direct the Village Clerk to issue
the said license to the applicant upon the payment of an annual permit fee of
$10. Said license shall be subject to revocation at any time for good cause.
   (C)   Any person or persons so licensed shall be subject to any other fees,
rules, and regulations which the governing body may designate. All permits so
issued will automatically expire on September 30 following its issuance or
renewal. The fee for each renewal, unless otherwise prescribed, shall be in the
sum of $10. Said fee shall be credited to the General Fund. The permit shall be
on display at any place where a game of bingo is conducted.
(Prior Code, § 10-301)  (Ord. 1984-14, passed 11-7-1984)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. Rev. Stat. 9-166
§ 110.02  INCORPORATED REGULATION.
   All applicable state statutes as they now exist or may hereafter be amended
shall be and will constitute a part of this subchapter as if repeated verbatim
herein, and violation of any state statute will be a distinct and separate
offense against the municipality as well as against the state. Violators
thereof shall be separately prosecuted by the municipality for each of such
offenses and, if convicted, shall be deemed to be guilty of a misdemeanor.
(Prior Code, § 10-304)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. Rev. Stat. 9-124 through 9-176
§ 110.03  LOTTERY; SALES OUTLET LOCATION; APPROVAL REQUIRED; QUALIFICATION
STANDARDS.
   (A)   The lottery operator whom the governing body contracts to conduct its
lottery shall not operate the lottery without prior approval for the sales
outlet location by the governing body. The governing body shall approve or
disapprove each sales outlet location and individual, sole proprietorship,
partnership, or corporation which desires to conduct the lottery at its sales
outlet location solely on the basis of the qualification standards prescribed
in division (B) below.
   (B)   Any individual sole proprietorship, partnership, or corporation which
seeks to have its location approved as an authorized sales outlet location
shall:
      (1)   First obtain a retail liquor license for consumption on the
premises pursuant to Neb.Rev. Stat. Chapter 53, Article 1;
      (2)   Not have been convicted of, forfeited bond upon a charge of, or
pleaded guilty to forgery, larceny, extortion, conspiracy to defraud, willful
failure to make required payments or reports to a governmental agency at any
level, filing false reports with any such agency, or any similar offense or
offenses or any crime, whether felony or misdemeanor, involving gambling
activity or moral turpitude;
      (3)   Not have had a gaming license revoked or cancelled under the
state’s Bingo Act, the state’s Pickle Card Lottery Act, the state’s Lottery and
Raffle Act, or the state’s County and City Lottery Act; and
      (4)   Be fit, willing, and able to properly provide the service proposed
in conformance with all provisions and requirements of the state’s County and
City Lottery Act and the rules and regulations adopted and promulgated pursuant
to the Act.
   (C)   If the person seeking to have its location approved as an authorized
sales outlet location is a partnership or corporation, the qualification
standards shall apply to every partner of such partnership, every officer of
such corporation, and stockholder owning more than 10% of the stock of such
corporation.
   (D)   The governing body shall notify the Department of Revenue of all
approved lottery locations within 30 days of approval.
(Prior Code, § 10-305)  (Ord. 2004-19, passed 10-6-2004)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. Rev. Stat. 9-642.01
§ 110.04  LOTTERY PARTICIPATION RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   No person under 19 years of age shall play or participate in any way
in the lottery established and conducted by the governing body.
   (B)   No owner or officer of the lottery operator whom the governing body
contracts to conduct its lottery or owner or officer of an authorized sales
outlet location shall play the lottery established and conducted by the
governing body. No employee or agent of the lottery operator or sales outlet
location shall play the lottery established and conducted by the governing body
for which he or she performs work during such time as he or she is actually
working at lottery or on duty.
   (C)   Nothing shall prohibit any member of the governing body, a municipal
official, or the immediate family of such member or official from playing the
lottery established and conducted by the governing body; provided that such
person in 19 years of age or older.
   (D)   For purposes of this section, IMMEDIATE FAMILY mean a person who is
related to the member or official by blood, marriage, or adoption and resides
in the same household of the member or official, or a person who is claimed to
by the member or official or spouse of the member or official as a dependent
for federal income tax purposes.
(Prior Code, § 10-306)  (Ord. 2009-1, passed 9-9-2009)  Penalty, see §
110.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. Rev. Stat. 9-646
RAILROAD COMPANIES
§ 110.15  SAFE CROSSING.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of every railroad company doing business in, or
traveling through, the municipality to keep in a suitable and safe condition
the crossings and right-of-way in the municipality. If any such crossing shall
at any time fall into disrepair and become unsafe, or inconvenient for public
travel, the governing body may, by resolution, call upon the said company to
make whatever repairs that it may deem necessary to correct the dangerous
condition.
   (B)   Notice of the said resolution shall be served upon the local agent of
the said company. In the event that the railroad shall fail or neglect to
repair and correct the said condition as aforesaid within 48 hours, neglect for
each 24 hours thereafter shall be deemed and is hereby made a separate and
distinct offense against the provisions herein.
(Prior Code, § 10-401)  Penalty, see §
110.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. Rev. Stat. 17-143, 17-144, 17-551, 17-552, and
75-414
§ 110.16  LIGHTING.
   It shall be the duty of all railroad companies owning, operating, and
maintaining a railroad through the municipality to sufficiently light all
crossings and to install as many signal systems as the governing body shall
deem necessary at the expense of the said company.
(Prior Code, § 10-402)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. Rev. Stat. 17-561
§ 110.17  OBSTRUCTING TRAFFIC.
   It shall be unlawful for any railroad company, its employees, agents, or
servants operating a railroad through the municipality to obstruct traffic on
any public street, except in the event of an emergency, for a longer period at
one time than five minutes.
(Prior Code, § 10-403)  Penalty, see §
110.99
OCCUPATION TAXES
§ 110.30  FIRE INSURANCE COMPANIES.
   (A)   For the purpose of raising revenue, an occupation tax is hereby levied
on the following businesses: fire insurance companies, per year: $5.
(Prior Code, § 10-501)
   (B)   For the use, support, and maintenance of the Municipal Fire
Department, all revenue realized from the occupation tax on fire insurance
companies shall be appropriated to the Fire Department Fund. (Prior Code, § 10-
502)  (Ord. 1990-3, passed 9-5-1990)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. Rev. Stat. 17-525 and 35-106
§ 110.31  COLLECTION DATE.
   All occupation taxes shall be due and payable on May 1 of each year, except
in the event that the said tax is levied daily, and upon the payment thereof by
any person or persons to the Village Clerk, the said Clerk shall give a
receipt, properly dated, and specifying the person paying the said tax, and the
amount paid; provided, occupation taxes collected from Class C liquor licensees
shall be due and payable on November 1. The revenue collected shall then be
immediately deposited into the General Fund by the Municipal Treasurer. The
Municipal Treasurer shall keep an accurate account of all revenue turned over
to him or her. All forms and receipts herein mentioned shall be issued in
duplicate. One copy shall then be kept by each party in the transaction.
(Prior Code, § 10-503)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. Rev. Stat. 17-525
§ 110.32  CERTIFICATES.
   The receipt issued after the payment of any occupation tax shall be the
occupation tax certificate. The said certificate shall specify the amount of
the tax and the name of the person and business that paid the said tax. The
occupation tax certificate shall then be displayed in a prominent place or
carried in such a way as to be easily accessible while business is being
conducted.
(Prior Code, § 10-504)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. Rev. Stat. 17-525
§ 110.33  FAILURE TO PAY.
   If any person, company, or corporation fails or neglects to pay the
occupation tax as provided herein on the day it becomes due and payable, the
municipality shall then proceed by civil suit to collect the amount due. All
delinquent taxes shall bear interest at the rate of 1% per month until paid.
(Prior Code, § 10-505)
§ 110.34  FIREWORK SALES.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      NON-PROFIT ORGANIZATION. Any non-profit corporation or other organization
which has been organized for not-for-profit purposes and which sells fireworks
at retail to raise funds to carryout said purposes.
      PERMISSIBLE FIREWORKS. Those fireworks as defined in Neb. Rev. Stat. 28-
1241(7) that can be sold to the general public at retail.
      RETAILER. Any person or entity engaged in the business of making sales of
fireworks at retail to consumers.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person or entity to sell, hold for sale,
or offer for sale as a retailer any permissible fireworks within the corporate
limits of the municipality without first having obtained a permit from the
municipality. Application for the permit shall be made to the Village Clerk on
a form prescribed by the municipality.
   (C)   Each application for a permit shall be accompanied by the following
permit fee:
      (1)   For-profit persons or entities: $500; and
      (2)   Non-profit organizations: $100.
(Ord. 2014-4, passed 9-10-2014)  Penalty, see §
110.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. Rev. Stat. 17-556, 28-1241, and 28-1246
NATURAL GAS SERVICE
§ 110.45  RATE FILING FEE.
   The Village shall charge and collect a filing fee from natural gas companies
for a rate filing. The fee shall be $75.
(Prior Code, § 10-601)  (Ord. 1987-13, passed 10-7-1987)
§ 110.46  RATES.
   Classes of service and rates to be charged for natural gas service within
the village are adopted by reference as if fully set forth herein. Copies of
the rate ordinances are on file in the office of the Village Clerk for
inspection by the public during normal business hours.
(Prior Code, § 10-602)  (Ord. 1999-4, passed 11-3-1999; Ord. 2000-2, passed 2-
2-2000; Ord. 2001-8, passed 8-1-2001)
§ 110.47  FRANCHISE TAX.
   (A)   The village hereby establishes a franchise tax on every natural gas
company and every other person, firm, or corporation, their successors and
assigns, owning, operating, controlling, leasing, or managing any natural gas
plant or system, generating, manufacturing, selling, distributing, or
transporting natural gas (hereinafter referred to as “energy providers”).
Energy providers shall collect from their customers located within the
corporate limits of the village and pay to the village an amount equal to 3% of
gross receipts derived from the sale, distribution, or transportation of
natural gas delivered within the present or future limits of the village. Gross
receipts as used herein are revenues received from the sale, distribution, or
transportation of natural gas, after adjustment for the net write-off of
uncollectible accounts and corrections of bills theretofore rendered.
   (B)   The amount paid by energy providers shall be in lieu of, and energy
providers shall be exempt from, all other occupation, license, excise, or
right-of-way permit fees or taxes which the village may impose for the rights
and privileges herein granted or for the privilege of doing business within the
village, and in the event any such fee, charge, license, tax, or assessment
shall be imposed by the village, the payment to be made in accordance with the
provisions of this section shall be reduced in an amount equal to the annual
burden of such fee, charge, license, tax, or assessment imposed upon the energy
providers. Ad valorem property taxes imposed generally upon all real and
personal property within the village shall not be deemed to affect the
obligation of the energy providers under this section.
   (C)   Any consideration hereunder shall be reported and paid to the village
by energy providers on an annual basis. Such payment shall be made not more
than 30 days following the close of the period for which payment is due.
Initial and final payments shall be prorated for the portion of the period at
the beginning and end of the term of this section.
   (D)   Energy providers shall list the local franchise tax collected from
customers as a separate item on bills for utility service issued to customers.
If at any time the state’s Public Service Commission or other authority having
proper jurisdiction prohibits such recovery, then energy providers will no
longer be obligated to collect and pay the franchise tax herein contemplated.
   (E)   The village shall provide copies of annexation ordinances to energy
providers on a timely basis to ensure appropriate franchise tax collection from
customers within the corporate limits of the village.
   (F)   The village shall have access to and the right to examine during
normal business hours, those of energy providers’ books, receipts, files,
records, and documents that are necessary to verify the correctness of payments
due hereunder. If it is determined that a mistake was made in the payment of
any franchise tax required hereunder, such mistake shall be corrected promptly
upon discovery, such that any under payment by energy providers shall be paid
within 30 days of the recalculation and any over payment by energy providers
shall be discounted from the next payment(s) due.
(Ord. 2006-7, passed 9-13-2006)
§ 110.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Unless otherwise provided, any person upon whom a duty is placed by
the provisions of this chapter who shall fail, neglect, or refuse to perform
such duty, or who shall violate any of the provisions of this chapter, shall be
deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be punished
by imprisonment in the county jail for a period not to exceed three months or
by a fine in a sum not more than $500, recoverable with costs, or both, except
that each person so convicted shall be fined in a sum not less than $35 for the
first offense, not less than $50 for a second offense, and not less than $100
for the third offense and each offense thereafter.
   (B)   Each day that a violation of any section of this chapter continues
shall constitute a separate and distinct offense and shall be punishable as
such. The penalties herein provided shall be cumulative with and in addition to
any penalty or forfeiture elsewhere in this chapter provided.
   (C)   (1)   Whenever a nuisance exists as defined in this chapter, the
municipality may proceed by a suit in equity to enjoin, abate, and remove the
same in the manner provided by law.
      (2)   Whenever, in any action, it is established that a nuisance exists,
the court may, together with the fine or penalty imposed, enter an order of
abatement as a part of the judgment in the case.
(Prior Code, § 10-801)  (Ord. 2002-16, passed 10-16-2002; Ord. 2004-18, passed
10-6-2004)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. Rev. Stat. 17-207, 17-505, 18-1720, and 18-1722
CHAPTER 111:  PEDDLERS
Section
   
111.01   General provisions
   
111.02   Exceptions
   
111.03   Defined
   
111.04   Permit expiration
   
111.05   Appeal
§ 111.01  GENERAL PROVISIONS.
   (A)   To prevent the sale of fraudulent, dangerous, and unhealthful good and
services, and to protect the public by maintaining records of the products sold
and the persons and companies responsible for such sales, all itinerant
merchants shall, before doing business within the municipality, make
application for, and be issued a permit. Application for said permit shall be
made to the Village Clerk and shall contain the necessary information and
documents required for the protection of the residents of the municipality.
   (B)   All persons applying for an itinerant merchants’ permit shall pay to
the Village Clerk an application fee of $20 at the time of making application,
and said application fee shall be non-refundable. Any person granted an
itinerant merchants’ permit shall be subject to the rules and regulations
adopted by the governing body. Any itinerant merchants’ permit may be revoked
by the governing body for good and sufficient cause.
(Prior Code, § 10-201)  (Ord. 2014-2, passed 7-9-2014)  Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. Rev. Stat. 17-525
§ 111.02  EXCEPTIONS.
   Nothing herein shall be construed to apply to any person or persons selling
produce raised within the county or to wholesale sales persons soliciting
merchants directly.
(Prior Code, § 10-202)  (Ord. 2014-2, passed 7-9-2014)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. Rev. Stat. 17-525
§ 111.03  DEFINED.
   For purposes of this chapter, an ITINERANT MERCHANT shall be defined as any
person, partnership, corporation, limited liability company, whether as owner,
agent, consignee, or employee, whether a resident of the municipality or not,
who engages temporarily within the municipality in the business of selling or
delivering goods, wares, and merchandise or taking orders for goods or
merchandise, to or at homes, apartments, or other residential premises within
the corporate limits of the municipality.
(Prior Code, § 10-203)  (Ord. 2014-2, passed 7-9-2014)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. Rev. Stat. 17-525
§ 111.04  PERMIT EXPIRATION.
   All itinerant merchants’ permits issued by the Village Clerk shall expire
180 days after the date of issuance thereof unless a prior date is fixed
therein.
(Prior Code, § 10-204)  (Ord. 2014-2, passed 7-9-2014)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. Rev. Stat. 17-525
§ 111.05  APPEAL.
   Any person aggrieved by a decision of the governing body to revoke an
itinerant merchants’ permit shall have the right to appeal to the governing
body. Such appeal shall be taken by filing with the governing body within 14
days after notice of the decision has been mailed to such person’s last known
address, a written statement setting forth the grounds for the appeal. The
governing body shall set a time and place for the hearing on such appeal and
notice shall be given to such person by certified mail at the person’s last
known address. The order of the governing body on such appeal shall be
considered a final order.
(Prior Code, § 10-205)  (Ord. 2014-2, passed 7-9-2014)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. Rev. Stat. 17-525
CHAPTER 112:  ALCOHOL REGULATIONS
Section
   
112.01   Definition
   
112.02   License required
   
112.03   Location
   
112.04   Dwellings
   
112.05   License displayed
   
112.06   Licensee requirements
   
112.07   Liquor license renewal
   
112.08   Licenses; municipal powers and duties
   
112.09   Owner of premises
   
112.10   Employer
   
112.11   Obstructing view
   
112.12   Minor or incompetents
   
112.13   Credit sales
   
112.14   Spiking beer
   
112.15   Original package
   
112.16   Hours of sale
   
112.17   Sanitary conditions
   
112.18   Hiring minors
   
112.19   Consumption in public places
   
112.20   Manufacture, sale, delivery, and possession; general prohibitions;
exceptions
   
112.21   Catering licenses
Cross-reference:
   Nuisances, see
Ch. 91
   Parks and recreation, see
Ch. 95
   Streets and sidewalks, see
Ch. 94
§ 112.01  DEFINITION.
   All words and phrases herein used are to have the definitions applied
thereto, as defined in the state’s Liquor Control Act.
(Prior Code, § 10-101)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. Rev. Stat. 53-103
§ 112.02  LICENSE REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to manufacture for sale, sell, keep for
sale, or to barter any alcoholic liquors within the municipality unless said
person shall have in full force and effect a 1icense as provided by the state’s
Liquor Control Act.
(Prior Code, § 10-102)  Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. Rev. Stat. 53-102
§ 112.03  LOCATION.
   It shall be unlawful for any person or persons to own, maintain, manage, or
hold open to the public any establishment for the purpose of selling at retail
any alcoholic liquor within 150 feet of any church, school, hospital, or home
for aged or indigent persons or veterans, their wives or children; provided,
this prohibition shall not apply to any location within such distance when the
said establishment has been licensed by the state’s Liquor Control Commission
at least two years, and to hotels offering restaurant service, regularly
organized clubs, or to restaurants where the selling of alcoholic liquors is
not the principal business carried on, if the said hotel, club, or restaurant
were licensed and in operation prior to May 24, 1935. No alcoholic liquor,
other than beer, shall be sold for consumption on the premises within 300 feet
from the campus of any college within the municipality.
(Prior Code, § 10-103)  Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. Rev. Stat. 53-177
§ 112.04  DWELLINGS.
   Except in the case of hotels and clubs, no alcoholic liquor shall be sold at
retail upon any premises which has any access which leads from such premises to
any other portion of the same building used for dwelling or lodging purposes,
and which is permitted to be used by the public. Nothing herein shall prevent
any connection with such premises, and such other portion of the building which
is used only by the licensee, his or her family, or personal guests.
(Prior Code, § 10-104)  Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. Rev. Stat. 53-178
§ 112.05  LICENSE DISPLAYED.
   Every licensee under the state’s Liquor Control Act shall cause his or her
license to be framed and hung in plain public view in a conspicuous place on
the licensed premises.
(Prior Code, § 10-105)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. Rev. Stat. 53-148
§ 112.06  LICENSEE REQUIREMENTS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person or persons to own an establishment that
sells at retail any alcoholic beverages unless said person is a resident of the
county in which the premises is located; a person of good character and
reputation; a citizen of the United States; a person who has never been
convicted of a felony or any Class I misdemeanor pursuant to Neb. Rev. Stat.
Chapter 28, Article 3, 4, 7, 8, 10, 11, or 12, or any similar offense under a
prior criminal statute or in another state; a person who has never had a liquor
license revoked for cause; a person whose premises, for which a license is
sought, meets standards for fire safety as established by the State Fire
Marshal; or a person who has not acquired a beneficial interest in more than
two alcoholic beverage retail establishments since March 4, 1963; provided, the
beneficial interest requirement in this section shall not apply to a person
applying for an additional license for use in connection with the operation of
a hotel containing at least 25 sleeping rooms, or where the request is limited
to on premises sale of beer only in a restaurant.
(Prior Code, § 10-106)  (Ord. 1983-14, passed 11-2-1983)  Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see NebRev. Stat. RS 53-124.03 and 53-125
§ 112.07  LIQUOR LICENSE RENEWAL.
   (A)   Retail or bottle club licenses issued by the Commission and
outstanding may be automatically renewed in the absence of a request by the
governing body to require the said licensee to issue an application for
renewal. Any licensed retail or bottle club establishment located in an area
which is annexed to the municipality shall file a formal application for a
license, and while such application is pending, the licensee shall be
authorized to continue all license privileges pursuant to this chapter until
the original license expires, is canceled, or revoked. If such license expires
within 60 days following the annexation date of such area, the license may be
renewed by order of the Commission for not more than one year.
   (B)   The Village Clerk, upon notice from the Commission, between January 10
and January 30 of each year, shall cause to be published in a legal newspaper
in, or of general circulation in the municipality, one time, a notice in the
form prescribed by law of the right of automatic renewal of each retail liquor
and beer license within the municipality; provided, Class C license renewal
notices shall be published between the dates of July 10 and July 30 of each
year. The Village Clerk shall then file with the Commission proof of
publication of said notice on or before February 10 of each year or August 10
of each year for Class C licenses. Upon the conclusion of any hearing required
by this section, the governing body may request a licensee to submit an
application.
(Prior Code, § 10-108)  (Ord. 1979-8, passed 12-5-1979; Ord. 1983-14, passed
11-2-1983)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. Rev. Stat. 53-135 and 53-135.01
§ 112.08  LICENSES; MUNICIPAL POWERS AND DUTIES.
   (A)   The governing body is authorized to regulate by ordinance, not
inconsistent with the state’s Liquor Control Act, the business of all retail or
craft brewery licensees carried on within the corporate limits of the
municipality.
   (B)   During the period of 45 days after the date of receiving from the
state’s Liquor Control Commission notice and a copy of an application for a new
license to sell alcoholic liquor at retail or a craft brewery license, the
governing body may make and submit to the Commission recommendations relative
to the granting or refusal to grant such license to the applicant.
   (C)   The governing body, with respect to licenses within the corporate
limits of the municipality, has the following powers, functions, and duties
with respect to retail and craft brewery licenses:
      (1)   To cancel or revoke for cause retail or craft brewery licenses to
sell or dispense alcoholic liquor issued to persons for premises within its
jurisdiction, subject to the right of appeal to the state’s Liquor Control
Commission;
      (2)   To enter or to authorize any law enforcement officer to enter at
any time upon any premises licensed under the state’s Liquor Control Act to
determine whether any provision of the Act, any rule or regulation adopted and
promulgated pursuant to the Act, or any ordinance, resolution, rule, or
regulation adopted by the governing body has been or is being violated and at
such time examine the premises of such licensee in connection with such
determination;
      (3)   To receive a signed complaint from any citizen within its
jurisdiction that any provision of the Act, any rule or regulation adopted and
promulgated pursuant to the Act, or any ordinance, resolution, rule, or
regulation relating to alcoholic liquor has been or is being violated and to
act upon such complaints in the manner provided in the Act;
      (4)   To receive retail license fees and craft brewery license fees as
provided in Neb. Rev. Stat. 53-124 and pay the same, after the license has been
delivered to the applicant, to the Municipal Treasurer;
      (5)   To examine or cause to be examined any applicant or any retail
licensee or craft brewery licensee upon whom notice of cancellation or
revocation has been served as provided in the Act, to examine or cause to be
examined the books and records of any applicant or licensee, and to hear
testimony and to take proof for its information in the performance of its
duties. For purposes of obtaining any of the information desired, the governing
body may authorize its agent or attorney to act on its behalf;
      (6)   To cancel or revoke on its own motion any license if, upon the same
notice and hearing as provided in Neb. Rev. Stat. 53-134.04 (Citizen
Complaints), it determines that the licensee has violated any of the provisions
of the state’s Liquor Control Act or any valid and subsisting ordinance,
resolution, rule, or regulation duly enacted, adopted, and promulgated relating
to alcoholic liquor. Such order of cancellation or revocation may be appealed
to the Commission within 30 days after the date of the order by filing a notice
of appeal with the Commission. The Commission shall handle the appeal in the
manner provided for hearing on an application in Neb. Rev. Stat. 53-133; and
      (7)   (a)   Upon receipt from the Commission of the notice and copy of
application as provided in Neb. Rev. Stat. 53-131, to fix a time and place for
a hearing at which the governing body shall receive evidence, either orally or
by affidavit from the applicant and any other person, bearing upon the
propriety of the issuance of a license.
         (b)   Notice of the time and place of such hearing shall be published
in a legal newspaper in or of general circulation in the municipality, one time
not less than seven and not more than 14 days before the time of the hearing.
Such notice shall include, but not be limited to, a statement that all persons
desiring to give evidence before the governing body in support of or in protest
against the issuance of such license may do so at the time of the hearing.
         (c)   The hearing shall be held not more than 45 days after the date
of receipt of the notice from the Commission, and after such hearing the
governing body shall cause to be recorded in the minute record of their
proceedings a resolution recommending either issuance or refusal of such
license. The Village Clerk shall mail to the Commission by first-class mail,
postage prepaid, a copy of the resolution which shall state the cost of the
published notice, except that failure to comply with this provision shall not
void any license issued by the Commission.
         (d)   If the Commission refuses to issue such a license, the cost of
publication of notice shall be paid by the Commission from the security for
costs.
      (8)   To review and authorize an application by a retail, bottle club,
craft brewery, farm winery, or microdistillery licensee for a temporary
expansion of its licensed premises within the jurisdiction of the local
governing body to an immediately adjacent area owned or leased by the licensee
or to an immediately adjacent street, parking lot, or alley, not to exceed 50
days for calendar year 2020 and, for each calendar year thereafter, not to
exceed 15 days per calendar year, as provided in Neb. Rev. Stat. 53-123.12 and
Neb. Rev. Stat. 53-129.
   (D)   (1)   When the state’s Liquor Control Commission mails or delivers to
the Village Clerk a retail or craft brewery license issued or renewed by the
Commission, the Clerk shall deliver the license to the licensee upon receipt
from the licensee of proof of payment of:
         (a)   The license fee if by the terms of Neb. Rev. Stat. 53-124(5),
the fee is payable to the Municipal Treasurer;
         (b)   Any fee for publication of notice of hearing before the
governing body upon the application for the license;
         (c)   The fee for publication of notice of renewal, if applicable, as
provided in Neb. Rev. Stat. 53-135.01; and
         (d)   Occupation taxes, if any, imposed by the municipality.
      (2)   Notwithstanding any ordinance or charter power to the contrary, the
municipality shall not impose an occupation tax on the business of any person,
firm, or corporation licensed under the state’s Liquor Control Act and doing
business within the corporate limits of the municipality in any sum which
exceeds two times the amount of the license fee required to be paid under the
Act to obtain such license.
(Prior Code, § 10-109)  (Ord. 1983-14, passed 11-2-1983; Ord. 2002-8, passed
10-16-2002; Ord. 2002-41, passed 10-16-2002; Ord. 2005-11, passed 3-2-2005)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. Rev. Stat. 53-131, 53-132, 53-134, and 53-
134.03
§ 112.09  OWNER OF PREMISES.
   The owner of any premises used for the sale at retail of alcoholic beverages
shall be deemed guilty of a violation of these laws to the same extent as the
said licensee if the owner shall knowingly permit the licensee to use the said
licensed premises in violation of any municipal code section or state statute.
(Prior Code, § 10-110)  Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. Rev. Stat. 53-1,101
§ 112.10  EMPLOYER.
   The employer of any officer, director, manager, or employees working in a
retail liquor establishment shall be held to be liable and guilty of any act of
omission or violation of any law or ordinance, if such act is committed or
omission made with the authorization, knowledge, or approval of the employer or
licensee, and each such act or omission shall be deemed and held to be the act
of the employer, and will be punishable in the same manner as if the said act
or omission had been committed by him or her personally.
(Prior Code, § 10-111)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. Rev. Stat. 53-1,102
§ 112.11  OBSTRUCTING VIEW.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to use any screen, blind, curtain, partition,
article, or other device in the windows or upon the doors of any retail liquor
establishment, other than restaurants, hotels, and clubs, which will have the
effect of preventing a clear view into the interior of such licensed premises
from the street, road, or sidewalk at all times.
   (B)   All licensed premises shall be continuously lighted during business
hours by natural or artificial white lights to ensure the clear visibility into
said establishment.
   (C)   Any licensee who willfully violates the provisions of this section
shall be subject to a revocation of his or her license by the municipality as
provided herein.
(Prior Code, § 10-112)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 112.12  MINOR OR INCOMPETENTS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person or persons to sell or make a gift of,
any alcoholic liquors, or to procure any such alcoholic liquors for any minor,
or other person who is mentally, physically, or otherwise incompetent, whether
due to natural disabilities or the prior consumption of alcoholic beverages.
(Prior Code, § 10-113)  Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. Rev. Stat. 53-180
§ 112.13  CREDIT SALES.
   No person shall sell or furnish alcoholic liquor at retail to any person or
persons for credit of any kind, barter, or services rendered; provided, nothing
herein contained shall be construed to prevent any club holding a Class C
license from permitting checks or statements for alcoholic liquor to be signed
by members, or guests of members, and charged to the accounts of the said
members or guests in accordance with the by-laws of any such club; and provided
further, nothing herein shall be construed to prevent any hotel or restaurant
holding a retail alcoholic beverage license from permitting checks or
statements for liquor to be signed by regular guests residing in the said
hotel, and charged to the accounts of such guests.
(Prior Code, § 10-114)  Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. Rev. Stat. 53-183
§ 112.14  SPIKING BEER.
   It shall be unlawful for any person or persons who own, manage, or lease any
premises in which the sale of alcoholic beverages is licensed, to serve or
offer for sale any beer to which there has been added any alcohol, or permit
any person or persons to add alcohol to any beer on the licensed premises of
such licensee.
(Prior Code, § 10-115)  Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. Rev. Stat. 53-174
§ 112.15  ORIGINAL PACKAGE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person or persons who own, manage, or lease any
premises in which the sale of alcoholic beverages is licensed, to have in his,
her, or their possession for sale at retail any alcoholic liquors contained in
bottles, casks, or other containers except in the original package.
(Prior Code, § 10-116)  Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. Rev. Stat. 53-184
§ 112.16  HOURS OF SALE.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any licensed person or persons or their
agents to sell any alcoholic beverages within the municipality except during
the hours provided herein.
Hours of Sale
Alcoholic liquors (except beer and wine)
Secular days   6:00 a.m. to 1:00 a.m.
    Off sale 6:00 a.m. to 1:00 a.m.
    On sale
Sundays        Prohibited
    Off sale 6:00 p.m. to 12:00 a.m. Monday
    On sale
Beer and wine
Secular days   6:00 a.m. to 1:00 a.m.
    Off sale 6:00 a.m. to 1:00 a.m.
    On sale
Sundays        6:00 a.m. to 12:00 a.m. Monday
    Off sale 6:00 a.m. to 12:00 a.m. Monday
    On sale
 
   (B)   Provided, that such limitations shall not apply after 12:00 noon on
Sunday to a licensee which is a non-profit corporation holding a license
pursuant to Neb. Rev. Stat. 53-124(5)(C) and 53-124(5)(H).
   (C)   No person or persons shall consume any alcoholic beverages on licensed
premises for a period of time longer than 15 minutes after the time fixed
herein for stopping the sale of alcoholic beverages on the said premises. For
the purposes of this section, ON SALE shall be defined as alcoholic beverages
sold at retail in the original containers on the premises of the licensed
establishment; OFF SALE shall be defined as alcoholic beverages sold at retail
in the original container for consumption off the premises of the licensed
establishment.
   (D)   Nothing in this section shall be construed to prohibit licensed
premises from being open for other business on days and hours during which the
sale or dispensing of alcoholic beverages is prohibited by this section.
(Prior Code, § 10-117)  (Ord. 1981-5, passed 12-2-1981; Ord. 1983-15, passed
12-7-1983; Ord. 1985-4, passed 7-3-1985; Ord. 1987-6, passed 9-2-1987; Ord.
2004-13-117, passed 5-5-2004)  Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. Rev. Stat. 53-179
§ 112.17  SANITARY CONDITIONS.
   It shall be unlawful to open for public use any retail liquor establishment
that is not in a clean and sanitary condition. Toilet facilities shall be
adequate and convenient for customers and patrons and said licensed premises
shall be subject to any health inspections the governing body or the municipal
police may make, or cause to be made. All applications for liquor licenses
shall be viewed in part from the standpoint of the sanitary conditions, and a
report concerning the said sanitary conditions shall be made at all hearings
concerning the application for, or renewal of, a liquor license.
(Prior Code, § 10-118)  Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. Rev. Stat. 53-118
§ 112.18  HIRING MINORS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to hire a minor, regardless of sex,
under the age of 19 years to serve or dispense alcoholic liquors, including
beer, to said licensee’s customers.
(Prior Code, § 10-119)  Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. Rev. Stat. 53-102
§ 112.19  CONSUMPTION IN PUBLIC PLACES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to consume alcoholic beverages within
the corporate limits upon the public ways and property, including inside
vehicles while upon the public ways and property. It shall further be unlawful
for any person to consume alcoholic beverages within any other public business
that is not a licensed liquor establishment.
(Prior Code, § 10-120)  Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. Rev. Stat. 53-186 and 53-186.01
§ 112.20  MANUFACTURE, SALE, DELIVERY, AND POSSESSION; GENERAL PROHIBITIONS;
EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   No person shall manufacture, bottle, blend, sell, barter, transport,
deliver, furnish, or possess any alcoholic liquor for beverage purposes except
as specifically provided in this chapter and the state’s Liquor Control Act.
   (B)   Nothing in this chapter shall prevent:
      (1)   The possession of alcoholic liquor legally obtained as provided in
this chapter or the Act for the personal use of the possessor and his or her
family or guests;
      (2)   The making of wine, cider, or other alcoholic liquor by a person
from fruits, vegetables, or grains, or the product thereof, by simple
fermentation and without distillation, if made solely for the use of the maker
and his or her family and guests;
      (3)   Any duly licensed practicing physician or dentist from possessing
or using alcoholic liquor in the strict practice of his or her profession, any
hospital or other institution caring for the sick and diseased persons from
possessing and using alcoholic liquor for the treatment of bona fide patients
of such hospital or other institution, or any drug store employing a licensed
pharmacist from possessing or using alcoholic liquor in the compounding of
prescriptions of licensed physicians;
      (4)   The possession and dispensation of alcoholic liquor by an
authorized representative of any religion on the premises of a place of
worship, for the purpose of conducting any bona fide religious rite, ritual, or
ceremony;
      (5)   Persons who are 16 years old or older from carrying alcoholic
liquor from licensed establishments when they are accompanied by a person not a
minor;
      (6)   Persons who are 16 years old or older from handling alcoholic
liquor containers and alcoholic liquor in the course of their employment;
      (7)   Persons who are 16 years old or older from removing and disposing
of alcoholic liquor containers for the convenience of the employer and
customers in the course of their employment; or
      (8)   Persons who are 19 years old or older from serving or selling
alcoholic liquor in the course of their employment.
(Prior Code, § 10-121)  (Ord. 1985-12, passed 12-4-1985; Ord. 1996-13, passed
2-7-1996; Ord. 2002-40, passed 10-16-2002)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. Rev. Stat. 53-168.06
§ 112.21  CATERING LICENSES.
   (A)   The holder of a license to sell alcoholic liquor at retail issued
under Neb. Rev. Stat. 53-124(5) or a craft brewery license may obtain an annual
catering license by filing an application and license fee with the state’s
Liquor Control Commission.
   (B)   Upon receipt from the Commission of the notice and a copy of the
application as provided in Neb. Rev. Stat. 53-124.12, the governing body shall
process the application in the same manner as provided in §
112.08.
   (C)   The governing body, with respect to catering licensees within its
corporate limits, may cancel a catering license for cause for the remainder of
the period for which such catering license is issued. Any person whose catering
license is canceled may appeal to the District Court.
   (D)   The governing body may impose an occupation tax on the business of a
catering licensee doing business within the liquor license jurisdiction of the
governing body. The tax may not exceed double the license fee for a catering
license.
(Prior Code, § 10-124)  (Ord. 2002-42, passed 10-16-2002; Ord. 2005-12, passed
3-2-2005)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. Rev. Stat. 53-124.12
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
   Chapter
      
130.   PROPERTY OFFENSES
      
131.   OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC ORDER
      
132.   OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC JUSTICE AND ADMINISTRATION
      
133.   OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC HEALTH AND SAFETY
      
134.   OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC MORALS
      
135.   SEXUAL PREDATOR RESIDENCY RESTRICTIONS
CHAPTER 130:  PROPERTY OFFENSES
Section
   
130.01   Criminal mischief
   
130.02   Criminal trespass
   
130.03   Radio interference
   
130.04   Injury to trees
   
130.05   Posting
   
130.06   Theft
   
130.07   Theft of telecommunications service
   
130.08   Weeds, litter, and stagnant water
   
130.09   Abandoned automobiles
   
130.10   Unlicensed or inoperable vehicles
   
130.11   Hobbyist permit
   
130.12   Maintaining a nuisance
   
130.13   Improper disposal of household garbage
§ 130.01  CRIMINAL MISCHIEF.
   (A)   A person commits criminal mischief if he or she:
      (1)   Damages property of another intentionally or recklessly;
      (2)   Intentionally tampers with property of another so as to endanger
person or property; or
      (3)   Intentionally or maliciously causes another to suffer pecuniary
loss by deception or threat.
   (B)   Criminal mischief is an offense:
      (1)   If the actor intentionally or maliciously causes pecuniary loss of
$200 or more but less than $500; or
      (2)   If the actor intentionally, maliciously, or recklessly causes
pecuniary loss in an amount of less than $200 or if his or her action results
in no pecuniary loss.
(Prior Code, § 6-323)  (Ord. 2003-19, passed 5-7-2003)  Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. Rev. Stat. 28-519
§ 130.02  CRIMINAL TRESPASS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person, knowing that he or she is not
licensed or privileged to do so, to enter or secretly remain in any building or
occupied structure, or any separately secured or occupied portion thereof.
(Neb. Rev. Stat. 28-520)
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person, knowing that he or she is not
licensed or privileged to do so, to enter or remain in any place as to which
notice against trespass is given by:
      (1)   Actual communication to the actor; or
      (2)   Posting in a manner prescribed by law or reasonably likely to come
to the attention of intruders; or
      (3)   Fencing or other enclosure manifestly designed to exclude
intruders.
(Neb. Rev. Stat. 28-521)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 130.03  RADIO INTERFERENCE.
   Any person operating, or causing to be operated, any motor, sign, or other
electrical apparatus that is connected with the light and power system shall
equip the apparatus with proper filtering attachments to eliminate
interference, provided that the provisions herein shall not apply to the use of
necessary medical equipment or apparatus where electrical interference cannot
be reasonably and safely eliminated. Any person who so operates or causes to be
operated any such electrical apparatus that interferes habitually with radio
and television reception shall be deemed to be guilty of an offense.
Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. Rev. Stat. 18-1720 and 28-1321
§ 130.04  INJURY TO TREES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person purposely or carelessly and without
lawful authority to cut down, carry away, injure, break down, or destroy any
fruit, ornamental, shade, or other tree or trees standing or growing on any
land belonging to another person or persons or on any public land in the
corporate limits. Any public service company desiring to trim or cut down any
tree, except on property owned and controlled by it, shall make an application
to the Board of Trustees to do so, and the written permit of the Board of
Trustees in accordance with its decision to allow such an action shall
constitute the only lawful authority on the part of the company to do so.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 130.05  POSTING.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation to use the
streets, sidewalks, or public grounds of the municipality for signs, signposts,
or the posting of handbills or advertisements without written permission of the
Board of Trustees.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 130.06  THEFT.
   (A)   For purposes of this section:
      (1)   The definitions found in Neb. Rev. Stat. 28-509 shall apply; and
      (2)   The offenses described in divisions (B) through (G) below shall
exist when the value of the thing involved is under $500.
   (B)   (1)   A person commits theft if he or she takes, or exercises control
over, movable property of another with the intent to deprive him or her
thereof.
      (2)   A person commits theft if he or she transfers immovable property of
another or any interest therein with the intent to benefit himself or herself
or another not entitled thereto.
      (3)   Except as provided for rental or lease of a motor vehicle in Neb.
Rev. Stat. 28-511(4), it shall be presumed that a lessee’s failure to return
leased or rented movable property to the lessor after the expiration of a
written lease or written rental agreement is done with intent to deprive if
such lessee has been mailed notice by certified mail that such lease or rental
agreement has expired and he or she has failed within ten days after such
notice to return such property.
   (C)   A person commits theft if he or she obtains property of another by
deception as defined in Neb. Rev. Stat. 28-512.
   (D)   (1)   A person commits theft if he or she obtains property of another
by threatening to:
         (a)   Inflict bodily injury on anyone or commit any other criminal
offense;
         (b)   Accuse anyone of a criminal offense;
         (c)   Expose any secret tending to subject any person to hatred,
contempt, or ridicule, or to impair his or her credit or business repute;
         (d)   Take or withhold action as an official, or cause an official to
take or withhold action;
         (e)   Bring about or continue a strike, boycott, or other collective
unofficial action, if the property is not demanded or received for the benefit
of the group in whose interest the actor purports to act; or
         (f)   Testify or provide information or withhold testimony or
information with respect to another’s legal claim or defense.
      (2)   It is an affirmative defense to prosecution based on divisions (D)
(1)(b), (D)(1)(c), or (D)(1)(d) above that the property obtained by threat of
accusation, exposure, lawsuit, or other invocation of official action was
honestly claimed as restitution or indemnification for harm done in the
circumstances to which such accusation, exposure, lawsuit, or other official
action relates, or as compensation for property or lawful services.
   (E)   A person who comes into control of property of another that he or she
knows to have been lost, mislaid, or delivered under a mistake as to the nature
or amount of the property or the identity of the recipient commits theft if,
with intent to deprive the owner thereof, he or she fails to take reasonable
measures to restore the property to a person entitled to have it.
   (F)   (1)   A person commits theft if he or she obtains services, which he
or she knows are available only for compensation, by deception or threat or by
false token or other means to avoid payment for the service. Services include
labor, professional service, telephone service, electric service, cable
television service, or other public service, accommodation in hotels,
restaurants, or elsewhere, admission to exhibitions, and use of vehicles or
other movable property. When compensation for service is ordinarily paid
immediately upon the rendering of such service, as in the case of hotels and
restaurants, refusal to pay or absconding without payment or offer to pay gives
rise to a presumption that the service was obtained by deception as to
intention to pay.
      (2)   A person commits theft if, having control over the disposition of
services of others to which he or she is not entitled, he or she diverts such
services to his or her own benefit or to the benefit of another not entitled
thereto.
   (G)   A person commits theft if he or she receives, retains, or disposes of
stolen movable property of another knowing that it has been stolen, or
believing that it has been stolen, unless the property is received, retained,
or disposed with intention to restore it to the owner.
(Prior Code, § 6-307)  (Ord. 2003-20, passed 5-7-2003)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. Rev. Stat. 28-511, 28-512, 28-513, 28-514, 28-
515, and 28-517
§ 130.07  THEFT OF TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICE.
   (A)   It is an offense for any person to:
      (1)   Knowingly make or possess any device designed to or commonly used
to obtain telecommunications service fraudulently from a licensed cable
television franchisee with the intent to use such device in the commission of
an offense described in Neb. Rev. Stat. 28-515(1);
      (2)   Knowingly tamper with, interfere with, or connect to any cables,
wires, converters, or other devices used for the distribution of
telecommunications service by any mechanical, electrical, acoustical, or other
means without authority from the operator of the service with the intent of
obtaining telecommunications service fraudulently; or
      (3)   Sell, give, transfer, or offer or advertise for sale a device which
such person knows or should know is intended to be used for the purpose of
obtaining telecommunications service fraudulently.
   (B)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      DEVICE. Includes, but is not limited to, instrument, apparatus,
equipment, and plans or instructions for making or assembling the instrument,
apparatus, or equipment.
      TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICE. Includes, but is not limited to, telephone
service and cable television service.
(Prior Code, § 6-307.01)  (Ord. 2003-21, passed 5-7-2003)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. Rev. Stat. 28-515.01
§ 130.08  WEEDS, LITTER, AND STAGNANT WATER.
   (A)   Lots or pieces of ground within the village shall be drained or filled
so as to prevent stagnant water or any other nuisance accumulating thereon.
   (B)   The owner or occupant of any lot or piece of ground within the village
shall keep the lot or piece of ground and the adjoining streets and alleys free
of any growth of 12 inches or more in height of weeds, grasses, or worthless
vegetation.
   (C)   The throwing, depositing, or accumulation of litter on any lot or
piece of ground within the village is prohibited, except that grass, leaves,
and worthless vegetation may be used as a ground mulch or in a compost pile.
   (D)   It is hereby declared to be a nuisance to permit or maintain any
growth of 12 inches or more in height of weeds, grasses, or worthless
vegetation or to litter or cause litter to be deposited or remain thereon
except in proper receptacles.
   (E)   Any owner or occupant of a lot or piece of ground shall, upon
conviction of violating this section, be guilty of an offense.
   (F)   (1)   Notice to abate and remove such nuisance shall be given to each
owner or owner’s duly authorized agent and to the occupant, if any, by personal
service or certified mail. If notice by personal service or certified mail is
unsuccessful, notice shall be given by publication in a newspaper of general
circulation in the village or by conspicuously posting the notice on the lot or
ground upon which the nuisance is to be abated and removed. Within five days
after receipt of such notice or publication or posting, whichever is
applicable, if the owner or occupant of the lot or piece of ground does not
request a hearing with the village or fails to comply with the order to abate
and remove the nuisance, the village may have such work done. The costs and
expenses of any such work shall be paid by the owner.
      (2)   If unpaid for two months after such work is done, the village may
either:
         (a)   Levy and assess the costs and expenses of the work upon the lot
or piece of ground so benefitted in the same manner as other special taxes for
improvements are levied and assessed; or
         (b)   Recover in a civil action the costs and expenses of the work
upon the lot or piece of ground and the adjoining streets and alleys.
   (G)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      LITTER. Includes, but is not limited to:
         (a)   Trash, rubbish, refuse, garbage, paper, rags, and ashes;
         (b)   Wood, plaster, cement, brick, or stone building rubble;
         (c)   Grass, leaves, and worthless vegetation;
         (d)   Offal and dead animals; and
         (e)   Any machine or machines, vehicle or vehicles, or parts of a
machine or vehicle which have lost their identity, character, utility, or
serviceability as such through deterioration, dismantling, or the ravages of
time, are inoperative or unable to perform their intended functions, or are
cast off, discarded, or thrown away or left as waste, wreckage, or junk.
      WEEDS. Includes, but is not limited to, bindweed (Convolvulus arvensis),
puncture vine (Tribulus terrestris), leafy spurge (Euphorbia esula), Canada
thistle (Cirsium arvense), perennial pepper grass (Lepidium draba), Russian
knapweed (Centaurea picris), Johnson grass (Sorghum halepense), nodding or musk
thistle, quack grass (Agropyron repens), perennial sow thistle (Sonchus
arvensis), horse nettle (Solanum carolinense), bull thistle (Cirsium
lanceolatum), buckthorn (Rhamnus sp.) (tourn), hemp plant (Cannabis sativa),
and ragweed (Ambrosiaceae).
(Prior Code, § 6-327)  (Ord. 1991-8, passed 7-3-1991; Ord. 2005-13, passed 3-2-
2005)  Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. Rev. Stat. 17-563
§ 130.09  ABANDONED AUTOMOBILES.
   (A)   (1)   No person shall cause any vehicle to be an abandoned vehicle as
described in divisions (B)(1) through (B)(4).
      (2)   No person other than one authorized by the municipality or
appropriate state agency shall destroy, deface, or remove any part of a vehicle
which is left unattended on a highway or other public place without license
plates affixed or which is abandoned.
   (B)   A motor vehicle is an abandoned vehicle:
      (1)   If left unattended, with no license plates or valid “in transit”
decals issued pursuant to Neb. Rev. Stat. 60-320 affixed thereto, for more than
six hours on any public property;
      (2)   If left unattended for more than 24 hours on any public property,
except a portion thereof on which parking is legally permitted;
      (3)   If left unattended for more than 48 hours after the parking of such
vehicle has become illegal, if left on a portion of any public property on
which parking is legally permitted;
      (4)   If left unattended for more than seven days on private property if
left initially without permission of the owner, or after permission of the
owner is terminated; or
      (5)   If left for more than 30 days in the custody of a law enforcement
agency after the agency has sent a letter to the last registered owner under
division (D) below. No motor vehicle subject to forfeiture under Neb. Rev.
Stat. 28-431 shall be an abandoned vehicle under this division (B).
   (C)   If an abandoned vehicle, at the time of abandonment, has no license
plates of the current year or valid “in transit” decals issued pursuant to Neb.
Rev. Stat. 60-320 affixed and is of a wholesale value, taking into
consideration the condition of the vehicle, of $250 or less, title shall
immediately vest in the municipality.
   (D)   (1)   Except for vehicles governed by division (C) above, the
municipality shall make an inquiry concerning the last-registered owner of an
abandoned vehicle as follows:
         (a)   Abandoned vehicle with license plates affixed, to the
jurisdiction which issued such license plates; or
         (b)   Abandoned vehicle with no license plates affixed, to the
Department of Motor Vehicles.
      (2)   The municipality shall notify the last registered owner, if any,
that the vehicle in question has been determined to be an abandoned vehicle and
that, if unclaimed, either:
         (a)   It will be sold or will be offered at public auction after five
days from the date such notice was mailed; or
         (b)   Title will vest in the municipality 30 days after the date such
notice was mailed.
      (3)   If the municipality is notified that a lien or mortgage exists, the
notice described in division (D)(2) above shall also be sent to the lienholder
or mortgagee. Any person claiming such vehicle shall be required to pay the
cost of removal and storage of such vehicle.
      (4)   Title to an abandoned vehicle, if unclaimed, shall vest in the
municipality:
         (a)   Five days after the date the notice is mailed if the vehicle
will be sold or offered at public auction under division (D)(2)(a) above;
         (b)   Thirty days after the date the notice is mailed if the
municipality will retain the vehicle; or
         (c)   If the last registered owner cannot be ascertained, when notice
of such fact is received.
      (5)   After title to the abandoned vehicle vests pursuant to division (D)
(4) above, the municipality may retain for use, sell, or auction the abandoned
vehicle. If the municipality has determined that the vehicle should be retained
for use, the municipality shall, at the same time that the notice, if any, is
mailed, publish in a newspaper of general circulation in the jurisdiction an
announcement that the municipality intends to retain the abandoned vehicle for
its use and that title will vest in the municipality 30 days after publication.
   (E)   (1)   If the municipal law enforcement agency has custody of a motor
vehicle for investigatory purposes and has no further need to keep it in
custody, it shall send a certified letter to each of the last registered owners
stating that the vehicle is in the custody of the agency, that the vehicle is
no longer needed for law enforcement purposes, and that after 30 days the
agency will dispose of the vehicle.
      (2)   This division (E) shall not apply to motor vehicles subject to
forfeiture under Neb. Rev. Stat.  28-431.
      (3)   No storage fees shall be assessed against the registered owner of a
motor vehicle held in custody for investigatory purposes under this division
(E) unless the registered owner or the person in possession of the vehicle when
it is taken into custody is charged with a felony or misdemeanor related to the
offense for which the law enforcement agency took the vehicle into custody. If
a registered owner or the person in possession of the vehicle when it is taken
into custody is charged with a felony or misdemeanor but is not convicted, the
registered owner shall be entitled to a refund of the storage fees.
   (F)   (1)   Any proceeds from the sale of an abandoned vehicle, less any
expenses incurred by the municipality, shall be held by the municipality
without interest, for the benefit of the owner or lienholders of such vehicle
for a period of two years.
      (2)   If not claimed within such two-year period, the proceeds shall be
paid into the General Fund of the municipality.
   (G)   Neither the owner, lessee, nor occupant of the premises from which any
abandoned vehicle is removed, nor the municipality, shall be liable for any
loss or damage to such vehicle which occurs during its removal or while in the
possession of the municipality or its contractual agent or as a result of any
subsequent disposition.
   (H)   The last registered owner of an abandoned vehicle shall be liable to
the municipality for the costs of removal and storage of such vehicle.
   (I)   For purposes of this section, PUBLIC PROPERTY means any public right-
of-way, street, highway, alley, or park or other state, county, or municipally
owned property; PRIVATE PROPERTY means any privately owned property which is
not included within the definition of public property.
   (J)   Any person who violates the provisions of this section is guilty of an
offense.
(Prior Code, § 6-328)  (Ord. 2002-12, passed 10-16-2002)  Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. Rev. Stat. 60-1901, 60-1902, 60-1903, 60-
1903.01, 60-1905, 60-1906,
     60-1907, 60-1908, and 60-1909
§ 130.10  UNLICENSED OR INOPERABLE VEHICLES.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this chapter, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      INOPERABLE VEHICLE. A vehicle on which the engine, wheels, or other parts
have been removed, altered, damaged, or otherwise so treated or allowed to
deteriorate so that the vehicle is incapable of being driven under its own
powers. A vehicle which does not have an unexpired license plate or plates
affixed thereto shall be presumed to be an INOPERABLE VEHICLE, provided that
such presumption may be rebutted.
      VEHICLE. A machine propelled by power other than human power designed to
travel along the ground by use of wheels, treads, runners, or slides and used
to transport persons or property or pull machinery and shall include, but not
be limited to, automobiles, trucks, trailers, motorcycles, tractors, and
wagons.
   (B)   Unlicensed or inoperable vehicles prohibited. No person shall park,
store, leave, or permit the parking, storing, or leaving of any unlicensed or
inoperable vehicle upon any private property within the municipality for a
period of time in excess of 30 days.
   (C)   Unlicensed or inoperable vehicles on public property. No person shall
leave any unlicensed or inoperable vehicle on public property within the
corporate limits and extra territorial zoning jurisdiction of the municipality
in excess of 48 hours.
   (D)   Exception for enclosures. Nothing is this section shall be construed
to prohibit any person from storing up to two unlicensed or inoperable vehicles
upon private property when enclosed within a building or screened completely
from the public view by a solid, opaque fence at least six feet in height.
   (E)   Exception for business. Nothing in this section shall be construed to
apply to any motor vehicle held in connection with and stored on the premises
of a lawful auto repair shop or auto body repair shop operating in an
appropriate commercial or industrial zoning district.
   (F)   Offense. Any person who maintains an unlicensed or inoperable vehicle
in violation of this section shall be deemed to be guilty of an offense.
(Prior Code, § 6-329)  (Ord. 2008-5, passed 5-14-2008)  Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. Rev. Stat. 17-505 and 18-1720
§ 130.11  HOBBYIST PERMIT.
   A hobbyist permit for the restoration or repair of up to two non-operating,
junked or partially dismantled vehicles on any premises may be granted to owner
or resident of such premises as follows.
   (A)   Application for the hobbyist permit shall be filed in writing with the
Village Clerk on a form provided by the village and shall contain the name and
address of the applicant and the make, model, year, and vehicle identification
number of each vehicle to be restored or repaired.
   (B)   The vehicle(s) to be restored or repaired shall be owned by the
applicant.
   (C)   The fee for such hobbyist permit shall be $30 per vehicle.
   (D)   All such permits shall expire on the one hundred eightieth day
following the date of issuance thereof.
(Prior Code, § 6-329.01)  (Ord 1997-2, passed 1-8-1997)
§ 130.12  MAINTAINING A NUISANCE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to erect, keep up, or continue and
maintain any nuisance to the injury of any part of the citizens of the
municipality.
(Ord. 2008-5, passed 5-14-2008)  Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. Rev. Stat. 17-505 and 18-1720
§ 130.13  IMPROPER DISPOSAL OF HOUSEHOLD GARBAGE.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to dispose of their household
garbage, refuse, rubbish, or waste in the municipal dumpsters located at the
village Community Center and the village ball park.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any resident of the village to dispose of
their household garbage, refuse, rubbish, or waste at the municipal burn site,
other than trees, brush, grass, and leaves.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person not a resident of the village to
dispose of any garbage, refuse, rubbish, or waste at the municipal burn site.
(Ord. 2008-5, passed 5-14-2008)  Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. Rev. Stat. 17-505 and 18-1720
CHAPTER 131:  OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC ORDER
Section
   
131.01   Disorderly conduct
   
131.02   Street games
   
131.03   Obstruction of public ways
   
131.04   Obstructing water flow
   
131.05   Curfew; duty of parent or guardian; defenses
   
131.06   Disturbing the peace
   
131.07   Fireworks
Cross-reference:
   Offenses against public health and safety, see
Ch. 133
   Offenses against public morals, see
Ch. 134
§ 131.01  DISORDERLY CONDUCT.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to engage in conduct or behavior which
disturbs the peace and good order of the municipality by clamor or noise,
intoxication, drunkenness, fighting, or using obscene or profane language in
the streets or other public places or otherwise violating the public peace by
indecent or disorderly conduct or lewd or lascivious behavior.
Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. Rev. Stat. 17-556
§ 131.02  STREET GAMES.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to play catch, bat a ball, or kick
or throw a football, or to engage in any exercise or sport, upon the municipal
streets and sidewalks.
   (B)   Nothing herein shall be construed to prohibit or prevent the Board of
Trustees from ordering from time to time certain streets and public places
blocked off for the purpose of providing a safe area to engage in such exercise
and sport.
Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. Rev. Stat. 17-555 and 17-557
§ 131.03  OBSTRUCTION OF PUBLIC WAYS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to erect, maintain, or suffer to remain
on any street or public sidewalk a stand, wagon, display, or other obstruction
inconvenient to or inconsistent with the public use of the same.
Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. Rev. Stat. 17-555, 17-557, 39-301, and 39-302
§ 131.04  OBSTRUCTING WATER FLOW.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to stop or obstruct the passage of water
in a street gutter, culvert, water pipe, or hydrant.
Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. Rev. Stat. 17-555 and 17-920
§ 131.05  CURFEW; DUTY OF PARENT OR GUARDIAN; DEFENSES.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any minor under the age of 18 years to
loiter, idle, wander, stroll, or play in or upon any of the streets, roads,
alleys, or parks of the municipality, or other places of public amusement or
recreation therein, after the hour of 11:00 p.m. and until the hour of 5:00
a.m. of the following day on Sunday through Thursday, and after the hour of 12:
30 a.m. and until the hour of 5:00 a.m. on Saturday and Sunday.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any parent, guardian, or any adult person
having the legal care, custody, or control of any minor under the age of 18
years to allow or permit that minor to loiter, wander, stroll, idle, or play in
or about any of the places designated in division (A) above after the hour of
11:00 p.m. and until the hour of 5:00 a.m. of the following day on Sunday
through Thursday, and after the hour of 12:30 a.m. and until the hour of 5:00
a.m. on Saturday and Sunday.
   (C)   It is a defense to prosecution under divisions (A) and (B) above that
the minor was:
      (1)   Accompanied by a parent, guardian, or other adult person having the
legal care, custody, or control of that minor;
      (2)   On an errand at the direction of the minor’s parent, guardian, or
other adult person having the legal care, custody, or control of that minor and
was using a direct route;
      (3)   In a motor vehicle involved in interstate travel;
      (4)   Engaged in an employment activity, including, but not limited to,
newspaper delivery and was using a direct route;
      (5)   Involved in an emergency;
      (6)   On the sidewalk abutting the minor’s residence or abutting the
residence of a next-door neighbor if the neighbor did not complain to the
police officer about the minor’s presence;
      (7)   Attending an official school or religious activity or returning
home by a direct route from an official school or religious activity;
      (8)   Exercising first amendment rights protected by the U.S.
Constitution, such as the free exercise of religion, freedom of speech, and the
right of assembly; or
      (9)   Married or had been married or had disabilities of minority removed
in accordance with the laws of the state.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 131.06  DISTURBING THE PEACE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person intentionally to disturb the peace and
quiet of any person, family, or neighborhood.
(Neb. Rev. Stat. 28-1322)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 131.07  FIREWORKS.
   (A)   FIREWORKS shall mean any composition or device designed for the
purpose of producing a visible or audible effect by combustion, deflagration,
or detonation and which meets the definition of common or special fireworks set
forth by the United States Department of Transportation in C.F.R. Title 49.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to ignite or cause to be exploded
fireworks or firecrackers of any description whatsoever, except sparklers,
Vesuvius fountains, spray fountains, torches, color fire cones, star and comet
type color aerial shells without explosive charges for the purpose of making a
noise, color wheels, lady fingers, not exceeding seven-eighths inch in length
or one-eighth inch in diameter, and which do not contain more than one-half
grain each in weight of explosive material.
(Prior Code, § 6-320)  (Ord. 1988-10, passed 10-5-1988)  Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. Rev. Stat. 28-1003.07 and 28-1241
CHAPTER 132:  OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC JUSTICE AND ADMINISTRATION
Section
   
132.01   Impersonating a public servant
   
132.02   Impersonating a peace officer
   
132.03   Refusing to aid a peace officer
   
132.04   Resisting arrest without the use of a deadly or dangerous weapon
   
132.05   Obstructing a peace officer
   
132.06   Interfering with firefighter
   
132.07   False reporting
   
132.08   Criminal impersonation
§ 132.01  IMPERSONATING A PUBLIC SERVANT.
   It shall be unlawful for any person falsely to pretend to be a public
servant other than a peace officer and perform any act in that pretended
capacity. It is no defense that the office the actor pretended to hold did not
in fact exist.
(Neb. Rev. Stat. 28-609)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 132.02  IMPERSONATING A PEACE OFFICER.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to falsely pretend to be a peace officer
and perform any act in that pretended capacity.
(Neb. Rev. Stat. 28-610)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 132.03  REFUSING TO AID A PEACE OFFICER.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, upon a request by a person known to
that person to be a peace officer, unreasonably to refuse or fail to aid the
peace officer in:
   (A)   Apprehending any person charged with or convicted of any offense
against any of the laws of this state or municipality;
   (B)   Securing the offender when apprehended; or
   (C)   Conveying the offender to the jail of the county.
(Neb. Rev. Stat. 28-903)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 132.04  RESISTING ARREST WITHOUT THE USE OF A DEADLY OR DANGEROUS WEAPON.
   (A)   This section shall apply only to those actions taken to resist arrest
without the use of a deadly or dangerous weapon. It shall be unlawful for any
person, without the use of a deadly or dangerous weapon, while intentionally
preventing or attempting to prevent a peace officer, acting under color of his
or her official authority, from effecting an arrest of the actor or another,
to:
      (1)   Use or threaten to use physical force or violence against the peace
officer or another;
      (2)   Use any other means which creates a substantial risk of causing
physical injury to the peace officer or another; or
      (3)   Employ means requiring substantial force to overcome resistance to
effecting the arrest.
   (B)   It is an affirmative defense to prosecution under this section if the
peace officer involved was out of uniform and did not identify himself or
herself as a peace officer by showing his or her credentials to the person
whose arrest is attempted.
(Neb. Rev. Stat. 28-904)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 132.05  OBSTRUCTING A PEACE OFFICER.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to use or threaten to use violence,
force, physical interference, or obstacle, or intentionally to obstruct,
impair, or hinder the enforcement of the penal law or the preservation of the
peace by a peace officer or judge acting under color of official authority, or
a police animal assisting a peace officer acting pursuant to the peace
officer’s official authority.
(Neb. Rev. Stat. 28-906)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 132.06  INTERFERING WITH FIREFIGHTER.
   A person commits the offense of interfering with a firefighter if at any
time and place where any firefighter is discharging or attempting to discharge
any official duties, the person willfully:
   (A)   Resists or interferes with the lawful efforts of any firefighter in
the discharge or attempt to discharge an official duty;
   (B)   Disobeys the lawful orders given by any firefighter while performing
his or her duties;
   (C)   Engages in any disorderly conduct which delays or prevents a fire from
being extinguished within a reasonable time; or
   (D)   Forbids or prevents others from assisting or extinguishing a fire, or
exhorts another person, as to whom he or she has no legal right or obligation
to protect or control, not to assist in extinguishing a fire.
(Neb. Rev. Stat. 28-908)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 132.07  FALSE REPORTING.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to:
      (1)   Furnish material information he or she knows to be false to any
peace officer or other official with the intent to instigate an investigation
of an alleged criminal matter or impede the investigation of an actual criminal
matter;
      (2)   Furnish information he or she knows to be false alleging the
existence of the need for the assistance of an emergency medical service or
emergency care provider or an emergency in which human life or property are in
jeopardy to any hospital, emergency medical service, or other person or
governmental agency;
      (3)   Furnish any information, or cause information to be furnished or
conveyed by electric, electronic, telephonic, or mechanical means, knowing the
same to be false concerning the need for assistance of a fire department or any
personnel or equipment of such a department;
      (4)   Furnish any information he or she knows to be false concerning the
location of any explosive in any building or other property to any person; or
      (5)   Furnish material information he or she knows to be false to any
governmental department or agency with the intent to instigate an investigation
or to impede an ongoing investigation and which actually results in causing or
impeding the investigation.
   (B)   A person who violates this section commits the offense of false
reporting.
(Neb. Rev. Stat. 28-907)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 132.08  CRIMINAL IMPERSONATION.
   (A)   For purposes of this section:
      (1)   The definitions found in Neb. Rev. Stat. 28-608 shall apply; and
      (2)   The offenses described in division (B) below shall exist when the
credit, money, goods, services, or other thing of value that was gained or was
attempted to be gained was less than $500.
   (B)   A person commits criminal impersonation if he or she:
      (1)   Assumes a false identity and does an act in his or her assumed
character with intent to gain a pecuniary benefit for himself, herself, or
another or to deceive or harm another;
      (2)   Pretends to be a representative of some person or organization and
does an act in his or her pretended capacity with the intent to gain a
pecuniary benefit for himself, herself, or another and to deceive or harm
another;
      (3)   Carries on any profession, business, or any other occupation
without a license, certificate, or other authorization required by law; or
      (4)   Without the authorization or permission of another and with the
intent to deceive or harm another:
         (a)   Obtains or records personal identification documents or personal
identifying information; and
         (b)   Accesses or attempts to access the financial resources of
another through the use of a personal identification document or personal
identifying information for the purpose of obtaining credit, money, goods,
services, or any other thing of value.
   (C)   Criminal impersonation does not mean:
      (1)   The lawful obtaining of credit information in the course of a bona
fide consumer or commercial transaction;
      (2)   The lawful, good faith exercise of a security interest or a right
of setoff by a creditor or a financial institution; or
      (3)   The lawful, good faith compliance by any person when required by
any warrant, levy, garnishment, attachment, court order, or other judicial or
administrative order, decree, or directive.
(Prior Code, § 6-301.01)  (Ord. 2002-32, passed 5-7-2003)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. Rev. Stat. 28-608
CHAPTER 133:  OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC HEALTH AND SAFETY
Section
General Provisions
   
133.01   Prohibited fences
   
133.02   Weeds; litter; stagnant water
Substance Offenses
   
133.20   Use of tobacco by persons under the age of 21
   
133.21   Sale of tobacco to persons under the age of 21
   
133.22   Misrepresentation by minor to obtain alcohol
   
133.23   Minors; prohibited acts involving alcoholic liquor
   
133.24   Drinking on public property; open beverage container
   
133.25   Drinking on public property; possession of open alcoholic beverage
container
   
133.26   Prohibited acts involving alcohol
   
133.27   Under the influence of a controlled substance
   
133.28   Driving under the influence
   
133.29   Persons under 21 driving under the influence
Motor Vehicle and Highway Offenses
   
133.40   Abandoned automobiles
   
133.41   Shooting highway signs, markers, or notices
   
133.42   Removal and possession of highway signs, markers, or notices
   
133.43   Unlicensed or inoperable vehicles
Weapons Offenses
   
133.60   Discharge of firearms
   
133.61   Slingshots, air guns, BB guns
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 133.01  PROHIBITED FENCES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to erect, or cause to be erected, and
maintain any barbed wire or electric fence within the corporate limits, where
the fence abuts a public sidewalk, street, or alley.
Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. Rev. Stat. 18-1720, 28-1321, and 39-705
§ 133.02  WEEDS; LITTER; STAGNANT WATER.
   (A)   Lots or pieces of ground within the village shall be drained or filled
so as to prevent stagnant water or any other nuisance accumulating thereon.
   (B)   The owner or occupant of any lot or piece of ground within the village
shall keep the lot or piece of ground and the adjoining streets and alleys free
of any growth of 12 inches or more in height of weeds, grasses, or worthless
vegetation.
   (C)   The throwing, depositing, or accumulation of litter on any lot or
piece of ground within the village is prohibited, except that grass, leaves,
and worthless vegetation may be used as a ground mulch or in a compost pile.
   (D)   It is hereby declared to be a nuisance to permit or maintain any
growth of 12 inches or more in height of weeds, grasses, or worthless
vegetation or to litter or cause litter to be deposited or remain thereon
except in proper receptacles.
   (E)   Any owner or occupant of a lot or piece of ground shall, upon
conviction of violating this section, be guilty of an offense.
   (F)   (1)   Notice to abate and remove this nuisance shall be given to each
owner or owner’s duly authorized agent and to the occupant, if any, by personal
service or certified mail. If notice by personal service or certified mail is
unsuccessful, notice shall be given by publication in a newspaper of general
circulation in the village or by conspicuously posting the notice on the lot or
ground upon which the nuisance is to be abated and removed. Within five days
after receipt of the notice or publication or posting, whichever is applicable,
if the owner or occupant of the lot or piece of ground does not request a
hearing with the village or fails to comply with the order to abate and remove
the nuisance, the village may have the work done. The costs and expenses of any
such work shall be paid by the owner.
      (2)   If unpaid for two months after the work is done, the village may
either:
         (a)   Levy and assess the costs and expenses of the work upon the lot
or piece of ground so benefitted in the same manner as other special taxes for
improvements are levied and assessed; or
         (b)   Recover in a civil action the costs and expenses of the work
upon the lot or piece of ground and the adjoining streets and alleys.
   (G)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      LITTER. Includes, but is not limited to:
         (a)   Trash, rubbish, refuse, garbage, paper, rags, and ashes;
         (b)   Wood, plaster, cement, brick, or stone building rubble;
         (c)   Grass, leaves, and worthless vegetation;
         (d)   Offal and dead animals; and
         (e)   Any machine or machines, vehicle or vehicles, or parts of a
machine or vehicle which have lost their identity, character, utility, or
serviceability as such through deterioration, dismantling, or the ravages of
time, are inoperative or unable to perform their intended functions, or are
cast off, discarded, or thrown away or left as waste, wreckage, or junk.
      WEEDS. Include, but are not limited to: bindweed (Convolvulus arvensis),
puncture vine (Tribulus terrestris), leafy spurge (Euphorbia esula), Canada
thistle (Cirsium arvense), perennial peppergrass (Lepidium draba), Russian
knapweed (Centaurea picris), Johnson grass (Sorghum halepense), nodding or musk
thistle, quack grass (Agropyron repens), perennial sow thistle (Sonchus
arvensis), horse nettle (Solanum carolinense), bull thistle (Cirsium
lanceolatum), buckthorn (Rhamnus sp.) (tourn), hemp plant (Cannabis sativa),
and ragweed (Ambrosiaceae).
(Neb. Rev. Stat. 17-563)  Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. Rev. Stat. 18-1720
SUBSTANCE OFFENSES
§ 133.20  USE OF TOBACCO BY PERSONS UNDER THE AGE OF 21.
   Whoever, being a person under the age of 21 years, shall smoke cigarettes or
cigars, use electronic nicotine delivery systems or alternative nicotine
products, or use tobacco in any form whatever, in this village, shall be guilty
of an offense.  Any person charged with a violation of this section may be free
from prosecution if he or she furnishes evidence for the conviction of the
person or persons selling or giving him or her the cigarettes, cigars,
electronic nicotine delivery systems, alternative nicotine products, or
tobacco.
(Neb. Rev. Stat. 28-1418)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 133.21  SALE OF TOBACCO TO PERSONS UNDER THE AGE OF 21.
   (A)   Whoever shall sell, give, or furnish in any way any tobacco in any
form whatever, or any cigars, cigarettes or cigarette paper, electronic
nicotine delivery systems, or alternative nicotine products, to any person
under 21 years of age is guilty of an offense.
   (B)   (1)   In order to further the public policy of deterring licensees or
other persons from violating division (A) if this section, a person who is at
least 15 years of age but under 21 years of age may assist a peace officer in
determining compliance with such subsection if:
         (a)   The parent or legal guardian of the person has given written
consent for the person to participate in such compliance check if such person
is under 19 years of age;
         (b)   The person is an employee, a volunteer, or an intern with a
state or local law enforcement agency;
         (c)   The person is acting within the scope of his or her assigned
duties as part of a law enforcement investigation;
         (d)   The person does not use or consume a tobacco product as part of
such duties; and
         (e)   The person is not actively assigned to a diversion program, is
not a party to a pending criminal proceeding or a proceeding pending under the
State Juvenile Code, and is not on probation.
      (2)   Any person under the age of 21 years acting in accordance with an
under the authority of this subsection shall not be in violation of Neb. Rev.
Stat. 28-1427.
(Neb. Rev. Stat. 28-1419)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 133.22  MISREPRESENTATION BY MINOR TO OBTAIN ALCOHOL.
   It shall be unlawful for any minor, as defined by Neb. Rev. Stat. 53-103, to
obtain or attempt to obtain alcoholic liquor by misrepresentation of age, or by
any other method, in any tavern or other place where alcoholic liquor is sold.
(Neb. Rev. Stat. 53-180.01)  Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. Rev. Stat. 53-168.06 and 53-180.05
§ 133.23  MINORS; PROHIBITED ACTS INVOLVING ALCOHOLIC LIQUOR.
   (A)   For purposes of this section, the definitions found in Neb. Rev. Stat.
53-103 shall apply, including, but not limited to, the definitions of the terms
“alcoholic liquor”, “consume”, “minor”, “sale”, and “to sell”.
   (B)   Except as provided in §
112.20, no minor may sell, dispense, consume, or have in his or her possession
or physical control any alcoholic liquor in any tavern or in any other place,
including public streets, alleys, roads, or highways, upon property owned by
the state or any subdivision thereof, or inside any vehicle while in or on any
other place, including, but not limited to, the public streets, alleys, roads,
or highways, or upon property owned by the state or any subdivision thereof,
except that a minor may consume, possess, or have physical control of alcoholic
liquor in his or her permanent place of residence or on the premises of a place
of religious worship on which premises alcoholic liquor is consumed as a part
of a religious rite, ritual, or ceremony.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person under 21 years of age to
transport, consume, or knowingly possess or have under his or her control beer
or other alcoholic liquor in or transported by any motor vehicle.
(Neb. Rev. Stat. 53-180.02)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 133.24  DRINKING ON PUBLIC PROPERTY; OPEN BEVERAGE CONTAINER.
   (A)   Except when the State Liquor Control Commission has issued a license
as provided in Neb. Rev. Stat. 53-186(2), it is unlawful for any person to
consume alcoholic liquor upon property owned or controlled by the state or any
governmental subdivision thereof unless authorized by the governing bodies
having jurisdiction over that property.
(Neb. Rev. Stat. 53-186)
   (B)   (1)   It is unlawful for any person in the passenger area of a motor
vehicle to possess an open alcoholic beverage container while the motor vehicle
is located in a public parking area or on any highway in this municipality.
      (2)   Except as provided in Neb. Rev. Stat. 53-186, it is unlawful for
any person to consume an alcoholic beverage:
         (a)   In a public parking area or on any highway in this municipality;
or
         (b)   Inside a motor vehicle while in a public parking area or on any
highway in this municipality.
      (3)   For the purpose of this division (B), the following definitions
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
         ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE.
            1.   Includes:
               a.   Beer, ale, porter, stout, and other similar fermented
beverages, including sake or similar products, of any name or description,
containing 0.5% or more of alcohol by volume, brewed or produced from malt,
wholly or in part, or from any substitute therefor;
               b.   Wine of not less than 0.5% alcohol by volume; or
               c.   Distilled spirits, which is that substance known as ethyl
alcohol, ethanol, or spirits of wine in any form, including all dilutions and
mixtures thereof from whatever source or by whatever process produced.
            2.   ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE does not include trace amounts not readily
consumable as a beverage.
         HIGHWAY. A road or street including the entire area within the right-
of-way.
         OPEN ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE CONTAINER. Any bottle, can, or other
receptacle:
            1.   That contains any amount of alcoholic beverage; and
            2.   a.   That is open or has a broken seal; or
               b.   The contents of which are partially removed.
         PASSENGER AREA. The area designed to seat the driver and passengers
while the motor vehicle is in operation and any area that is readily accessible
to the driver or a passenger while in their seating positions, including any
compartments in the area. PASSENGER AREA does not include the area behind the
last upright seat of the motor vehicle if the area is not normally occupied by
the driver or a passenger and the motor vehicle is not equipped with a trunk.
(Neb. Rev. Stat. 60-6,211.08)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 133.25  DRINKING ON PUBLIC PROPERTY; POSSESSION OF OPEN ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE
CONTAINER.
   (A)   Except when the state’s Liquor Control Commission has issued a license
as provided in Neb. Rev. Stat. 53-186(2), it is unlawful for any person to
consume alcoholic liquor upon property owned or controlled by the state or any
governmental subdivision thereof unless authorized by the governing bodies
having jurisdiction over such property.
   (B)   (1) It is unlawful for any person in the passenger area of a motor
vehicle to possess an open alcoholic beverage container while the motor vehicle
is located in a public parking area or on any highway in this municipality.
      (2)   Except as provided in Neb. Rev. Stat. 53-186, it is unlawful for
any person to consume an alcoholic beverage:
         (a)   In a public parking area or on any highway in this municipality;
or
         (b)   Inside a motor vehicle while in a public parking area or on any
highway in this municipality.
   (C)   For purposes of this division:
      ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE includes:
         (a)   Beer, ale porter, stout, and other similar fermented beverages,
including sake or similar products, of any name or description containing 0.5%
or more of alcohol by volume, brewed or produced from malt, wholly or in part,
or from any substitute therefor;
         (b)   Wine of not less than 0.5% of alcohol by volume; or
         (c)   Distilled spirits which is that substance known as ethyl
alcohol, ethanol, or spirits of wine in any form, including all dilutions and
mixtures thereof from whatever source or by whatever process produced.
ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE does not include trace amounts not readily consumable as a
beverage.
      HIGHWAY. A road or street including the entire area within the right-of-
way.
      OPEN ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE CONTAINER. Any bottle, can, or other receptacle:
         (a)   That contains any amount of alcoholic beverage; and
         (b)   That is open or has a broken seal; or
         (c)   The contents of which are partially removed; and
      PASSENGER AREA. The area designed to seat the driver and passengers while
the motor vehicle is in operation and any area that is readily accessible to
the driver or a passenger while in their seating positions, including any
compartments in such area. PASSENGER AREA does not include the area behind the
last upright seat of such motor vehicle if the area is not normally occupied by
the driver or a passenger and the motor vehicle is not equipped with a trunk.
(Prior Code, § 6-312)  (Ord. 2002-13, passed 10-16-2002)  Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. Rev. Stat. 53-186 and 60-6,211.08
§ 133.26  PROHIBITED ACTS INVOLVING ALCOHOL.
   (A)   For purposes of this section, the definitions found in Neb. Rev. Stat.
53-103 shall apply, including, but not limited to, the definitions of the terms
alcoholic liquor, consume, minor, sale, and to sell.
   (B)   Except as provided in §
112.20, no minor may sell, dispense, consume, or have in his or her possession
or physical control any alcoholic liquor in any tavern or in any other place,
including public streets, alleys, roads, or highways, upon property owned by
the state or any subdivision thereof, or inside any vehicle while in or on any
other place, including, but not limited to, the public streets, alleys, roads,
or highways, or upon property owned by the state or any subdivision thereof,
except that a minor may consume, possess, or have physical control of alcoholic
liquor in his or her permanent place of residence or on the premises of a place
of religious worship on which premises alcoholic liquor is consumed as a part
of a religious rite, ritual, or ceremony.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person under 21 years of age to
transport, consume, or knowingly possess or have under his or her control beer
or other alcoholic liquor in or transported by any motor vehicle.
(Prior Code, § 6-314)  (Ord. 2002-44, passed 10-16-2002)  Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. Rev. Stat. 53-180.02
§ 133.27  UNDER THE INFLUENCE OF A CONTROLLED SUBSTANCE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to be under the influence of any
controlled substance for a purpose other than the treatment of a sickness or
injury as prescribed or administered by a practitioner as defined in Neb. Rev.
Stat. 28-401.
(Prior Code, § 6-315)  (Ord. 2002-45, passed 10-16-2002)  Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. Rev. Stat. 28-417
§ 133.28  DRIVING UNDER THE INFLUENCE.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate or be in the actual
physical control of any motor vehicle:
      (1)   While under the influence of alcoholic liquor or of any drug;
      (2)   When such person has a concentration of 0.08 of one gram or more by
weight of alcohol per 100 milliliters of his or her blood; or
      (3)   When such person has a concentration of 0.08 of one gram or more by
weight of alcohol per 210 liters of his or her breath.
   (B)   Any person who operates or has in his or her actual physical control a
motor vehicle in this municipality shall be deemed to have given his or her
consent to submit to a chemical test or tests of his or her blood, breath, or
urine for the purpose of determining the concentration of alcohol or the
presence of drugs in such blood, breath, or urine.
   (C)   Any peace officer who has been duly authorized to make arrests for
violations of traffic laws of this state or of ordinances of this municipality
may require any person arrested for any offense arising out of acts alleged to
have been committed while the person was driving or was in actual physical
control of a motor vehicle while under the influence of alcoholic liquor or
drugs to submit to a chemical test or tests of his or her blood, breath, or
urine for the purpose of determining the concentration of alcohol or the
presence of drugs in such blood, breath, or urine when the officer has
reasonable grounds to believe that such person was driving or was in the actual
physical control of a motor vehicle in this municipality while under the
influence of alcoholic liquor or drugs in violation of division (A) above.
   (D)   Any peace officer who has been duly authorized to make arrests for
violation of traffic laws of this state or ordinances of this municipality may
require any person who operates or has in his or her actual physical control a
motor vehicle in this municipality to submit to a preliminary test of his or
her breath for alcohol concentration if the officer has reasonable grounds to
believe that such person has alcohol in his or her body, has committed a moving
traffic violation, or has been involved in a traffic accident. Any person who
refuses to submit to such preliminary breath test or whose preliminary breath
test results indicate an alcohol concentration in violation of division (A)
above shall be placed under arrest. Any person who refuses to submit to such
preliminary breath test shall be guilty of an offense.
   (E)   Any person arrested as provided in this section may, upon the
direction of a peace officer, be required to submit to a chemical test or tests
of his or her blood, breath, or urine for a determination of the concentration
of alcohol or the presence of drugs. If the chemical test discloses the
presence of a concentration of alcohol in violation of division (A) above, or
if any person refuses to submit to such test or tests required pursuant to this
section, the person shall be subject to the administrative revocation
procedures provided in Neb. Rev. Stat. 60-6,205 through 60-6,208 and shall be
guilty of an offense.
   (F)   Upon the conviction of any person for violation of this section, there
shall be assessed as part of the court costs the fee charged by any physician
or any agency administering tests pursuant to a permit issued in accordance
with Neb. Rev. Stat. 60-6,201 for the test administered and the analysis
thereof if such test was actually made.
(Prior Code, § 6-330)  (Ord. 1994-11, passed 10-5-1994; Ord. 2002-43, passed
10-16-2002)  Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. Rev. Stat. 60-6,196(1), 60-6,197(1), 60-6,197
(2), 60-6,197(3), 60-6,197(4), and 60-6,203
§ 133.29  PERSONS UNDER 21 DRIVING UNDER THE INFLUENCE.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person under 21 years of age to operate
or be in the actual physical control of any motor vehicle:
      (1)   When such person has a concentration of 0.02 of one gram or more by
weight of alcohol per 100 milliliters of his or her blood but less than the
concentration prescribed under Neb. Rev. Stat. 60-6,196(1)(b); or
      (2)   When such person has a concentration of 0.02 of one gram or more by
weight of alcohol per 210 liters of his or her breath but less than the
concentration prescribed under Neb. Rev. Stat. 60-6,196(1)(c).
   (B)   Any person who operates or has in his or her actual physical control a
motor vehicle in the state shall be deemed to have given his or her consent to
submit to a chemical test or tests of his or her blood or breath for the
purposes of determining the concentration of alcohol in such blood or breath.
   (C)   Any peace officer who has been duly authorized to make arrests for
violations of traffic laws of this state or of ordinances of the municipality
may require any person under 21 years of age to submit to a chemical test or
tests of his or her blood or breath for the purpose of determining the
concentration of alcohol in such blood or breath when the officer has probable
cause to believe that such person was driving or was in actual physical control
of a motor vehicle in the municipality in violation of this section. Such peace
officer may require such person to submit to a preliminary breath test. Any
person who refuses to submit to such preliminary breath test or whose
preliminary breath test results indicate an alcohol concentration in violation
of this section shall be placed under arrest.
   (D)   Any person arrested as provided in this section may, upon the
direction of a peace officer, be required to submit to a chemical test or tests
of his or her blood or breath for a determination of the concentration of
alcohol. If the chemical test discloses the presence of a concentration of
alcohol in violation of this section, or such person refuses to submit to such
test or tests required pursuant to this section shall be guilty of an offense.
   (E)   Upon the conviction of any person for the violation of this section,
there shall be assessed as part of the court costs the fee charged by any
physician or any agency administering tests pursuant to a permit issued in
accordance with Neb. Rev. Stat. 60-6,201, for the test administered and the
analysis thereof if such test was actually made.
(Prior Code, § 6-331)  (Ord. 2002-5, passed 10-16-2002)  Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. Rev. Stat. 60-6,211.01, 60-6,211.02, and 60-
6,203
MOTOR VEHICLE AND HIGHWAY OFFENSES
§ 133.40  ABANDONED AUTOMOBILES.
   (A)   (1)   No person shall cause any vehicle to be an abandoned vehicle as
described in division (B) below.
(Neb. Rev. Stat. 60-1907)
      (2)   No person other than one authorized by the municipality or
appropriate state agency shall destroy, deface, or remove any part of a vehicle
which is left unattended on a highway or other public place without license
plates affixed or which is abandoned.
   (B)   For the purpose of this section, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      ABANDONED VEHICLE.
         (a)   A motor vehicle is an ABANDONED VEHICLE:
            1.   If left unattended, with no license plates or valid “in
transit” decals issued pursuant to Neb. Rev. Stat. 60-320 affixed thereto, for
more than six hours on any public property;
            2.   If left unattended for more than 24 hours on any public
property, except a portion thereof on which parking is legally permitted;
            3.   If left unattended for more than 48 hours after the parking of
the vehicle has become illegal, if left on a portion of any public property on
which parking is legally permitted;
            4.   If left unattended for more than seven days on private
property if left initially without permission of the owner, or after permission
of the owner is terminated; or
            5.   If left for more than 30 days in the custody of a law
enforcement agency after the agency has sent a letter to the last registered
owner under division (E) below.
         (b)   No motor vehicle subject to forfeiture under Neb. Rev. Stat. 28-
431 shall be an ABANDONED VEHICLE under this division (B).
(Neb. Rev. Stat. 60-1901)
   (C)   If an abandoned vehicle, at the time of abandonment, has no license
plates of the current year or valid “in transit” decals issued pursuant to Neb.
Rev. Stat. 60-320 affixed and is of a wholesale value, taking into
consideration the condition of the vehicle, of $250 or less, title shall
immediately vest in the municipality.
(Neb. Rev. Stat. 60-1902)
   (D)   (1)   Except for vehicles governed by division (C) above, the
municipality shall make an inquiry concerning the last registered owner of an
abandoned vehicle as follows:
         (a)   Abandoned vehicle with license plates affixed, to the
jurisdiction which issued the license plates; or
         (b)   Abandoned vehicle with no license plates affixed, to the
Department of Motor Vehicles.
      (2)   The municipality shall notify the last registered owner, if any,
that the vehicle in question has been determined to be an abandoned vehicle and
that, if unclaimed, either:
         (a)   It will be sold or will be offered at public auction after five
days from the date the notice was mailed; or
         (b)   Title will vest in the municipality 30 days after the date the
notice was mailed.
      (3)   If the municipality is notified that a lien or mortgage exists, the
notice described in division (D)(2) above shall also be sent to the lienholder
or mortgagee. Any person claiming the vehicle shall be required to pay the cost
of removal and storage of the vehicle.
      (4)   Title to an abandoned vehicle, if unclaimed, shall vest in the
municipality:
         (a)   Five days after the date the notice is mailed if the vehicle
will be sold or offered at public auction under division (D)(2)(a) above;
         (b)   Thirty days after the date the notice is mailed if the
municipality will retain the vehicle; or
         (c)   If the last registered owner cannot be ascertained, when notice
of that fact is received.
      (5)   After title to the abandoned vehicle vests pursuant to division (D)
(4) above, the municipality may retain for use, sell, or auction the abandoned
vehicle. If the municipality has determined that the vehicle should be retained
for use, the municipality shall, at the same time that the notice, if any, is
mailed, publish in a newspaper of general circulation in the jurisdiction an
announcement that the municipality intends to retain the abandoned vehicle for
its use and that title will vest in the municipality 30 days after publication.
(Neb. Rev. Stat. 60-1903)
   (E)   (1)   If the municipal law enforcement agency has custody of a motor
vehicle for investigatory purposes and has no further need to keep it in
custody, it shall send a certified letter to each of the last registered owners
stating that the vehicle is in the custody of the agency, that the vehicle is
no longer needed for law enforcement purposes, and that after 30 days the
agency will dispose of the vehicle.
      (2)   This division shall not apply to motor vehicles subject to
forfeiture under Neb. Rev. Stat. 28-431.
      (3)   No storage fees shall be assessed against the registered owner of a
motor vehicle held in custody for investigatory purposes under this division
unless the registered owner or the person in possession of the vehicle when it
is taken into custody is charged with a felony or misdemeanor related to the
offense for which the law enforcement agency took the vehicle into custody. If
a registered owner or the person in possession of the vehicle when it is taken
into custody is charged with a felony or misdemeanor but is not convicted, the
registered owner shall be entitled to a refund of the storage fees.
(Neb. Rev. Stat. 60-1903.01)
   (F)   Any proceeds from the sale of an abandoned vehicle, less any expenses
incurred by the municipality, shall be held by the municipality without
interest, for the benefit of the owner or lienholders of the vehicle, for a
period of two years. If not claimed within that two-year period, the proceeds
shall be paid into the General Fund of the municipality.
(Neb. Rev. Stat. 60-1905)
   (G)   Neither the owner, lessee, nor occupant of the premises from which any
abandoned vehicle is removed, nor the municipality, shall be liable for any
loss or damage to the vehicle which occurs during its removal or while in the
possession of the municipality or its contractual agent or as a result of any
subsequent disposition.
(Neb. Rev. Stat. 60-1906)
   (H)   The last registered owner of an abandoned vehicle shall be liable to
the municipality for the costs of removal and storage of the vehicle.
(Neb. Rev. Stat. 60-1909)
   (I)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      PRIVATE PROPERTY. Any privately owned property which is not included
within the definition of public property.
      PUBLIC PROPERTY. Any public right-of-way, street, highway, alley, or
park, or other state, county, or municipally owned property.
(Neb. Rev. Stat. 60-1901)
   (J)   Any person who violates the provisions of this section is guilty of an
offense.
Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. Rev. Stat. 60-1901 through 60-1911
§ 133.41  SHOOTING HIGHWAY SIGNS, MARKERS, OR NOTICES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person willfully or maliciously to shoot upon
the public highway and injure, deface, damage, or destroy any signs, monuments,
road markers, traffic-control or surveillance devices, or other public notices
lawfully placed upon the highways.
(Neb. Rev. Stat. 60-6,130(1))  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 133.42  REMOVAL AND POSSESSION OF HIGHWAY SIGNS, MARKERS, OR NOTICES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, other than those authorized to do so,
to remove any sign, traffic-control, or traffic surveillance device placed
along a public street, road, or highway for traffic control, warning, or
informational purposes. Moreover, it shall be unlawful for any person to
possess such a sign or device which has been removed in violation of this
section.
(Neb. Rev. Stat. 60-6,130(3))  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 133.43  UNLICENSED OR INOPERABLE VEHICLES.
   No person in charge or control of any property within the municipality,
other than municipal property, whether as owner, tenant, occupant, lessee, or
otherwise, shall allow any partially dismantled, inoperable, wrecked, junked,
or discarded vehicle to remain on that property longer than 30 days. No
unlicensed vehicle shall be permitted to remain on any private or public
property for any length of time, provided that this section shall not apply to
a vehicle in an enclosed building, to a vehicle on the premises of a business
enterprise operated in a lawful place and manner, when the vehicle is necessary
to the lawful operation of the business, or to a vehicle in an appropriate
storage place or depository maintained in a lawful place and manner by the
municipality. Any vehicle allowed to remain on property in violation of this
section shall constitute a nuisance and shall be abated, and any person
violating this section shall be guilty of a offense.
Penalty, see §
10.99
WEAPONS OFFENSES
§ 133.60  DISCHARGE OF FIREARMS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, except an officer of the law in the
discharge of official duty, to fire or discharge any gun, pistol, or other
fowling piece within the municipality, except that nothing in this section
shall be construed to apply to officially sanctioned public celebrations if the
persons so discharging firearms have written permission from the Board of
Trustees.
Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. Rev. Stat. 17-556
§ 133.61  SLINGSHOTS, AIR GUNS, BB GUNS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to discharge a slingshot, air gun, BB
gun, or the like loaded with rock or other dangerous missiles at any time or
under any circumstances within the municipality.
Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. Rev. Stat. 17-556
CHAPTER 134:  OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC MORALS
Section
   
134.01   Prostitution
   
134.02   Public indecency
   
134.03   Gambling
§ 134.01  PROSTITUTION.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to perform, offer, or agree to perform
any act of sexual penetration, as defined in Neb. Rev. Stat. 28-318, with any
person not his or her spouse in exchange for money or other things of value.
(Neb. Rev. Stat. 28-801)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 134.02  PUBLIC INDECENCY.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person, 18 years of age or over, to
perform or procure or assist any other person to perform, in a public place and
where the conduct may reasonably be expected to be viewed by members of the
public:
      (1)   An act of sexual penetration as defined in Neb. Rev. Stat. 28-318;
      (2)   An exposure of the genitals of the body done with intent to affront
or alarm any person; or
      (3)   A lewd fondling or caressing of the body of another person of the
same or opposite sex.
   (B)   It shall not be a violation of this section for an individual to
breast-feed a child in a public place.
(Neb. Rev. Stat. 28-806)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 134.03  GAMBLING.
   (A)   For purposes of this section, the definitions found in Neb. Rev. Stat.
28-1101 shall be used.
   (B)   A person commits the offense of promoting gambling if he or she
knowingly:
      (1)   Advances or profits from any unlawful gambling activity by:
         (a)   Engaging in bookmaking;
         (b)   Receiving, in connection with any unlawful gambling scheme or
enterprise, any amount of money played in the scheme or enterprise in any one
day; or
         (c)   Betting something of value in an amount of $500 or more with one
or more persons in one day; or
(Neb. Rev. Stat. 28-1102 and 28-1103)
      (2)   Participates in unlawful gambling as a player by betting less than
$500 in any one day.
(Neb. Rev. Stat. 28-1104)
   (C)   (1)   A person commits the offense of possession of a gambling device
if he or she manufactures, sells, transports, places, possesses, or conducts or
negotiates any transaction affecting or designed to affect ownership, custody,
or use of any gambling device, knowing that it shall be used in the advancement
of unlawful gambling activity.
      (2)   The owner or operator of a retail establishment who is not a
manufacturer, distributor, or seller of mechanical amusement devices as defined
under the Mechanical Amusement Device Tax Act, shall have an affirmative
defense to possession of a gambling device described in division (C)(1) of this
section if the device bears an unexpired mechanical amusement device decal as
required by such Act. However, such affirmative defense may be overcome if the
owner or operator had actual knowledge that operation of the device constituted
unlawful gambling activity at any time such device was operated on the premises
of the retail establishment.
      (3)   Notwithstanding any other provisions of this division, any
mechanical game or device classified by the federal government as an illegal
gambling device and requiring a federal Gambling Device Tax Stamp as required
by the Internal Revenue Service in its administration of 26 U.S.C. 4461 and
4462, amended July 1, 1965, by Public Law 89-44, is hereby declared to be
illegal.
(Neb. Rev. Stat. 28-1107)
   (D)   In any prosecution under this section, it shall be an affirmative
defense that the writing, paper, instrument, or article possessed by the
defendant was neither used nor intended to be used in the advancement of an
unlawful gambling activity.
(Neb. Rev. Stat. 28-1108)
   (E)   Proof of possession of any gambling device shall be prima facie
evidence of possession thereof with knowledge of its contents and character.
(Neb. Rev. Stat. 28-1109)
   (F)   It shall be no defense to a prosecution under any provision of this
section relating to gambling that the gambling is conducted outside this
village and is not in violation of the laws of the jurisdiction in which it is
conducted.
(Neb. Rev. Stat. 28-1110)
   (G)   In addition to any other penalty, a sentencing court may order that
any money, securities, negotiable instruments, firearms, conveyances, or
electronic communication devices as defined in Neb. Rev. Stat. 28-833 or any
equipment, components, peripherals, software, hardware, or accessories related
to electronic communication devices, or any gambling devices be forfeited as a
part of the sentence imposed if it finds by clear and convincing evidence
adduced at a separate hearing in the same prosecution, conducted pursuant to
Neb. Rev. Stat. 28-1601, that any or all such property was derived from, used,
or intended to be used to facilitate a violation of this section.
(Neb. Rev. Stat. 28-1111)
   (H)   In any prosecution for an offense defined in this section, when the
defendant's status as a player constitutes an excusing condition, the fact that
the defendant was a player shall constitute an affirmative defense.
(Neb. Rev. Stat. 28-1112)
   (I)   Nothing in this section shall be construed to:
      (1)   Apply to or prohibit wagering on the results of horse races by the
parimutuel or certificate method when conducted by licensees within the
racetrack enclosure at licensed horse race meetings; or
      (2)   Prohibit or punish the conducting or participating in any bingo,
lottery by the sale of pickle cards, lottery, raffle, or gift enterprise when
conducted in accordance with the Nebraska Bingo Act, the Nebraska County and
City Lottery Act, the Nebraska Lottery and Raffle Act, the Nebraska Pickle Card
Lottery Act, the Nebraska Small Lottery and Raffle Act, the State Lottery Act,
or Neb. Rev. Stat. 9-701.
(Neb. Rev. Stat. 28-1113)
   (J)   In any prosecution under this section in which it is necessary to
prove the occurrence of a sporting event, a published report of its occurrence
in any daily newspaper, magazine, or other periodically printed publication of
general circulation shall be admissible in evidence and shall constitute prima
facie evidence of the occurrence of the event.
(Neb. Rev. Stat. 28-1117)  Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. Rev. Stat. 17-207
CHAPTER 135:  SEXUAL PREDATOR RESIDENCY RESTRICTIONS
Section
   
135.01   Findings and intent
   
135.02   Definitions
   
135.03   Residency restrictions
   
135.04   Exceptions
   
135.99   Penalty
§ 135.01  FINDINGS AND INTENT.
   (A)   The State Legislature has found that certain sex offenders present a
high risk to commit repeat offenses and has enabled municipalities to restrict
such persons’ place of residency as provided by the Sexual Predator Residency
Restriction Act.
   (B)   Sex offenders who prey on children and who are high risks to repeat
such acts present an extreme threat to public safety. The cost of sex offender
victimization to those children and to society at large, while incalculable, is
exorbitant.
   (C)   It is the intent of this chapter to serve the village’s compelling
interest to promote, protect, and improve the health, safety, and welfare of
the citizens of the village by creating certain areas around locations where
children regularly congregate in concentrated numbers where certain sexual
predators cannot reside.
(Ord. 2015-03, passed 4-8-2015)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. Rev. Stat. 29-4002
§ 135.02  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CHILD CARE FACILITY. A facility licensed pursuant to the Child Care
Licensing Act.
   RESIDE. To sleep, live or dwell at a place, which may include more than one
location, and may be mobile or transitory.
   RESIDENCE. A place where an individual sleeps, lives, or dwells, which may
include more than one location, and may be mobile or transitory.
   SCHOOL. Public, private, denominational, or parochial school meets the
requirements for state accreditation or approval.
   SEX OFFENDER. An individual who has been convicted of a crime listed in Neb.
Rev. Stat. 29-4003 and who is required to register as a sex offender pursuant
to the Sex Offender Registration Act.
   SEXUAL PREDATOR. An individual who is required to register under the Sex
Offender Registration Act, who has been classified as Level 3 because of the
high risk of recidivism as determined by the State Patrol under Neb. Rev. Stat.
29-4013, and who has victimized a person 18 years of age or younger.
(Ord. 2015-03, passed 4-8-2015)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. Rev. Stat. 29-4016
§ 135.03  RESIDENCY RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   Prohibited location of residence. It is unlawful for any sexual
predator to reside within 500 feet from a school or child care facility.
   (B)   Measure of distance. For purposes of determining the minimum distance
separation, the distance shall be measured by following a straight line from
the outer property line of the residence to the straight line from the outer
property line of the residence to the nearest outer boundary line of the child
care facility.
(Ord. 2015-03, passed 4-8-2015)  Penalty, see §
135.99
§ 135.04  EXCEPTIONS.
   This chapter shall not apply to a sexually predator who:
   (A)   Resides within a prison or correctional or treatment facility operated
by the state or a political subdivision;
   (B)   Established a residence before July 1, 2006, and has not moved from
that residence; or
   (C)   Established a residence after July 1, 2006, and the school or child
care facility triggering the restriction was established after the initial date
of the sexual predator’s residence at the location.
(Ord. 2015-03, passed 4-8-2015)
§ 135.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who shall violate or refuse to comply with the enforcement
of any of the provisions of this chapter set forth at full length herein or
incorporated by reference, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and upon conviction
thereof shall be fined not more than $500 for each offense. A new violation
shall be deemed to have been committed every 24 hours of such failure to
comply.
   (B)   A person who violates §
135.03 shall be guilty of an offense and fined in accordance with §
91.99.
(Ord. 2015-03, passed 4-8-2015)
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
   Chapter
      
150.   BUILDING CODES
      
151.   UNSAFE BUILDINGS
      
152.   SUBDIVISIONS
      
153.   FLOOD PREVENTION
      
154.   ZONING
CHAPTER 150:  BUILDING CODES
Section
Building Moving
   
150.01   General regulations
   
150.02   Deposit
   
150.03   Barricades and lights
National Construction Codes
   
150.15   International Building Code
   
150.16   Housing Code
   
150.17   Uniform Plumbing Code
   
150.18   National Electrical Code
   
150.19   Uniform Plumbing Code; prohibition of lead pipes, solder, and flux
   
150.20   International Residential Code
General Regulations
   
150.45   Permanent foundations
   
150.46   Off-street parking
   
150.47   Manufactured homes and mobile homes
   
150.48   Plans, maps, and the like; municipal officials; duty
 
   
150.99   Penalty
BUILDING MOVING
§ 150.01  GENERAL REGULATIONS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation to move any
building or structure within the municipality without a written permit to do
so. Application may be made to the Village Clerk, and shall include the present
and future location of the building to be moved, the proposed route, the
equipment to be used, and such other information as the governing body may
require. The application shall be accompanied by a certificate issued by the
County Treasurer to the effect that all the provisions regulating the moving of
buildings have been complied with on the part of the owner of the real estate
upon which the said building is presently located. Upon approval of the
governing body, the Village Clerk shall then issue the said permit; provided,
that a good and sufficient corporate surety bond, check, or cash in an amount
set by motion of the governing body and conditioned upon moving said building
without doing damage to any private or municipal property is filed with the
Village Clerk prior to the granting of any permit. No moving permit shall be
required to move a building that is ten feet wide, or less, and 20 feet long,
or less, and when in a position to move, 15 feet high, or less.
   (B)   In the event it will be necessary for any licensed building mover to
interfere with the telephone or telegraph poles and wires, or a gas line, the
company or companies owning, using, or operating the said poles, wires, or line
shall, upon proper notice of at least 24 hours, be present and assist by
disconnecting the said poles, wires, or line relative to the building moving
operation. All expense of the said disconnection, removal, or related work
shall be paid in advance by the licensee unless such disconnection or work is
furnished on different terms as provided in the said company’s franchise.
Whenever the moving of any building necessitates interference with a water
main, sewer main, pipes, or wire belonging to the municipality, notice in
writing of the time and route of the said building moving operation shall be
given to the various municipal officials in charge of the municipal utility
departments who shall proceed in behalf of the municipality and at the expense
of the mover to make such disconnections and do such work as is necessary.
(Prior Code, § 9-101)  Penalty, see §
150.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. Rev. Stat. 39-6,177 through 39-6,180, 39-6,184,
and 77-1725
§ 150.02  DEPOSIT.
   At such time as the building moving has been completed, the governing body
or its appointed representative shall inspect the premises and report to the
Village Clerk as to the extent of damages, if any, resulting from the said
relocation and whether any municipal laws have been violated during the said
operation. Upon a satisfactory report from the governing body or its appointed
representative, the Village Clerk shall return the corporate surety bond, cash,
or check deposited by the applicant. In the event the basement, foundation, or
portion thereof is not properly filled, covered, or in a clean and sanitary
condition, the governing body may apply the money deposited for the purpose of
defraying the expense of correcting the said conditions. If the expense of
correcting the hazardous condition is greater than the amount of the deposit
set by resolution of the governing body, as required herein, the governing body
may recover such excess expense by civil suit or otherwise as prescribed by
law.
(Prior Code, § 9-102)
§ 150.03  BARRICADES AND LIGHTS.
   It shall be the duty of the owner, tenant, or lessee causing the
construction, demolition, or moving of any building or improvement within the
municipality to have during such work all excavations, open basements, building
materials, and debris protected by suitable guards or barricades by day, and by
warning lights at night. The failure, neglect, or refusal of said persons to
erect such guards shall constitute a violation of this section and the
governing body or its appointed representative shall stop all work until guards
are erected and maintained as required.
(Prior Code, § 9-201)
NATIONAL CONSTRUCTION CODES
§ 150.15  INTERNATIONAL BUILDING CODE.
   To provide certain minimum standards, provisions, and requirements for safe
and stable design, methods of construction, and uses of materials in buildings
hereafter erected, constructed, enlarged, altered, repaired, relocated, and
converted, the International Building Code, most current edition, printed in
book or pamphlet form is hereby incorporated by reference in addition to all
amended editions as though printed in full herein insofar as said code does not
conflict with the statutes of the state. One copy of the International Building
Code is on file at the office of the Village Clerk and is available for public
inspection at any reasonable time. The provisions of the International Building
Code shall be controlling throughout the municipality and throughout its zoning
jurisdiction.
(Prior Code, § 9-401)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. Rev. Stat. 17-1001, 18-132, 19-902, and 19-922
§ 150.16  HOUSING CODE.
   To provide certain minimum standards, provisions, and requirements for safe
and stable design, methods of construction, and uses of materials in houses
hereafter erected, constructed, enlarged, altered, repaired, relocated, and
converted, the Uniform Housing Code, 1973 Edition, published by the
International Conference of Building Officials, and printed in book or pamphlet
form, is hereby incorporated by reference in addition to all amended editions
as though printed in full herein insofar as said code does not conflict with
the statutes of the state. One copy of the Housing Code is on file at the
office of the Village Clerk and is available for public inspection at any
reasonable time. The provisions of the Housing Code shall be controlling
throughout the municipality and throughout its zoning jurisdiction.
(Prior Code, § 9-402)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. Rev. Stat. 17-1001, 18-132, 19-901, and 19-922
§ 150.17  UNIFORM PLUMBING CODE.
   To provide certain minimum standards, provisions, and requirements for safe
and fireproof installation, methods of connection, and uses of materials in the
installation of electrical wiring and appliances, the Uniform Plumbing Code,
most current edition, printed in book or pamphlet form, is hereby incorporated
by reference in addition to all amended editions as though printed in full
herein insofar as said code does not conflict with the statutes of the state.
One copy of the Uniform Plumbing Code is on file at the office of the Village
Clerk and is available for public inspection at any reasonable time. The
provisions of the Uniform Plumbing Code shall be controlling throughout the
municipality and throughout its zoning jurisdiction.
(Prior Code, § 9-403)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. Rev. Stat. 17-1001, 18-132, 19-902, and 19-922
§ 150.18  NATIONAL ELECTRICAL CODE.
   To provide certain minimum standards, provisions, and requirements for safe
and fireproof installation, methods of connection, and uses of materials in the
installation of electrical wiring and appliances, the National Electrical Code,
most current edition, printed in book or pamphlet form, is hereby incorporated
by reference in addition to all amended editions as though printed in full
herein insofar as said code does not conflict with the statutes of the state.
One copy of the National Electrical Code is on file at the office of the
Village Clerk and is available for public inspection at any reasonable time.
The provisions of the National Electrical Code shall be controlling throughout
the municipality and throughout its zoning jurisdiction.
(Prior Code, § 9-404)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. Rev. Stat. 17-1001, 18-132, 19-902, and 19-922
§ 150.19  UNIFORM PLUMBING CODE; PROHIBITION OF LEAD PIPES, SOLDER, AND FLUX.
   (A)   Any pipe, solders, or flux used in the installation or repair of any
residential or nonresidential facility which is connected to the public water
supply system shall be lead free.
   (B)   For purposes of this section, LEAD FREE shall mean:
      (1)   Solder and flux: not more than 0.2% lead; and
      (2)   Pipe and pipe fittings: not more than 8% lead.
(Prior Code, § 9-405)  (Ord. 1988-5, passed 10-5-1988)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. Rev. Stat. 71-5301
§ 150.20  INTERNATIONAL RESIDENTIAL CODE.
   To provide certain minimum standards, provisions, and requirements for safe
and fireproof installation, methods of connection, and uses of materials in the
installation of electrical wiring and appliances, the International Residential
Code, most current edition, printed in book or pamphlet form, is hereby
incorporated by reference in addition to all amended editions as though printed
in full herein insofar as said code does not conflict with the statutes of the
state. One copy of the International Residential Code is on file at the office
of the Village Clerk and is available for public inspection at any reasonable
time. The provisions of the International Residential Code shall be controlling
throughout the municipality and throughout its zoning jurisdiction.
GENERAL REGULATIONS
§ 150.45  PERMANENT FOUNDATIONS.
   All permanent dwellings, including mobile homes, constructed or located
within the village limits after May 1, 1992, shall have adequate permanent
foundations subject to approval by the Village Board pursuant to the building
permit procedure.
(Prior Code, § 9-601)  (Ord. 1992-3, passed 4-1-1992)
§ 150.46  OFF-STREET PARKING.
   All permanent dwellings, including mobile homes, constructed within the
village limits after May 1, 1992, shall have off-street parking for at least
one vehicle. OFF-STREET PARKING is defined as an area that is laid out for the
purpose of parking motor vehicles and is not located on public right-of-way.
(Prior Code, § 9-602)  (Ord. 1992-2, passed 4-1-1992)
§ 150.47  MANUFACTURED HOMES AND MOBILE HOMES.
   (A)   MANUFACTURED HOME and MOBILE HOME include:
      (1)   A factory-built structure which is to be used as a place for human
habitation, which is not constructed or equipped with a permanent hitch or
other device allowing it to be moved other than to a permanent site, and which
does not have permanently attached to its body or frame any wheels or axles; or
      (2)   A modular housing unit as defined in Neb. Rev. Stat. 71-1557
bearing the seal of the state’s Department of Health. Recreational vehicles and
travel trailers are excluded from this definition.
   (B)   Each manufactured home and mobile home shall have:
      (1)   A floor area of at least 900 square feet;
      (2)   A minimum exterior width of 18 feet;
      (3)   A pitched roof with a minimum vertical rise of two and one-half
inches for each 12 inches of horizontal run;
      (4)   A nonreflective exterior siding material of a color, material, and
scale comparable with those existing in residential site-built, single-family
construction in the city;
      (5)   A nonreflective roof material which is or simulates asphalt or wood
shingles, tile, or rock;
      (6)   Permanent connections to permanently located utilities complying
with the Uniform Plumbing Code and the International Electrical Code adopted by
the village municipal code.
      (7)   A label certifying that the mobile home was built in compliance
with National Manufactured Home Construction and Safety Standards, 24 C.F.R.
parts 3280 et seq. promulgated by the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban
Development or a seal of the state’s Department of Health for a modular home as
defined in Neb. Rev. Stat. 71-1557.
   (C)   Each manufactured home and mobile home shall have wheels, axles,
transporting lights, and removable towing apparatus removed.
   (D)   Each manufactured home and mobile home shall be securely and
permanently attached to a permanent foundation complying with the National
Building Code adopted by the village municipal code.
   (E)   The exterior siding of each manufactured home and mobile home shall
extend to the ground and shall be supported to withstand wind loads as set
forth in the National Building Code adopted by the village municipal code, or
the foundations shall form a complete enclosure under the exterior walls. The
space beneath the manufactured home and mobile home shall be properly
ventilated.
   (F)   Each manufactured home and mobile home shall be considered to be a
single-family detached structure for the purposes determining applicable site
development regulations.
(Prior Code, § 9-603)  (Ord. 1997-4, passed 4-2-1997)
§ 150.48  PLANS, MAPS, AND THE LIKE; MUNICIPAL OFFICIALS; DUTY.
   A municipal official charged with the duty or responsibility of accepting or
approving plans, specifications, geological maps, and reports shall not accept
or approve plans, specifications, geological maps, or reports which have not
been prepared in accordance with the Geologists Regulation Act.
(Prior Code, § 9-604)  (Ord. 2002-4, passed 10-16-2002; Ord. 2005-14, passed 3-
2-2005)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. Rev. Stat. RS 81-3538
§ 150.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who shall violate or refuse to comply with the enforcement
of any of the provisions of this chapter set forth at full length herein or
incorporated by reference, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and upon conviction
thereof shall be fined not more than $500 for each offense. A new violation
shall be deemed to have been committed every 24 hours of such failure to
comply.
   (B)   (1)   Whenever a nuisance exists as defined in this chapter, the
municipality may proceed by a suit in equity to enjoin, abate, and remove the
same in the manner provided by law.
      (2)   Whenever, in any action, it is established that a nuisance exists,
the court may, together with the fine or penalty imposed, enter an order of
abatement as a part of the judgment in the case.
(Prior Code, § 9-701)  (Ord. 2002-16, passed 10-16-2002; Ord. 2004-18, passed
10-6-2004)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. Rev. Stat. 17-207, 17-505, 18-1720, and 18-1722
CHAPTER 151:  UNSAFE BUILDINGS
Section
   
151.01   Purpose and application
   
151.02   Administration
   
151.03   Inspections
   
151.04   Right of entry
   
151.05   Public nuisances; abatement
   
151.06   Violation
   
151.07   Board of Appeals
   
151.08   Definitions
   
151.09   Commencement of proceedings
   
151.10   Notice and order
   
151.11   Service of notice and order
   
151.12   Method of service
   
151.13   Recordation of notice and order
   
151.14   Repair, vacation, and demolition
   
151.15   Notice to vacate
   
151.16   Notice to vacate; compliance
   
151.17   Appeal; form of request
   
151.18   Appeal; notice of hearing
   
151.19   Effect of failure to appeal
   
151.20   Scope of hearing on appeal
   
151.21   Staying of order under appeal
   
151.22   Conduct of hearings; general provisions
   
151.23   Form of notice of hearing
   
151.24   Conduct of hearing; evidence
   
151.25   Conduct of hearings; rights of parties
   
151.26   Inspection of premises
   
151.27   Appeal; decision of Board
   
151.28   Enforcement of order
   
151.29   Failure to obey order
   
151.30   Failure to commence work
   
151.31   Statement of costs; hearing; objections
Cross-reference:
   Building codes, see
Ch. 150
   Zoning, see
Ch. 154
§ 151.01  PURPOSE AND APPLICATION.
   (A)   It is the purpose of this chapter to provide a just, equitable, and
practicable method, to be cumulative with and in addition to any other remedy
provided by the Building Code or otherwise available by law, whereby building
or structures which from any cause endanger the life, limb, health, morals,
property, safety, or welfare of the general public or their occupants may be
required to be repaired, vacated, or demolished.
   (B)   The provisions of this chapter shall apply to all unsafe buildings, as
herein defined, which are now in existence or which may hereafter become unsafe
within the corporate limits and the municipality’s zoning jurisdiction.
(Ord. 2007-4, passed 11-14-2007)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. Rev. Stat. 18-1720, 18-1722, and 18-1722.01
§ 151.02  ADMINISTRATION.
   The Building Official is hereby authorized to enforce the provisions of this
chapter. The Building Official shall have the power to render interpretations
of the chapter in order to clarify the application of its provisions. Such
interpretations shall be in conformity with the intent and purpose of this
chapter. (Ord. 2007-4, passed 11-14-2007)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. Rev. Stat. 18-1720, 18-1722, and 18-1722.01
§ 151.03  INSPECTIONS.
   The Building Official and Fire Chief are hereby authorized to make such
inspections and take such actions as may be required to enforce the provisions
of this chapter.
(Ord. 2007-4, passed 11-14-2007)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. Rev. Stat. 18-1720, 18-1722, and 18-1722.01
§ 151.04  RIGHT OF ENTRY.
   When it is necessary to make an inspection to enforce the provisions of this
chapter, or when the Building Official or the Building Official’s authorized
representative has reasonable cause to believe that there exists in a building
or upon a premises a condition which is contrary to or in violation of this
chapter which makes the building or premises unsafe, dangerous, or hazardous,
the Building Official may enter the building or premises at reasonable times to
inspect or to perform the duties imposed by this chapter, provided that if such
building or premises be occupied that credentials be presented to the occupant
and entry requested. If such building or premises is unoccupied, the Building
Official shall first make a reasonable effort to locate the owner or other
person having charge and control of the building or premises and request entry.
If entry is refused, the Building Official shall have recourse to the remedies
provided by law to secure entry.
(Ord. 2007-4, passed 11-14-2007)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. Rev. Stat. 18-1720, 18-1722, and 18-1722.01
§ 151.05  PUBLIC NUISANCES; ABATEMENT.
   All buildings or portions thereof which are determined after inspection by
the Building Official to be unsafe, dangerous, or hazardous, as defined in this
chapter, are hereby declared to be public nuisances and shall be abated by
repair, rehabilitation, demolition, or removal in accordance with the procedure
specified in this chapter.
(Ord. 2007-4, passed 11-14-2007)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. Rev. Stat. 18-1720, 18-1722, and 18-1722.01
§ 151.06  VIOLATION.
   It shall be unlawful to maintain or permit the existence of any unsafe
building in the municipality and it shall be unlawful for the owner, occupant,
or person in custody or control of any unsafe building to permit the same to
remain in an unsafe condition or to occupy such building or structure or permit
it to be occupied while it is in an unsafe condition.
(Ord. 2007-4, passed 11-14-2007)  Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. Rev. Stat. 17-505, 18-1720, 18-1722, and 18-
1722.01
§ 151.07  BOARD OF APPEALS.
   (A)   In order to hear and decide appeals of orders, decisions, or
determinations made by the Building Official relative to the application and
interpretation of this chapter, there shall be and is hereby created a Board of
Appeals. The Board of Trustees shall serve as the Board of Appeals.
   (B)   Appeals to the Board shall be processed in accordance with the
provisions of this chapter.
   (C)   The Board of Appeals shall have no authority relative to
interpretation of the administrative provisions of this chapter nor shall the
Board be empowered to waive requirements of this chapter.
(Ord. 2007-4, passed 11-14-2007)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. Rev. Stat. 18-1720, 18-1722, and 18-1722.01
§ 151.08  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, certain terms, phrases, words, and their
derivatives shall be construed as specified in either this chapter or as
specified in the Building Code. Where terms are not defined, they shall have
their ordinary accepted meanings within the context with which they are used.
Words used in the singular include the plural and the plural the singular.
Words used in the masculine gender include the feminine and the feminine the
masculine.
   BUILDING CODE. The National Building Code, 1967 Edition, promulgated by the
International Conference of Building Officials, as adopted by the municipality.
   UNSAFE BUILDING. Any building or structure which has any or all of the
conditions or defects hereinafter described shall be deemed to be an UNSAFE
BUILDING, provided that such conditions or defects exist to the extent that the
life, health, property, or safety of the public or its occupants are
endangered:
      (1)   Whenever any door, aisle, passageway, stairway, or other means of
exit is not of sufficient width or size or is not so arranged as to provide
safe and adequate means of exit in case of fire or panic;
      (2)   Whenever the walking surface of any aisle, passageway, stairway, or
other means of exit is so warped, worn, loose, torn, or otherwise unsafe as to
not provide safe and adequate means of exit in case of fire or panic;
      (3)   Whenever the stress in any materials, member, or portion thereof,
due to all dead and live loads, is more than one and one half times the working
stress or stresses allowed in the Building Code for new buildings or similar
structure, purpose, or location;
      (4)   Whenever any portion thereof has been damaged by fire, earthquake,
wind, flood, or by any other cause, to such an extent that the structural
strength or stability thereof is materially less than it was before such
catastrophe and is less than the minimum requirements of the Building Code for
new buildings of similar structure, purpose, or location;
      (5)   Whenever any portion of member or appurtenance thereof is likely to
fail, or to become detached or dislodged, or to collapse and thereby injure
persons or damage property;
      (6)   Whenever any portion of a building, or any member, appurtenance, or
ornamentation on the exterior thereof is not of sufficient strength or
stability, or is not so anchored, attached or fastened
in place so as to be capable of resisting a wind pressure of one half of that
specified in the Building Code for new buildings of similar structure, purpose,
or location without exceeding the work stresses permitted in the Building Code
for such buildings;
      (7)   Whenever any portion thereof has wracked, warped, buckled, or
settled to such an extent that walls or other structural portions have
materially less resistance to winds or earthquakes than is required in the case
of similar new construction;
      (8)   Whenever the building or structure, or any portion thereof, because
of dilapidation, deterioration or decay; faulty construction; the removal,
movement, or instability of any portion of the ground necessary for the purpose
of supporting such building; the deterioration, decay, or inadequacy of its
foundation; or any other cause, is likely to partially or completely collapse;
      (9)   Whenever, for any reason, the building or structure, or any portion
thereof, is manifestly unsafe for the purpose which it is being used;
      (10)   Whenever the exterior walls or other vertical structural members
list, lean, or buckle to such an extent that a plumb line passing through the
center or gravity does not fall inside the middle one third of the base;
      (11)   Whenever the building or structure, exclusive of the foundation,
shows 33% or more damage or deterioration of its supporting member or members,
or 50% damage or deterioration of its nonsupporting members, enclosing or
outside walls or coverings;
      (12)   Whenever the building or structure has been so damaged by fire,
wind, earthquake, or flood, or has become so dilapidated or deteriorated as to
become an attractive nuisance to children, a harbor for vagrants, criminals, or
immoral persons; or as to enable persons to resort thereto for the purpose of
committing unlawful or immoral acts;
      (13)   Whenever any building or structure has been conducted, exists, or
is maintained in violation of any specific requirement or prohibition
applicable to such building or structure provided by the building regulations
of the municipality, as specified in the Building Code, or of any law or
ordinance of the municipality relating to the condition, location, or structure
of buildings;
      (14)   Whenever any building or structure which, whether or not erected
in accordance with all applicable laws and ordinances, has in any nonsupporting
part, member, or portion less than 50%, or in any supporting part, member, or
portion less than 66% of the strength, fire-resisting qualities, or
characteristics required by law in the case of a newly constructed building of
like area, height, and occupancy in the same location;
      (15)   Whenever a building or structure, used or intended to be used for
dwelling purposes, because or inadequate maintenance, dilapidation, decay,
damage, faulty construction or arrangement, inadequate light, air, or
sanitation facilities, or otherwise, is determined by the Building Official to
be unsanitary, unfit for human habitation, or in such a condition that is
likely to cause sickness or disease;
      (16)   Whenever any building or structure, because of obsolescence,
dilapidated condition, deterioration, damage, inadequate exits, lack of
sufficient fire-resistive construction, faulty electric wiring, gas
connections, or heating apparatus, or other cause, is determined by the Fire
Marshal to be a fire hazard;
      (17)   Whenever any building or structure is in such a condition as to
constitute a public nuisance known to the common law or in equity
jurisprudence;
      (18)   Whenever any portion of a building or structure remains on a site
after the demolition or destruction of the building or structure or whenever
any building or structure is abandoned for a period in excess of six months so
as to constitute such building or portion thereof an attractive nuisance or
hazard to the public.
(Ord. 2007-4, passed 11-14-2007)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. Rev. Stat. 18-1720, 18-1722, and 18-1722.01
§ 151.09  COMMENCEMENT OF PROCEEDINGS.
   When the Building Official has inspected or cause to be inspected any
building and has found and determined that such building is an unsafe building,
the Building Official shall commence proceedings to cause the repair, vacation,
or demolition of the building.
(Ord. 2007-4, passed 11-14-2007)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. Rev. Stat. 18-1720, 18-1722, and 18-1722.01
§ 151.10  NOTICE AND ORDER.
   (A)   The Building Official shall issue a notice and order directed to the
record owner of the building.
   (B)   The notice and order shall contain:
      (1)   The street address and a legal description sufficient for
identification of the premises upon which the building is located;
      (2)   A statement that the Building Official has found the building to be
unsafe with a brief and concise description of the conditions found to render
the building unsafe under the definition of unsafe building in §
151.08;
      (3)   A statement of the action required to be taken as determined by the
Building Official:
         (a)   If the Building Official has determined that the building or
structure must be repaired, the order shall require that all required permits
be secured therefor and the work physically commenced within such time, not to
exceed 90 days from the date of the order, and completed within such time as
the Building Official shall determine is reasonable under all of the
circumstances;
         (b)   If the Building Official has determined that the building or
structure must be vacated, the order shall require that the building or
structure shall be vacated within a time certain from the date of the order as
determined by the Building Official to be reasonable; or
         (c)   If the Building Official has determined that the building or
structure must be demolished, the order shall require that the building be
vacated within such time as the Building Official shall determine reasonable,
not to exceed 60 days from the date of the order; that all required permits be
secured therefor within 60 days from the date of the order; and that demolition
be completed within such time as the Building Official shall determine is
reasonable.
      (4)   Statements advising that if any required repair or demolition work
(without vacation also being required) is not commenced within the time
specified, the Building Official will order the building vacated and posted to
prevent further occupancy until the work is completed, and may proceed to cause
the work to be done and charge the costs thereof against the property or its
owner; and
      (5)   Statements advising that any person having any record title or
legal interest in the building may appeal from the notice and order or any
action of the Building Official to the Board of Appeals, provided the appeal is
made it writing as provided in this chapter and filed with the Building
Official within 30 days from the date of service of such notice and order; and
that failure to appeal will constitute a waiver or all right to an
administrative hearing and determination of the matter.
(Ord. 2007-4, passed 11-14-2007)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. Rev. Stat. 18-1720, 18-1722, and 18-1722.01
§ 151.11  SERVICE OF NOTICE AND ORDER.
   (A)   The notice and order, any amended or supplemental notice and order,
shall be served upon the record owner and posted on the property; and one copy
thereof shall be served on each of the following if known to the Building
Official or disclosed from official public records: the holder of any mortgage
or deed of trust or other lien or encumbrance of record; the owner or holder of
any lease of record; and the holder of any other estate or legal interest of
record in or to the building or the land on which it is located.
   (B)   The failure of the Building Official to serve any person required to
be served shall not invalidate any proceedings hereunder as to any other person
duty served or relieve any such person from any duty or obligation imposed by
the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 2007-4, passed 11-14-2007)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. Rev. Stat. 18-1720, 18-1722, and 18-1722.01
§ 151.12  METHOD OF SERVICE.
   Service of the notice and order shall be made upon all persons entitled
thereto either personally or by mailing a copy of such notice and order by
certified mail, postage prepaid, return receipt requested, to each such person
at their address as it appears on the last equalized assessment roll of the
county or as known to the Building Official. If no address of any such person
so appears or is known to the Building Official, then a copy of the notice and
order shall be so mailed, addressed to such person, at the address of the
building involved in the proceedings. The failure of any such person to receive
such notice shall not affect the validity of any proceedings taken under this
chapter. Service by certified mail in the manner herein provided shall be
effective on the date of mailing.
(Ord. 2007-4, passed 11-14-2007)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. Rev. Stat. 18-1720, 18-1722, and 18-1722.01
§ 151.13  RECORDATION OF NOTICE AND ORDER.
   (A)   If compliance is not had with the order within 30 days, and no appeal
has been properly and timely filed, the Building Official shall file in the
office of the County Register of Deeds a certificate describing the property
and certifying that the building is an unsafe building, and that the owner has
been so notified.
   (B)   Whenever the corrections ordered shall thereafter have been completed
or the building demolished so that it no longer exists as an unsafe building on
the property described in the certificate, the Building Official shall file a
new certificate with the County Register of Deeds certifying that the building
has been demolished or all required corrections have been made so that the
building is no longer unsafe, whichever is appropriate.
(Ord. 2007-4, passed 11-14-2007)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. Rev. Stat. 18-1720, 18-1722, and 18-1722.01
§ 151.14  REPAIR, VACATION, AND DEMOLITION.
   The following standards shall be followed by the Building Official, and by
the Board of Appeals if an appeal is taken, in ordering the repair, vacation,
or demolition of any dangerous building or structure.
   (A)   Any building declared an unsafe building under this chapter shall be
made to comply with one of the following:
      (1)   The building shall be repaired in accordance with the current
building code;
      (2)   The building shall be demolished at the option of the building
owner; or
      (3)   If the building does not constitute an immediate danger to the
life, limb, property, or safety of the public, it may be vacated, secured, and
maintained against entry.
   (B)    If the building or structure is in such condition as to make it
immediately dangerous to the life, limb, property, or safety of the public or
its occupants, it shall be ordered to be vacated.
(Ord. 2007-4, passed 11-14-2007)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. Rev. Stat. 18-1720, 18-1722, and 18-1722.01
§ 151.15  NOTICE TO VACATE.
   Every notice to vacate shall, in addition to being served as provided in §
151.15, be posted at or upon each exit of the building and shall be in
substantially the following form:
DO NO ENTER
UNSAFE TO OCCUPY
It is an offense to occupy this building, or to remove or deface this notice.
Building Official
Village of Cortland
(Ord. 2007-4, passed 11-14-2007)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. Rev. Stat. 18-1720, 18-1722, and 18-1722.01
§ 151.16  NOTICE TO VACATE; COMPLIANCE.
   Whenever such notice is posted, the Building Official shall include a
notification thereof in the notice and order issued under §
151.10, reciting the emergency and specifying the conditions which necessitate
the posting. No person shall remain in or enter any building which has been so
posted, except that entry may be made to repair, demolish, or remove such
building under permit. No person shall remove or deface any such notice after
it is posted until the required repairs, demolition, or removal have been
completed and a certificate of occupancy issued pursuant to the provisions of
the Building Code.
(Ord. 2007-4, passed 11-14-2007)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. Rev. Stat. 18-1720, 18-1722, and 18-1722.01
§ 151.17  APPEAL; FORM OF REQUEST.
   (A)   Any person entitled to service under §
151.11 may appeal from any notice and order or any action of the Building
Official under this chapter by filing at the office of the Village Clerk a
written appeal containing:
      (1)   The names of all appellants participating in the appeal and a
description of the property which is the subject of the notice and order;
      (2)   A brief statement setting forth the legal interest of each of the
appellants in the building or the land involved in the notice and order;
      (3)   A brief statement in ordinary and concise language of the specific
order or action protested, together with any material facts claimed to support
the contentions of the appellant;
      (4)   A brief statement in ordinary and concise language of the relief
sought and the reasons why it is claimed the protested order or action should
be reversed, modified, or otherwise set aside; and
      (5)   The signatures of all parties named as appellants and their
official mailing addresses.
   (B)   The appeal shall be filed within 30 days from the date of the service
of such order or action of the Building Official; provided, however, that if
the building or structure is in such condition as to make it immediately unsafe
to the life, limb, property, or safety of the public or adjacent property, is
ordered vacated and is posted in accordance with §
151.15, such appeal shall be filed within ten days from the date of service of
the notice and order of the Building Official.
(Ord. 2007-4, passed 11-14-2007)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. Rev. Stat. 18-1720, 18-1722, and 18-1722.01
§ 151.18  APPEAL; NOTICE OF HEARING.
   As soon as practicable after receiving the written appeal, the Board of
Appeals shall fix a date, time, and place for the hearing of the appeal by the
Board. Such date shall not be less than ten days nor more than 30 days from the
date the appeal was filed with the Village Clerk. Written notice of the time
and place of the hearing shall be given at least ten days prior to the date of
the hearing to each appellant by the Village Clerk by first class mail, postage
prepaid, at the address shown on the appeal.
(Ord. 2007-4, passed 11-14-2007)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. Rev. Stat. 18-1720, 18-1722, and 18-1722.01
§ 151.19  EFFECT OF FAILURE TO APPEAL.
   Failure of any person to file an appeal in accordance with the provisions of
§
151.17 shall constitute a waiver of the right to an administrative hearing and
adjudication of the notice and order or any portion thereof.
(Ord. 2007-4, passed 11-14-2007)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. Rev. Stat. 18-1720, 18-1722, and 18-1722.01
§ 151.20  SCOPE OF HEARING ON APPEAL.
   Only those matters or issues specifically raised by the appellant shall be
considered in the hearing of the appeal.
(Ord. 2007-4, passed 11-14-2007)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. Rev. Stat. 18-1720, 18-1722, and 18-1722.01
§ 151.21  STAYING OF ORDER UNDER APPEAL.
   Except for vacation orders made pursuant to §
151.15, enforcement of any notice and order of the Building Official issued
under this chapter shall be stayed during the pendency of an appeal therefrom
which is properly and timely filed.
(Ord. 2007-4, passed 11-14-2007)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. Rev. Stat. 18-1720, 18-1722, and 18-1722.01
§ 151.22  CONDUCT OF HEARINGS; GENERAL PROVISIONS.
   (A)   Hearing examiners. The Board of Appeals may appoint one or more
hearing examiners or designate one or more of its members to serve as hearing
examiners to conduct the hearings. The examiner hearing the case shall exercise
all powers relating to the conduct of hearings until it is submitted to the
Board for decision.
   (B)   Record. A record of the entire proceedings shall be made by tape
recording or by any other means of permanent recording determined to be
appropriate by the Board. A transcript of the proceedings shall be made
available to all parties upon request and upon payment of a fee prescribed
therefor. Such fees may be established by the Board, but shall not in any event
be greater than the cost involved.
   (C)   Continuances. The Board may grant continuances for good cause shown;
however, when a hearing examiner has been assigned to such hearing, no
continuances may be granted except by the examiner for good cause shown so long
as the matter remains before the examiner.
   (D)   Oaths and certifications. In any proceedings under this chapter, the
Board, any Board member, or the hearing examiner has the power to administer
oaths and affirmations and to certify official acts.
   (E)   Reasonable dispatch. The Board and its representatives shall proceed
with reasonable dispatch to conclude any matter before it. Due regard shall be
shown for the convenience and necessity of any parties or their
representatives.
(Ord. 2007-4, passed 11-14-2007)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. Rev. Stat. 18-1720, 18-1722, and 18-1722.01
§ 151.23  FORM OF NOTICE OF HEARING.
   The notice to the appellant shall be substantially in the following form,
but may include other information:
   “You are hereby notified that a hearing will be held before (the Board of
Appeals or name of hearing examiner) at                         , on the      
   day of,                    20            , at the hour,                 ,
upon the notice and order served upon you. You may be present at the hearing.
You may be, but need not be represented by counsel. You may present any
relevant evidence and will be given the opportunity to cross-examine all
witnesses testifying against you.”
(Ord. 2007-4, passed 11-14-2007)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. Rev. Stat. 18-1720, 18-1722, and 18-1722.01
§ 151.24  CONDUCT OF HEARING; EVIDENCE.
   (A)   Rules. Hearings need not be conducted according to the technical rules
relating to evidence and witnesses.
   (B)   Oral evidence. Oral evidence shall be taken only on oath or
affirmation.
   (C)   Hearsay evidence. Hearsay evidence may be used for the purpose of
supplementing or explaining any direct evidence, but shall not be sufficient
itself to support a finding unless it would be admissible over the objection in
civil actions in courts of competent jurisdiction in this state.
   (D)   Admissibility of evidence. Any relevant evidence shall be admitted if
it is the type of evidence on which responsible persons are accustomed to rely
in the conduct of serious affairs, regardless of the existence of any common
law or statutory rule which might make improper the admission of such evidence
over objection in civil actions in courts of competent jurisdiction in this
state.
   (E)   Exclusion of evidence. Irrelevant and unduly repetitious evidence
shall be excluded.
(Ord. 2007-4, passed 11-14-2007)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. Rev. Stat. 18-1720, 18-1722, and 18-1722.01
§ 151.25  CONDUCT OF HEARINGS; RIGHTS OF PARTIES.
   Each party shall have these rights, among others:
   (A)   To call and examine witnesses on any matter relevant to the issues of
the hearing;
   (B)   To introduce documentary and physical evidence;
   (C)   To cross-examine opposing witnesses on any matter relevant to the
issues of the hearing;
   (D)   To impeach any witness regardless of which party first called the
witness to testify;
   (E)   To rebut the evidence; and
   (F)   To be represented by counsel; provided, however, the municipality
shall not be obligated to provide counsel to any party.
(Ord. 2007-4, passed 11-14-2007)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. Rev. Stat. 18-1720, 18-1722, and 18-1722.01
§ 151.26  INSPECTION OF PREMISES.
   The Board of Appeals or the hearing examiner may inspect any building or
premises involved in the appeal during the course of the hearing, provided that
notice of such inspection shall be given to the parties before the inspection
is made, the parties are given an opportunity to be present during the
inspection; and the Board or hearing examiner shall state for the record upon
completion of the inspection the material facts observed and the conclusions
drawn therefrom. Each party then shall have a right to rebut or explain the
matters so stated by the Board or hearing examiner.
(Ord. 2007-4, passed 11-14-2007)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. Rev. Stat. 18-1720, 18-1722, and 18-1722.01
§ 151.27  APPEAL; DECISION OF BOARD.
   (A)   If a contested case is heard by a hearing examiner alone, the examiner
shall within 30 days submit a written report to the Board of Appeals. Such
report shall contain a brief summary of the evidence considered and state the
examiner’s findings, conclusions, and recommendations. The report also shall
contain a proposed decision in such form that it may be adopted by the Board as
its decision in the case. The Board may adopt or reject the proposed decision
in its entirety, or may modify the proposed decision.
   (B)   The decision shall be in writing and shall contain findings of fact, a
determination of the issues presented, and the requirements to be complied
with. A copy of the decision shall be delivered to the appellant personally or
sent by certified mail, postage prepaid, return receipt requested.
   (C)   The effective date of the decision shall be as stated therein.
(Ord. 2007-4, passed 11-14-2007)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. Rev. Stat. 18-1720, 18-1722, and 18-1722.01
§ 151.28  ENFORCEMENT OF ORDER.
   After any order of the Building Official or the Board of Appeals made
pursuant to this chapter shall have become final, no person to whom any such
order is directed shall fail, neglect, or refuse to obey any such order. Any
such person who fails to comply with any such order shall be guilty of an
offense.
(Ord. 2007-4, passed 11-14-2007)
§ 151.29  FAILURE TO OBEY ORDER.
   If, after any order of the Building Official or Board of Appeals made
pursuant to this chapter has become final, the person to whom such order is
directed shall fail, neglect, or refuse to obey such order, the governing body
may cause such person to be prosecuted under §
151.28, or institute any appropriate action to abate such building as a public
nuisance.
(Ord. 2007-4, passed 11-14-2007)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. Rev. Stat. 18-1720, 18-1722, and 18-1722.01
§ 151.30  FAILURE TO COMMENCE WORK.
   (A)   Whenever the required repair or demolition is not commenced within 30
days after any final notice and order issued under this chapter becomes
effective, the Building Official shall cause the building described in such
notice and order to be vacated by posting at each entrance thereto a notice
reading:
UNSAFE BUILDING
DO NOT OCCUPY
It is an offense to occupy this building, or to remove or deface this notice.
Building Official
Village of Cortland
   (B)   No person shall occupy any building which has been posted as specified
in this section. No person shall remove or deface any such notice so posted
until the repairs, demolition, or removal ordered by the Building Official have
been completed and a certificate of occupancy issued pursuant to provisions of
the Building Code.
   (C)   If the owner of the building or structure fails, neglects, or refuses
to comply with the order to repair, demolish, or remove the building or
structure, the municipality may proceed with the work specified in the order to
the property owner. A statement of the cost of such work shall be transmitted
to the governing body. The governing body may:
      (1)   Levy the cost as a special assessment against the lot or real
estate upon which the building or structure is located. Such special assessment
shall be a lien on the real estate and shall be collected in the manner
provided for special assessments; or
      (2)   Collect the cost from the owner of the building or structure and
enforce the collection by civil action in any court of competent jurisdiction.
(Ord. 2007-4, passed 11-14-2007)  Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. Rev. Stat. 18-1720, 18-1722, and 18-1722.01
§ 151.31  STATEMENT OF COSTS; HEARING; OBJECTIONS.
   (A)   Upon receipt of the statement of costs, the governing body shall fix a
time, date, and place for a hearing on such statement and any protests or
objections thereto. Notice of the hearing shall be served by certified mail,
postage prepaid, return receipt requested, addressed to the owner of the
property. Such notice shall be given at least ten days prior to the date set
for the hearing and shall specify the day, hour, and place when the governing
body will hear and pass upon the statement of costs, together with any
objections or protests which may be filed by any person interested in or
affected by the proposed charge.
   (B)   The governing body may make such revision, correction, or modification
in the statement of costs as it may deem just. The decision of the governing
body on the statement of costs, and on all protests and objections, shall be
final and conclusive.
(Ord. 2007-4, passed 11-14-2007)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. Rev. Stat. 18-1720, 18-1722, and 18-722.01
CHAPTER 152:  SUBDIVISIONS
Section
   
152.01   Subdivision regulations adopted by reference
 
   
152.99   Penalty
§ 152.01  SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   To provide for harmonious development of the municipality and its environs;
for the integration of new subdivision streets with other existing or planned
streets or with other features of the Comprehensive Plan; for adequate open
spaces for traffic, recreation, light, and air; for the distribution of
population and traffic in a manner which will tend to create conditions
favorable to health, safety, convenience, or prosperity; and insure conformance
of subdivision plans with capital improvements programs of the municipality;
and to secure equitable handling of all subdivision plans by providing uniform
procedures and standards for observance by subdivides and the Planning
Commission and governing body, the subdivision regulations for the village, as
prepared by the village, and adopted by ordinance adopted December 5, 2001,
including any amendments thereto as may be made therein from time to time are
hereby incorporated by reference herein as if set out in full. One copy of the
subdivision regulations shall be kept on file with the Village Clerk and
available for public inspection during regular office hours.
(Prior Code, § 11-301)  (Ord. 2001-12, passed 12-5-2001)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. Rev. Stat. 18-132 and 19-922
§ 152.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person, whether as owner, proprietor, or as the agent, attorney,
or representative of any owner or proprietor of land who shall plat, or
subdivide any tract of land within the corporate limits of the municipality, or
adjoining, and contiguous to the same, except as herein authorized, or who
shall sell, transfer, deed, or convey, contract, or agree to sell, transfer, or
offer for sale any lot, or piece of ground in any addition, or subdivision of
three or more parts within said corporate limits or adjoining and contiguous
thereto, without first having first obtained the acceptance and approval of the
plat or map thereof by the governing body and any person who shall violate or
who shall fail, neglect, or refuse to comply with any of the provisions
hereinbefore, as now existing or as hereafter amended, shall upon conviction be
fined in any sum not exceeding $100.
   (B)   Any person who shall violate or refuse to comply with the enforcement
of any of the provisions of this chapter set forth at full length herein or
incorporated by reference, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and upon conviction
thereof shall be fined not more than $500 for each offense. A new violation
shall be deemed to have been committed every 24 hours of such failure to
comply.
(Prior Code, § 11-401)  (Ord. 2004-18, passed 10-6-2004)
CHAPTER 153:  FLOOD PREVENTION
Section
   
153.01   Floodplain regulations adopted by reference
§ 153.01  FLOODPLAIN REGULATIONS ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   The revised Floodplain Regulations, copies of which are on file in the
office of the Village Clerk, is adopted and incorporated as part of this code
of ordinances as fully as if set our at length herein.
(Ord. 2010-3, passed 5-12-2010)
CHAPTER 154:  ZONING
Section
   
154.01   Zoning regulations adopted by reference
   
154.02   Zoning map
   
154.03   Zoning regulations; fees
   
154.04   Fence, wall, and hedge regulations
   
154.05   Off-site signs
§ 154.01  ZONING REGULATIONS ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   For the purpose of setting minimum standards to promote public health,
safety, morals, convenience, order, prosperity, and general welfare of the
village and to lessen congestion in the streets; to secure safety from fire,
panic, and other dangers; to provide adequate light and air; to prevent the
overcrowding of land; to avoid undue concentration of population; and to
facilitate the adequate provision of transportation, water, sewage, schools,
parks, and other public improvements, the zoning regulations for the village,
presented and prepared by said village, are hereby adopted. The adoption of
such zoning regulations shall include any amendments thereto as may be made
from time to time. Said zoning regulations, as well as such amendments, are
hereby incorporated by reference in this chapter as if set out in full. One
copy of the zoning regulations shall be maintained by the Village Clerk at the
Village Office and available for public inspection during regular office hours.
(Prior Code, § 11-201)  (Ord. 2001-11, passed 12-5-2001; Ord. 2008-8, passed 8-
13-2008; Ord. 2018-2, passed 12-12-2018; Ord. 2019-02, passed 1-9-2019; Ord.
2019-6, passed 10-9-2019; Ord. 2020-06, passed 12-9-2020)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. Rev. Stat. 18-132 and 19-922
§ 154.02  ZONING MAP.
   (A)   The village and certain properties within and up to one mile in all
directions of its corporate limits are hereby divided into zones, or districts,
as shown on the official zoning map which, together with all explanatory
material and documentation is hereby adopted by reference, declared to be part
of the zoning regulations of the village and further declared to be part of
this chapter.
   (B)   The official zoning map shall be identified by the signature of the
Chairperson, attested to by the Village Clerk, and bearing the seal of the
village under the following words:
   “This is to certify that this is the Official Zoning Map referred to in
Section 4.3 of Ordinance                              of the Village of
Cortland, Nebraska adopted December 5, 2001. The official zoning map, together
with all changes, amendments, or additions thereto, shall be maintained in the
office of the Village Clerk and available for public inspection during regular
office hours.”
(Prior Code, § 11-202)  (Ord. 2001-11, passed 12-5-2001)
§ 154.03  ZONING REGULATIONS; FEES.
   The following fees are hereby established and shall be charged by the Zoning
Administrator when applications or requests are made to the Zoning
Administrator. Under no condition shall any fee required hereunder by refunded
for failure of said application to be granted by the Village Board or other
appropriate authority.
   (A)   Change of zone. The following fees shall be charged at the time of
application for a change of zone: for the filing of an application for a change
of zone to the AG-1, AG-2, R2, R3, C1, C2, and I districts:
      (1)   Where the area for the change of zone is requested is one acre or
less, the application fee shall be $100; and
      (2)   Where the area for the change of zone is in excess of one acre, the
application fee shall be $200.
   (B)   Special permit. The filing fee for an application for a special permit
shall be $100.
   (C)   Board of Zoning Adjustment. The filing fee for an application to the
Board of Zoning Adjustment shall be $100.
   (D)   Amendment. The filing fee for proposed amendments shall be $100.
   (E)   Subdivisions.
      (1)   The filing fee for a subdivision application shall be $5,000.
      (2)   The filing fee for a subdivision final plat application fee shall
be $250.
   (F)   Plan review reimbursement. The reimbursement fee to the village for
plan review, plan check, and plan approval as related to the village’s
Subdivision Regulations Plan Review Reimbursement shall be 100% of actual costs
incurred by the village, or as negotiated by the subdivider or Sanitary and
Improvement District prior to the incurring of the applicable costs and
expenses.
   (G)   Annexation. The filing fee for an annexation application shall be
$250.
   (H)   (1)   Building permits. The filing fee for building permits shall be
$25.
      (2)   When permits are required.  It shall be unlawful for any person to
build, alter, repair, add onto, remodel, or move any structure within the
village limits without first applying for and receiving a building permit.
(Prior Code, § 9-501)
      (3)   Definition. Structure shall mean any edifice or building of any
kind, including houses, garages, commercial buildings, retaining walls, fences,
and any other structure of any kind.
(Prior Code, § 9-502)
      (4)   Applications. All applications shall include the following
information.
         (a)   Location of work site;
         (b)   Types of repair to be done;
         (c)   Name of owner;
         (d)   Name of person doing work;
         (e)   Time span within which work will be done;
         (f)   Cost of work being done;
         (g)   Utilities which will be affected and a brief description of
impact on utilities; and
         (h)   If water and sewer service are needed, a showing of compliance
with §§
51.03 and
52.03. 
(Prior Code, § 9-504)
      (5)   Village Board action.
         (a)   The Village Board shall take action on the application for a
building permit at its next regular meeting.
         (b)   If the application for a building permit is denied by the
Village Board, the reasons for denying said application shall be set down in
writing and provided to the applicant.
(Prior Code, § 9-505)
   (I)   Exemption for the village filing on its own behalf. No fee shall be
required when any action is recommended by the Village Board on its own motion
or by any person or group officially designated to participate in the
administration of the subdivision and zoning regulations.
   (J)   General fees. The filing fee for an application in connection with the
village zoning regulations and subdivision regulations otherwise not covered by
the fee chapter shall be $25.
(Prior Code, § 11-203)  (Ord. 1978-5, passed 9-6-1978; Ord. 1994-4, passed 8-3-
1994; Ord. 2001-13, passed 12-5-2001)
§ 154.04  FENCE, WALL, AND HEDGE REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Notwithstanding other provisions of this section, fences, walls, and
hedges may be permitted in any required yard, provided that no fence, wall, or
hedge along the sides or front edge of any front yard shall be over three and
one-half feet in height.
   (B)   Additionally, no fence, wall, or hedge shall exceed two and one-half
feet in height when located within the site triangle of a corner lot. The
following regulations shall apply to the construction of fences.
      (1)   No solid fence shall be constructed closer to the street than the
easement line. Distance from street will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis.
      (2)   All fences constructed shall have the finished side of the fence
faced out from the property upon which the fence is constructed.
      (3)   No fence erected in a required front yard shall materially obstruct
public view. Permitted types of fences shall include split rail, chain link, or
similar material. No component of a front yard fence shall exceed three and
one-half feet in height, nor shall any structural member exceed 36 inches in
cross-sectional area.
      (4)   No fence shall be constructed which will constitute a traffic
hazard as identified in the site triangle or a corner lot. (See Article 8.87 of
the Zoning Code).
      (5)   No fence shall be constructed in such a manner or be of such design
as to be hazardous or dangerous to persons or animals by intent of its
construction or by inadequate maintenance.
      (6)   No fence within residential districts, except fences erected upon
public or parochial school grounds or in public parks and in public
playgrounds, shall be constructed of a height greater than six and one-half
feet.
      (7)   All fences shall conform to the construction standards of the
Building Code and other applicable ordinances and resolutions.
      (8)   In commercial and industrial districts, maximum height of fences
shall be eight feet. When industry standards for certain types of businesses
require fences of greater heights, the Zoning Administrator, at his or her
direction, may allow greater heights. See Articles 5.66, 5.75, 6.3, and 6.4 of
the Zoning Code.
      (9)   All fences constructed in the village shall comply with the
provisions of this section and obtain a building permit.
      (10)   No person shall erect or maintain any fence which shall adversely
affect the public health, safety, and welfare of adjacent property owners.
(Prior Code, § 11-204)  (Ord. 2004-21, passed 11-3-2004)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 154.05  OFF-SITE SIGNS.
   Signs which advertise business or uses for businesses physically located
within the geographical limits of the village are permitted with the following
regulations.
   (A)   Zoned area. Signs may only be placed within that part of the railroad
right-of-way zoned C or I.
   (B)   Placement of signs. Signs must be spaced 100 feet apart and set back
at least three feet from the beginning of both the state and village right-of-
way.
   (C)   Lease agreement. The owner of any sign subject to this provision shall
enter into a lease agreement with the village for the rental of the real estate
upon which the sign is placed prior to the erection of said sign. The governing
body has the power and authority to fix the terms and conditions of the lease
agreement by resolution. All such lease agreements shall be on file for public
inspection at the office of the Village Clerk.
(Prior Code, § 11-205)  (Ord. 2005-15, passed 5-11-2005)
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
   Table
      
I.   FRANCHISES
      
II.   ZONING
TABLE I:  FRANCHISES
 
Ord.  Date         Description
No.   Passed   
2002- 5-7-2003     Granting cable franchise to Charter Communications. (Prior Code, § 10-
23                 701)
2005- 2-2-2005     Granting franchise to Zeilinger Keno, Inc. for a term of five years.
2                  (Prior Code, § 10-307)
2006- 6-14-2006    Granting franchise to Norris Public Power District.
3
                  
 
 
TABLE II:  ZONING
 
Ord. No. Date Passed  Description
2015-08  - -2015        Creation of New Hampshire Street Improvement District
                        for street widening.
                       
                       
                       
 
 
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to Nebraska Revised Statutes
References to Prior Code
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO NEBRASKA REVISED STATUTES
Neb. Rev. Stat. Code Section
Neb. Rev. Stat.                   Code Section
9-124 through 9-176               110.02
9-166                             110.01
9-642.01                          110.03
9-646                             110.04
9-701                             134.03
10-101 through 10-143             31.017
11-101                            30.046
11-104                            30.045
11-105                            30.045
11-109                            30.045
11-110                            30.045
11-111                            30.045
11-112                            30.045
11-113                            30.045
11-114                            30.045
11-115                            30.045
11-116                            30.045
11-117                            30.045
11-118                            30.045
13-310                            94.02
13-312                            94.02
13-314                            94.02
13-504                            31.002
13-505                            31.002
13-506                            31.003,
                                  31.021
13-507                            31.003
13-508                            31.004
13-509                            31.020
13-511                            31.021
13-518 through 13-522             31.021
13-606                            31.010
13-609                            31.023
16-714 through 16-716             31.022
17-143                            110.15
17-144                            110.15
17-202                            30.122
17-202 through 17-204             30.002
17-202 through 17-210             30.001
17-203                            30.122
17-204                            30.070 –
                                  30.073
17-205                            30.072,
                                  30.073
                                  10.99,
                                  30.003,
                                  30.999,
                                  50.99,
                                  53.06,
                                  72.99,
17-207                            90.02,
                                  90.99,
                                  91.99,
                                  93.99,
                                  94.99,
                                  110.99,
                                  134.03,
                                  150.99
                                  30.020,
17-208                            30.151,
                                  33.01,
                                  33.03
17-209.02                         30.021,
                                  31.035
17-210                            30.072
17-214                            30.029
17-405                            30.028
17-502                            11.01
                                  10.99,
                                  30.090,
                                  30.999,
                                  50.99,
                                  51.05,
                                  51.22,
                                  52.07,
                                  53.07,
                                  53.99,
                                  71.26,
                                  71.45,
17-505                            72.99,
                                  Ch. 73 Schd. I,
                                  90.09,
                                  90.99,
                                  91.99,
                                  93.99,
                                  94.28,
                                  94.99,
                                  110.99,
                                  130.10,
                                  130.12,
                                  150.99,
                                  151.06
17-510                            94.24
17-511                            94.23
17-522                            94.02
17-522 through 17-524             94.06
17-524                            94.02,
                                  94.23
                                  110.30,
                                  110.31,
17-525                            111.01,
                                  111.02,
                                  111.04,
                                  111.05
                                  90.25,
17-526                            90.26,
                                  90.37
17-531                            51.01
17-534                            51.01
17-536                            51.15
                                  51.03,
                                  51.05,
                                  51.12,
                                  51.13,
17-537                            51.17,
                                  51.18,
                                  51.20,
                                  51.22,
                                  52.07
17-538                            51.11
17-539                            51.16
17-540                            51.08
17-541                            30.030
                                  51.06,
17-542                            51.07,
                                  51.10
17-543                            30.030
17-547                            90.01,
                                  90.09
17-548                            90.40
17-549                            92.30 –
                                  92.32
17-550                            92.11,
                                  92.12
17-551                            110.15
17-552                            110.15
                                  93.28,
17-555                            131.02-
                                  131.04
                                  92.13,
                                  92.30,
                                  92.31,
                                  92.45,
17-556                            92.46,
                                  110.34,
                                  131.01,
                                  133.60,
                                  133.61
                                  72.15,
                                  93.28,
17-557                            94.01,
                                  131.02,
                                  131.03
17-557.01                         93.28
17-558                            94.16,
                                  94.27
17-559                            94.16,
                                  94.27
17-561                            110.16
                                  93.29,
17-563                            130.08,
                                  133.02
17-567(1)                         93.26
17-568                            30.028
17-568.01                         30.028,
                                  31.009
17-568.02                         31.009
17-601.01                         30.118
17-601.02                         30.118
17-601.03                         30.118
17-602                            30.116
17-604                            30.020,
                                  30.045
17-605                            30.023
17-606                            30.024
17-607                            31.015
17-608                            31.016
17-609                            31.016
17-610                            30.026
17-612                            31.035
                                  30.093,
17-613                            30.095-
                                  30.097,
                                  31.009
                                  30.093,
17-614                            30.094,
                                  30.098
17-615                            30.096
17-616                            30.094
17-701                            31.001
17-702                            31.014,
                                  31.018
17-706                            31.006
17-708                            31.008
17-710                            31.013
17-711                            31.012
17-714                            31.011
17-715                            31.011
17-718                            32.01
17-720                            31.022
17-901                            52.04
17-902                            52.04
17-919                            30.028
17-920                            131.04
                                  52.01,
17-925.01                         52.11,
                                  52.17
17-948 through 17-952             95.01
17-953                            95.16
17-953 through 17-955             95.15
17-953 et seq.                    32.01
                                  91.03,
17-1001                           150.15-
                                  150.18
                                  30.090,
                                  92.08,
18-132                            150.15-
                                  150.18,
                                  152.01,
                                  154.01
18-412                            31.063
18-412.01                         31.009
18-412.02                         31.063
18-416                            51.10
18-503                            52.06
18-1001 through 18-1006           93.27
18-1303                           53.08 –
                                  53.11
                                  10.99,
                                  30.003,
                                  30.999,
                                  50.99,
                                  72.99,
                                  90.99,
                                  91.01-
                                  91.03,
                                  91.06,
                                  91.99,
                                  93.99,
18-1720                           94.99,
                                  110.99,
                                  130.02,
                                  130.10,
                                  130.12,
                                  133.01,
                                  133.02,
                                  150.99,
                                  151.01-
                                  151.27,
                                  151.29-
                                  151.31
                                  10.99,
                                  30.999,
                                  50.99,
                                  72.99,
                                  90.99,
                                  91.99,
18-1722                           93.99,
                                  94.99,
                                  110.99,
                                  150.99,
                                  151.01-
                                  151.27,
                                  151.29-
                                  151.31
                                  151.01 –
18-1722.01                        151.27,
                                  151.29,
                                  151.30
18-1729                           72.18
18-1736                           72.30,
                                  72.31
                                  72.31,
18-1737                           72.32,
                                  72.38
18-1738                           72.30,
                                  72.33
18-1738.01                        72.34
18-1738.02                        72.33,
                                  72.34
                                  72.31,
18-1739                           72.32,
                                  72.35
18-1740                           72.36
18-1741                           72.37
18-1741.01                        72.30
18-1748                           52.20,
                                  94.26
18-1751                           93.30
18-1756                           31.009
18-1801 through 18-1805           31.017
18-2501 through 18-2511           31.050
18-2501 through 18-2531           31.999
18-2512                           31.051
18-2513                           31.051
18-2516                           31.053
18-2517                           31.054
18-2518                           31.055,
                                  31.061
18-2519                           31.056
18-2520                           31.057
18-2521                           31.058
18-2523 through 18-2526           31.060
18-2524                           31.061
18-2526                           31.061
18-2527                           31.061
18-2528                           31.061
18-2529                           31.061
18-2529 through 18-2531           31.062
18-2532 through 18-2535           31.999
18-2536                           31.063
18-2537                           31.063
18-2804                           31.010
19-710                            91.04
19-901                            150.16
19-901 through 19-914             30.152
19-901 through 19-915             30.152
                                  92.09,
19-902                            150.15,
                                  150.17,
                                  150.18
19-903                            30.155
19-905                            31.061
19-908                            30.152
19-909                            30.152
19-910                            30.152
19-912                            30.152
19-915                            30.098
                                  30.090,
                                  150.15-
19-922                            150.18,
                                  152.01,
                                  154.01
19-1101                           30.024
19-1102                           30.023
19-1103                           30.024
19-1104                           30.023
19-1301                           31.014
19-1302                           31.014
19-1303                           31.014
19-1304                           31.014
19-1305                           51.01
19-1309                           31.007
19-1309 through 19-1312           31.007
19-2106                           53.02
19-2417 through 19-2419           94.06
19-2427                           93.31
19-2428 through 19-2431           93.30,
                                  94.25
19-2701                           51.03
19-2902                           31.010
19-2903                           31.010
19-2904                           31.010
19-2905                           31.010
19-3004                           30.117
19-3042 through 19-3050           30.120
19-3101                           30.005
19-3701                           30.097
20-203                            90.29,
                                  90.42
21-1316.01                        31.016
25-510.02                         31.052
25-515                            31.052
25-1801                           50.02
25-2514                           31.052
25-2703                           30.090
25-21,149 through 25-21,164       31.052
25-21,275                         50.02
25-21,276                         50.02
25-21,277                         50.02
25-21,278                         50.02
Chapter 28, Article 3             112.06
28-318                            134.01,
                                  134.02
Chapter 28, Article 4             112.06
28-401                            133.27
28-417                            133.27
28-431                            130.09,
                                  133.40
28-509                            130.06
28-511                            130.06
28-511(4)                         130.06
28-512                            130.06
28-513                            130.06
28-514                            130.06
28-515                            130.06
28-515(1)                         130.07
28-515.01                         130.07
28-515.02                         50.07
28-517                            130.06
28-519                            92.03,
                                  130.01
                                  90.29,
28-520                            90.42,
                                  130.02
                                  90.29,
28-521                            90.42,
                                  130.02
28-523                            91.08
28-608                            132.08
28-609                            32.07,
                                  132.01
28-610                            132.02
Chapter 28, Article 7             112.06
Chapter 28, Article 8             112.06
28-801                            134.01
28-806                            134.02
28-833                            134.03
28-903                            132.03
28-906                            90.34,
                                  132.05
28-907                            92.08,
                                  132.07
                                  92.02,
28-908                            92.04,
                                  92.06,
                                  132.06
Chapter 28, Article 10            112.06
28-1001                           90.03
28-1002                           90.03,
                                  90.35
28-1003.07                        131.07
28-1004                           90.10
28-1005                           90.10
28-1008                           90.06
28-1009                           90.08
28-1012                           90.07
Chapter 28, Article 11            112.06
28-1101                           134.03
28-1102                           134.03
28-1103                           134.03
28-1104                           134.03
28-1107                           134.03
28-1108                           134.03
28-1109                           134.03
28-1110                           134.03
28-1111                           134.03
28-1112                           134.03
28-1113                           134.03
28-1117                           134.03
Chapter 28, Article 12            112.06
28-1213                           92.30,
                                  92.31
28-1229                           92.30,
                                  92.31
28-1233                           92.30,
                                  92.31
28-1235                           92.32
                                  92.45,
28-1241                           110.34,
                                  131.07
28-1244                           92.46
28-1245                           92.46
28-1246                           92.48,
                                  110.34
28-1247                           92.46,
                                  92.48
28-1249                           92.48
28-1303                           91.09
28-1304                           91.07
                                  91.05,
28-1321                           91.06,
                                  130.03,
                                  133.01
28-1322                           131.06
28-1418                           133.20
28-1419                           133.21
28-1233(3)                        92.30,
                                  92.31
28-1241(7)                        92.46,
                                  110.34
28-1427                           133.21
29-1601                           134.03
29-4002                           135.01
29-4003                           135.02
29-4013                           135.02
29-4016                           135.02
32-110                            30.116
32-115                            30.116
32-404                            30.110,
                                  30.111
32-417                            30.119
32-418                            30.119
32-532                            30.122
32-554                            30.122
32-556                            30.111
32-560                            30.004,
                                  30.005
32-560 through 32-572             30.004
32-607                            30.115
32-608                            30.112,
                                  30.115
32-615                            30.115
32-616                            30.115
32-617                            30.115
32-618                            30.115
32-621                            30.115
32-625(2)                         30.115
32-628                            30.115,
                                  30.121
32-628 through 32-631             31.019
32-629                            30.114,
                                  30.121
32-630                            30.114,
                                  30.121
32-802                            30.113,
                                  31.019
32-918                            30.123
32-1301 through 32-1309           30.121
32-1303                           30.121
32-1304                           30.121
32-1305                           30.121
32-1306                           30.121
32-1308                           30.004,
                                  30.121
32-1309                           30.121
32-1524                           30.123
32-1525                           30.123
32-4,153                          30.114
32-4,154                          30.114
33-139.01                         32.03
35-101 through 35-103             32.03
35-106                            110.30
35-108                            32.03
35-520                            92.08
39-301                            131.03
39-302                            131.03
39-311                            70.25
39-671                            72.19
39-672                            92.05
39-682                            92.07
39-705                            133.01
39-6,177 through 39-6,180         150.01
39-6,184                          150.01
44-4303                           30.135
44-4304                           30.135
48-1503                           31.009
49-801(16)                        10.05
49-1408                           31.036
49-1425                           31.036
49-1499.04                        31.036
49-14,102                         31.036
49-14,103.01                      31.036
49-14,103.01 through 49-14,103.06 30.021
49-14,103.02                      31.036
49-14,103.03                      31.036
49-14,103.05                      31.036
49-14, 103.06                     31.036
51-201                            31.019
51-215                            31.014
51-216                            31.014
51-501                            31.019
Chapter 53, Article 1             110.03
53-102                            112.02,
                                  112.18
                                  112.01,
53-103                            133.22,
                                  133.23,
                                  133.26
53-118                            112.17
53-123.12                         112.08
53-124                            112.08
53-124(5)                         112.08,
                                  112.21
53-124(5)(C)                      112.16
53-124(5)(H)                      112.16
53-124.03                         112.06
53-124.12                         112.21
53-125                            112.06
53-129                            112.08
53-131                            112.08
53-132                            112.08
53-133                            112.08
53-134                            112.08
53-134.03                         112.08
53-134.04                         112.08
53-135                            112.07
53-135.01                         112.07,
                                  112.08
53-148                            112.05
53-168.06                         112.20,
                                  133.22
53-174                            112.14
53-177                            112.03
53-178                            112.04
53-179                            112.16
53-180                            112.12
53-180.01                         133.22
53-180.02                         133.23,
                                  133.26
53-180.05                         133.22
53-183                            112.13
53-184                            112.15
                                  112.19,
53-186                            133.24,
                                  133.25
53-186(2)                         133.24,
                                  133.25
53-186.01                         112.19
53-1,101                          112.09
53-1,102                          112.10
54-603                            90.25,
                                  90.26
54-605                            90.32
54-606                            90.28
54-617                            90.29,
                                  90.42
54-618                            90.29
54-619                            90.29,
                                  90.44
54-620                            90.29,
                                  90.45
54-621                            90.29
54-624                            90.46
Chapter 60, Article 3             71.02
60-311.14                         72.31,
                                  72.32
60-320                            130.09,
                                  133.40
60-362                            72.39
60-4,126                          71.23
60-4,182                          70.28,
                                  70.30
Chapter 60, Article 4             71.02
Chapter 60, Article 5             71.02
Chapter 60, Article 6             70.01
60-606 through 60-676             70.01
60-624                            71.26,
                                  71.45
                                  70.05,
                                  70.06,
                                  70.31,
60-680                            70.32,
                                  71.26,
                                  71.45,
                                  72.19,
                                  72.39
60-681                            70.02
60-696                            70.14
60-697                            70.14
60-6,114                          72.16
60-6,119 through 60-6,121         70.11
60-6,127                          70.27
60-6,129                          70.13,
                                  70.26
60-6,130                          70.13
60-6,130(1)                       133.41
60-6,130(3)                       133.42
60-6,131                          70.09
60-6,136                          70.33
60-6,139                          70.34
60-6,140                          70.35
60-6,146 through 60-6,154         70.08
60-6,159                          70.07
60-6,160                          70.06
                                  70.32,
60-6,166                          72.07,
                                  72.09
60-6,169                          70.31
60-6,178                          70.37
60-6,179                          70.36
60-6,186                          Ch. 73 Schd. I
60-6,190                          Ch. 73 Schd. I
60-6,196(1)                       133.28
60-6,196(1)(b)                    133.29
60-6,196(1)(c)                    133.29
60-6,197(1)                       133.28
60-6,197(2)                       133.28
60-6,197(3)                       133.28
60-6,197(4)                       133.28
60-6,201                          130.29,
                                  133.28
60-6,203                          133.29
60-6,205 through 60-6,208         133.28
60-6,211.01                       133.29
60-6,211.02                       133.29
60-6,211.08                       133.24,
                                  133.25
60-6,212                          70.29
60-6,213                          70.28
60-6,215                          70.28
60-6,265                          70.41,
                                  70.42
60-6,266                          70.42
60-6,267                          70.41,
                                  70.42
60-6,268                          70.41,
                                  70.42
60-6,270                          70.42
60-6,271                          70.42
60-6,272                          70.42
60-6,286                          70.38
60-6,304                          70.40
60-6,308                          70.34
60-6,347                          71.02
60-6,355                          71.26,
                                  71.45
60-6,356                          71.26,
                                  71.45
60-1901                           130.09,
                                  133.40
60-1901 through 60-1911           133.40
60-1902                           130.09,
                                  133.40
60-1903                           130.09,
                                  133.40
60-1903.01                        130.09,
                                  133.40
60-1905                           130.09,
                                  133.40
60-1906                           130.09,
                                  133.40
60-1907                           133.40
60-1908                           130.09
60-1909                           130.09,
                                  133.40
60-2002                           71.04
60-2013                           71.04,
                                  71.06
60-2015                           71.06
60-2016                           71.07
60-2101.01                        71.01
60-2102                           71.03
60-2106                           71.04
60-2107                           71.01
60-2209                           70.38
70-504                            31.063
70-624.04                         31.036
70-650.01                         31.063
70-650.02                         31.063
70-1601                           50.06
70-1601 through 70-1615           50.07
71-1557                           150.47
71-1637                           31.019
71-4406                           90.41
71-4408                           90.40
71-5301                           150.19
75-414                            110.15
77-1343                           94.25
77-1601                           31.020
77-1601.02                        31.020
77-1606                           31.019,
                                  31.020
77-1702                           31.023
77-1725                           150.01
77-2201                           30.024
77-2201 through 77-2215           30.024
77-2202                           30.024
77-2209                           30.024
77-2210                           30.024
77-2341                           31.016
77-2362                           31.015
77-2365.01                        31.015,
                                  31.022
77-2366                           31.015,
                                  31.022
77-2701 through 77-27,135         31.024
77-27,142 through 77-27,148       31.024
                                  31.007,
77-3442                           31.018,
                                  31.019
77-3443                           31.019
77-3444                           31.019
80-203 through 80-205             31.063
81-145 through 81-162             31.009
81-502                            92.09
81-506                            32.10
81-520.01                         92.15
81-2005                           70.39
81-3538                           150.48
84-304                            31.010
84-712                            30.023
84-1201 through 84-1220           30.023
84-1408                           30.062
84-1409                           30.062,
                                  30.075
84-1409(1)                        30.061
84-1409(2)                        30.060
84-1410                           30.063,
                                  30.074
                                  30.062,
                                  30.064,
84-1411                           30.067,
                                  30.075,
                                  30.076
84-1412                           30.068
                                  30.062,
84-1413                           30.065,
                                  30.066
                                  
 
 
REFERENCES TO PRIOR CODE
Prior Code Section 2021 Code Section
Prior Code Section 2021 Code Section
1-101              30.001
1-102              30.002
1-103              30.003
1-104              30.004
1-105              30.005
1-202              30.021
1-203              30.022
1-204              30.023
1-205              30.024
1-208              30.025
1-212              30.028
1-213              30.029
1-215              30.031
1-401              11.01
1-501              30.060
1-502              30.061
1-503              30.062
1-504              30.063
1-505              30.064
1-509              30.068
1-512              30.070
1-513              30.071
1-514              30.072
1-515              30.073
1-516              30.074
1-517              30.075
1-518              30.076
1-607              30.095
1-701              30.110
1-701.01           30.111
1-704              30.114
1-705              30.115
1-707              30.117
1-709              30.119
1-711              30.120
1-712              30.121
1-713              30.122
1-714              30.123
1-801              31.001
1-802              31.002
1-803              31.003
1-804              31.004
1-805              31.005
1-806              31.006
1-807              31.007
1-812              31.008
1-814              31.010
1-815              31.011
1-816              31.012
1-817              31.013
1-819              31.015
1-820              31.016
1-822              31.018
1-823              31.019
1-824              31.020
1-825              31.021
1-826              31.022
1-827              31.023
1-828              31.024
1-901              31.035
1-902              31.036
1-903              31.037
1-904              31.038
1-1001             31.050
1-1002             31.051
1-1003             31.052
1-1004             31.053
1-1005             31.054
1-1006             31.055
1-1007             31.056
1-1008             31.057
1-1009             31.058
1-1010             31.059
1-1011             31.060
1-1012             31.061
1-1013             31.062
1-1014             31.999
1-1015             31.063
1-1101             30.135
1-1201             10.99
2-101              30.150
2-202              30.152
2-301              30.153
2-302              30.154
2-303              30.155
2-401              30.999
3-101              51.01
3-102              51.02
3-103              51.03
3-104              51.04
3-105              51.05
3-106              51.06
3-107              51.07
3-108              51.08
3-109              51.09
3-110              51.10
3-111              51.11
3-112              51.12
3-113              51.13
3-114              51.14
3-115              51.15
3-116              51.16
3-117              51.17
3-118              51.18
3-119              51.19
3-120              51.20
3-121              51.21
3-201              52.01
3-202              52.02
3-203              52.03
3-204              52.04
3-205              52.05
3-206              52.06
3-207              52.07
3-208              52.08
3-209              52.09
3-210              52.10
3-211              52.11
3-212              52.12
3-213              52.13
3-214              52.14
3-215              52.15
3-216              52.16
3-217              52.17
3-218              52.18
3-219              52.19
3-303              32.03
3-305              32.05
3-306              32.06
3-307              32.07
3-308              32.08
3-501              95.01
3-502              95.02
3-601              95.15
3-602              95.16
3-701              50.01
3-702              50.02
3-703              50.03
3-704              50.04
3-705              50.05
3-706              50.06
3-707              50.07
3-801              50.99
4-101              33.01
4-104              33.03
4-201              53.01
4-202              53.01
4-203              53.01
4-204              53.02
4-205              53.03
4-206              53.04
4-207              53.05
4-208              53.06
4-209              53.07
4-210              53.08
4-211              53.09
4-212              53.10
4-213              53.11
4-305              91.04
4-401              91.99
5-101              70.01
5-204              70.05
5-205              70.06
5-206              70.07
5-207              70.08
5-208              70.09
5-212              70.13
5-213              70.14
5-301              70.25
5-302              70.26
5-303              70.27
5-304              Ch. 73 Schd. I
5-306              70.28
5-307              70.29
5-308              70.30
5-309              70.31
5-310              70.32
5-311              70.33
5-312              70.34
5-313              70.35
5-314              70.36
5-315              70.37
5-316              70.38
5-317              70.39
5-318              70.40
5-319              70.41
5-320              70.42
5-401              71.01
5-401.01           71.02
5-402              71.03
5-403              71.04
5-404              71.05
5-405              71.06
5-406              71.07
5-503              Ch. 74 Schd. I
5-513              72.18
5-514              72.19
5-516              72.30
5-517              72.31
5-518              72.32
5-519              72.33
5-520              72.34
5-521              72.35
5-522              72.36
5-523              72.37
5-524              72.38
5-601              72.99
6-106              90.30
6-106-01           90.31
6-107              90.32
6-108              90.33
6-109              90.34
6-110              90.35
6-111              90.36
6-112              90.37
6-115              90.40
6-117              90.42
6-118              90.43
6-119              90.44
6-120              90.45
6-121              90.46
6-203              90.03
6-207              90.06
6-208              90.07
6-209              90.08
6-301.01           132.08
6-307              130.06
6-307.01           130.07
6-312              133.25
6-314              133.26
6-315              133.27
6-320              131.07
6-323              130.01
6-327              130.08
6-328              130.09
6-329              130.10
6-329.01           130.11
6-330              130.28
6-331              130.29
6-401              93.01
6-402              93.02
6-403              93.03
6-404              93.04
6-405              93.05
6-406              93.06
6-407              93.07
6-408              93.08
6-409              93.09
6-410              93.10
6-411              93.11
6-412              93.12
6-413              93.13
6-414              93.14
6-501              90.99,
                   93.99
7-101              92.01
7-102              92.02
7-103              92.03
7-104              92.04
7-105              92.05
7-106              92.06
7-107              92.07
7-108              92.08
7-201              92.09
7-202              92.10
7-203              92.11
7-204              92.12
7-206              92.13
7-207              92.14
7-208              92.15
7-301              92.16
7-401              92.30
7-402              92.31
7-403              92.32
7-404              92.33
7-501              92.99
8-103              93.27
8-107              93.30
8-108              93.31
8-205              94.02
8-301              94.15
8-302              94.16
8-303              94.17
8-304              94.18
8-305              94.19
8-306              94.20
8-307              94.21
8-308              94.22
8-309              94.23
8-310              94.24
8-311              94.25
8-312              94.26
8-314              94.27
8-401              94.28
8-501              94.99
9-101              150.01
9-102              150.02
9-201              150.03
9-401              150.15
9-402              150.16
9-403              150.17
9-404              150.18
9-405              150.19
9-501              154.03
9-502              154.03
9-504              154.03
9-505              154.03
9-601              150.45
9-602              150.46
9-603              150.47
9-604              150.48
9-701              150.99
10-101             112.01
10-102             112.02
10-103             112.03
10-104             112.04
10-105             112.05
10-106             112.06
10-108             112.07
10-109             112.08
10-110             112.09
10-111             112.10
10-112             112.11
10-113             112.12
10-114             112.13
10-115             112.14
10-116             112.15
10-117             112.16
10-118             112.17
10-119             112.18
10-120             112.19
10-121             112.20
10-124             112.21
10-201             111.01
10-202             111.02
10-203             111.03
10-204             111.04
10-205             111.05
10-301             110.01
10-304             110.02
10-305             110.03
10-306             110.04
10-307             TSO Table I
10-401             110.15
10-402             110.16
10-403             110.17
10-501             110.30
10-502             110.30
10-503             110.31
10-504             110.32
10-505             110.33
10-601             110.45
10-602             110.46
10-701             TSO Table I
10-801             110.99
11-101             11.02
11-102             11.03
11-201             154.01
11-202             154.02
11-203             154.03
11-204             154.04
11-205             154.05
11-301             152.01
11-401             152.99
                   
 
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
Ord. No.    Date Passed Code Section
1977-1      4-6-1977    72.18
1978-5      9-6-1978    154.03
1979-8      12-5-1979   112.07
1981-3      12-2-1981   71.01
1981-4      12-2-1981   93.27
1981-5      12-2-1981   112.16
1982-1      4-7-1982    53.04
1982-3      10-6-1982   31.036
1982-4      10-6-1982   50.01
1982-5      10-6-1982   92.15
1982-6      10-6-1982   93.27
1983-6      11-2-1983   30.028
                        30.060 –
1983-7      11-2-1983   30.064,
                        30.068
1983-9      11-2-1983   31.036
1983-10     11-2-1983   50.02
1983-11     11-2-1983   94.24
1983-12     11-2-1983   94.25
1983-14     11-2-1983   112.06 –
                        112.08
1983-15     12-7-1983   112.16
84-4        6-6-1984    52.10
184-2       11-7-1984   50.01
1984-3      11-7-1984   30.004
1984-4      11-7-1984   30.021
                        30.114,
1984-5      11-7-1984   30.115,
                        30.121,
                        30.122
1984-6      11-7-1984   31.002
1984-7      11-7-1984   31.010
1984-8      11-7-1984   31.036
1984-10     11-7-1984   52.19
1984-11     11-7-1984   72.19
1984-12     11-7-1984   94.26
1984-14     11-7-1984   110.01
1985-4      7-3-1985    112.16
1985-5      8-7-1985    53.05
1985-6      8-7-1985    92.33
1988-8      10-5-1985   53.11
1985-7      12-4-1985   30.068
1985-8      12-4-1985   30.072,
                        30.073
1985-9      12-4-1985   30.123
1985-10     12-4-1985   32.03
1985-11     12-4-1985   91.04
1985-12     12-4-1985   112.20
1986-6      10-1-1986   51.10
1986-7      10-1-1986   52.11
1986-8      10-1-1986   53.04
1986-9      10-1-1986   90.31
1986-10     11-5-1986   50.03
1986-11     11-5-1986   31.036
1986-14     11-5-1986   94.27
1986-16 16  11-5-1986   30.095
1987-3      5-6-1987    50.03
1987-6      9-2-1987    112.16
1987-7      10-7-1987   30.062
1987-8      10-7-1987   30.068
1987-9      10-7-1987   30.135
1987-10     10-7-1987   93.30
1987-11     10-7-1987   93.31
1987-12     10-7-1987   94.25
1987-13     10-7-1987   110.45
1988-1      3-2-1988    Ch. 73 Schd. I
1988-2      6-1-1988    53.04
1988-4      10-5-1988   53.04
1988-5      10-5-1988   150.19
1988-7      10-5-1988   72.19
1988-8      10-5-1988   53.08 –
                        53.10
1988-10     10-5-1988   131.07
1989-1      1-4-1989    31.037,
                        31.038
1989-2      5-3-1989    53.07
1989-4      12-6-1989   31.016
1989-5      12-6-1989   70.13
1989-7      12-6-1989   90.42 –
                        90.46
1989-8      12-6-1989   92.31
1990-1      1-3-1990    50.01
1990-3      9-5-1990    110.30
1991-1      2-6-1991    51.10
1991-2      2-6-1991    30.004
1991-3      2-6-1991    30.021
1991-4      2-6-1991    90.06 – 
                        90.08
1991-8      7-3-1991    130.08
1992-2      4-1-1992    150.46
1992-3      4-1-1992    150.45
1994-2      3-2-1993    52.08
1993-1      4-7-1993    30.023
1993-2      4-7-1993    30.061
1993-3      4-7-1993    30.063
1993-4      4-7-1993    31.061
93-5        7-7-1993    50.04
1993-7      9-1-1993    50.05
1993-9      10-20-1993  53.04
1994-2      3-2-1994    51.06
1994-4      8-3-1994    154.03
1994-6      10-5-1994   31.002
1994-7      10-5-1994   31.004
1994-8      10-5-1994   31.006
1994-9      10-5-1994   70.01
1994-10     10-5-1994   70.08
1994-11     10-5-1994   130.28
1994-12     10-5-1994   92.30
1994-13     10-5-1994   92.31
1994-14     10-5-1994   92.16
1994-15     10-5-1994   93.27
1996-2      2-7-1996    30.001
1996-3      2-7-1996    30.002
1996-4      2-7-1996    30.070
1996-5      2-7-1996    30.071
1996-6      2-7-1996    30.110
1996-7      2-7-1996    30.122
1996-8      2-7-1996    31.001
1996-9      2-7-1996    31.004
1996-10     2-7-1996    31.006
1996-12     2-7-1996    93.27
1996-13     2-7-1996    112.20
1997-4      4-2-1997    150.47
1998-1      10-7-1998   30.004
1998-2      10-7-1998   30.115
1998-3      10-7-1998   30.121
1998-4      10-7-1998   31.002
1998-5      10-7-1998   31.003
1998-6      10-7-1998   31.004
1998-7      10-7-1998   31.018
1998-8      10-7-1998   31.019
1998-9      10-7-1998   31.020
1998-10     10-7-1998   31.007
1998-14     10-7-1998   31.015
1998-16     10-7-1998   52.01
1998-17     10-7-1998   93.27
1999-2      6-2-1999    30.153 –
                        30.155
1999-4      11-3-1999   110.46
2000-2      2-2-2000    110.46
2001-2      3-7-2001    52.10
2001-3      3-7-2001    53.04
2001-7      6-6-2001    92.16
2001-8      8-1-2001    110.46
2001-9      10-3-2001   30.152
2001-10     11-7-2001   30.031
2001-11     12-5-2001   154.01,
                        154.02
2001-12     12-5-2001   152.01
2001-13     12-5-2001   154.03
2002-01     6-5-2002    31.024
2002-4      10-16-2002  150.48
2002-5      10-16-2002  130.29
2002-6      10-16-2002  50.06
2002-7      10-16-2002  30.121
2002-8      10-16-2002  112.08
2002-9      10-16-2002  30.110
2002-10     10-16-2002  31.020
2002-11     10-16-2002  31.019
2002-12     10-16-2002  130.09
2002-13     10-16-2002  133.25
2002-14     10-16-2002  31.021
2002-15     10-16-2002  30.003
                        10.99,
                        30.999,
                        50.99,
                        72.99,
                        90.99,
2002-16     10-16-2002  91.99,
                        92.99,
                        93.99,
                        94.99,
                        110.99,
                        150.99
2002-17     10-16-2002  72.33
2002-18     10-16-2002  31.002
2002-20     10-16-2002  31.061
2002-21     10-16-2002  31.021
2002-22     10-16-2002  30.024
2002-23     10-16-2002  31.036
2002-24     10-16-2002  30.068
2002-25     10-16-2002  30.135
2002-26     10-16-2002  31.015
2002-27     10-16-2002  31.022
2002-28     10-16-2002  70.14
2002-29     10-16-2002  72.30
2002-30     10-16-2002  72.31
2002-31     10-16-2002  72.32
2002-32     10-16-2002  72.33
2002-34     10-16-2002  72.35
2002-35     10-16-2002  72.36
2002-36     10-16-2002  72.37,
                        72.99
2002-37     10-16-2002  72.38
2002-38     10-16-2002  94.16
2002-39     10-16-2002  94.27
2002-40     10-16-2002  112.20
2002-41     10-16-2002  112.08
2002-42     10-16-2002  112.21
2002-43     10-16-2002  130.28
2002-44     10-16-2002  133.26
2002-45     10-16-2002  133.27
2002-23     5-7-2003    TSO Table I
2002-32     5-7-2003    132.08
2003-2      5-7-2003    30.005
2003-3      5-7-2003    30.115
2003-5      5-7-2003    30.121
2003-6      5-7-2003    31.061
2003-7      5-7-2003    31.002
2003-8      5-7-2003    31.003
2003-9      5-7-2003    31.021
2003-10     5-7-2003    31.019
2003-11     5-7-2003    31.023
2003-12     5-7-2003    31.015
2003-13     5-7-2003    31.010
2003-14     5-7-2003    50.07
2003-15     5-7-2003    50.02
2003-16     5-7-2003    70.40
2003-17     5-7-2003    70.41
2003-18     5-7-2003    70.42
2003-19     5-7-2003    130.01
2003-20     5-7-2003    130.06
2003-21     5-7-2003    130.07
2004-13-117 5-5-2004    112.16
2004-14     7-7-2004    51.10
2004-15     10-6-2004   51.06
2004-17     10-6-2004   90.40
                        10.99,
                        30.999,
                        50.99,
                        72.99,
                        90.99,
2004-18     10-6-2004   91.99,
                        92.99,
                        93.99,
                        94.99,
                        110.99,
                        150.99,
                        152.99
2004-19     10-6-2004   110.03
2004-21     11-3-2004   154.04
2005-2      2-2-2005    TSO Table I
2005-3      3-2-2005    30.152
2005-4      3-2-2005    30.075
2005-5      3-2-2005    30.076
2005-6      3-2-2005    30.063,
                        30.074
2005-7      3-2-2005    30.110,
                        30.111
2005-8      3-2-2005    70.41
2005-9      3-2-2005    71.02
2005-10     3-2-2005    94.02
2005-11     3-2-2005    112.08
2005-12     3-2-2005    112.21
2005-13     3-2-2005    130.08
2005-14     3-2-2005    150.48
2005-15     5-11-2005   154.05
2005-16     5-11-2005   30.072
2005-17     7-13-2005   90.30
2006-1      2-8-2006    50.04,
                        50.99
                        51.35 –
2006-2      2-8-2006    51.37,
                        51.99
2006-3      6-14-2006   TSO Table I
2006-4      9-13-2006   70.43
2006-7      9-13-2006   110.47
2006-8      9-13-2006   154.01
2007-2      5-9-2007    94.28
2007-4      11-14-2007  151.01 –
                        151.31
2008-1      1-9-2008    51.05,
                        51.99
                        130.10,
2008-5      5-14-2008   130.12,
                        130.13
2008-6      6-11-2008   52.07,
                        52.19
2008-7      8-13-2008   52.13,
                        52.19
2008-8      8-13-2008   154.01
2008-9      10-8-2008   71.20 –
                        71.26
2009-1      9-9-2009    110.04
2010-1      4-14-2010   Ch. 73 Schd. I
2010-3      5-12-2010   153.01
2011-01     6-16-2011   51.10
2011-02     7-13-2011   90.09
2012-01     3-14-2012   51.22
2013-3      12-11-2013  53.07,
                        53.99
2014-2      7-9-2014    111.01 –
                        111.05
2014-3      9-10-2014   71.40 –
                        71.45
2014-4      9-10-2014   110.34
2014-5      12-10-2014  51.09
2015-08     - -2015     TSO Table II
                        135.01 –
2015-03     4-8-2015    135.04,
                        135.99
2015-06     8-12-2015   72.39
2015-07     8-12-2015   51.23
2018-1      2-14-2018   31.075
2018-2      12-12-2018  154.01
2019-1      1-9-2019    51.09
2019-02     1-9-2019    154.01
2019-6      10-9-2019   154.01
2020-04     8-12-2020   92.14,
                        92.17
2020-06     12-9-2020   154.01
                       
 
 
