COZAD, NEBRASKA
CODE OF ORDINANCES
2023 S-2 Supplement contains:
Local legislation current through Ordinance 1540, passed 1-9-2023
State legislation current through 2017
 
Published by:
AMERICAN LEGAL PUBLISHING
525 Vine Street * Suite 310 * Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
1-800-445-5588 www.amlegal.com
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
   Chapter
      
10.   RULES OF CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
CHAPTER 10: RULES OF CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
Section
   
10.01   Title of code
   
10.02   Interpretation
   
10.03   Application to future ordinances
   
10.04   Captions
   
10.05   Definitions
   
10.06   Rules of interpretation
   
10.07   Severability
   
10.08   Reference to other sections
   
10.09   Reference to offices
   
10.10   Errors and omissions
   
10.11   Official time
   
10.12   Reasonable time
   
10.13   Ordinances repealed
   
10.14   Ordinances unaffected
   
10.15   Repeal or modification of ordinance
   
10.16   Section histories; statutory references
 
   
10.99   General penalty
§ 10.01 TITLE OF CODE.
   This codification of ordinances shall be designated as the City of Cozad
Code of Ordinances and may be so cited.
§ 10.02 INTERPRETATION.
   Unless otherwise provided herein, or by law or implication required, the
same rules of construction, definition and application shall govern the
interpretation of this code as those governing the interpretation of state law.
§ 10.03 APPLICATION TO FUTURE ORDINANCES.
   All provisions of Title I compatible with future legislation shall apply to
ordinances hereafter adopted amending or supplementing this code unless
otherwise specifically provided.
§ 10.04 CAPTIONS.
   Headings and captions used in this code other than the title, chapter and
section numbers are employed for reference purposes only and shall not be
deemed a part of the text of any section.
§ 10.05 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   General rule. Words and phrases shall be taken in their plain,
ordinary and usual sense. However, technical words and phrases having a
peculiar and appropriate meaning in law shall be understood according to their
technical import.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this code, the following definitions
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      CITY, MUNICIPAL CORPORATION, or MUNICIPALITY. The City of Cozad,
Nebraska.
      CITY COUNCIL or GOVERNING BODY. The legislative body of the city.
      CODE, THIS CODE or THIS CODE OF ORDINANCES. This city code as modified by
amendment, revision and adoption of new titles, chapters or sections.
      COUNTY. The County of Dawson, Nebraska.
      MAY. The act referred to is permissive.
      MONTH. A calendar month.
      OATH. Includes an affirmation in all cases in which, by law, an
affirmation may be substituted for an oath and, in such cases, the words SWEAR
and SWORN shall be equivalent to the words AFFIRM and AFFIRMED.
      OFFICER, OFFICE, EMPLOYEE, COMMISSION or DEPARTMENT. An officer, office,
employee, commission or department of the city unless the context clearly
requires otherwise.
      PERSON. Includes bodies politic and corporate, societies, communities,
the public generally, individuals, partnerships, limited liability companies,
joint-stock companies and associations.
(Neb. RS 49-801(16))
      PRECEDING or FOLLOWING. Next before or next after, respectively.
      SHALL. The act referred to is mandatory.
      SIGNATURE or SUBSCRIPTION. Includes a mark when the person cannot write.
      STATE. The State of Nebraska.
      SUBCHAPTER. A division of a chapter, designated in this code by a heading
in the chapter analysis and a capitalized heading in the body of the chapter,
setting apart a group of sections related by the subject matter of the heading.
Not all chapters have SUBCHAPTERS.
      WRITTEN. Any representation of words, letters or figures, whether by
printing or otherwise.
      YEAR. A calendar year, unless otherwise expressed.
§ 10.06 RULES OF INTERPRETATION.
   The construction of all ordinances of the city shall be by the following
rules, unless that construction is plainly repugnant to the intent of the Mayor
and City Council or of the context of the same ordinance.
   (A)   AND or OR. Either conjunction shall include the other as if written
“and/or”, if the sense requires it.
   (B)   Acts by assistants. When a statute or ordinance requires an act to be
done which, by law, an agent or deputy as well may do as the principal, the
requisition shall be satisfied by the performance of the act by an authorized
agent or deputy.
   (C)   Gender; singular and plural; tenses. Words denoting the masculine
gender shall be deemed to include the feminine and neuter genders; words in the
singular shall include the plural, and words in the plural shall include the
singular; the use of a verb in the present tense shall include the future, if
applicable.
   (D)   General term. A general term following specific enumeration of terms
is not to be limited to the class enumerated unless expressly so limited.
§ 10.07 SEVERABILITY.
   If any provision of this code as now or later amended or its application to
any person or circumstance is held invalid, the invalidity does not affect
other provisions that can be given effect without the invalid provision or
application.
§ 10.08 REFERENCE TO OTHER SECTIONS.
   Whenever a section refers to another section hereof, that reference shall
extend and apply to the section referred to as subsequently amended, revised,
recodified or renumbered unless the subject matter is materially altered by the
amendment or revision.
§ 10.09 REFERENCE TO OFFICES.
   Reference to a public office or officer shall be deemed to apply to any
office, officer or employee of the city exercising the powers, duties or
functions contemplated in the provision, irrespective of any transfer of
functions or change in the official title of the functionary.
§ 10.10 ERRORS AND OMISSIONS.
   (A)   If a manifest error is discovered, consisting of the misspelling of
any words; the omission of any word or words necessary to express the intention
of the provisions affected; the use of a word or words to which no meaning can
be attached; or the use of a word or words when another word or words was
clearly intended to express the intent, the spelling shall be corrected and the
word or words supplied, omitted or substituted as will conform with the
manifest intention, and the provisions shall have the same effect as though the
correct words were contained in the text as originally published.
   (B)   No alteration shall be made or permitted if any question exists
regarding the nature or extent of the error.
§ 10.11 OFFICIAL TIME.
   The official time, as established by applicable state/federal laws, shall be
the official time within the city for the transaction of all city business.
§ 10.12 REASONABLE TIME.
   (A)   In all cases where an ordinance requires an act to be done in a
reasonable time or requires reasonable notice to be given, REASONABLE TIME OR
NOTICE shall be deemed to mean the time which is necessary for a prompt
performance of the act or the giving of the notice.
   (B)   (1)   The time within which an act is to be done, as herein provided,
shall be computed by excluding the first day and including the last.
      (2)   If the last day is Sunday, it shall be excluded.
§ 10.13 ORDINANCES REPEALED.
   This code contains all of the provisions of a general nature pertaining to
the subjects enumerated and embraced in this code. All prior ordinances
pertaining to the subjects treated by this code are repealed, except that
nothing shall affect any rights acquired under, actions involving, or fines,
penalties, forfeitures or liabilities incurred pursuant to those ordinances
prior to repeal.
§ 10.14 ORDINANCES UNAFFECTED.
   All ordinances of a temporary or special nature and all other ordinances
pertaining to subjects not embraced in this code, including ordinances
specified in this section, shall remain in full force and effect unless
repealed expressly or by necessary implication:
   (A)   Vacating or setting the boundaries of streets, alleys or other public
places;
   (B)   Annexing or detaching territory;
   (C)   Granting or accepting easements, plats or dedication of land to public
use;
   (D)   Providing for the acquisition or conveyance of real or personal
property;
   (E)   Authorizing or directing public improvements to be made;
   (F)   Levying taxes or special assessments;
   (G)   Appropriating money;
   (H)   Granting franchises or special licenses; or
   (I)   Providing for the issuance of bonds or other instruments of
indebtedness.
§ 10.15 REPEAL OR MODIFICATION OF ORDINANCE.
   (A)   Whenever any ordinance or part of an ordinance is repealed or modified
by a subsequent ordinance, the ordinance or part of an ordinance thus repealed
or modified shall continue in force until the publication of the ordinance
repealing or modifying it to give effect thereto.
   (B)   No suit, proceedings, right, liability, fine, forfeiture or penalty
instituted, created, given, secured or accrued under any ordinance previous to
its repeal shall in any way be affected, released or discharged, but may be
prosecuted, enjoyed and recovered as fully as if the ordinance had continued in
force, unless it is otherwise expressly provided.
   (C)   When any ordinance repealing a former ordinance, clause or provision
is itself repealed, the repeal shall not be construed to revive the former
ordinance, clause or provision, unless it is expressly provided.
Statutory reference:
   Requirements for amendments and revisions, see Neb. RS 17-614
§ 10.16 SECTION HISTORIES; STATUTORY REFERENCES.
   (A)   A statutory cite included in the history indicates that the text of
the section reads substantially the same as the statute. Example: (Neb. RS 18-
132)
   (B)   A statutory cite set forth as a “statutory reference” following the
text of the section indicates that the reader should refer to that statute for
further information. Example:
      § 39.01 PUBLIC RECORDS AVAILABLE.
         This municipality shall make available to any person for inspection or
copying all public records, unless otherwise exempted by state law.
      Statutory reference:
         Inspection of public records, see Neb. RS 84-712 et seq.
§ 10.99 GENERAL PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who violates any of the provisions of this city code,
unless otherwise specifically provided herein, shall be deemed guilty of an
offense and, upon conviction thereof, shall be fined in any sum not exceeding
$500. A new violation shall be deemed to have been committed every 24 hours of
failure to comply with the provisions of this code.
   (B)   (1)   Whenever a nuisance exists, as defined in Title IX of this code,
the city may proceed by a suit in equity to enjoin and abate the same, in the
manner provided by law.
      (2)   Whenever, in any action, it is established that a nuisance exists,
the court may, together with the fine or penalty imposed, enter an order of
abatement as a part of the judgment in the case.
Statutory reference:
   Authority to abate nuisances, see Neb. RS 18-1720 and 18-1722
   Authority to impose fines, see Neb. RS 17-505
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
   Chapter
      
30.   ELECTED AND APPOINTED OFFICIALS
      
31.   ORGANIZATIONS
      
32.   ORDINANCES, INITIATIVES AND REFERENDUMS
      
33.   ELECTIONS
      
34.   PUBLIC SAFETY
      
35.   FINANCE AND REVENUE
CHAPTER 30: ELECTED AND APPOINTED OFFICIALS
Section
General Provisions
   
30.001   Bonds; requirements; oath of office
   
30.002   Official corporate seal
   
30.003   Compensation
Meetings
   
30.015   Definitions
   
30.016   Public meetings; notices; publication
   
30.017   Closed sessions
   
30.018   Emergency meetings
   
30.019   Minutes
   
30.020   Votes
   
30.021   Notice to news media
   
30.022   Public participation
   
30.023   Councilmeeting; when; quorum, votes
   
30.024   Order of business
   
30.025   Change in office
   
30.026   Organization
City Council
   
30.040   Acting President
   
30.041   Selection and duties
   
30.042   Organization
Elected Officials
   
30.055   City Mayor
   
30.056   Vacancy
   
30.057   Qualifications; holding other elected office
Appointed Officials
   
30.070   Appointment; terms; removal; powers and duties
   
30.071   Merger of offices
   
30.072   Clerk-Treasurer
   
30.073   City Clerk
   
30.074   City Treasurer
   
30.075   Municipal Attorney
   
30.076   Municipal Physician
   
30.077   Municipal Police Chief
   
30.078   Municipal police officers
   
30.079   Municipal Fire Chief
   
30.080   Municipal Rescue Squad Chief
   
30.081   Municipal Engineer
   
30.082   Special Engineer
   
30.083   Water-Sewer Commissioner
   
30.084   Municipal Water Commissioner
   
30.085   Municipal Sewer Commissioner
   
30.086   Municipal Light Commissioner
   
30.087   Municipal Landfill Superintendent
   
30.088   Municipal Street Commissioner
   
30.089   Municipal Utilities Superintendent
   
30.090   Municipal Plumbing Inspector
   
30.091   City Administrator
   
30.092   Deputy Municipal Clerk
   
30.093   Conflict of interest involving contracts
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 30.001 BONDS; REQUIREMENTS; OATH OF OFFICE.
   (A)   (1)   The city may enact ordinances or bylaws to require from all
officers and servants, elected or appointed, bonds and security or evidence of
equivalent insurance for the faithful performance of their duties. The city may
pay the premium for such bonds or insurance coverage.
      (2)   (a)   All official bonds of officers of the city shall be in form,
joint and several, and made payable to the city in such penalty as the City
Council may fix.
         (b)   In place of the individual bonds required to be furnished by
municipal officers, a schedule, position, blanket bond or undertaking, or
evidence of equivalent insurance may be given by municipal officers, or a
single corporate surety, fidelity, schedule, position or blanket bond or
undertaking, or evidence of insurance coverage covering all the officers,
including officers required by law to furnish an individual bond or
undertaking, may be furnished. The municipality may pay the premium for the
bond or insurance coverage. The bond or insurance coverage shall be, at a
minimum, an aggregate of the amounts fixed by law or by the City Council, and
with such terms and conditions as may be required.
         (c)   The penalty amount on any bond shall not fall below the legal
minimum, when one has been set by the state, for each particular official.
      (3)   (a)   Official bonds, with the oath endorsed thereon, shall be
filed in the City Clerk’s office within the following time:
            1.   Of all officers elected at any general election, following
receipt of their election certificate and not later than ten days before the
first Thursday after the first Tuesday in January next succeeding the election;
            2.   Of all appointed officers, within 30 days after their
appointment; and
            3.   Of officers elected at any special election and city officers,
within 30 days after the canvass of the votes of the election at which they
were chosen.
         (b)   The filing of the bond with the oath endorsed thereon does not
authorize a person to take any official action prior to the beginning of his or
her term of office pursuant to Art. XVII, § 5, of the Constitution of the
state.
      (4)   All official bonds of city officers shall be executed by the
principal named in such bonds and by at least two sufficient sureties who shall
be freeholders of the county in which such bonds are given, or any official
bond of a city officer may be executed by the officer as principal and by a
guaranty, surety, fidelity or bonding company as surety, or by two or more such
companies. Only such companies as are legally authorized to transact business
in the state shall be eligible to suretyship on the bond of a city officer.
      (5)   The City Clerk shall carefully record and preserve the bonds in his
or her office and shall give certified copies thereof, when required, under the
seal of his or her office, and shall be entitled to receive for the same the
usual fee allowed by law for certified copies of records in other cases.
      (6)   (a)   The approval of each official bond shall be endorsed upon
such bond by the officer approving the same and no bond shall be filed and
recorded until so approved.
         (b)   No bond shall be deemed to be given or complete until the
approval of the City Council and all sureties are endorsed in writing on the
instrument by the Mayor and City Clerk pursuant to the approval of the City
Council.
      (7)   All official bonds shall obligate the principal and sureties for
the faithful discharge of all duties required by law of such principal and
shall inure to the benefit of any persons injured by a reach of the conditions
of such bonds.
      (8)   No official bond shall be rendered void by reason of any
informality or irregularity in its execution or approval.
      (9)   No city official shall be taken as security on the bond of any
administrator, executor or other officer from whom by law bond is or may be
required.
      (10)   If any person elected or appointed to any office neglects to have
his or her official bond executed and approved as provided by law and filed for
record within the time limited by this section, the city shall immediately
issue an order to such person to show cause why he or she has failed to
properly file such bond and why his or her office should not be declared
vacant. If such person properly files the official bond within ten days of the
issuance of the show cause order for appointed officials or before the date for
taking office for elected officials, such filing shall be deemed to be in
compliance with this section. If such person does not file the bond within ten
days of the issuance of such order for appointed officials or before the date
for taking office for elected officials and sufficient cause is not shown
within that time, his or her office shall thereupon ipso facto become vacant
and such vacancy shall, thereupon, immediately be filled by election or
appointment as the law may direct in other cases of vacancy in the same office.
      (11)   Any person appointed to fill a vacancy, before entering upon the
duties of the office, must give a bond corresponding in substance and form with
the bond required of the officer originally elected or appointed, as herein
provided.
      (12)   When the incumbent of an office is reelected or reappointed, he or
she shall qualify by taking the oath and giving the bond as above directed, but
when such officer has had public funds or property in his or her control, his
or her bond shall not be approved until he or she has produced and fully
accounted for such funds and property. When it is ascertained that the
incumbent of an office holds over by reason of the non-election or non-
appointment of a successor or of the neglect or refusal of the successor to
qualify, he or she shall qualify anew within ten days from the time at which
his or her successor, if elected, should have qualified.
      (13)   No person shall be surety for the same officer for more than two
successive terms of the same office, but this provision shall not apply to
incorporated surety companies.
      (14)   If the sureties on the official bond of any appointed officer of
the city, in the opinion of the City Council, become insufficient, the Council
may, by resolution, fix a reasonable time within which the officer may give a
new bond or additional sureties as directed. If the officer fails, refuses or
neglects to give a new bond or additional sureties to the satisfaction and
approval of the Council, the office shall, by such failure, refusal or neglect,
become vacant and it shall be the duty of the Council to appoint a competent
and qualified person to fill the office.
(1976 Code, § 1-301)
   (B)   All officials of the municipality, whether elected or appointed,
except when a different oath is specifically provided herein, shall, before
entering upon their respective duties, take and subscribe the following oath
which shall be endorsed upon their respective bonds:
“I,                                                                          ,
do solemnly swear that I will support the Constitution of the United States and
the Constitution of the State of Nebraska, against all enemies foreign and
domestic; that I will bear true faith and allegiance to the same; that I take
this obligation freely, and without mental reservation, or for the purpose of
evasion; and that I will faithfully and impartially perform the duties of the
office of                            , according to law, and to the best of my
ability. And I do further swear that I do not advocate, nor am I a member of
any political party or organization that advocates the overthrow of the
government of the United States or of this State by force, or violence; and
that during such time as I am in this position I will not advocate, nor become
a member of any political party or organization that advocates the overthrow of
the government of the United States or of this State by force or violence. So
help me God.”
(1976 Code, § 1-302)
(Ord. 1401, passed 1-7-2008; Ord. 1437, passed 12-23-2013)
Statutory reference:
   Bonds, see Neb. RS 11-104, 11-105, 11-109 through 11-118, 17-604
   Oath of office, see Neb. RS 11-101
§ 30.002 OFFICIAL CORPORATE SEAL.
   (A)   The official corporate seal of the municipality shall be kept in the
office of the Municipal Clerk, and shall bear the following inscription, “Seal,
City of Cozad, Nebraska”.
   (B)   The Municipal Clerk shall affix an impression of the said official
seal to all warrants, licenses, permits, ordinances and all other official
papers issued by order of the governing body and countersigned by the Municipal
Clerk.
(1976 Code, § 1-401)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-502
§ 30.003 COMPENSATION.
   (A)   Municipal officials.
      (1)   The compensation of any elective official of the municipality shall
not be increased or diminished during the term for which he or she shall have
been elected, except when there has been a merger of offices; provided, the
compensation of the members of the governing body, a board or commission may be
increased or diminished at the beginning of the full term of any member whether
or not the terms of one or more members commence and end at different times. No
elected official may be rehired at a greater salary if he or she resigns and
desires to be rehired during the unexpired term of office. He or she may be
rehired after the term of office during which he or she resigned at a greater
salary.
      (2)   All salaries shall be set by ordinance of the governing body and
will be available for public inspection at the office of the Municipal Clerk.
(1976 Code, § 1-901)
   (B)   Conflict of interest.
      (1)   No officer of the municipality shall be permitted to benefit from
any contract to which the municipality is a party when the consideration of the
said contract is in an amount in excess of $10,000 in any one year, and no
contract may be divided for the purpose of evading the requirements of this
section.
      (2)   Any such interest in a contract shall void any obligation on the
part of the municipality, and such officer of the municipality shall be guilty
of a Class I misdemeanor; provided, the receiving of deposits, cashing of
checks and buying and selling of the warrants and bonds of the municipality
shall not be considered a contract under the provisions of this section.
      (3)   No official shall receive any pay or compensation from the
municipality other than his or her salary.
      (4)   The governing body shall not pay or appropriate any money or other
valuable thing to pay a person who is not an officer for the performance of any
act, service or duty which shall come within the proper scope of the duties of
any officer of the municipality; provided that, ownership of less than 1% of
the outstanding stock of any class in a corporation shall not constitute an
interest within the meaning of this section.
(1976 Code, § 1-902)
   (C)   Salaries of officials and employees. The salaries of officials and
employees shall be set by City Council.
(1976 Code, § 1-903)
(Ord. 627, passed 9-6-1979; Ord. 691, passed 8-5-1982; Ord. 966, passed 12-5-
1988; Ord. 1025, passed 1-21-1991; Ord. 1040, passed 8-5-1991; Ord. 1047,
passed 11-20-1991; Ord. 1056, passed 3-23-1992; Ord. 1062, passed 7-20-1992;
Ord. 1092, passed 7-12-1993; Ord. 1095, passed 8-9-1993; Ord. 1484A, passed 9-
9-2019)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-108.02, 17-611, 17-612, 18-301 through
18-312
MEETINGS
§ 30.015 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   MEETINGS. All regular, special or called meetings, formal or informal, of a
public body for the purposes of briefing, discussion of public business,
formation of tentative policy or the taking of any action.
(1976 Code, § 1-501)
   PUBLIC BODY.
      (1)   The governing body of the municipality;
      (2)   All independent boards, commissions, bureaus, committees, councils,
subunits or other bodies, now or hereafter created by constitution, statute,
ordinance or otherwise pursuant to law; and
      (3)   Advisory committees of the bodies listed above. This subchapter
shall not apply to subcommittees of such bodies unless a quorum of the PUBLIC
BODY attends a subcommittee meeting or unless such subcommittees are holding
hearings, making policy or taking formal action on behalf of their parent body.
(1976 Code, § 1-502)
(Ord. 727, passed 9-1-1983; Ord. 1076, passed 3-8-1993)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 84-1409(1), 84-1409(2)
§ 30.016 PUBLIC MEETINGS; NOTICES; PUBLICATION.
   (A)   All public meetings, as defined by law, shall be held in a municipal
public building which shall be open to attendance by the public. All meetings
shall be held in the public building in which the governing body usually holds
such meetings unless the publicized notice hereinafter required shall designate
some other public building or other specified place. The advance publicized
notice of all public convened meetings shall be simultaneously transmitted to
all members of the governing body and to the public by a method designated by
the governing body or by the Mayor if the governing body has not designated a
method. Such notice shall contain the time and specific place for each meeting
and either an enumeration of the agenda subjects known at the time of the
notice, or a statement that such an agenda kept continually current shall be
readily available for public inspection at the office of the Municipal Clerk.
Except for items of an emergency nature, the agenda shall not be enlarged later
than 24 hours before the scheduled commencement of the meeting. The governing
body shall have the right to modify the agenda to include items of an emergency
nature only, at such public meetings. The minutes of the Municipal Clerk shall
include the record of the manner and advance time by which the advance
publicized notice was given, a statement of how the availability of an agenda
of the then known subjects was communicated, the time and specific place of the
meetings, and the names of each member of the governing body present or absent
at each convened meeting. The minutes of the governing body shall be a public
record open to inspection by the public upon request at any reasonable time at
the office of the Municipal Clerk. Minutes shall be written and available for
inspection within ten working days or prior to the next convened meeting,
whichever occurs earlier; except that, the city may have an additional ten
working days if the employee responsible for writing the minutes is absent due
to a serious illness or emergency. Any official action on any question or
motion duly moved and seconded shall be taken only by roll call vote of the
governing body in open session. The record of the Municipal Clerk shall show
how each member voted or that the member was absent and did not vote.
(1976 Code, § 1-503)
   (B)   If the municipality is required to publish a notice or advertisement
in a legal newspaper in or of general circulation in the municipality, and if
there is no legal newspaper in or of general circulation in the municipality,
then the municipality shall publish such notice or advertisement in a legal
newspaper in or of general circulation in the county in which the municipality
is located. If there is no legal newspaper in or of general circulation in such
county, then the municipality shall publish such notice or advertisement by
posting a written or printed copy thereof in each of three public places in the
municipality for the same period of time the municipality is required to
publish the notice or advertisement in a legal newspaper.
(Ord. 727, passed 9-1-1983; Ord. 1479, passed 2-5-2018)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 84-1408, 84-1409, 84-1411, 84-1413
§ 30.017 CLOSED SESSIONS.
   (A)   (1)   Any public body may hold a closed session by the affirmative
vote of a majority of its voting members if a closed session is clearly
necessary for the protection of the public interest or for the prevention of
needless injury to the reputation of an individual and if such individual has
not requested a public meeting. Closed sessions may be held for, but shall not
be limited to, such reasons as:
         (a)   Strategy sessions with respect to collective bargaining, real
estate purchases, pending litigation or litigation which is imminent as
evidenced by communication of a claim or threat of litigation to or by the
public body;
         (b)   Discussion regarding deployment of security personnel or
devices;
         (c)   Investigative proceedings regarding allegations of criminal
misconduct; or
         (d)   Evaluation of the job performance of a person when necessary to
prevent needless injury to the reputation of a person and if such person has
not requested a public meeting.
      (2)   Nothing in this section shall permit a closed meeting for
discussion of the appointment or election of a new member to any public body.
   (B)   (1)   The vote to hold a closed session shall be taken in open
session. The vote of each member on the question of holding a closed session,
the reason for the closed session, and the time when the closed session
commenced and concluded shall be recorded in the minutes. The public body
holding such a closed session shall restrict its consideration of matters
during the closed portions to only those purposes set forth in the minutes as
the reason for the closed session. The meeting shall be reconvened in open
session before any formal action may be taken.
      (2)   For purposes of this section, FORMAL ACTION means a collective
decision or a collective commitment or promise to make a decision on any
question, motion, proposal, resolution, order or ordinance or formation of a
position or policy, but shall not include negotiating guidance given by members
of the public body to legal counsel or other negotiators in closed sessions
authorized under division (A)(1)(a) above.
   (C)   (1)   Any member of any public body shall have the right to challenge
the continuation of a closed session if the member determines that the session
has exceeded the reason stated in the original motion to hold a closed session
or if the member contends that the closed session is neither clearly necessary
for:
         (a)   The protection of the public interest; or
         (b)   The prevention of needless injury to the reputation of an
individual.
      (2)   Such challenge shall be overruled only by a majority vote of the
members of the public body. Such challenge and its disposition shall be
recorded in the minutes.
   (D)   Nothing in this section shall be construed to require that any meeting
be closed to the public.
   (E)   (1)   No person or public body shall fail to invite a portion of its
members to a meeting, and no public body shall designate itself a subcommittee
of the whole body for the purpose of circumventing this subchapter or the Open
Meetings Act, being Neb. RS 84-1407 to 84-1414.
      (2)   No closed session, informal meeting, chance meeting, social
gathering, email, fax or electronic communication shall be used for the purpose
of circumventing the requirements of this subchapter or the Act, being Neb. RS
84-1407 to 84-1414.
   (F)   This subchapter does not apply to chance meetings or to attendance at
or travel to conventions or workshops of members of a public body at which
there is no meeting of the body then intentionally convened, if there is no
vote or other action taken regarding any matter over which the public body has
supervision, control, jurisdiction or advisory power.
(1976 Code, § 1-504) (Ord. 727, passed 9-1-1983; Ord. 1077, passed 3-8-1993;
Ord. 1148, passed 2-6-1995; Ord. 1355, passed 11-8-2004)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 84-1410
§ 30.018 EMERGENCY MEETINGS.
   (A)   When it is necessary to hold an emergency meeting without reasonable
advance public notice, the nature of the emergency shall be stated in the
minutes and any formal action taken in such meeting shall pertain only to the
emergency. Such emergency meetings may be held by means of electronic or
telecommunication equipment. The provisions of §
30.020 of this chapter shall be complied with in conducting emergency meetings.
   (B)   Complete minutes of such emergency meetings specifying the nature of
the emergency and any formal action taken at the meeting shall be made
available to the public by no later than the end of the next regular business
day.
(1976 Code, § 1-505) (Ord. 727, passed 9-1-1983)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 84-1411
§ 30.019 MINUTES.
   (A)   Each public body shall keep minutes of all meetings showing the time,
place, members present and absent, and the substance of all matters discussed.
   (B)   The minutes of all meetings and evidence and documentation received or
disclosed in open session shall be public records and open to public inspection
during normal business hours.
   (C)   Minutes shall be written or kept as an electronic record and shall be
available for inspection within ten working days or prior to the next convened
meeting, whichever occurs earlier, except that the city may have an additional
ten working days if the employee responsible for writing or keeping the minutes
is absent due to a serious illness or emergency.
(1976 Code, § 1-506) (Ord. 1530, passed 1-9-2023)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 84-1412, 84-1413
§ 30.020 VOTES.
   (A)   Any action taken on any question or motion duly moved and seconded
shall be by roll call vote of the public body in open session, and the record
shall state how each member voted or if the member was absent or not voting.
   (B)   The vote to elect leadership within a public body may be taken by
secret ballot, but the total number of votes for each candidate shall be
recorded in the minutes.
(1976 Code, § 1-507)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-616, 84-1413
§ 30.021 NOTICE TO NEWS MEDIA.
   The Municipal Clerk, Secretary or other designee of each public body shall
maintain a list of the news media requesting notification of meetings and shall
make reasonable efforts to provide advance notification to them of the time and
place of each meeting, and the subjects to be discussed at that meeting.
(1976 Code, § 1-508)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 84-1411
§ 30.022 PUBLIC PARTICIPATION.
   (A)   Subject to this section and the Open Meetings Act, the public has the
right to attend and the right to speak at meetings of public bodies, and all or
any part of a meeting of a public body, except for closed sessions called
pursuant to Neb. RS 84-1410, may be videotaped, televised, photographed,
broadcast, or recorded by any person in attendance by means of a tape recorder,
a camera, video equipment, or any other means of pictorial or sonic
reproduction or in writing.
   (B)   It shall not be a violation of division (A) of this section for any
public body to make and enforce reasonable rules and regulations regarding the
conduct of persons attending, speaking at, videotaping, televising,
photographing, broadcasting, or recording its meetings, including meetings held
by virtual conferencing. A body may not be required to allow citizens to speak
at each meeting, but it may not forbid public participation at all meetings.
   (C)   No public body shall require members of the public to identify
themselves as a condition for admission to the meeting nor shall such body
require that the name of any member of the public be placed on the agenda prior
to such meeting in order to speak about items on the agenda. The body shall
require any member of the public desiring to address the body to identify
himself or herself, including an address and the name of any organization
represented by such person unless the address requirement is waived to protect
the security of the individual.
   (D)   No public body shall, for the purpose of circumventing this section or
the Open Meetings Act, hold a meeting in a place known by the body to be too
small to accommodate the anticipated audience.
   (E)   No public body shall be deemed in violation of this section if it
holds its meeting in its traditional meeting place which is located in this
state.
   (F)   No public body shall be deemed in violation of this section if it
holds a meeting outside of this state if, but only if, a member entity of the
public body is located outside of this state and the other requirements of Neb.
RS 84-1412 are met.
   (G)   The public body shall, upon request, make a reasonable effort to
accommodate the public's right to hear the discussion and testimony presented
at the meeting.
   (H)   Public bodies shall make available at the meeting, for examination and
copying by members of the public, at least one copy of all reproducible written
material to be discussed at an open meeting, either in paper or electronic
form. Public bodies shall make available at least one current copy of the Open
Meetings Act posted in the meeting room at a location accessible to members of
the public. At the beginning of the meeting, the public shall be informed about
the location of the posted information.
(1976 Code, § 1-509) (Ord. 727, passed 9-1-1983; Ord. 1509, passed 5-2-2022)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 84-1412
§ 30.023 COUNCILMEETING; WHEN; QUORUM, VOTES.
   (A)   Regular meetings of the City Council shall be held at the meeting
place of the municipality on the first and third Monday of each month at the
hour of 7:00 p.m. A majority of all the members elected to the Council shall
constitute a quorum for the transaction of any business, but a fewer number may
adjourn from time to time and compel the attendance of absent members. When the
City Council consists of four members as established by ordinance or home rule
charter, the Mayor shall be deemed a member of the City Council for purposes of
establishing a quorum when the Mayor's presence is necessary to establish the
quorum. Unless a greater vote is required by law, an affirmative vote of at
least one-half of the elected members shall be required for the transaction of
any business.
   (B)   (1)   The Mayor or any three Council members shall have power to call
special meetings of the City Council, the object of which shall be submitted to
the Council in writing; and the call and object, as well as the disposition
thereof, shall be entered upon the journal by the City Clerk.
      (2)   On filing the call or a special meeting, the City Clerk shall
notify the Mayor and Council members of the special meeting, stating the time
and purpose.
   (C)   Unless otherwise provided by the Council, on the request of any two
members, whether a quorum is present or not, all absent members shall be sent
for and compelled to attend.
   (D)   At the hour appointed for a meeting, the City Clerk shall proceed to
call the roll of members and announce whether a quorum is present. If a quorum
is present, the Council shall be called to order by the Mayor, if present, or
if absent, by the President of the Council.
(1976 Code, § 1-510) (Ord. 665, passed 9-17-1981; Ord. 894, passed 4-8-1986;
Ord. 1193, passed 1-22-1996; Ord. 1484, passed 2-20-2019; Ord. 1501, passed 6-
7-2021)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-105
§ 30.024 ORDER OF BUSINESS.
   All meetings of the governing body shall be open to the public. Promptly at
the hour set by law on the day of each regular meeting, the members of the
governing body, the Municipal Clerk, the Mayor and such other municipal
officials that may be required shall take their regular stations in the meeting
place, and the business of the municipality shall be taken up for
consideration, and disposition in the manner prescribed by the official agenda
on file at the office of the Municipal Clerk.
(1976 Code, § 1-511)
§ 30.025 CHANGE IN OFFICE.
   The change in office shall be made as follows: the Mayor and Council shall
meet on the first regular meeting date in December of each year in which a
municipal election is held and the outgoing officers and the outgoing members
of the Council shall present their reports, and upon the old Council having
completed its business up to the said time, the outgoing members of the Council
shall surrender their offices to the incoming members and the outgoing officers
shall thereupon each surrender to his or her successor in office all property,
records, papers and moneys, belonging to the same.
(1976 Code, § 1-512)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-107.02(9)
§ 30.026 ORGANIZATION.
   The newly elected Council shall convene at the regular place of meeting in
the city on the first regular meeting in December of each year in which a
municipal election is held immediately after the prior Council adjourns and
proceed to organize themselves for the ensuing year. The Mayor elected for the
new municipal year shall call the meeting to order. The Council shall then
proceed to examine the credentials of its members and other elective officers
of the city to see that each has been duly and properly elected, and to see
that such oaths and bonds have been given as are required. After ascertaining
that all members are duly qualified, the Council shall then elect one of its
own body who shall be styled as “President of the Council”. The Mayor shall
then nominate his or her candidates for appointive offices. He or she shall
then proceed with the regular order of business. It is hereby made the duty of
each and every member of the Council, or his or her successor in office, and of
each officer elected to any office, to qualify prior to the first regular
meeting in December following his or her election. All appointive officers
shall qualify within two weeks following their appointments. Qualification for
each officer who is not required to give bond shall consist in his or her
subscribing and taking an oath to support the Constitution of the United
States, the Constitution of the state, the laws of the municipality and to
perform faithfully and impartially the duties of his or her office, said oath
to be filed in the office of the Municipal Clerk. Each officer who is required
to give a bond shall file the required bond in the office of the Municipal
Clerk with sufficient sureties, conditioned on the faithful discharge of the
duties of his or her office, with the oath endorsed thereon.
(1976 Code, § 1-513)
CITY COUNCIL
§ 30.040 ACTING PRESIDENT.
   The City Council shall elect one of its own body each year who shall be
styled the President of the Council, and who shall preside at all meetings of
the City Council in the absence of the Mayor. In the absence of the Mayor, and
the President of the Council, the City Council shall elect one of its own body
to occupy his or her place temporarily, who shall be styled Acting President of
the Council. Both the President of the Council and the Acting President of the
Council, when occupying the position of the Mayor, shall have the same
privileges as the other members of the City Council, and all acts of the
President of the Council, or Acting President of the Council, while so acting,
shall be as binding upon the City Council, and upon the municipality as if done
by the elected Mayor.
(1976 Code, § 1-102)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-148
§ 30.041 SELECTION AND DUTIES.
   The members of the City Council shall be elected and serve for a four-year
term. The City Council shall be the legislative division of the municipal
government, and shall perform such duties, and have such powers as may be
authorized by law. The City Council shall maintain the peace, regulate
business, protect the public health and safety and assess such taxes and fees
as are necessary and appropriate in the exercise of these functions.
(1976 Code, § 1-103)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-103, 17-104
§ 30.042 ORGANIZATION.
   City Council members of the municipality shall take office, and commence
their duties on the first regular meeting in December following their election.
The newly elected Council member who have qualified as prescribed by law,
together with the members of the City Council holding over, shall assemble in a
regular meeting at the hour and place hereinafter prescribed and perfect the
reorganization of the City Council as herein provided, and all appointive
offices in which the terms of incumbents are expired shall be filled by
appointment. After the said meeting has been called to order, the Municipal
Clerk shall report to the City Council the names of all City Council members-
elect who have qualified for their respective offices, and this report shall be
spread upon the minutes of the meeting preceding the roll call. Each ward of
the municipality shall be represented by at least two Council members. No
person shall be eligible who is not at the time of his or her election an
actual resident of the ward for which he or she is qualified and should any
City Council member move from the ward from which he or she was elected, his or
her office shall thereby become vacant.
(1976 Code, § 1-104)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-104
ELECTED OFFICIALS
§ 30.055 CITY MAYOR.
   (A)   Powers and duties.
      (1)   The Mayor shall preside at all meeting of the City Council. The
Mayor may vote when his or her vote would provide the additional vote requited
to attain the number of votes equal to a majority of the number of members
elected to the City Council on any pending matter, legislation or transaction,
and the Mayor shall, for the purpose of such vote, be deemed to be a member of
the Council. He or she shall have superintendence and control of all the
officers and affairs of the city, and shall take care that the ordinances of
the city and all laws governing cities of the second class are complied with.
      (2)   The Mayor shall have the power to veto or sign any ordinance passed
by the City Council and to approve or veto any order, bylaw, resolution, award
of or vote to enter into and contract, or the allowance of any claim. If the
Mayor approves the ordinance, order, bylaw, resolution, contract or claim, he
or she shall sign it, and it shall become effective. If the Mayor vetoes the
ordinance, order, bylaw, resolution, contract or any item or items of
appropriations or claims, he or she shall return it to the City Council stating
that the measure is vetoed. The Mayor may issue the veto at the meeting at
which the measure passed or within seven calendar days after the meeting. If
the Mayor issues the veto after the meeting, the Mayor shall notify the City
Clerk of the veto in writing. The Clerk shall notify the City Council in
writing of the Mayor’s veto. Any order, bylaw, resolution, award of or vote to
enter into any contract, or the allowance of any claim vetoed by the Mayor may
be passed over his or her veto by a vote of two-thirds of the members of the
Council. If the Mayor neglects or refuses to sign any ordinance, order, bylaw,
resolution, award of or vote to enter into any contract, or the allowance of
any claim, but fails to veto the measure within the time required by this
section, the measure shall become effective without his or her signature. The
Mayor may veto any item or items of any appropriation bill, and approve the
remainder thereof, and the item or items vetoed may be passed by the Council
over the veto as in other cases.
      (3)   The Mayor shall, from time to time, communicate to the City Council
such information and recommend such measure as, in his or her opinion, may tend
to the improvement of the finances, the police, health, security, ornament,
comfort and general prosperity of the city.
      (4)   The Mayor shall have the power, when he or she deems it necessary,
to require any officer to the city to exhibit his or her accounts or other
papers, and to make reports to the Council, in writing, touching any subject or
matter pertaining to his or her office.
      (5)   The Mayor shall have such jurisdiction as may be vested in him or
her by ordinance, over all places within five miles of the corporate limits of
the city, for the enforcement of any health of quarantine ordinance and
regulation thereof, and shall have jurisdiction in all matters vested in him or
her by ordinance, excepting taxation, within the extraterritorial zoning
jurisdiction of the city.
      (6)   The Mayor shall have the power to remit fines and forfeitures and
to grant reprieves and pardons for all offenses arising under the ordinances of
the city.
      (7)   The Mayor shall hold no other elective or appointive office or
employment with the city.
      (8)   The Mayor shall sign the City Clerk’s minutes of all meetings of
the City Council, and he or she shall sign all resolutions that have been
passed and warrants for the payment of money when ordered by the City Council.
      (9)   The Mayor shall have such other duties as are reposed in the Mayor
by the laws of the state or as the Council may be resolution confer upon the
Mayor.
(1976 Code, § 1-101)
   (B)   Vacancy.
      (1)   Whenever a vacancy occurs in the office of Mayor, or in case of his
or her disability or absence, the President of the Council shall exercise the
office of Mayor until such vacancy is filled or such disability is removed, or
in case of temporary absence, until the Mayor returns.
      (2)   When the successful candidate for Mayor shall be prevented from
assuming office, the incumbent Mayor shall not be entitled to hold over the
term, but such office shall automatically become vacant and the President of
the Council shall exercise the office of Mayor until such vacancy is filled.
      (3)   If the President of the Council shall for any cause assume the
office of Mayor for the remainder of the unexpired term, there shall be a
vacancy on the Council which shall be filled as provided in §
30.056 of this chapter.
(1976 Code, § 1-106)
   (C)   Election; qualifications; term.
      (1)   The Mayor shall be elected as provided in the Election Act, being
Neb. RS Ch. 32. The Mayor shall take office on the date of the first regular
meeting of the City Council held in December following the statewide general
election. The Mayor shall be a resident and registered voter of the city.
      (2)   The Mayor shall serve for a term of four years or until his or her
successor is elected and qualified.
(1976 Code, § 1-108)
(Ord. 765, passed 9-6-1984; Ord. 1426B, passed 12-5-2011; Ord. 1443, passed 12-
23–2013; Ord. 1455B, passed 2-9-2015)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-107, 17-110, 17-111, 17-112, 17-113, 14-
114, 17-115, 17-117, 32-533
   Restrictions on holding other office or employment, see Neb. RS 17-108.02,
32-109, 32-603, 32-604
§ 30.056 VACANCY.
   (A)   Every elective office shall be vacant upon the happening of any of the
events specified in Neb. RS 32-560, except as provided in Neb. RS 32-561.
   (B)   (1)   Except as otherwise provided in divisions (C) or (D) below,
vacancies in municipal elected offices shall be filled by the governing body
for the balance of the unexpired term. Notice of a vacancy, except a vacancy
resulting from the death of the incumbent, shall be in writing and presented to
the governing body at a regular or special meeting and shall appear as a part
of the minutes of the meeting. The governing body shall at once give public
notice of the vacancy by causing to be published in a newspaper of general
circulation within the municipality or by posting in three public places in the
municipality the office vacated and the length of the unexpired term.
      (2)   The Mayor shall call a special meeting of the governing body or
place the issue of filling the vacancy on the agenda at the next regular
meeting at which time the Mayor shall submit the name of a qualified registered
voter to fill the vacancy for the balance of the unexpired term. The regular or
special meeting shall occur upon the death of the incumbent or within four
weeks after the meeting at which such notice of vacancy has been presented. The
governing body shall vote upon the nominee, and if a majority votes in favor of
the nominee, the vacancy shall be declared filled. If the nominee fails to
receive a majority of the votes, the nomination shall be rejected and the Mayor
shall, at the next regular or special meeting, submit the name of another
qualified registered voter to fill the vacancy. If the subsequent nominee fails
to receive a majority of the votes, the Mayor shall continue at that meeting to
submit the names of qualified registered voters in nomination and the governing
body shall continue to vote upon the nominations at such meeting until the
vacancy is filled. All members of the governing body present shall cast a
ballot for or against the nominee. Any member of the governing body who has
been appointed to fill a vacancy on the governing body shall have the same
rights, including voting, as if that person were elected.
   (C)   The Mayor and governing body may, in lieu of filing a vacancy in a
city elected office as provided in division (B) above, call a special election
to fill the vacancy.
   (D)   If vacancies exist in the offices of one-half or more of the members
of the governing body, the Secretary of State shall conduct a special municipal
election to fill those vacancies.
(1976 Code, § 1-105) (Ord. 751, passed 1-6-1984; Ord. 1015, passed 1-21-1991;
Ord. 1461, passed 2-8-2016)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 32-569
§ 30.057 QUALIFICATIONS; HOLDING OTHER ELECTED OFFICE.
   (A)   Elected officials shall be residents and registered voters of the
city. No person shall be precluded from being elected or appointed to or
holding an elective office for the reason that he or she has been elected or
appointed to or holds another elective office, unless that person is presently
serving as a member of the Legislature or in an elective office described in
Art. IV, § 1, of the Constitution of the state. A legislator or an Art. IV
elected office holder may simultaneously serve in another elective office,
except an election held in conjunction with the annual meeting of a public
body. Whenever an incumbent of the legislature or an Art. IV elected office
holder assumes another elective office, except an elective office filled at an
election held in conjunction with the annual meeting of a public body, the
office first held by the incumbent shall be deemed vacant.
   (B)   Members of the Council shall hold no other employment with the city;
provided, however, that, this prohibition shall not apply to members of the
Volunteer Fire Department. Any Council member who ceases to possess any of the
qualifications required by this section or who has been convicted of a crime
while in office shall forthwith forfeit such office. The Council shall be the
judge of the election and qualifications of its members, subject to review by
the courts.
(1976 Code, § 1-107) (Ord. 1014, passed 1-21-1991; Ord. 1455A, passed 11-24-
2014)
APPOINTED OFFICIALS
§ 30.070 APPOINTMENT; TERMS; REMOVAL; POWERS AND DUTIES.
   (A)   (1)   The Mayor, with the consent of the City Council, may appoint
such officers as shall be required by ordinance or otherwise required by law.
Such officers may be removed from office by the Mayor.
      (2)   The terms of office for all officers, except regular police
officers, appointed by the Mayor and confirmed by the Council shall be
established by the City Council by ordinance. The ordinance shall provide that
either:
         (a)   The officers hold the office to which they have been appointed
until the end of the Mayor’s term of office and until their successors are
appointed and qualified unless sooner removed; or
         (b)   The officers hold office for one year unless sooner removed.
   (B)   (1)   The city may enact ordinances or bylaws to regulate and
prescribe the powers and duties of officers not provided for in state law.
      (2)   If the Mayor and City Council appoint any of the officials
specified in this subchapter or any other officials, the officials shall have
the powers and duties, if any, provided in this subchapter or as otherwise
provided by city ordinances and state law.
(1976 Code, § 1-201) (Ord. 538, passed 4-21-1977; Ord. 1426B, passed 12-5-2011)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-107, 17-604
§ 30.071 MERGER OF OFFICES.
   The governing body may, at its discretion, by ordinance combine and merge
any elective or appointive office or employment or any combination of duties of
any such offices or employments, except Mayor and Council member, with any
other elective or appointive office or employment so that one or more of such
offices or employments or any combination of duties of any such offices or
employments may be held by the same officer or employee at the same time. The
offices or employments so merged and combined shall always be construed to be
separate and the effect of the combination or merger shall be limited to a
consolidation of official duties only. The salary or compensation of the
officer or employee holding the merged or combined offices or employments or
offices and employments shall not be in excess of the maximum amount provided
by law for the salary or compensation of the office, offices, employment or
employments so merged and combined. For purposes of this section, volunteer
firefighters and ambulance drivers shall not be considered officers.
(1976 Code, § 1-202) (Ord. 752, passed 9-6-1984; Ord. 1016, passed 1-21-1991)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-108.02
§ 30.072 CLERK-TREASURER.
   (A)   The appointive offices of Municipal Clerk and Municipal Treasurer are
hereby combined and merged, in accordance with the authority granted to the
governing body by §
30.071 of this chapter.
   (B)   The office so merged and combined shall always be construed to be
separate, and the effect of the combination, or merger, shall be limited to a
consolidation of official duties only.
   (C)   The salary of the officer holding the merged offices shall not be in
excess of the maximum amount provided by law for the salary of the offices so
combined.
(1976 Code, § 1-203)
§ 30.073 CITY CLERK.
   (A)   The City Clerk shall have the custody of all laws and ordinances and
shall keep a correct journal of the proceedings of the City Council. After the
period of time specified by the State Records Administrator pursuant to the
Records Management Act, the Clerk may transfer the journal of the proceedings
of the City Council to the State Archives of the Nebraska State Historical
Society for permanent preservation. The Clerk shall also perform such other
duties as may be required by the ordinances of the city. If the Clerk is acting
as the Treasurer, he or she shall also comply with all other requirements.
   (B)   (1)   It shall be the duty of the Clerk to prepare and publish the
official proceedings of the City Council within 30 days after any meeting of
the Council. The publication shall be in a newspaper of general circulation in
the city, shall set forth a statement of the proceedings of the meeting, and
shall also include the amount of each claim allowed, the purpose of the claim,
and the name of the claimant, except that the aggregate amount of all payroll
claims may be included as one item. Between July 15 and August 15 of each year,
the employee job titles and the current annual, monthly, or hourly salaries
corresponding to such job titles shall be published. Each job title published
shall be descriptive and indicative of the duties and functions of the
position. The charge for the publication shall not exceed the rates provided
for in Neb. RS 23-122.
      (2)   Publication under division (B)(1) shall be made in one legal
newspaper of general circulation in the city. If no legal newspaper is
published in the city, then the publication shall be made in one legal
newspaper published or of general circulation within the county in which the
city is located. The cost of publication shall be paid out of the general funds
of the city.
   (C)   The Clerk shall dispose of or destroy city public records when the
records have been determined to be of no further legal, administrative, fiscal,
or historical value by the State Records Administrator pursuant to the Records
Management Act. This shall not apply to the minutes of the Clerk and the
permanent ordinance and resolution books, or any other record classified as
permanent by the State Records Administrator.
   (D)   (1)   The Clerk shall permit any person to examine and copy the public
records in the Clerk's custody, and may charge a fee for providing copies of a
public record, as provided in Neb. RS 84-712 through 84-712.09.
      (2)   The Clerk may charge a reasonable fee for certified copies of any
record in his or her office as set by resolution of the City Council.
   (E)   The Clerk shall permit no records, public papers, or other documents
of the city kept and preserved in his or her office to be taken therefrom,
except by such officers of the city as may be entitled to the use of the same,
but only upon their leaving a receipt therefor, and except pursuant to Neb. RS
84-712(2). He or she shall keep all the records of his or her office, including
a record of all licenses issued by him or her, in a blank book with a proper
index. He or she shall include as part of his or her records all petitions
under which the City Council shall order public work to be done at the expense
of the property fronting thereon, together with references to all resolutions
and ordinances relating to the same. He or she shall endorse the date and hour
of filing upon every paper or document so filed in his or her office. All such
filings made by him or her shall be properly docketed. Included in his or her
records shall be all standard codes, amendments thereto, and other documents
incorporated by reference and arranged in triplicate in a manner convenient for
reference. He or she shall keep an accurate and complete account of the
appropriation of the several funds and draw, sign, and attest all warrants
ordered for the payment of money on the particular fund from which the same is
payable. At the end of each month, he or she shall then make a report of the
amounts appropriated to the various funds and the amount of the warrants drawn
thereon.
   (F)   The Clerk shall deliver all warrants, ordinances, and resolutions
under his or her charge to the Mayor for his or her signature. He or she shall
also deliver to officers, employees, and committees all resolutions and
communications which are directed at such officers, employees, or committees.
With the seal of the city, he or she shall duly attest the Mayor's signature to
all ordinances, deeds, and papers required to be attested to when ordered to do
so by the City Council.
   (G)   The Clerk shall issue and sign all licenses, permits, and occupation
tax receipts authorized by law and required by the city ordinances. He or she
shall collect all occupation taxes and license money, except where some other
city officer is specifically charged with that duty. He or she shall keep a
register of all licenses granted in the city and the purpose for which they
have been issued.
   (H)   The Clerk shall keep in a book with a proper index, copies of all
notices required to be published or posted by the Clerk by order of the City
Council or under the ordinances of the city. To each of the file copies of the
notices shall be attached the printer's affidavit of publication, if the
notices are required to be published, or the Clerk's certificate under seal
where the same are required to be posted only.
   (I)   The Clerk shall receive all objections to creation of paving districts
and other street improvements. He or she shall receive the claims of any person
against the city, and in the event that the claim is disallowed in part or in
whole, the Clerk shall notify the claimant or his or her agent or attorney by
letter within five days after the disallowance, and the Clerk shall then
prepare transcripts on appeals of any disallowance of a claim in all proper
cases.
(1976 Code, § 1-204) (Ord. 1075, passed 3-8-1993; Ord. 1444, passed 12-23-2012;
Ord. 1501, passed 6-7-2021; Ord. 1510, passed 5-2-2022)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-605, 18-1701, 19-1102, 19-1103
§ 30.074 CITY TREASURER.
   (A)   (1)   The City Treasurer shall be the custodian of all money belonging
to the city. He or she shall keep a separate account of each fund or
appropriation and the debts and credits belonging thereto. He or she shall give
every person paying money into the treasury a receipt therefore, specifying the
date of payment and on what account paid. He or she shall also file copies of
such receipts with his or her monthly reports. The Treasurer shall, at the end
of every month, and as often as may be required, render an account to the City
Council, under oath, showing the state of the treasury at the date of such
account and the balance of money in the treasury. He or she shall also
accompany such accounts with a statement of all receipts and disbursements,
together with all warrants redeemed and paid by him or her, which warrants,
with any and all vouchers held by him or her, shall be filed with his or her
account in the City Clerk's office. If the Treasurer fails to render his or her
account within 20 days after the end of the month, or by a later date
established by the City Council, the Mayor may use this failure as cause to
remove the Treasurer from office.
      (2)   The Treasurer shall keep a record of all outstanding bonds against
the city, showing the number and amount of each bond, for and to whom the bonds
were issued, and the date upon which any bond is purchased, paid, or canceled.
The Treasurer shall accompany the annual statement submitted pursuant to Neb.
RS 19-1101 with a description of the bonds issued and sold in that year and the
terms of sale, with every item of expense thereof.
      (3)   The Treasurer shall annually complete continuing education through
a program approved by the Auditor of Public Accounts, and proof of completion
of such program shall be submitted to the Auditor of Public Accounts.
   (B)   (1)   The Treasurer shall prepare and publish annually within 60 days
after the close of the city fiscal year a statement of the receipts and
expenditures of funds of the city for the preceding fiscal year. The statement
shall also include the information required by Neb. RS 16-318(3) or Neb. RS 17-
606(2). Not more than the legal rate provided for in Neb. RS 33-141 shall be
charged and paid for such publication.
      (2)   Publication shall be made in one legal newspaper of general
circulation in the city. If no legal newspaper is published in the city, then
such publication shall be made in one legal newspaper published or of general
circulation within the county in which the city is located.
   (C)   (1)   All warrants upon the Treasurer shall be paid in the order of
their presentation therefore and as otherwise provided in Neb. RS 77-2201
through 77-2215.
      (2)   The Treasurer shall keep a warrant register, which register shall
show in columns arranged for that purpose the number, the date, and the amount
of each warrant presented and registered, the particular fund upon which the
same is drawn, the date of presentation, the name and address of the person in
whose name the warrant is registered, the date of payment, the amount of
interest, and the total amount paid thereon, with the date when notice to the
person in whose name such warrant is registered is mailed.
      (3)   The Treasurer shall make duplicate receipts for all sums which
shall be paid into his or her office, which receipts shall show the source from
which such funds are derived, and shall, by distinct lines and columns, show
the amount received to the credit of each separate fund, and whether the same
was paid in cash, in warrants, or otherwise. The Treasurer shall deliver one of
the duplicates to the person making the payment and retain the other in his or
her office.
      (4)   The Treasurer shall daily, as money is received, foot the several
columns of the cash book and of the register, and carry the amounts forward,
and at the close of each year, in case the amount of money received by the
Treasurer is insufficient to pay the warrants registered, he or she shall close
the account for that year in the register and shall carry forward the excess.
      (5)   The cash book, register, and retained receipts of the Treasurer
shall at all times be open to the inspection of any person in whose name any
warrants are registered and unpaid.
   (D)   The Treasurer shall permit any person to examine and copy the public
records in the Treasurer's custody, and may charge a fee for providing copies
of a public report, as provided in Neb. RS 84-712 through 84-712.09.
   (E)   The Treasurer shall keep all money belonging to the city separate and
distinct from his or her own money. He or she shall cancel all bonds, coupons,
warrants, and other evidences of debt against the city, whenever paid by him or
her, by writing or stamping on the face thereof, "Paid by the City Treasurer,"
with the date of payment written or stamped thereon. He or she shall collect
all special taxes, allocate special assessments to the several owners, and
obtain from the County Treasurer a monthly report as to the collections of
delinquent taxes.
(1976 Code, § 1-205) (Ord. 1445, passed 12-23-2013; Ord. 1501, passed 6-7-2021)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-606, 19-1101, 19-1103, 77-2201, 77-2202,
77-2209,
    77-2210, 77-2212
§ 30.075 MUNICIPAL ATTORNEY.
   The Municipal Attorney is the municipality’s legal advisor and, as such, he
or she shall commence, prosecute and defend all suits on behalf of the
municipality. When requested by the governing body, he or she shall attend
meetings of the governing body and shall advise any municipal official in all
matters of law in which the interests of the municipality may be involved. He
or she shall draft such ordinances, bonds, contracts and other writings as may
be required in the administration of the affairs of the municipality. He or she
shall examine all bonds, contracts and documents on which the governing body
will be required to act, and attach thereto a brief statement in writing to all
such instruments, and documents as to whether, or not, the document is in
legal, and proper form. He or she shall prepare complaints, attend and
prosecute violations of the municipal ordinances when directed to do so by the
governing body. Without direction, he or she shall appear, and prosecute all
cases for violation of the municipal ordinances that have been appealed to, and
are pending in any higher court. He or she shall also examine, when requested
to do so by the governing body, the ordinance records and advise, and assist
the Municipal Clerk as much as may be necessary to the end that each procedural
step will be taken in the passage of each ordinance to ensure that they will be
valid, and subsisting local laws in so far as their passage, and approval are
concerned. The governing body shall have the right to compensate the Municipal
Attorney for legal services on such terms as the governing body and the
Municipal Attorney may agree and to employ any additional legal assistance as
may be necessary out of the funds of the municipality.
(1976 Code, § 1-208)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-610
§ 30.076 MUNICIPAL PHYSICIAN.
   The Municipal Physician shall be a member of the Board of Health of the
municipality, and perform the duties devolving upon him or her as the medical
advisor of the said Board. In all injuries where a liability may be asserted
against the municipality, the Municipal Physician shall immediately investigate
the said injuries, the extent thereof and the circumstances. He or she shall
then report the results of his or her investigation with the name of the party
injured, and all other persons who may have personal knowledge of the matter.
He or she shall make all physical examinations, and necessary laboratory tests
incident thereto, and issue such health certificates as are required by
ordinance. For the purpose of making examinations of the sanitary conditions of
the property, and the state of health of the inhabitants therein, he or she
shall have the right at all reasonable hours to go upon, and enter all
premises, buildings or other structures in the municipality. He or she shall
perform such other duties as may be required of him or her by the laws of the
state and the ordinances of the municipality. When ordered to do so by the
governing body, he or she shall disinfect, or fumigate the premises, or persons
in or about the premises, when the premises are quarantined and to call upon
indigent sick persons, and perform other professional services at the direction
of the governing body. The Municipal Physician shall receive as compensation
for his or her services such sum as the governing body may from time to time
set. He or she shall receive no compensation for his or her services as a
member of the Municipal Board of Health.
(1976 Code, § 1-209)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-121
§ 30.077 MUNICIPAL POLICE CHIEF.
   The Municipal Police Chief shall direct the police work of the municipality
and shall be responsible for the maintenance of law and order. He or she shall
act as Health Inspector, except in the event the municipality appoints another
person. He or she shall file the necessary complaints in cases arising out of
violations of municipal ordinances, and shall make all necessary reports
required by the municipal ordinances or the laws of the state.
(1976 Code, § 1-210)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-107, 17-121
§ 30.078 MUNICIPAL POLICE OFFICERS.
   The municipal police, whether regular, or special shall have the power to
arrest all offenders against the laws of the state, or the municipality, by day
or by night, and keep the said offenders in the municipal jail, or some other
place to prevent their escape until trial can be held before the proper
official of the state or the municipality. They shall have full power, and
authority to call on any person whenever necessary to assist them in performing
public duties, and failure, neglect or refusal to render such assistance shall
be deemed a misdemeanor punishable upon conviction by a fine. Every municipal
police officer shall be expected to be conversant, and knowledgeable with the
municipal and state laws and no law enforcement official shall have any
interest in any establishment having a liquor license. Municipal police
officers shall have the duty to file such complaints and reports as may be
required by the municipal ordinances and the laws of the state. Any municipal
police officer who shall willfully fail, neglect or refuse to make an arrest,
or who purposely, and willfully fails to make a complaint after an arrest is
made shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction, shall be
fined. It shall be unlawful for the governing body to retain any municipal
police officer in that position after he or she shall have been duly convicted
of the willful violation of any law of the United States of America, the state
or any ordinance of the municipality, except minor traffic violations. It shall
be the duty of every municipal police officer making a lawful arrest to search
all persons in the presence of some other person, whenever possible, and shall
carefully keep, and produce to the proper judicial official upon the trial
everything found upon the person of such prisoners. All personal effects so
taken from prisoners aforesaid shall be restored to them upon their release.
Suitable uniforms and badges shall be furnished to the municipal police by the
municipality. Any member who shall lose or destroy the same shall be required
to pay the replacement costs, and in the event that any member shall leave the
force, he or she shall immediately deliver his or her badge to the Police
Chief. The governing body may from time to time provide the municipal police
with such uniforms, equipment and transportation as may be essential in the
performance of their official duties.
(1976 Code, § 1-211)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-213, 17-118, 17-124
§ 30.079 MUNICIPAL FIRE CHIEF.
   (A)   The Municipal Fire Chief shall be elected by the members of the Fire
Department. He or she shall enforce all laws and ordinances covering the
prevention of fires; the storage and use of explosives and flammable
substances; the installation of fire alarm systems; the maintenance of fire
extinguishing equipment; the regulation of fire escapes; and the inspection of
all premises requiring adequate fire escapes.
   (B)   He or she shall, within two days, investigate the cause, origin and
circumstances of fires arising within his or her jurisdiction. He or she shall,
on or before April 1 and October 1 of each year, cause the Secretary to file
with the Municipal Clerk, and the Clerk of the District Court a certified copy
of the rolls of all members in good standing in their respective companies in
order to obtain the exemptions provided by law. He or she shall have the power
during the time of a fire, and for a period of 36 hours thereafter to arrest
any suspected arsonist, or any person for hindering the Department’s efforts,
conducting himself or herself in a noisy and disorderly manner, or who shall
refuse to obey any lawful order by the Fire Chief or Assistant Fire Chief.
   (C)   The Fire Chief, or his or her assistant in charge of operations at a
fire, may command the services of any person present at any fire in
extinguishing the same or in the removal and protection of property. Failure to
obey such an order shall be a misdemeanor punishable by a fine.
   (D)   The Fire Chief shall have the right to enter at all reasonable hours
into buildings, and upon all premises within his or her jurisdiction for the
purpose of examining the same for fire hazards and related dangers.
(1976 Code, § 1-212)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-147, 17-505, 35-102, 35-108, 81-506, 81-
512
§ 30.080 MUNICIPAL RESCUE SQUAD CHIEF.
   The Municipal Rescue Squad Chief shall be elected by the members of the
rescue squad. He or she shall have the responsibility for the emergency units,
rescue personnel and the transfer squad; shall order all necessary equipment
and authorize repairs to said equipment; and shall be responsible for
maintaining all units and equipment in proper condition for immediate use.
(1976 Code, § 1-212.01) (Ord. 1113, passed 8-8-1994)
§ 30.081 MUNICIPAL ENGINEER.
   The Municipal Engineer shall make all surveys, estimates and calculations
necessary to be made for the establishment of any public utilities, and the
costs of labor and materials therefor. He or she shall accurately make all
plats, sections and maps as may be necessary under the direction of the
governing body. Upon request, he or she shall make estimates of the cost of
labor and material which may be done or furnished by contract with the
municipality, and make all surveys, estimates and calculations necessary to be
made for the establishment of grades, building of culverts, sewers, electric
light system, waterworks, power plant, public heating system, bridges, curbing
and gutters and the improvement of streets and erection and repair of
buildings, and shall perform such other duties as the governing body may
require. When a municipality has appointed a Board of Public Works, and the
governing body has by ordinance so authorized, the Board shall have the right
to utilize its own engineering staff, and shall have the right to hire
consulting engineers for the design and installation of extensions and
improvements of the works under the jurisdiction of the Board of Public Works.
Whenever the governing body has authorized, the Board of Public Works shall
have the right to purchase material and employ labor for the enlargement and
improvement of the water and electric departments.
(1976 Code, § 1-213) (Ord. 720, passed 9-1-1983)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-150, 17-405, 17-568.01, 17-919, 81-839
§ 30.082 SPECIAL ENGINEER.
   The governing body may employ a Special Engineer to make or assist the
Municipal Engineer in making any particular estimate, survey or other work. The
Special Engineer shall make a record of the minutes of his or her surveys and
all other work done for the municipality. He or she shall, when directed by the
governing body, accurately make all plats, sections, profiles and maps as may
be necessary in the judgment of the governing body. He or she shall, upon
request of the governing body, make estimates of the costs of labor and
material which may be done or furnished by contract with the municipality and
make all surveys, estimates and calculations necessary for the establishment of
grades, bridges, building of culverts, sewers, electric light system,
waterworks, power plant, public heating system, bridges, curbing and gutters
and the improvement of streets and erection and repair of buildings, and shall
perform such other duties as the governing body may require. All records of the
Special Engineer shall be public records which shall belong to the
municipality, and shall be turned over to his or her successor.
(1976 Code, § 1-214) (Ord. 721, passed 9-1-1983)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-405, 17-568, 17-568.01, 17-919
§ 30.083 WATER-SEWER COMMISSIONER.
   (A)   The appointive offices of Municipal Water Commissioner and Municipal
Sewer Commissioner are hereby combined and merged, in accordance with the
authority granted the governing body by §
30.071 of this chapter.
   (B)   The office so merged and combined shall always be construed to be
separate and the effect of the combination or merger shall be limited to a
consolidation of official duties only.
   (C)   The salary of the officer holding the merged offices shall not be in
excess of the maximum amount provided by law for the salary of the offices so
combined.
(1976 Code, § 1-215)
§ 30.084 MUNICIPAL WATER COMMISSIONER.
   (A)   The Municipal Water Commissioner shall have general supervision and
control over the municipal water system. Included in the said water system
shall be the water plant, the pump house, all machinery and appliances used in
connection with producing and distributing water to inhabitants of the
municipality. All actions, decisions and procedures of the Water Commissioner
shall be subject to the general directives and control of the Utilities
Superintendent. The Municipal Water Commissioner shall have the general control
and supervisory authority over all employees of the water system which the
governing body may from time to time hire to operate and maintain the said
system. He or she shall make a detailed report to the Utilities Superintendent
at least once every six months, of the condition of the said water system, of
all mains, pipes, hydrants, reservoirs and machinery and such improvements,
repairs and extensions thereof as he may think proper.
   (B)   The Water Commissioner, who may be removed at any time by the Mayor,
shall provide a bond conditioned upon the faithful discharge of his or her
duties which shall amount to not less than the amount set by resolution of the
governing body and on file in the office of the Municipal Clerk.
   (C)   The Water Commissioner shall perform such additional duties as may be
prescribed by the governing body or Utilities Superintendent.
(1976 Code, § 1-216)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-107, 17-541, 17-543, 19-1405
§ 30.085 MUNICIPAL SEWER COMMISSIONER.
   The Sewer Commissioner shall have the immediate control, and supervision
over all the employees, and property that make up the municipal sewer system,
subject to the general control and directives of the Utilities Superintendent.
He or she shall at least every six months, make a detailed report to the
Utilities Superintendent on the condition of the sewer system and shall direct
their attention to such improvements, repairs, extensions, additions and
additional employees as he or she may believe are needed along with an estimate
of the cost thereof. He or she shall have such other duties as the Utilities
Superintendent or governing body may delegate to him or her. He or she shall
issue permits for all connections to the municipal sewer system and inspect and
supervise all repairs made to the said system.
(1976 Code, § 1-217)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-107
§ 30.086 MUNICIPAL LIGHT COMMISSIONER.
   The Municipal Light Commissioner shall have the immediate control and
supervision over all employees and property that make up the municipal electric
system, subject to the general control and directives of the Utilities
Superintendent. He or she shall at least every six months, make a detailed
report to the Utilities Superintendent on the condition of the electrical
system and shall direct their attention to such improvements, repairs,
extensions, additions and additional employees as he or she may believe are
needed along with an estimate of the cost thereof. He or she shall have such
other duties as the governing body or Utilities Superintendent may delegate to
him or her. He or she may be removed at any time by the Mayor.
(1976 Code, § 1-218)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-107
§ 30.087 MUNICIPAL LANDFILL SUPERINTENDENT.
   The Municipal Landfill Superintendent shall have the immediate control and
supervision of the municipal landfill, and of all dumping of garbage, refuse,
waste and rubbish thereon, subject to the general control and directives of the
governing body or City Administrator. He or she shall, at least every six
months, make a detailed report to the governing body on the condition of the
landfill and shall direct their attention to such improvements, additions and
additional employees as he or she may believe are needed along with an estimate
of the cost thereof. He or she shall issue dumping permits if the governing
body should require them and shall inspect and supervise all work done to
improve or extend the landfill. He or she shall have such other duties as the
governing body may delegate to him or her. He or she may be removed at any time
by the Mayor.
(1976 Code, § 1-219)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-107
§ 30.088 MUNICIPAL STREET COMMISSIONER.
   The Municipal Street Commissioner shall, subject to the orders and
directives of the governing body or City Administrator, have general charge,
direction and control of all work on the streets, sidewalks, culverts and
bridges of the municipality, and shall perform such other duties as the
governing body or City Administrator may require. It shall be his or her
responsibility to see that gutters and drains therein function properly and
that the same are kept in good repair. He or she shall, at the request of the
governing body, make a detailed report to the governing body on the condition
of the streets, sidewalks, culverts, alleys and bridges of the municipality,
and shall direct their attention to such improvements, repairs, extensions,
additions and additional employees as he or she may believe are needed to
maintain a satisfactory street system in the municipality along with an
estimate of the cost thereof. He or she shall issue such permits and assume
such other duties as the governing body or City Administrator may direct.
(1976 Code, § 1-220)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-107, 17-119
§ 30.089 MUNICIPAL UTILITIES SUPERINTENDENT.
   (A)   A Utilities Superintendent shall be appointed in the event that there
is more than one municipal utility, and the governing body determines that it
is in the best interest of the municipality to appoint one official to have the
immediate control over all the said municipal utilities. The Utilities
Superintendent may be removed at any time by the Mayor. Any vacancy occurring
in the said office by death, resignation or removal may be filled in the manner
hereinbefore provided for the appointment of all municipal officials.
   (B)   The Utilities Superintendent’s duties over the following departments
shall be as stated herein.
      (1)   Water Department. He or she shall have general supervision and
control over the municipal water system, and shall be primarily responsible for
its economic operation and prudent management. All actions, decisions and
procedures of the Utilities Superintendent shall be subject to the general
directives and control of the Board of Public Works. The Utilities
Superintendent shall have the general control and supervisory authority over
all employees of the water system which the governing body may from time to
time hire to operate and maintain the said system. Unless some other official
is specifically designated, he or she shall collect all money received by the
municipality on account of the said system of waterworks, and shall faithfully
account for, and pay over to the Municipal Treasurer all such money collected
in the name of the municipality and receive a receipt from the Municipal
Treasurer for the depository evidence of his or her faithful discharge of this
duty. This receipt shall then be filed with the Municipal Clerk and the second
copy shall be kept by the Superintendent. He or she shall make a detailed
report to the Board of Public Works, at least once every six months, of the
condition of the said water system, of all mains, pipes, hydrants, reservoirs
and machinery and such improvements, repairs and extensions thereof as he or
she may think proper. The report shall show the amount of receipts and
expenditures on account thereof for the preceding six months. No money shall be
expended for improvements, repairs or extensions of the said waterworks system,
except upon the recommendation of the Superintendent. The Utilities
Superintendent shall provide a bond conditioned upon the faithful discharge of
his or her duties which shall amount to not less than the amount set by
resolution of the governing body and on file in the office of the Municipal
Clerk. He or she shall perform such additional duties as may be prescribed by
the governing body or Board of Public Works.
      (2)   Sewer Department. The Utilities Superintendent shall have the
immediate control, and supervision over all the employees, and property that
make up the municipal sewer system, subject to the general control, and
directives of the Board or Public Works. He or she shall at least every six
months, make a detailed report to the Board of Public Works on the condition of
the sewer system, and shall direct their attention to such improvements,
repairs, extensions, additions and additional employees as he or she may
believe are needed along with an estimate of the cost thereof. He or she shall
have such other duties as the governing body or Board of Public Works may
delegate to him or her. He or she shall issue permits for all connections to
the municipal sewer system, and inspect and supervise all repairs made to the
said system.
      (3)   Electrical System. The Utilities Superintendent shall have the
immediate control and supervision over all employees and property that make up
the municipal electric system, subject to the general control and directives of
the Board of Public Works. He or she shall, at least every six months, make a
detailed report to the Board of Public Works on the condition of the electrical
system and shall direct their attention to such improvements, repairs,
extensions, additions and additional employees as he or she may believe are
needed, along with an estimate of the cost thereof. He or she shall have such
other duties as the governing body or Board of Public Works may delegate to him
or her.
(1976 Code, § 1-221)
§ 30.090 MUNICIPAL PLUMBING INSPECTOR.
   The Municipal Plumbing Inspector shall enforce all laws relating to the
installation of plumbing and connections thereto. When acting in good faith,
and without malice in the scope of his or her official duties, he or she shall
not, himself or herself, be held personally liable for any damage that may
accrue to persons, or property as the result of any act required by him or her
or by reason of any act, or omission in the discharge of his or her duties. He
or she shall, in the discharge of his or her official duties and, upon proper
identification, have authority to enter into any building, structure or
premises at any reasonable hour. He or she shall perform such other duties and
issue any permits that the governing body may direct. The Plumbing Inspector
may be removed at any time for good and sufficient cause by the governing body.
(1976 Code, § 1-223)
§ 30.091 CITY ADMINISTRATOR.
   (A)   Office created. There is created the office of the City Administrator
for the city; such officer shall be appointed by the Mayor, with the consent of
the City Council. A City Administrator may be removed at the pleasure of the
Mayor. The Administrator shall be appointed on a basis of merit alone and the
Administrator shall devote his or her full time to the diligent prosecution of
the office and shall have no other conflicting or distracting employment.
   (B)   Purpose of office. The purpose of the office of the City Administrator
is to provide the centralization of the administrative responsibilities of the
city, such Administrator to be the administrative head of city government under
the direction and control of the Mayor and Council, the City Administrator
being responsible thereto for the efficient conduct of the office.
   (C)   Duties. The duties of the City Administrator shall be established by
the Mayor and City Council and shall, include, but not be limited to, the
following.
      (1)   The City Administrator shall make and keep an up-to-date an
inventory of all property, real and personal, owned by the city. The City
Administrator shall further act as purchasing agent for the purchase of all
supplies, goods, wares and merchandise, material and equipment which may be
required for the various departments, divisions or services of the city.
      (2)   The City Administrator shall keep the Mayor and Council fully
advised as to the financial condition of the city and its needs. The City
Administrator shall be ultimately responsible for the preparation of the annual
estimate of revenues and expenditures, together with the proposed budget for
presentation to the Mayor and Council prior to consideration and adoption. When
a budget has been adopted and an appropriation ordinance passed, the City
Administrator shall be responsible for the control of budgeted expenditures.
      (3)   The City Administrator shall serve as the public relations officer
of city government and, in such capacity, shall investigate and adjust all
complaints filed against any employee, department, division or service of the
city and cooperate with all community organizations whose aim and purpose is to
advance the best interests of the city and its people, and shall attend
meetings of such organizations, if, such attendance is deemed necessary and
desirable. These public relation responsibilities shall include, but not be
limited to, issuing press releases, public appearances and representing the
city with citizens, community groups and representatives of these
organizations.
      (4)   The City Administrator shall attend all meetings of the Mayor and
Council, with the duty of reporting any matter concerning city affairs under
the supervision or direction of the City Administrator. Further, the City
Administrator shall attend all meetings of the Planning Commission, Board of
Adjustment, Housing Authority and Board of Public Works, together with any
other meetings of city departments, divisions and services of city government
and all employees, to make recommendations to the Mayor and Council. The City
Administrator shall faithfully carry out directives and recommendations of the
Mayor and Council in coordinating the administrative functions and operations
of the various departments.
      (5)   The City Administrator shall procure facts and submit proposals for
long range programs and improvements to the Mayor and Council including the
administration of updating of the city’s comprehensive development plan. In
this regard, the City Administrator shall make recommendations to the Mayor and
Council in any matter believed to be necessary and expedient.
      (6)   The City Administrator shall recommend to the Mayor and Council the
appointment and/or dismissal of any department heads over which the City
Administrator exercises jurisdiction. Appointment and dismissal of said
department heads will be made upon the recommendation of the Mayor as confirmed
by the city council. The City Administrator may appoint and dismiss all
subordinate employees of the city, as well as provide the transfers of such
employees from one department to another; except that, he or she shall not
discharge those employees covered under the civil service act of the state. The
City Administrator shall have the duty and right to investigate and make
recommendations to the Mayor and Council regarding activities of any employee
of the city covered by the Civil Service Act of the state, including the
filling of vacant positions. In all of these responsibilities in regard to
subordinate employees, the City Administrator will give the deference to the
considerations of the appropriate department head.
      (7)   The City Administrator shall administer and be responsible for all
departments and divisions of city government which are under the direction of
the Mayor and Council, including, but not limited to, the Water and Sanitation
Department, the Electrical Department, the Street, Park and Recreation
Department, the office of the City Clerk-Treasurer, the office of the Building
Inspector, the Library Department, the Housing Authority and the Police and
Fire Departments, except as insofar as such jurisdiction and administration
conflicts with the civil service law pertaining to Police and Fire Departments.
      (8)   The City Administrator shall prepare and recommend to the Mayor and
Council a classification and compensation plan, keeping and maintaining
appropriate records of the employment status of each employee of the city.
      (9)   (a)   The City Administrator shall see to the fair and impartial
enforcement of ordinances of the city and the faithful performance of any
contract or obligation in regard to the operation of the city.
         (b)   In this capacity, the City Administrator will work with the duly
Appointed City Attorney on all legal matters affecting the operation and
administration of city government.
      (10)   The City Administrator shall exercise general supervision over all
public buildings, streets and other properties which are under control and
jurisdiction of the Mayor and Council.
      (11)   The City Administrator shall be responsible for the preparation
and submission to the Mayor and Council at the end of each month and of the
fiscal year of a complete financial report for the city and the appropriate
filing thereof.
      (12)   The City Administrator shall work with all city department heads
in determining strategic and economic forecasts for the city through the
prioritized projects and activities, development and installation of work
procedures and policies, costs control and preparing for the city’s long and
short term improvement plans and recommendations.
      (13)   The City Administrator shall, at the request of the Mayor and
Council, conduct performance evaluations for department heads and any other
employees of the city, making recommendations on appropriate actions in
relation to said evaluations.
      (14)   The City Administrator shall coordinate a variety of personnel
activities including, but not limited to, the application of personnel policy
language, selection procedures, position classification systems, salary
administration, a performance evaluation system, review of disciplinary acts
and the management of the city’s risk management programs.
      (15)   The City Administrator shall coordinate and provide input in
regard to activities promoting economic development within the city, in
conjunction with the Cozad Development Corporation, including the preparation
and administration of grants and intergovernmental funding activities.
      (16)   The City Administrator shall perform such other duties and
responsibilities and exercise such other powers, as may be delegated by the
Mayor and Council.
   (D)   Compensation. The salary of the City Administrator shall be fixed by
resolution of the Mayor and Council, and shall be payable in the same manner as
other city employees.
(1976 Code, § 1-224) (Ord. 1320, passed 9-8-2003; Ord. 1472, passed 8-7-2017)
§ 30.092 DEPUTY MUNICIPAL CLERK.
   There is hereby created the position of Deputy Municipal Clerk who shall be
appointed by the Mayor with the consent of the Council. The Deputy Municipal
Clerk shall serve under the direct supervision of the Municipal Clerk and shall
assume all duties of the Municipal Clerk in the absence of the Municipal Clerk.
The Deputy Municipal Clerk may be removed from office at any time by the Mayor.
The Deputy Municipal Clerk shall be bonded in the same amount and in the same
manner as the Municipal Clerk.
(1976 Code, § 1-225) (Ord. 732, passed 9-15-1983)
§ 30.093 CONFLICT OF INTEREST INVOLVING CONTRACTS.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      BUSINESS ASSOCIATION. A business:
         (a)   In which the individual is a partner, limited liability company
member, director, or officer; or
         (b)   In which the individual or a member of the individual's
immediate family is a stockholder of closed corporation stock worth $1,000 or
more at fair market value or which represents more than a 5% equity interest or
is a stockholder of publicly traded stock worth $10,000 or more at fair market
value or which represents more than 10% equity interest.
         (c)   An individual who occupies a confidential professional
relationship protected by law shall be exempt from this definition. This
definition shall not apply to publicly traded stock under a trading account if
the filer reports the name and address of the stockbroker.
      IMMEDIATE FAMILY. A child residing in an individual's household, a spouse
of an individual, or an individual claimed by that individual or that
individual's spouse as a dependent for federal income tax purposes.
      OFFICER. Includes:
         (a)   A member of any board or commission of the city which spends and
administers its own funds, who is dealing with a contract made by such board or
commission; or
         (b)   Any elected city official.
         (c)   OFFICER does not mean volunteer firefighters or ambulance
drivers with respect to their duties as firefighters or ambulance drivers.
   (B)   (1)   Except as provided in Neb. RS 49-1499.04 or 70-624.04, no
officer may have an interest in any contract to which his or her governing
body, or anyone for its benefit, is a party. The existence of such an interest
in any contract shall render the contract voidable by decree of a court of
competent jurisdiction as to any person who entered into the contract or took
assignment of the contract with actual knowledge of the prohibited conflict. An
action to have a contract declared void under this section may be brought by
the County Attorney, the governing body, or any resident within the
jurisdiction of the governing body and shall be brought within one year after
the contract is signed or assigned. The decree may provide for the
reimbursement of any person for the reasonable value of all money, goods,
material, labor, or services furnished under the contract, to the extent that
the governing body has benefitted thereby.
      (2)   The prohibition in this division (B) shall apply only when the
officer or his or her parent, spouse, or child:
         (a)   Has a business association with the business involved in the
contract; or
         (b)   Will receive a payment, fee, or commission as a result of the
contract.
   (C)   Division (B) of this section does not apply if the contract is an
agenda item approved at a meeting of the governing body and the interested
officer:
      (1)   Makes a declaration on the record to the governing body responsible
for approving the contract regarding the nature and extent of his or her
interest prior to official consideration of the contract;
      (2)   Does not vote on the matters of granting the contract, making
payments pursuant to the contract, or accepting performance of work under the
contract, or similar matters relating to the contract, except that if the
number of members of the governing body declaring an interest in the contract
would prevent the body with all members present from securing a quorum on the
issue, then all members may vote on the matters; and
      (3)   Does not act for the governing body which is a party to the
contract as to inspection or performance under the contract in which he or she
has an interest.
   (D)   The receiving of deposits, cashing of checks, and buying and selling
of warrants and bonds of indebtedness of any such governing body by a financial
institution shall not be considered a contract for purposes of this section.
The ownership of less than 5% of the outstanding shares of a corporation shall
not constitute an interest within the meaning of this section.
   (E)   If an officer's parent, spouse, or child is an employee of the
officer's governing body, the officer may vote on all issues of the contract
which are generally applicable to all employees, or all employees within a
classification, and do not single out his or her parent, spouse, or child for
special action.
   (F)   Neb. RS 49-14,102 does not apply to contracts covered by this section.
   (G)   (1)   The person charged with keeping records for the governing body
shall maintain separately from other records a ledger containing the
information listed in this division of this section about every contract
entered into by the governing body in which an officer of the body has an
interest and for which disclosure is made pursuant to division (C) of this
section. This information shall be kept in the ledger for five years from the
date of the officer's last day in office and shall include:
         (a)   The names of the contracting parties;
         (b)   The nature of the interest of the officer in question;
         (c)   The date that the contract was approved by the governing body;
         (d)   The amount of the contract; and
         (e)   The basic terms of the contract.
      (2)   The information supplied relative to the contract shall be provided
no later than ten days after the contract has been signed by both parties. The
ledger kept pursuant to this division (G) shall be available for public
inspection during the normal working hours of the office in which it is kept.
   (H)   An open account established for the benefit of any governing body with
a business in which an officer has an interest shall be deemed a contract
subject to this section. The statement required to be filed by division (G) of
this section shall be filed within ten days after the account is opened.
Thereafter, the person charged with keeping records for the governing body
shall maintain a running account of amounts purchased on the open account.
Purchases made from petty cash or a petty cash fund shall not be subject to
this section.
   (I)   Notwithstanding divisions (A) through (H) of this section, the
governing body may prohibit contracts over a specific dollar amount in which an
officer of the governing body may have an interest.
   (J)   The governing body may exempt from divisions (A) through (H) of this
section, contracts involving $100 or less in which an officer of that body may
have an interest.
(Ord. 1511, passed 5-2-2022)
CHAPTER 31: ORGANIZATIONS
Section
   
31.01   Standing committees
   
31.02   Library Board
   
31.03   Planning Commission
   
31.04   Board of Adjustment
   
31.05   Board of Health
   
31.06   Board of Public Works
   
31.07   Board of Park Commissioners
   
31.08   Airport Authority Board
   
31.09   City Forestry Board
   
31.10   Housing Agency
   
31.11   Community Redevelopment Authority
   
31.12   Historic Preservation Board
 
   
31.99   Penalty
§ 31.01 STANDING COMMITTEES.
   (A)   At the organizational meeting of the City Council, the Mayor shall
appoint members of such standing committees as the City Council may, by
ordinance or resolution, create. The membership of such standing committees may
be changed at any time by the Mayor. The Mayor shall be a member ex officio of
each standing committee. The members of the standing committees shall serve a
term of office of one year, unless reappointed.
   (B)   The following standing committees shall be appointed or reappointed
each year until changed by the governing body:
      (1)   Finance;
      (2)   Fire;
      (3)   Health;
      (4)   Parks;
      (5)   Police;
      (6)   Sanitation;
      (7)   Streets and Alleys; and
      (8)   Water, Light and Sewer.
(1976 Code, § 2-101)
§ 31.02 LIBRARY BOARD.
   (A)   The Library Board shall be appointed or elected. The governing body
shall, by ordinance, adopt the manner in which the five members of the Board
are to be chosen. If the members are to be chosen by appointment, the nominated
members must receive a majority vote of the governing body. If the members are
to be elected, the usual election procedures of the municipality shall be
followed. The Board shall consist of five members who shall be residents of the
municipality. The members of the Library Board shall serve a four-year term of
office as specified by state statutes. The Board shall serve without
compensation and may be required, in the discretion of the governing body, to
give a bond in a sum set by resolution of the governing body and conditioned
upon the faithful performance of their duties. At the time of the Board’s first
meeting in July of each year, the Board shall organize by selecting from their
number a Chairperson and Secretary. It shall be the duty of the Secretary to
keep the full and correct minutes and records of all meetings, and to file the
same with the Municipal Clerk where they shall be available for public
inspection at any reasonable time. A majority of the Board members shall
constitute a quorum for the transaction of business. The Board shall meet at
such times as the governing body may designate. Special meetings may be held
upon the call of the Chairperson or any three members of the Board.
   (B)   The Library Board shall have the authority to appoint a librarian and
all other employees. It shall be the duty of the board to have general charge
of the municipal library and to establish appropriate rules and regulations for
the management, operation and use of the same. The Board shall have supervisory
authority over all employees of the library including the librarian. All
actions of the Board shall be subject to the review and supervision of the
governing body. The Board shall be responsible for making such reports and
performing such additional duties as the governing body may designate from time
to time.
   (C)   (1)   No member of the governing body shall serve as a member of the
library board while serving a term of office as a member of the governing body.
      (2)   No member of the Library Board shall serve in the capacity of both
the Chairperson and Secretary of the Board.
(1976 Code, § 2-201) (Ord. 668, passed 9-17-1981)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 51-202
§ 31.03 PLANNING COMMISSION.
   (A)   (1)   If the governing body adopts zoning or other regulations
pursuant to Neb. RS 19-901 et seq., the Planning Commission shall consist of
five, seven or nine regular members, as specified by the governing body by
ordinance, who shall represent, insofar as is possible, the different
professions or occupations in the municipality and shall be appointed by the
Mayor, by and with the approval of a majority vote of the members elected to
the governing body. Two of the regular members may be residents of the area
over which the municipality is authorized to exercise extraterritorial zoning
and subdivision regulations. When there are 500 residents in the area over
which the municipality exercises extraterritorial zoning and subdivision
regulation, one regular member of the Commission shall be a resident from such
area. If it is determined by the governing body that 500 residents reside in
the area subject to extraterritorial zoning or subdivision regulation, and no
such resident is a regular member of the Commission, the first available
vacancy on the Commission shall be filled by the appointment of such an
individual. A number of Commissioners equal to a majority of the number of
regular members appointed to the Commission shall constitute a quorum for the
transaction of any business. All regular members of the Commission shall serve
without compensation. The term of each regular member shall be three years;
except that, one-third or fewer of the regular members of the first Commission
to be so appointed shall serve for terms of one year, one-third or fewer for
terms of two years and the remaining members for terms of three years. All
regular members shall hold office until their successors are appointed. Any
member may, after a public hearing before the governing body, be removed by the
Mayor with the consent of a majority vote of the members elected to the
governing body for inefficiency, neglect of duty or malfeasance in office or
other good and sufficient cause. Vacancies occurring otherwise than through the
expiration of term shall be filled for the unexpired portion of the term by the
Mayor.
      (2)   The Mayor may, with the approval of a majority vote of the elected
members of the governing body, appoint one alternate member to the Planning
Commission. The alternate member shall serve without compensation. The term of
the alternate member shall be three years, and he or she shall hold office
until his or her successor is appointed and approved. The alternate member may
be removed from office in the same manner as a regular member. If the alternate
member position becomes vacant other than through expiration of the term, the
vacancy shall be filled for the unexpired portion of the term by the Mayor with
the approval of a majority vote of the elected members of the governing body.
The alternate may attend any meeting and may serve as a voting and
participating member of the Commission at any time when less than the full
number of regular Commission members is present and capable of voting.
      (3)   A regular or alternate member of the Planning Commission may hold
any other municipal office, except:
         (a)   Mayor;
         (b)   A member of the governing body;
         (c)   A member of any community redevelopment authority or limited
community redevelopment authority created under Neb. RS 18-2102.01; or
         (d)   A member of any citizen advisory review committee created under
Neb. RS 18-2715.
   (B)   The commission shall elect its Chairperson from its members and create
and fill such other of its offices as it may determine. The term of the
Chairperson shall be one year and he or she shall be eligible for reelection.
The Commission shall hold at least one regular meeting in each calendar
quarter, except the governing body may require the Commission to meet more
frequently and the Chairperson of the Commission may call for a meeting when
necessary to deal with business pending before the Commission. The Commission
shall adopt rules and regulations for the transaction of business and shall
keep a record of its resolutions, transactions, findings and determinations,
which shall be a public record.
   (C)   No member of the Commission shall serve in the capacity of both the
Mayor and Secretary of the Commission. The Secretary shall keep the full and
correct minutes and records of all meetings and file them with the Municipal
Clerk where they shall be available for public inspection during office hours.
   (D)   The governing body may provide the funds, equipment and accommodations
necessary for the work of the Commission, but the expenditures of the
Commission, exclusive of gifts, shall be within the amounts appropriated for
that purpose by the governingbody, and no expenditures nor agreements for
expenditures shall be valid in excess of such amounts.
   (E)   (1)   (a)   Except as provided in Neb. RS 19-930 to 19-933, the
Planning Commission shall:
            1.   Make and adopt plans for the physical development of the
municipality, including any areas outside its boundaries which in the
Conunission’s judgment bear relation to the planning of such municipality and
including a comprehensive development plan as defined by Neb. RS 19-903;
            2.   Prepare and adopt such implemental means as a capital
improvement program, subdivision regulations, building codes and a zoning
ordinance in cooperation with other interested municipality departments; and
            3.   Consult with and advise public officials and agencies, public
utilities, civic organizations, educational institutions and citizens with
relation to the promulgation and implementation of the comprehensive
development plan and its implemental programs. The Commission may delegate
authority to any such group to conduct studies and make surveys for the
Commission, make preliminary reports on its finding and hold public hearings
before submitting its final report.
         (b)   The governing body shall not take final action on matters
relating to the comprehensive development plan, capital improvements, building
codes, subdivision development, the annexation of territory or zoning until it
has received the recommendation of the Planning Commission; provided that, the
Planning Commission shall make its recommendation so that it is received by the
governing body within 60 days after the Commission begins consideration of a
matter or within such other number of days as the governing body has set by
ordinance.
         (c)   A recommendation from the Planning Commission shall not be
required for subdivision of existing lots and blocks whenever all required
public improvements have been installed, no new dedication of public rights-of-
way or easements is involved, and such subdivision complies with the ordinance
requirements concerning minimum areas and dimensions of such lots and blocks,
if the governing body has designated, by ordinance, an agent pursuant to Neb.
RS 19-916.
      (2)   (a)   The Commission may, with the consent of the governing body,
in its own name:
            1.   Make and enter into contracts with public or private bodies;
            2.   Receive contributions, bequests, gifts or grant funds from
public or private sources;
            3.   Expend the funds appropriated to it by the municipality;
            4.   Employ agents and employees; and
            5.   Acquire, hold and dispose of property.
         (b)   The Commission may, on its own authority, make arrangements
consistence with its programs, conduct or sponsor special studies or planning
work for any public body or appropriate agency, receive grants, remuneration or
reimbursement for such studies or work, and at its public hearings, summon
witness, administer oaths and compel the giving of testimony.
      (3)   (a)   The Commission may grant conditional uses or special
exceptions to property owners for the use of their property if the governing
body has, through a zoning ordinance or special ordinance, generally authorized
the Commission to exercise such powers and has approved the standards and
procedures adopted by the Commission for equitably and judiciously granting
such conditional uses or special exceptions. The granting of a conditional use
permit or special exception shall only allow property owners to put their
property to a special use if it is among those uses specifically identified in
the zoning ordinance as classification of uses which may require special
conditions or requirements to be met by the owners before a use permit or
building permit is authorized.
         (b)   The power to grant conditional uses or special exceptions shall
be the exclusive authority of the Commission; except that, the governing body
may choose to retain for itself the power to grant conditional uses or special
exceptions for those classifications of uses specified in the zoning ordinance.
The governing body may exercise such power if it has formally adopted standards
and procedures for granting such conditional uses or special exceptions in a
manner that is equitable and will promote the public interest.
         (c)   An appeal of a decision by the Commission or governing body
regarding a conditional use or special exception shall be made to the district
court.
(1976 Code, § 2-202) (Ord. 577, passed 9-21-1978; Ord. 1151, passed 2-6-1995;
Ord. 1190, passed 1-22-1996; Ord. 1479, passed 2-5-2018)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 19-924 through 19-929
§ 31.04 BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT.
   (A)   The Mayor shall appoint, with the consent of the City Council, a Board
of Adjustment, which shall consist of five regular members, plus one additional
member designated as an alternate who shall attend and serve only when one of
the regular members is unable to attend for any reason. Each member shall be
appointed for a term of three years and shall be removable for cause by the
Mayor upon written charges and after public hearings. Vacancies shall be filled
for the unexpired term of any member whose term becomes vacant. One member only
of the Board of Adjustment shall be appointed from the membership of the
Planning Commission and the loss of membership on the Planning Commission by
such member shall also result in his or her immediate loss of membership on the
Board of Adjustment and the appointment of another Planning Commissioner to the
Board of Adjustment. If the Board does not include a member who resides in the
extraterritorial zoning jurisdiction of the city, the first vacancy occurring
on the Board of Adjustment after the effective date of this section shall be
filled by the appointment of a person who resides in the extraterritorial
zoning jurisdiction of the city at such time as more than 200 persons reside
within such area. Thereafter, at all times, at least one member of the Board of
Adjustment shall reside outside the corporate boundaries of the city, but
within its extraterritorial zoning jurisdiction. Neither the Mayor nor any
member of the City Council shall serve as a member of the Board of Adjustment.
   (B)   The members of the Board shall serve without compensation and may be
required, in the discretion of the City Council, to give a bond in a sum set by
resolution of the City Council and conditioned upon the faithful performance of
their duties. The Board shall organize at its first meeting each year after the
City Council meeting when appointments are regularly made and shall elect from
its membership a Chairperson and Secretary. No member of the Board of
Adjustment shall serve in the capacity of both Chairperson and Secretary of the
Board.
   (C)   The Board shall adopt rules in accordance with the provisions of this
section and sections Neb. RS 19-901 to 19-914. Meetings of the Board shall be
held at the call of the Chairperson and at such other times as the Board may
determine. Special meetings may be also held upon the call of any three members
of the Board. A majority of the Board shall constitute a quorum for the purpose
of doing business. The Chairperson or, in his or her absence, the acting
Chairperson may administer oaths and compel the attendance of witnesses. All
meetings of the Board shall be open to the public. It shall be the duty of the
Secretary to keep complete and accurate minutes of the Board’s proceedings,
showing the vote of each member upon each question or, if absent or failing to
vote, indicating such fact, and to keep records of the Board’s examinations and
other official actions, all of which shall be immediately filed in the office
of the Board and shall be public record. The Board shall be responsible for
making such reports and performing such other duties as the Mayor and City
Council may designate.
   (D)   Appeals to the Board may be taken by any person aggrieved or by any
officer, department, board or bureau of the city affected by any decision of
the administrative officer. Such appeal shall be taken within a reasonable
time, as provided by the rules of the Board, by filing with the officer from
whom the appeal is taken and with the Board a notice of appeal specifying the
grounds thereof. The officer from whom the appeal is taken shall forthwith
transmit to the Board all the papers constituting the record upon which the
action appealed from was taken. An appeal stays all proceedings in furtherance
of the action appealed from, unless the officer from whom the appeal is taken
certifies to the Board, after the notice of appeal shall have been filed with
him or her, that by reason of facts stated in the certificate a stay would, in
his or her opinion, cause imminent peril to life or property. In such case,
proceedings shall not be stayed otherwise than by a restraining order which may
be granted by the Board or by a court of record on application on notice to the
officer from whom the appeal is taken and on due cause shown. The Board shall
fix a reasonable time for the hearing of the appeal, give public notice
thereof, as well as due notice to the parties in interest, and decide the same
within a reasonable time. Upon the hearing, any party may appear in person or
by agent or by attorney.
   (E)   The Board shall have only the following powers:
      (1)   To hear and decide appeals when it is alleged there is error in any
order, requirement, decision or determination made by an administrative
official or agency based on or made in the enforcement of any zoning regulation
or any regulation relating to the location or soundness of structures; except
that, the authority to hear and decide appeals shall not apply to decisions
made by the City Council or Planning Commission regarding a conditional use or
special exception;
      (2)   To hear and decide, in accordance with the provisions of any zoning
regulation, requests for interpretation of any map; and
      (3)   When by reason of exceptional narrowness, shallowness or shape of a
specific piece of property at the time of the enactment of the zoning
regulations, or by reason of exceptional topographic conditions or other
extraordinary and exceptional situation or condition of such piece of property,
the strict application of any zoning regulation would result in peculiar and
exceptional practical difficulties to or exceptional and undue hardships upon
the owner of such property, to authorize, upon an appeal relating to the
property, a variance from such strict application so as to relieve such
difficulties or hardship, if such relief may be granted without substantial
detriment to the public good and without substantially impairing the intent and
purpose of any ordinance or resolution.
   (F)   (1)   No such variance shall be authorized by the Board unless it
finds that:
         (a)   The strict application of the zoning regulation would produce
undue hardship;
         (b)   Such hardship is not shared generally by other properties in the
same zoning district and the same vicinity;
         (c)   The authorization of such variance will not be of substantial
detriment to adjacent property and the character of the district will not be
changed by the granting of the variance; and
         (d)   The granting of such variance is based upon reason of
demonstrable and exceptional hardship as distinguished from variations for
purposes of convenience, profit or caprice.
      (2)   No variance shall be authorized unless the Board finds that the
condition or situation of the property concerned or the intended use of the
property is not of so general or recurring a nature as to make reasonably
practicable the formulation of a general regulation to be adopted as an
amendment to the zoning regulations.
   (G)   In exercising the powers granted in this section, the Board may, in
conformity with Neb. RS 19-901 to 19-915, reverse or affirm, wholly or partly,
or may modify the order, requirement, decision or determination appealed from,
and may make such order, requirement, decision or determination as ought to be
made and, to that end, shall have all the powers of the officer from whom the
appeal is taken. The concurring vote of four members of the Board shall be
necessary to reverse any order, requirement, decision or determination of any
such administrative official or to decide in favor of the applicant on any
matter upon which it is required to pass under any such regulation or to effect
any variation in such regulation.
   (H)   Appeals from a decision by the Board may be taken as provided in Neb.
RS 19-912.
(1976 Code, § 2-203) (Ord. 578, passed 9-21-1978; Ord. 1191, passed 1-22-1996;
Ord. 1354, passed 11-8-2004)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 19-908, 19-909, 19-910
§ 31.05 BOARD OF HEALTH.
   (A)   The governing body shall appoint a Board of Health which shall consist
of five members.
   (B)   The members of the Board shall include the Mayor, who shall serve as
Chairperson; the Police Chief, who shall serve as secretary and quarantine
officer; a physician who shall serve as the medical advisor; and the President
of the City Council; and a veterinarian, who shall serve as the veterinary
advisor. The members of the Board shall serve, without compensation, a one-year
term of office, unless reappointed, and shall reorganize at the first meeting
in June of each year. It shall be the duty of the Secretary to keep the full
and correct minutes and records of all meetings and to file the same with the
Municipal Clerk where they shall be available for public inspection at any
reasonable time. The Board of Health shall be funded by the governing body from
time to time out of the General Fund. A majority of the Board shall constitute
a quorum for the purpose of doing business. The Board shall meet at such times
as the governing body may designate. Special meetings may be held upon the call
of the Chairperson or any two members of the Board. It shall be the duty of the
Board to enact rules and regulations which shall have the full force and effect
of law, to safeguard the health of the residents of the municipality. Included
in the duties of the Board shall be to enforce the rules and regulations, and
to provide fines and punishments for any violations thereof. It may regulate,
suppress and prevent the occurrence of nuisances and shall actively enforce all
laws of the state and ordinances of the municipality relating to matters of
sanitation which affect the health and safety of the people. The Board shall
regularly inspect such premises and businesses as the governing body may
direct. All members of the Board shall be responsible for making such reports
and performing such other duties as the governing body may, from time to time,
designate. No member of the Board of Health shall hold more than one Board of
Health position.
(1976 Code, § 2-104) (Ord. 563, passed 9-22-1977; Ord. 1322, passed 11-10-2003)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-121
§ 31.06 BOARD OF PUBLIC WORKS.
   The governing body shall appoint the Board of Public Works. The Board shall
consist of not less than three, nor more than six, members who are residents of
the municipality. The members of the Board shall serve a four-year term of
office, at a salary set by ordinance of the governing body. No member of the
Board shall ever be financially interested in a contract entered into by the
Board on behalf of the municipality. The members of the Board shall be required
to take an oath to faithfully perform the duties of their office before
entering upon the discharge thereof. At the time of the Board’s first meeting
in June of each year, the Board members shall organize by selecting from among
their number a Chairperson and Secretary. It shall be the duty of the Secretary
to keep the full and correct minutes and records of all meetings and to file
the same with the Municipal Clerk where they shall be available for public
inspection at any time. The minutes, or a sufficient abstract thereof, of each
meeting shall be published in a legal newspaper of general circulation in the
municipality within 30 days after it is held. The Board shall meet at such
times as the governing body may designate. Special meetings may be held upon
the call of the Chairperson or any three members of the Board. A majority of
the Board members shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of business. It
shall be the duty of the Board to operate any utility owned by the municipality
and the exercise all powers conferred by law upon the municipality for the
operation of utilities to same extent as the governing body, except the Board
shall not make an expenditure other than or ordinary operational expenses
exceeding $40,000 without first obtaining the approval of the governing body.
The Board may, in its discretion, employ a Commissioner to operate one or more
of the municipal utilities and who shall be under the immediate authority of
the Board of Public Works. All actions of the Board shall be subject to the
review and supervision of the governing body. The Board shall be responsible
for making such reports and performing such other duties as the governing body
may, from time to time, designate. No members of the governing body shall serve
as a member of the Board of Public Works while serving a term of office as a
member of the governing body. No member of the Board of Public Works shall
serve in the capacity of both the Chairperson and Secretary of the Board.
(1976 Code, § 2-106) (Ord. 1023, passed 1-7-1991; Ord. 1107, passed 3-21-1994)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-801 through 17-808, 17-810
§ 31.07 BOARD OF PARK COMMISSIONERS.
   (A)   The governing body shall appoint the Board of Park Commissioners. The
Board shall consist of not less than six members, who shall be resident
freeholders in the municipality. The members of the Board shall serve a three-
year term of office. Two members shall be appointed originally for a term of
one year; two members for a term of two years; and two members for a term of
three years. Board members shall serve without compensation and may be
required, in the discretion of the governing body to give a bond in a sum set
by resolution of the governing body, and conditioned upon the faithful
performance of their duties. At the time of the Board’s first meeting in June
of each year, the Board shall organize by selecting from their number a
Chairperson and Secretary. It shall be the duty of the Secretary to keep the
full and correct minutes and records of all meetings, and to file the same with
the Municipal Clerk where they shall be available for public inspection at any
reasonable time. A majority of the Board members shall constitute a quorum for
the transaction of business. The Board shall meet at such times as the
governing body may designate. Special meetings may be held upon the call of the
Chairperson or any four of the Board Members. The Board shall provide the
general care, management and supervision of all parks and recreational
facilities, but excluding baseball and softball fields, and supervision of the
municipal cemetery. The Board shall have the power and authority to limit and
regulate the number of cemetery lots that may be owned by the same person in
the municipal cemetery, to prescribed rules for enclosing, adorning and
erecting monuments and tombstones on cemetery lots and to prohibit any diverse
or improper use of the municipal cemetery; provided that, no religious tests
shall be made as to the ownership of lots, the burial therein and the
ornamentation of graves. The Board shall use all the revenue received from the
sale of cemetery lots, gifts to the cemetery or other income to the cemetery
for the care, management and administration of the municipal cemetery. All
actions of the Board shall be subject to the review and supervision of the
governing body, and the Board shall be responsible for making such reports and
performing such additional duties as the governing body may designate. No
member of the governing body shall serve as a member of the Board of Park
Commissioners while serving a term of office as a member of the governing body.
No member of the Board of Park Commissioners shall serve in the capacity of
both the Chairperson and Secretary of the Board.
   (B)   The governing body shall appoint as a sub-committee of the Board of
Park Commissioners, a Baseball/Softball Committee consisting of six members who
shall be resident freeholders in the municipality. Each member shall serve a
one-year term and will serve without compensation. The Baseball/Softball
Committee shall be responsible for the management and supervision of all
baseball and softball leagues within the municipality. All actions of the
Baseball/Softball Committee shall be subject to the review and supervision of
the governing body and said Committee shall be responsible for making such
reports and performing such additional duties as the Board of Park
Commissioners and the governing body shall require. The city shall be
responsible for the general care and management of all baseball and softball
facilities and for allocating maintenance responsibilities for those
facilities.
(1976 Code, § 2-108) (Ord. 662, passed 6-4-1981; Ord. 1035, passed 6-17-1991;
Ord. 1090, passed 7-12-1993; Ord. 1451, passed 3- -2014)
§ 31.08 AIRPORT AUTHORITY BOARD.
   (A)   The Airport Authority Board shall have the full and exclusive
jurisdiction and control over all facilities owned or hereafter acquired by the
municipality for the purpose of aviation operation, air navigation and air
safety operation. The Board is a body corporate and politic, constituting a
public corporation and an agency of the municipality. The Board shall consist
of five members.
   (B)   Members of the Board shall be nominated and elected in the manner
provided by law for the election of other elected officials and shall take
office at the same time as the officers of such city each municipal election
year. Members of the Board shall be residents of the municipality and shall
serve a term of six years. Two members of the Board shall be elected in each
municipal election year; provided that, in each third election year, one member
only shall be elected to the Airport Authority Board. Any vacancy on the Board
resulting from any other cause than the expiration of a term of office, shall
be filled by temporary appointment by the Mayor, with the approval of the City
Council, until a successor can be elected at the next general municipal
election to serve the unexpired portion of the term. A member of the Board may
be removed from office for incompetence, neglect of duty or malfeasance in
office. An action for the removal of such officer may be brought, upon
resolution of the City Council, in the District Court of the county. The Board
shall have such other powers and duties as may be prescribed by law.
(1976 Code, § 2-109) (Ord. 952, passed 9-26-1988)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 3-501 through 3-514
§ 31.09 CITY FORESTRY BOARD.
   (A)   In general.
      (1)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
         CITY ARBORIST. The official representative of the Forestry Board and
as such is responsible for administration of the community forestry program.
         PARK TREES. Trees, shrubs, bushes, and all other woody vegetation in
public parks having individual names, and all areas owned by the city, or to
which the public has free access as a park.
         STREET TREES. Trees, shrubs, bushes, and all other woody vegetation on
land lying between the property lines on either side of all streets, avenues,
or ways within the city.
      (2)   Duties and responsibilities.
         (a)   The City Council shall appoint the Forestry Board, which shall
consist of five members who shall serve terms of three years, unless
reappointed. The City Forester shall act in advisory capacity to the Board. The
Board members shall serve without compensation.
         (b)   At the time of the Board's first meeting in January each year,
the members shall organize by selecting from their number a chairperson, co-
chairperson, and a secretary. No member of the Forestry Board shall serve in
the capacity of both chairperson and secretary. It shall be the duty of the
secretary to keep the full and correct minutes and records of all meetings and
to file the same with the City Clerk, where they shall be available for public
inspection during office hours. A majority of the Board members shall
constitute a quorum for the transaction of business. Special meetings may be
held upon the call of the chairperson or any two of the Board members.
         (c)   The Forestry Board shall work in conjunction with the Park Board
when any trees, etc. are on park grounds. The Forestry Board shall work in
conjunction with the Cemetery Board when any trees, etc. are in the cemetery.
The Forestry Board, when requested by the City Council, shall investigate, make
findings, report, and recommend upon any special matter or questions relating
to trees. All actions of the Board shall be subject to the review and control
of the City Council. The Board shall be responsible for making such reports and
performing such other duties as the Council may, from time to time, designate.
   (B)   Management of community forestry program.
      (1)   Street tree species to be planted. The city shall maintain a list
of recommended trees for planting in public areas. The purpose of this listing
will be to maintain diversity in the total tree population. This list shall be
available to residents of the city upon request to aid in the selection of
trees for private properties. The list of recommended trees shall be updated
periodically to reflect new developments or species that will affect the
population of the community forest.
      (2)   Distance and clearance for planting.
         (a)   Street trees may be planted in the tree lawn where there is more
than six feet between the edge of the sidewalk and the curb of the street.
Street trees shall be planted no closer than three feet from a sidewalk,
driveway, or street.
         (b)   No street trees shall be planted closer than 35 feet from any
street corner, measured from the point of the nearest intersection of curbs or
curb lines.
         (c)   No street tree shall be planted closer than ten feet from any
fireplug.
         (d)   No street tree shall be planted within ten feet of any point on
a line on the ground immediately below any overhead utility wire, or within ten
lateral feet of any underground water line, sewer line, transmission line, or
other utility.
      (3)   Public tree care.
         (a)   The city shall have the right to plant, prune, maintain, and
remove trees, plants and shrubs within right-of-way or bounds of all streets,
alleys, lanes, squares, and public grounds, as may be necessary to ensure the
public safety.
         (b)   The Forestry Board may remove or cause or order to be removed,
any tree or part thereof which is an unsafe condition or which by reason of its
nature is injurious to sewers, electric power lines, gas lines, water lines, or
other public improvements, or is seriously affected with any fatal disease.
         (c)   The abutting property owners shall have the right to perform
normal tree care on all street trees.
      (4)   Permits required. No person shall plant a street tree or any other
tree in public right-of-way without first obtaining a permit from the City
Clerk. There will be no fee for such permit.
      (5)   Compensatory payments. No person shall remove any public tree
without replacing such tree with a tree or trees of equivalent dollar value in
the vicinity of the removed tree. The value of trees shall be determined by the
community forest manager in accordance with regulations considering the
species, location, size, and condition of trees adopted by the Forestry Board.
If no suitable location exists in the vicinity of the tree removed or if the
replacement tree is of lesser value, the person causing the tree to be removed
shall make a compensatory payment to the city equal to the difference in value
between the tree removed and any replacement tree. Such compensatory payment
shall be paid into the park fund and used solely for the purpose of enhancing
the community forest.
      (6)   Tree topping. It shall be unlawful as a normal practice for any
person, firm, or city department to top any street tree, park tree, or other
tree on public property. TOPPING is defined as the severe cutting back of limbs
to stubs larger than three inches in diameter within the tree's crown to such a
degree as to remove the normal canopy and disfigure the tree. Trees severely
damaged by storms or other causes, or trees under utility wires or other
obstructions where other pruning practices are impractical shall be exempted
from this section.
      (7)   Clearance over streets and walkways. Clearance over streets and
walkways shall be the responsibility of the abutting property owner. A
clearance of eight feet must be maintained over walkways and a clearance of 12
feet must be maintained over streets. Property owners are responsible for trees
on their own property as well as trees on the public way that abuts their
property.
      (8)   Dead or diseased tree removal. The city shall remove or cause to be
removed any dead or diseased tree within the city limits. Diseased trees are
defined as those trees that may constitute a hazard to life and property and
represent a potential threat to other trees within the city due to the presence
of a fatal disease (e.g., Dutch Elm disease, Chestnut Blight). The Forestry
Board will notify in writing the owners of such trees. Removal is the
responsibility of the owners of such trees and shall be accomplished within 60
days of notification. In the event of failure to remove by the owner, the city
shall have the authority to remove such trees and charge the costs of removal
to the owner or owners or levy the cost against the real estate as a special
assessment, collectible in the normal fashion for special assessments.
      (9)   Removal of stumps. All stumps of street and park trees shall be
removed below the surface of the ground so that the top of the stump shall not
project above the surface of the ground.
      (10)   Interference with the Forestry Board. It shall be unlawful for any
person to prevent, delay or interfere with the Forestry Board or any of its
representatives or agents, while engaging in and about the planting,
cultivating, mulching, pruning, spraying, or removing of any trees within the
community forest, as authorized in this section.
      (11)   Access. It shall be unlawful for any person to prevent, delay or
interfere with access to private property by the city or its representatives in
the legal performance of any part of this section.
      (12)   Review by City Council. The City Council shall have the right to
review the conduct, acts and decisions of the Forestry Board. Any person may
appeal from any ruling or order of the Forestry Board to the City Council who
may hear the matter and make final decision.
(Ord. 1096, passed 9-13-1993; Ord. 1504, passed 9-20-2021)
§ 31.10 HOUSING AGENCY.
   (A)   Rights and duties of Housing Agency. The previously created and
existing Housing Authority shall continue to exist as a Housing Agency under
the state’s Housing Agency Act, being Neb. RS 71-1572 to 71-15,168 and shall
hereafter conduct its operations consistent with the said Act, being Neb. RS
71-1572 to 71-15,168. It shall be named the “Cozad Housing Agency” and all
property, rights and land, buildings, records and equipment and any funds,
money, revenue, receipts or assets of the Housing Authority shall belong to the
city’s Housing Agency as successor. All obligations, debts, commitments and
liabilities of the Housing Authority shall become obligations, debts,
commitments and liabilities of the city’s Housing Agency. Any previously passed
resolutions of the Housing Authority and any actions taken by the Housing
Authority prior to 1-1-2000 with regard to any project or program which is to
be completed within or to be conducted for a 12-month period following 1-1-2000
and which resolution or action is lawful under state law as it exists prior to
the operative date of LB-105 shall be a lawful resolution or action of the
city’s Housing Agency, binding upon and enforceable by or against the city’s
Housing Agency, not withstanding that such resolution or action is inconsistent
with, not authorized or prohibited under the provisions of the state’s Housing
Agency Act, being Neb. RS 71-1572 to 71-15,168. All Commissioners of the
Housing Authority and all officers, legal counsel, technical experts, directors
and other appointees or employees of the Housing Authority holding office or
employment by virtue of any such prior law on 1-1-2000 shall be deemed to have
been appointed or employed under the state’s Housing Agency Act, being Neb. RS
71-1572 to 71-15,168.
(1976 Code, § 2-307)
   (B)   Housing Agency Board. The Mayor/President shall appoint, subject to
confirmation or denial of the Council, five persons who, along with the
Resident Commissioner, if any, shall constitute the Housing Agency Board, and
such persons shall be called the Commissioners. One Commissioner shall be
appointed each year. Each Commissioners shall serve a five-year term of office
or until his or her successor is duly appointed and qualified; provided that,
all vacancies shall be filled for the unexpired terms. The Council may appoint
one of its members to serve as one of the five members of such Housing Agency
for such term as the Council may determine. No person shall serve as a
Commissioner unless he or she resides within the area of operation of the
city’s Housing Agency. A certificate of the appointment or reappointment of any
Commissioner shall be filed with the City Clerk and such certificate shall be
conclusive evidence of the proper appointment of such Commissioner. The
Commissioner shall receive no compensation for his or her services, but he or
she shall be entitled to the necessary expenses, including travel expenses,
incurred in discharge of his or her duties as provided by Neb. RS 81-1179 thru
81-1177. A majority of Commissioners shall constitute a quorum of the Agency
for the purpose of conducting its business, exercising its powers and for all
other purposes. Action may be taken by the Agency upon the vote of the majority
of the Commissioners present and voting, unless the by-laws of the Agency or
the ordinance creating the Agency require a larger number. The Commissioners
shall elect a Chairperson and Vice-Chairperson from among the Commissioners and
shall have the power to employ an executive director who shall serve as ex
officio secretary of the Agency. The Agency may also employ legal counsel for
said services as it may require. It may employ accountants, appraisers,
technical experts and such other officers, agents and employees as it may
require and shall determine their qualifications, duties, compensations and
terms of office. The Agency may delegate such other powers and duties to its
agents or employees, as it may deem proper. During his or her tenure and for
one year thereafter, no Commissioner, officer or employee of the Housing Agency
shall voluntarily acquire any interest, direct or indirect, in any project or
in any property included or planned to be included in any project, or in any
contact or proposed contact relating to a housing project. If any such
Commissioners, officer or employee involuntarily acquires any such interest, or
voluntarily or involuntarily acquired any such interest prior to appointment or
employment as Commissioner, officer or employee, he or she shall immediately
disclose his or her interest in writing to the Agency, and such disclosure
shall be entered upon the minutes of the Agency, and he or she shall not
participate in any action by the Agency relating to the property or contract in
which he or she has any such interest. Any violation of the provisions of this
section shall constitute misconduct in office. This prohibition shall not apply
to the acquisition of any interest in notes or bonds of the Agency issued in
connection with any housing project, or to the execution of the agreements by
banking institutions for deposit or handling of funds in connection with a
project or to act as trustee under any trust indenture, or to utility services,
the rates for which are fixed or controlled by a governmental agency. This
section shall not be construed to preclude, regulate or restrict the
participation of any tenant of the Agency from serving, if appointed, as a
Commissioner of such authority, but he or she may not participate in any
decision solely affecting his or her individual interest.
(1976 Code, § 2-308)
   (C)   Appointment of resident Commissioner. A sixth Commissioner, to be
known as the Resident Commissioner, shall be appointed to the governing body by
the President of the City Council, subject to confirmation or denial by the
Council. To select the initial Resident Commissioner, or to fill subsequent
vacancies in the position, the Housing Agency shall notify any Resident
Advisory Board or other resident organization and all adult persons directly
assisted by such Agency, to the effect that the position of Resident
Commissioner is open and that if any such person is interested in being
considered as a candidate for the position, such person should notify the
Housing Agency, in writing, within 30 days of the person’s willingness to be
considered and to serve as Resident Commissioner. The names of all persons
interested who have notified the Housing Agency of their interests in so
serving shall be forwarded to the President of the Council and the Resident
Commissioner shall be appointed from the list of names, subject to confirmation
by the Council. Upon the appointment of a Resident Commissioner, the
certificate of appointment shall state the term is for five years or when no
longer an eligible resident, whichever occurs first. In the event that no
qualified person has submitted his or her name to the Housing Agency as being
interested as a candidate for the position and the Housing Agency has received
no notification of interest in serving as Resident Commissioner by any person,
no Resident Commissioner shall be required to be selected. In the event a
Resident Commissioner is appointed and resigns from the position prior to
completion of the appointed term, or is no longer an eligible resident, or is
otherwise disqualified or removed from the Board, and a vacancy is created, the
Housing Agency shall solicit new candidate(s) for the position following the
same procedure set forth above. In the event that no Resident Commissioner is
selected and the position is unfilled, the Agency shall renotify all adult
persons directly assisted by the Agency that the position of Resident
Commissioner is open and solicit these persons for candidates for the position
not less than once annually.
(1976 Code, § 2-309)
   (D)   Removal of Commissioners. The Mayor/President may remove a
Commissioner for neglect of duty, misconduct in office or conviction of any
felony, in the manner prescribed hereinafter. The Mayor/President shall send a
notice of removal to such Commissioner, which notice shall set forth the
charges against him or her. Unless within ten days from the receipt of such
notice, the Commissioner files with the Clerk a request for a hearing before
the Council, the Commissioner shall be deemed removed from office. If a request
for a hearing is filed with the Clerk, the Council shall hold a hearing not
sooner than ten days after the date a hearing is requested, at which time the
Commissioner shall have the right to appear in person or by counsel and the
Council shall determine whether the removal shall be upheld. If the removal is
not upheld, the Commissioner shall continue to hold his or her office.
(1976 Code, § 2-310)
   (E)   Autonomy of Agency. The city’s Housing Agency is a political
subdivision, independent from the city and operated by the Housing Agency. The
Housing Agency shall constitute a public body, corporate and politic, and shall
have all the powers necessary or convenient to carry out and effectuate the
purposes and provisions of the state’s Housing Agency Act, being Neb. RS 71-
1572 to 71-15,168.
(1976 Code, § 2-311)
   (F)   Housing Agency Act adopted. Except as otherwise herein specifically
provided, the definitions, terms, provisions and conditions set forth in the
state statutes under the state’s Housing Agency Act, being Neb. RS 71-1572 to
71-15,168 are hereby adopted by reference, as they now exist, or may hereafter
be amended, for the operation and management of the city’s Housing Agency, and
the Housing Agency Commission shall fully comply with and be governed by the
terms of the state’s Housing Agency Act, being Neb. RS 71-1572 to 71-15,168.
(1976 Code, § 2-312)
   (G)   Policies and procedures.
      (1)   The Housing Agency shall adopt and promulgate fair and equitable
policies establishing a plan for selection of applicants.
      (2)   The plan shall include standards for eligibility, procedures for
prompt notification of eligibility or disqualification and procedures for
maintaining a waiting list of eligible applicants for whom vacancies are not
immediately available.
      (3)   Eligible applicants shall be offered available vacancies as
provided in such policies.
(1976 Code, § 2-313)
   (H)   Rules and regulations. The Housing Agency may adopt, promulgate and
enforce rules and regulations related to carrying out the purposes of the local
housing agency and exercising its powers and to amend or repeal such rules and
regulations from time to time.
(1976 Code, § 2-314)
   (I)   Annual reports. Within six months after the end of the Housing
Agency’s fiscal year, the Housing Agency shall prepare an annual report. This
report shall contain financial statements and the results of the operations.
The report shall be approved by the Board of Commissioners and signed by the
Chairperson. The annual report of the Housing Agency shall be a public record
and available for inspection and copying by members of the general public at
the Housing Agency office. The annual report shall be placed on file with the
City Clerk upon completion thereof.
(1976 Code, § 2-315)
   (J)   Filing of plans. The Housing Agency shall file with the City Clerk a
copy of the five-year plan and annual plan required by § 511 of the Federal
Quality Housing and Work Responsibility Act of 1998. The plans shall be filed
within 30 days after the date the plan is filed with the Department of Housing
and Urban Development.
(1976 Code, § 2-316) (Ord. 1281, passed 9-25-2000)
§ 31.11 COMMUNITY REDEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY.
   (A)   The City Council hereby finds and deteraiines that it is necessary and
desirable for purposes of providing for the redevelopment and general welfare
of the city that a community redevelopment authority be created pursuant to
Neb. RS 18-2102.01, reissue 2012, of the state’s Community Development Law,
being Neb. RS 18-2101 to 18-2154 (the “Act”).
   (B)   There shall be and there is hereby created in and for the city an
agency to be known as the “Community Redevelopment Authority of the City of
Cozad, Nebraska” (the “Authority”), which shall consist of seven members
selected from the Board of Directors of the Cozad Development Corporation. The
Authority shall exercise all of the power and authority granted to a community
redevelopment authority in the Act codified at Neb. RS 18-2101 to 18-2144 and
18-2147 to 18-2153, reissue 2012, as amended, and as hereafter amended.
   (C)   The President of the Cozad Development Corporation shall hold one of
the seven seats on the Authority and shall serve as the Chairperson of the
Authority. The Authority shall select one of its remaining six members as Vice
Chairperson. The City Clerk shall serve as the ex officio Secretary of the
Authority. The Authority may adopt rules for the transaction of its business
and shall keep a record of its resolutions, transactions, findings and
determinations, which records shall be made available for public inspection
during regular business hours.
   (D)   The City Council hereby finds and determines that it is no longer
necessary and desirable that the Community Development Agency of the city exist
for purposes of providing for the redevelopment and general welfare of the
city.
   (E)   The Community Development Agency of the city is hereby terminated and
dissolved and shall no longer have the power or authority granted under the
Act.
   (F)   The Authority shall be the successor in interest to the Community
Development Agency of the city.
(Ord. 1470, passed 7-10-2017)
§ 31.12 HISTORIC PRESERVATION BOARD.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      BOARD. The Historic Preservation Board of the City of Cozad, Nebraska.
      CITY COUNCIL. The elected members of the Council of the City of Cozad,
Nebraska.
      COMMISSION. The Planning Commission of the City of Cozad, Nebraska.
      CUMULATIVE EFFECT. This section shall be cumulative to all other
provisions of adopted codes and including codified ordinances relating to
building, electricity, plumbing or any other technical requirements or
provisions; and once work has been approved on a landmark or in a historical
district, all other appropriate permits and inspections shall be obtained, and
fees therefor shall be paid in accordance with Chapter 150 of the Codified
Ordinances of the City of Cozad.
      DESIGN GUIDELINES. Design criteria for new construction, alterations and
renovations of properties designated as landmarks and in historic districts.
All design criteria shall comply with the Secretary of Interior’s “Standards
for Rehabilitation.”
      HISTORIC DISTRICT. An area or section of the city containing a
significant number of buildings, sites, structures, objects, or improvements
which, considered as a whole, possess historical or cultural significance to
the city, state or nation pursuant to the provisions of this section.
      LANDMARK. An individual structure, or an integrated group of structures
on a single lot or site, or a site having a special character or special
historical, cultural, educational, architectural, engineering or geographic
interest or value.
      OWNER. A real estate owner or owner’s authorized agent, officer of a
corporation which owns real estate, partner of a partnership owning real
estate, or member of an LLC or other similar organizations owning real estate.
      PRIVATE. All bodies, groups, organizations, associations, corporations,
clubs and individuals of whatever nature which are not included in the
definition of PUBLIC.
      PUBLIC. The state, or any agency thereof; a municipality; a county or any
board appointed by or acting for same; a township; a commission or other
authority established by law; any district, or other political subdivision of
the state or public body recognized by law.
      SECRETARY OF THE INTERIOR’S “STANDARDS FOR REHABILITATION”. Ten standards
promulgated by the U.S. Department of the Interior to guide alterations to a
landmark or property within a historic district.
      STRUCTURE. Anything constructed or erected, the use of which requires
location on the ground or attached to something having location on the ground.
      WORK. Work shall mean and include any alteration, demolition,
construction, reconstruction, restoration, remodeling or other material change
in the external appearance of the structure.
   (B)   (1)   Findings. The City Council finds that the protection,
enhancement, perpetuation and use of structures, districts and elements of
historical, cultural, educational, architectural, engineering or geographic
significance, located within the city, contribute to the prosperity, civic
pride and general welfare of the people; and further finds that the economic,
cultural and aesthetic interests of the city cannot be maintained or enhanced
by disregarding the heritage of the city and that people of the city have an
interest in the maintenance, preservation, demolition or other action regarding
such cultural assets.
      (2)   Purpose.
         (a)   To designate, preserve, protect, enhance and perpetuate those
structures and districts which reflect significant elements of the city
heritage;
         (b)   To foster civic pride in the beauty and accomplishments of the
past;
         (c)   To stabilize or improve the aesthetic and economic vitality and
values of such structures and districts;
         (d)   To protect and enhance the city’s attraction to tourists and
visitors;
         (e)   To promote the use of historic structures or districts for
education; and
         (f)   To promote and encourage continued private ownership and
utilization of such buildings and other structures now owned and used, to the
extent that the objectives listed above can be promoted.
   (C)   Establishment and membership.
      (1)   There is hereby created the Historic Preservation Board of the City
of Cozad, Nebraska. The Board shall be composed of five members; all members
shall be residents of the city and shall have a demonstrated interest or
professional expertise in historic preservation. A majority shall be
professionals in the fields of archeology, historic archeology, architectural
history, architecture, and history. All such appointments are to the extent
that these professionals are available in the city. The five members shall
consist of two citizens who are interested in preservation, architecture,
engineering, historical or cultural matters, and three owners of real estate
(as defined in division (A)(1) above) designated as historic or within a
historic district or proposed district.
      (2)   Employees of the city or elected or appointed members of the City
Council or other city boards or commissions shall not be eligible to be members
of the Board.
      (3)   The members of the Board shall be appointed by the Mayor, subject
to confirmation by the City Council.
      (4)   Initially, two members of the Board shall be appointed for a one
year term, two members shall be appointed for a two year term and one member
shall be appointed for a three year term. There may be a limit set to the
number of terms.
      (5)   In the event of a vacancy occurring in the membership of the Board
for any reason, an appointment shall be made to fill the vacancy in the same
manner as the original appointments for the unexpired term.
      (6)   The members of the Board shall serve without compensation; however,
they shall be entitled to reimbursement for expenses incurred during the course
of conducting the business of the Board.
      (7)   The Board shall elect its chairperson from among its members.
      (8)   The Board shall establish its own rules of procedure.
      (9)   Three members of the Board shall constitute a quorum for the
transaction of business.
      (10)   Except as otherwise provided herein, three affirmative votes shall
be required for final action on any matter acted upon by the Board.
      (11)   The Board shall meet at least quarterly at such times and in such
places as it may determine, or upon the call of the chairperson.
      (12)   The Board shall elect four officers, each to serve for the full
duration of his or her term of appointment to the Board: Chair, Vice-Chair,
Secretary, and Treasurer. The Chair shall preside at meetings, call special
meetings, issue public statements for the Board, and in general assume the
duties of directing the activities of the Board. The Vice-Chair shall act in
the place of the Chair in the event of the latter’s absence. The Secretary
shall keep a complete and current agenda, minutes of each meeting, and be
responsible for publication and distribution of minutes, proceedings, and
reports. The Treasurer shall be responsible for financial reports.
      (13)   The Board shall, in conjunction with Cozad Developmental
Corporation, Inc. (CDC), adopt design guidelines and such standards and
procedures not inconsistent with the provisions of this section as it may deem
necessary to further the purpose herein stated.
      (14)   Designated historic districts and individual landmarks shall be
determined by the Board and approved by City Council.
   (D)   Submission of plans, projects and proposals. All plans, projects,
proposals, evaluations, specifications, sketches and other information
necessary for the review of the Board, or colors, building materials, signs or
other features subject to public view, shall be made available to the Board by
the applicant or appropriate department of the city, along with a copy of the
application for the building or demolition permit.
   (E)   Director; duties. The Mayor shall assign a city staff member as the
Director of the Board, without the right to vote. The Director shall be the
custodian of records, conduct official correspondence and generally supervise
the clerical and technical work of the Board as required to administer this
section. In addition, the Director, for and on behalf of the Board and with the
approval and direction of the Board, shall:
      (1)   Work in conjunction with other city officials to keep complete and
accurate records and accounting for all funds, grants, income and expenditures
of every nature of the Board. All funds shall be placed with the City of Cozad
in a specially designated account;
      (2)   Prepare annual reports and other such reports that may be required;
      (3)   Assure that public notices are posted and advertised, agendas are
kept current and available for public inspection and open meetings are
conducted;
      (4)   Provide for 10 days public notice of a meeting prior to such
meeting;
      (5)   Submit to the City Council for public hearing and approval, actions
by the Board; and
      (6)   Make recommendations and do such other acts pursuant to this
section as the Board may require.
   (F)   Board; powers and duties. The Board shall establish and provide for
the following duties:
      (1)   Hold public hearings and review applications for alterations to
landmarks or properties within historic districts;
      (2)   Adopt the Secretary of the Interior’s “Standards for
Rehabilitation” and any design guidelines for the review of landmarks or
properties within historic districts that are consistent with the “Standards
for Rehabilitation;”
      (3)   Review proposed zoning amendments, applications for special use
permits, or variances that affect proposed or designated landmarks and historic
districts;
      (4)   Periodically review the city’s zoning ordinances and recommend to
the Planning Commission and the City Council any of the same that are
appropriate for the protection and preservation of landmarks or historic
districts;
      (5)   Cooperate with the Nebraska State Historical Society in matters of
proposed certification of this section and related duties and requirements;
      (6)   Comment on properties nominated to the National Register of
Historic Places and cause to be processed nominations of properties potentially
eligible for listing in the National Registry;
      (7)   Carry out, assist and collaborate in studies and programs designed
to identify and evaluate structures, sites and areas worthy of preservation;
      (8)   Consult with and consider the ideas and recommendations of civic
groups, public agencies and citizens interested in historic preservation;
      (9)   Inspect and investigate structures, sites and areas which are
believed worthy of preservation;
      (10)   Submit to the City Council for public hearing and approval, and
subsequently maintain (and resubmit as required) a list of structures and other
features deemed deserving of official recognition although not designated as
landmarks or historic districts and take appropriate measures of recognition,
and maintain a documentary inventory;
      (11)   Disseminate information to the public concerning those structures,
sites and areas deemed worthy of preservation and encourage and advise property
owners in protection, enhancement, perpetuation and use of property of
historical interest;
      (12)   Consider methods other than those provided for in this section for
encouraging and achieving historic preservation and make appropriate
recommendations to the City Council and other bodies and agencies, both public
and private.
      (13)   Make recommendations and do such other acts pursuant to this
section as the Board shall order;
      (14)   Make an initial inventory of all sites, structures and districts
presently designated or eligible for designation as landmarks. All sites,
structures and districts within the city limits cited in the Nebraska State
Historical Society’s inventories of Dawson County shall be included initially
on the inventory. All sites, structures and districts cited in the foregoing
inventories of the Nebraska State Historical Society shall be reviewed by the
Board and, if deserving, recommended for designation by ordinance as historic
landmarks, sites, structures or districts. The recommendations which the Board
makes as to these sites, structures and districts shall be within 12 months of
the first meeting of the Board, or as soon thereafter as may be done. Such
inventory shall be updated annually as the Board directs.
   (G)   Designation of landmarks, historic districts.
      (1)   All landmarks and property within a historic district shall be
subject to the controls, standards and procedures set forth in this section.
      (2)   A site, structure or area may be designated for preservation as a
landmark or historic district if it has:
         (a)   Historical importance or cultural significance, interest or
value as part of the development, history, heritage or culture of the city,
state or nation; or is associated with the life of a person significant in the
past; or is the site of an historic event, or exemplifies the cultural,
political, economic, educational, social or historic heritage of the community;
         (b)   Architectural and engineering importance, portraying the
historical setting or environment of a distinctive characteristic of an
architectural or engineering type, period, style, or method of construction; or
is the work of a resident, builder or designer whose individual work is
significant in the development of the city; or contains elements of design,
detail, materials or craftsmanship of distinctive quality, or which represents
a significant innovation;
         (c)   Geographic importance, by being a part of or related to a city
center, park or other distinctive area, which should be developed or preserved
according to a plan based on a historic, cultural or architectural motif; or
owing to its unique location or singular physical characteristic, represents an
established and familiar visual feature of a neighborhood, community, or the
city;
         (d)   Archeological importance which has yielded or is likely to yield
information regarding the history of the area prior to the establishment of the
city. A landmark or historic district shall possess integrity of design,
location, setting, feeling, association, materials and workmanship. In the case
of a historic district, provisions shall be made to define an accurate
boundary, identify properties that contribute to the historical significance of
the district, and those because of age or integrity do not contribute. A
property shall be eligible if it is 50 years of age or older, unless
exceptional significance can be demonstrated.
      (3)   A landmark may be proposed by the City Council or the Board with
the owner’s written approval; or upon petition of the owner. Any such proposal
shall be filed with the Director upon forms prescribed by him or her and shall
include all data required by the Board.
      (4)   A historic district may be proposed by the City Council or the
Board. Any such proposal shall be filed with the Director upon forms prescribed
by him or her and shall include all data required by the Board.
      (5)   Each proposal of a landmark or historic district shall first be
considered by the Board at a public hearing.
      (6)   Notice of the time, place and purpose of the public hearing to be
held upon the proposal of a landmark or historic district shall be given by the
Board in the official newspaper of the City not less than ten days prior to the
date of the hearing and by mail to the owners of all property included in the
proposed designation, as identified by the names and addresses of the last
known owners as shown by the county real property tax records. Failure to send
notice by mail to any such property owner where the address of the owner is not
so recorded shall not invalidate any proceedings in connection with the
proposed designation. The Board may also give such other notice as may be
deemed reasonable and practicable.
      (7)   A record of the pertinent information presented at the hearing upon
the proposal of a proposed landmark or historic district shall be made and
maintained as a permanent public record.
      (8)   The Board may approve, disapprove or modify the proposal of a
landmark or historic district and shall notify the applicant of the action
taken within 30 days of the referral thereof to the Board.
      (9)   The recommendation of the Board for approval of a proposal for a
proposed landmark or historic district shall state the standards for such
designation, as set out in this section, which are applied in each designation.
      (10)   Designation of a landmark shall not be proposed over the objection
of an owner. Designation of a historic district shall not be proposed if the
owners of 51% of the front footage of the real property in the proposed
historic district object, not to include any public right-of-way located in
such district. To object, owners shall follow the procedures outlined in
divisions (J)(4) and (J)(5) below.
   (H)   Overlay district; zoning of historic districts. A landmark or historic
district shall constitute a zoning overlay district for historic preservation
purposes and shall be included as such on the official land use or zoning map.
This zoning shall be in addition to the existing underlying land use zoning.
Zoning amendments, applications for special use permits, or variances shall be
considered to assist in the preservation, use or rehabilitation of designated
properties.
   (I)   Transmittal to, action by City Council. The Board shall transmit the
proposal for the designation of a landmark or historic district to the City
Council within 30 days after consideration. The Board shall consider the degree
of conformity or nonconformity with the comprehensive development plan of the
city, and may, if the Board deems it necessary, consult with and obtain a
recommendation with regards to such proposal from the Planning Commission.
   (J)   Consideration by Council.
      (1)   When a proposal for the designation of a landmark or historic
district is presented to the City Council, it shall take into consideration the
recommendation of the Board and shall further give consideration to the
economic consequences to the city and the affected property owners.
      (2)   Objection by the owner or owners of a proposed landmark shall
require three affirmative votes by City Council for approval of such district.
      (3)   Objection by the owner or owners of a proposed landmark shall
require three affirmative votes for approval of such landmark.
      (4)   Objections to a historic district designation must be acknowledged
on a form available in the office of the Director and any such objections must
be filed with the City Clerk no later than the first reading of the proposed
designation ordinance.
      (5)   In order for the owners of a parcel of land to validly object to
the designation, such objection shall be executed by any owner who is otherwise
required to execute a valid conveyance of a fee simple interest in such parcel
and whose name(s) appear in the records of the Register of Deeds.
      (6)   Pursuant to the provisions of this section, and the procedures set
forth herein, the City Council may, by ordinance, designate a “landmark”, or a
“historic district.”
      (7)   Each ordinance designating a landmark or historic district shall
include a description and statement of the significance of the real property or
district to justify its designation as such and a description of the features
that should be preserved and shall include the legal description of the
landmark or historic district.
      (8)   Within ten days after final adoption of the ordinance designating
property as a landmark or historic district, the Director shall send a copy of
such ordinance and a letter outlining the basis of such designation and the
obligations and restrictions which result from such designation to the owner of
record of each property so designated or each property within the designated
district by registered or certified mail.
   (K)   Amendment; rescission. The City Council may, by ordinance, amend or
rescind the designation of landmark or historic district at any time pursuant
to the same procedures set forth in this section for the original designation.
   (L)   Application to public property.
      (1)   All properties owned by government entities and/or public agencies
shall be subject to the provisions of this section in the same manner as
private persons.
      (2)   All visible modifications or additions to public areas within a
landmark or historic district, including street furniture, lighting fixtures
and paving materials shall be subject to review by the Board.
   (M)   Economic impact. The Board shall, in the administration and
enforcement of the provisions of this section, take into account all economic
factors presented to it. The Board shall recognize the necessity of weighing
potential economic detriments against preservationist objectives and shall
strive to effect a fair balance in all instances.
   (N)   Certificate of approval required. 
      (1)   No person shall carry out or cause to be carried out any work on a
landmark or structure in a historic district without a certificate of approval
first being issued by the Board. For the purposes of this section, any
alteration, construction, restoration, remodeling or other changes shall be
deemed to require a certificate of approval where such work affects any of the
characteristics of the landmark or historic district which were deemed to be
significant and intended to be preserved as recited in the ordinance
designating such landmark or district.
      (2)   The Board’s decision to approve or deny an application for a
certificate of approval shall include the following criteria:
         (a)   Any alteration of an existing landmark shall be compatible with
its historic character and meet the Secretary of the Interior’s “Standards for
Rehabilitation” or other such design guidelines as may have been adopted;
         (b)   Any alteration of a property within a historic district shall be
compatible with its historic character and that of such district and meet the
Secretary of the Interior’s “Standards for Rehabilitation” or other such design
guidelines as may have been adopted; or
         (c)   New construction shall be compatible with the historic district
in which it is located.
   (O)   Permits required. Building permits must be obtained prior to any work
being done. A Board-approved certificate of approval must be presented to the
Building Official prior to any building permit being issued.
   (P)   Certificate of approval applications forwarded to Director. 
      (1)   All applications for a certificate of approval will be made on
forms available at Cozad City Building and shall be forwarded immediately to
the Board.
      (2)   Notwithstanding any other provision of law, the Director shall not
permit any work except as pursuant to a certificate of approval issued by the
Board as authorized by the City Council.
      (3)   The Board shall hold a public hearing on applications to it for a
certificate of approval.
      (4)   The determination by the Board on an application for a certificate
of approval, or report of any action taken, shall be forwarded to the Director
for appropriate action not later than 30 days after receipt of the application
by the Board.
      (5)   The Board’s decision must be accompanied by written findings of
fact.
      (6)   The Board, in considering the appropriateness of any work, shall
consider, among other things, the purposes of this section, the historical and
architectural value and significance of the landmark or historical district,
the texture, material and color of the building or structure in question or its
appurtenant fixtures, including signs and the relationship of such features to
similar features of other buildings within a historic district and the position
of such building or structure in relation to the street or public way, as well
as, other buildings and structures.
      (7)   If, after considering the application for a certificate of approval
required by this section, the Board determines that the proposed changes are
consistent with the criteria for historic preservation established by this
section, the Board shall recommend the issuance of the certificate of approval.
      (8)   If no certificate is approved, the applicant and the Board shall
enter into negotiations to develop a plan whereby modifications in the
application would enable the Board to issue a certificate of approval under the
criteria listed above and compatible with the guidelines for preservation in
the designated ordinance. If the proposed work involves demolition of all or a
significant portion of a landmark or property within a historic district or
involves construction upon open areas of a landmark or within a historic
district and no acceptable plan is negotiated and approved between the
applicant and the Board within 30 days of the Board’s decision not to issue a
certificate of approval, the city may proceed with eminent domain proceedings
to acquire the landmark or the affected property within the historic district,
but if the city does not initiate proceedings within 30 days of the Board’s
final negotiations with the applicant, the Director shall issue a certificate
of approval, permitting the applicant to proceed with the work requested in the
application.
      (9)   No change shall be made in the application for a building or
demolition permit after issuance of a certificate by the Board without being
resubmitted to the Board and approval in the same manner as provided above.
   (Q)   Council review of Board recommendations. The Council shall review all
Board recommendations and the Board shall submit for approval a record of all
its activities to the City Council upon City Council request.
   (R)   City projects; undertakings. The Board may hold public hearings on
city projects and undertakings affecting landmark sites, structures or historic
districts and make recommendations to the City Council concerning same.
   (S)   Advice; guidance to owners. The Board may, upon request of the
property owner, render advice and guidance with respect to any proposed work on
a landmark or historic district.
(Ord. 1486, passed 3-18-2019) Penalty, see §
31.99
§ 31.99 PENALTY.
   Any person who shall violate or refuse to comply with the enforcement of any
of the provisions of this chapter, set forth at full length herein or
incorporated by reference, shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon
conviction thereof, shall be fined not more than $500 for each offense. A new
violation shall be deemed to have been committed every 24 hours of such failure
to comply.
(1976 Code, § 2-401) (Ord. 1449, passed 12-23-2013)
CHAPTER 32: ORDINANCES, INITIATIVES AND REFERENDUMS
Section
Ordinances, Resolutions and the Like
   
32.01   Grant of power
   
32.02   Introduction
   
32.03   Resolutions and motions
   
32.04   Style
   
32.05   Title
   
32.06   Reading and passage of ordinances, resolutions, orders, bylaws
   
32.07   Publication or posting; certificate
   
32.08   Emergency ordinances
   
32.09   Amendments and revisions
Initiatives and Referendums
   
32.20   Definitions
   
32.21   Petitions and ballots
   
32.22   Petition form
   
32.23   Declaratory judgment
   
32.24   Signature sheets
   
32.25   Petitions and affidavits
   
32.26   Petitions and notifications
   
32.27   Frequency of occurrence
   
32.28   Direct vote
   
32.29   Elections
   
32.30   Ballots
   
32.31   Initiatives
   
32.32   Referendum limitations
   
32.33   Referendum passage
   
32.34   Applicability
 
   
32.99   Penalty
ORDINANCES, RESOLUTIONS AND THE LIKE
§ 32.01 GRANT OF POWER.
   The governing body shall have the responsibility of making all ordinances,
bylaws, rules, regulations and resolutions, not inconsistent with the laws of
the state, as may be necessary and proper for maintaining the peace, good
government and welfare of the municipality and its trade, commerce and
security.
(1976 Code, § 1-601)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-505
§ 32.02 INTRODUCTION.
   Ordinances shall be introduced by members of the governing body in either of
the following ways:
   (A)   With the recognition of the Mayor, a Council member may, in the
presence and hearing of a majority of the members elected to the Council read
aloud the substance of his or her proposed ordinance and file a copy of the
same with the Municipal Clerk for future consideration; or
   (B)   With the recognition of the Mayor, a Council member may present his or
her proposed ordinance to the Clerk who, in the presence and hearing of a
majority of the members elected to the Council, shall read aloud the substance
of the same and shall file the same for future consideration.
(1976 Code, § 1-602)
§ 32.03 RESOLUTIONS AND MOTIONS.
   (A)   Resolutions and motions shall be introduced in one of the methods
prescribed for the introduction of ordinances.
   (B)   After their introduction, they shall be fully and distinctly read one
time in the presence and hearing of a majority of the members elected to the
Council.
   (C)   The issue raised by said resolutions or motions shall be disposed of
in accordance with the usage of parliamentary law adopted for the guidance of
the Council. A majority vote shall be required to pass any resolution or
motion.
   (D)   The vote on any resolution or motion shall be by roll call vote.
(1976 Code, § 1-603)
§ 32.04 STYLE.
   The style of all municipal ordinances shall be: “Be it ordained by the Mayor
and Council of the City of Cozad, Nebraska: ...”
(1976 Code, § 1-604)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-613
§ 32.05 TITLE.
   No ordinance shall contain a subject not clearly expressed in its title.
(1976 Code, § 1-605)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-614
§ 32.06 READING AND PASSAGE OF ORDINANCES, RESOLUTIONS, ORDERS, BYLAWS.
   (A)   (1)   All ordinances and resolutions or orders for the appropriation
or payment of money shall require for their passage or adoption the concurrence
of a majority of all members elected to the City Council. The Mayor may vote
when his or her vote would provide the additional vote required to attain the
number of votes equal to a majority of the number of members elected to the
Council, and the Mayor shall, for the purpose of such vote, be deemed to be a
member of the Council.
      (2)   Ordinances of a general or permanent nature shall be read by title
on three different days unless three-fourths of the City Council vote to
suspend this requirement. Such requirement shall not be suspended for any
ordinance for the annexation of territory, or the redrawing of boundaries for
City Council election districts or wards, or as otherwise provided in Neb. RS
17-614(3) or as otherwise provided by law.
      (3)   In case this requirement is suspended, the ordinance shall be read
by title and then moved for final passage.
      (4)   Three-fourths of the City Council may require a reading of any such
ordinance in full before enactment under either procedure set out in this
section.
   (B)   On the passage or adoption of every bylaw or ordinance, and every
resolution or order to enter into a contract by the City Council, the yeas and
nays shall be called and recorded. To pass or adopt any bylaw, ordinance, or
any such resolution or order, a concurrence of a majority of the whole number
of members elected to the City Council shall be required. All appointments of
the officers by the City Council shall be made viva voce, and the concurrence
of a like majority shall be required, and the names of those, and for whom they
voted, on the vote resulting in an appointment, shall be recorded. The
requirements of a roll call or viva voce vote shall be satisfied by a city
which utilizes an electronic voting device which allows the yeas and nays of
each member of the City Council to be readily seen by the public.
(1976 Code, § 1-606) (Ord. 1149, passed 2-6-1995; Ord. 1447, passed 12-23-2013;
Ord. 1512, passed 5-2-2022)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-614, 17-616
§ 32.07 PUBLICATION OR POSTING; CERTIFICATE.
   All ordinances of a general nature shall, before they take effect, be
published within 15 days after they are passed:
   (A)   In legal newspaper in or of general circulation in the city or, if no
paper is published in the city, then by posting a written or printed copy in
each of three public places in the city; or
   (B)   In book, or pamphlet, or electronic form.
(Ord. 911, passed 10-20-1986; Ord. 1513, passed 5-2-2022)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-613
§ 32.08 EMERGENCY ORDINANCES.
   (A)   In the case of riot, infectious or contagious diseases or other
impending danger, failure of a public utility or other emergency requiring its
immediate operation, such ordinance shall take effect upon the proclamation of
the Mayor, and the posting thereof in at least three of the most public places
in the municipality.
   (B)   Such emergency notice shall recite the emergency and be passed by a
three-fourths vote of the governing body and entered upon the Municipal Clerk’s
minutes.
(1976 Code, § 1-609)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-613
§ 32.09 AMENDMENTS AND REVISIONS.
   No ordinance or section thereof shall be revised or amended unless the new
ordinance contains the entire ordinance or section as revised or amended, and
the ordinance or section so amended shall be repealed.
(1976 Code, § 1-610)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-614
INITIATIVES AND REFERENDUMS
§ 32.20 DEFINITIONS.
   The powers of initiative and referendum are reserved to the qualified
electors of the municipality by state law. This subchapter shall govern the use
of initiative to enact, and the use of referendum to amend or repeal measures
affecting the governance of the municipality. For the purpose of this
subchapter, the following definitions shall apply unless the context clearly
indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CIRCULATOR. Any person who solicits signatures for an initiative or
referendum petition.
   CLERK. The Municipal Clerk or the municipal official in charge of elections.
   GOVERNING BODY. The legislative authority of the municipality.
   MEASURE. An ordinance, charter provision or resolution which is within the
legislative authority of the governing body to pass, and which is not excluded
from the operation of referendum by the exceptions in §
32.32 of this chapter.
   MUNICIPALITY. The City of Cozad, Nebraska.
   PETITION. A document authorized for circulation pursuant to §
32.21 of this chapter or any copy of such document.
   PLACE OF RESIDENCE. The street and number of the residence. If there is no
street and number for the residence, PLACE OF RESIDENCE shall mean the mailing
address.
   PROSPECTIVE PETITION. A sample document containing the information necessary
for a completed petition, including a sample signature sheet, which has not yet
been authorized for circulation.
   QUALIFIED ELECTORS. All persons registered to vote, at the time the
prospective petition is filed, in the jurisdiction governed or to be governed
by any measure sought to be enacted by initiative, or altered or repealed by
referendum.
   RESIDENCE. The place at which a person has established his or her home,
where he or she is habitually present, and to which, when he or she departs, he
or she intends to return.
   SIGNATURE SHEET. A sheet of paper which is part of a petition and which is
signed by persons wishing to support the petition effort.
(1976 Code, § 1-1001) (Ord. 690, passed 8-5-1982; Ord. 757, passed 11-3-1983)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 18-2501 through 18-2511
§ 32.21 PETITIONS AND BALLOTS.
   (A)   Before circulating an initiative or referendum petition, the
petitioner shall file with the Clerk a prospective petition. The Clerk shall
date the prospective petition immediately upon its receipt. The Clerk shall
verify that the prospective petition is in proper form and shall provide a
ballot title for the initiative or referendum proposal, as described below. If
the prospective petition is in proper form, the Clerk shall authorize the
circulation of the petition and such authorization shall be given within three
working days from the date the prospective petition was filed. If the form of
the prospective petition is incorrect, the Clerk shall, within three working
days from the date the prospective petition was filed, inform the petitioner of
necessary changes and request that those changes be made. When the requested
changes have been made and the revised prospective petition has been submitted
to the Clerk in proper form, the Clerk shall authorize the circulation of the
petition and such authorization shall be given within two working days from the
receipt of the properly revised petition. Verification by the Clerk that the
prospective petition is in proper form does not constitute an admission by the
Clerk, governing body or municipality that the measure is subject to referendum
or limited referendum or that the measure may be enacted by initiative.
   (B)   The ballot title of any measure to be initiated or referred shall
consist of:
      (1)   A briefly-worded caption by which the measure is commonly known or
which accurately summarizes the measure;
      (2)   A briefly-worded question which plainly states the purpose of the
measure and is phrased so that an affirmative response to the question
corresponds to an affirmative vote on the measure; and
      (3)   A concise and impartial statement, of not more than 75 words, of
the chief purpose of the measure.
   (C)   The ballots used when voting on an initiative or referendum proposal
shall contain the entire ballot title. Proposals for initiative and referendum
shall be submitted on separate ballots and the ballots shall be printed in
lower case ten-point type; except that, the caption shall be in bold face type.
All initiative and referendum measures shall be submitted in a non-partisan
manner without indicating or suggesting on the ballot that they have or have
not been approved or endorsed by any political party or organization.
(1976 Code, § 1-1002) (Ord. 690, passed 8-5-1982; Ord. 757, passed 11-3-1983)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 18-2512, 18-2513
§ 32.22 PETITION FORM.
   (A)   The forms designed by the Secretary of State to be used for initiative
and referendum petitions shall be made available to the public by the City
Clerk, and they shall serve as a guide for individuals preparing prospective
petitions. Substantial compliance with initiative and referendum forms is
required before authorization to circulate such petition shall be granted by
the City Clerk. Chief petitioners or circulators preparing prospective
petitions shall be responsible for making copies of the petition for
circulation after authorization for circulation has been granted.
   (B)   Each petition presented for signature must be identical to the
petition authorized for circulation by the City Clerk. Every petition shall
contain the name and place of residence of not more than three persons as chief
petitioners or sponsors of the measure. The chief petitioners or sponsors shall
be qualified electors of the municipality potentially affected by the
initiative or referendum proposal. Every petition shall contain the caption and
the statement specified to be part of the ballot title. When a special election
is being requested, such fact shall be stated on every petition.
(1976 Code, § 1-1003) (Ord. 690, passed 8-5-1982; Ord. 757, passed 11-3-1983;
Ord. 1348, passed 11-8-2004)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 18-2514, 18-2515
§ 32.23 DECLARATORY JUDGMENT.
   (A)   The city or any chief petitioner may seek a declaratory judgment
regarding any questions arising under this subchapter, as it may be from time
to time amended, including, but not limited to, determining whether a measure
is subject to referendum or limited referendum or whether a measure may be
enacted by initiative. If a chief petitioner seeks a declaratory judgment, the
city shall be served by personal, residence or certified mail service upon the
chief executive officer or City Clerk. If the city seeks a declaratory
judgment, only the chief petitioner or chief petitioners shall be required to
be served.
   (B)   Any action brought for declaratory judgment for purposes of
determining whether a measure is subject to limited referendum or referendum,
or whether a measure may be enacted by initiative, may be filed in the district
court at any time after the filing of a referendum or initiative petition with
the City Clerk for signature verification until 40 days from the date the City
Council received notification from the verifying official that the necessary
signatures have been obtained. If the city does not bring an action for
declaratory judgment to determine whether the measure is subject to limited
referendum or referendum, or whether the measure may be enacted by initiative,
until after it has received such notification, it shall be required to proceed
with the initiative or referendum election in accordance with the provisions of
this subchapter. If the city does file such an action prior to receiving such
notification, it shall not be required to proceed to hold such election until a
final decision has been rendered in the action.
   (C)   Any action for a declaratory judgment shall be governed generally by
Neb. RS 25-21,149 through 25-21,164; except that, only the city and each chief
petitioner shall be required to be made parties. The city, City Clerk, City
Council or any of the city’s officers shall be entitled to rely on any order
rendered by the court in any such proceeding. Any action brought for
declaratory judgment pursuant to this section shall be given priority in
scheduling hearings and in disposition as determined by the court. When an
action is brought to determine whether the measure is subject to limited
referendum or referendum, or whether a measure may be enacted by initiative, a
decision shall be rendered by the court no later than five days prior to the
election.
   (D)   The provisions of this section relating to declaratory judgments shall
not be construed as limiting, but construed as supplemental and additional to
other rights and remedies conferred by law.
(1976 Code, § 1-1003) (Ord. 690, passed 8-5-1982; Ord. 757, passed 11-3-1983;
Ord. 1348, passed 11-8-2004)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. 18-2538
§ 32.24 SIGNATURE SHEETS.
   (A)   Every signature sheet shall:
      (1)   Contain the caption required in §
32.21(A) of this chapter;
      (2)   Be part of a complete and authorized petition when presented to
potential signatories;
      (3)   Provide space for signatories to write their names, places of
residence and the date of signing; and
      (4)   Contain a statement that anyone falsifying information on a
signature sheet shall be subject to penalties provided by law.
   (B)   No more than 25 signatures on each signature sheet shall be counted.
In order to be valid, a signature shall be that of an individual registered to
vote, at the time of signing, in the jurisdiction governed or to be governed by
the measure addressed in the petition. A signature shall include the
signatory’s full name, his or her place of residence, and the date of signing.
No signatory shall use ditto marks as a means of affixing his or her place of
residence or date on any petition. A wife shall not use her husband’s Christian
or given name when she signs a petition and she shall sign her own Christian or
given name along with her surname.
(1976 Code, § 1-1004) (Ord. 690, passed 8-5-1982; Ord. 757, passed 11-3-1983)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 18-2516
§ 32.25 PETITIONS AND AFFIDAVITS.
   Included in the contents of every petition shall be an affidavit, to be
signed by the circulator in the presence of a notary, which states that the
circulator is a qualified elector, that each person who signed the petition did
so in the presence of the circulator on the date indicated, and that the
circulator believes that each signatory was registered to vote in the affected
jurisdiction at the time he or she signed the petition and that the circulator
believes that each signatory has stated his or her name and place of residence
correctly.
(1976 Code, § 1-1005) (Ord. 690, passed 8-5-1982; Ord. 757, passed 11-3-1983)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 18-2517
§ 32.26 PETITIONS AND NOTIFICATIONS.
   (A)   (1)   Signed petitions shall be filed with the Clerk for signature
verification. Upon the filing of a petition, and passage of a resolution by the
governing body, the municipality and the County Clerk or Election Commissioner
of the county in which such municipality is located may by mutual agreement
provide that the County Clerk or Election Commissioner shall ascertain whether
the petition is signed by the requisite number of voters. The municipality
shall reimburse the county for any costs incurred by the County Clerk or
Election Commissioner.
      (2)   When the verifying official has determined that 100% percent of the
necessary signatures required by this subchapter have been obtained, he or she
shall notify the governing body of that fact and shall immediately forward to
the governing body a copy of the petition.
   (B)   In order for an initiative or referendum proposal to be submitted to
the governing body and the voters, the necessary signatures shall be on file
with the Clerk within six months from the date the prospective petition was
authorized for circulation. If the necessary signatures are not obtained by
such date, the petition shall be void.
(1976 Code, § 1-1006) (Ord. 690, passed 8-5-1982; Ord. 757, passed 11-3-1983)
§ 32.27 FREQUENCY OF OCCURRENCE.
   The same measure, either in form or in essential substance, may not be
submitted to the people by initiative petition, either affirmatively or
negatively, more often than once every two years. No attempt to repeal or alter
an existing measure or portion of such measure by referendum petition may be
made within two years from the last attempt to do the same. Such prohibition
shall apply only when the subsequent attempt to repeal or alter is designed to
accomplish the same, or essentially the same purpose as the previous attempt.
(1976 Code, § 1-1007) (Ord. 690, passed 8-5-1982; Ord. 757, passed 11-3-1983)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 18-2519
§ 32.28 DIRECT VOTE.
   (A)   The executive officer and governing body of the municipality may at
any time, by resolution, provide for the submission to a direct vote of the
electors of any measure pending before it, passed by it, including an override
of any veto, if necessary, or enacted by the electors under this subchapter and
may provide in such resolution that such measure shall be submitted at a
special election or the next regularly scheduled primary or general election.
   (B)   Immediately upon the passage of any such resolution for submission,
the Clerk shall cause such measure to be submitted to a direct vote of the
electors, at the time specified in such resolution and in the manner provided
in this subchapter for submission of measures upon proposals and petitions
filed by voters.
   (C)   Such matter shall become law if approved by a majority of the votes
cast.
(1976 Code, § 1-1008) (Ord. 690, passed 8-5-1982; Ord. 757, passed 11-3-1983)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 18-2520
§ 32.29 ELECTIONS.
   (A)   (1)   The Clerk shall call elections under this subchapter, either at
a special election or regularly scheduled primary or general election.
      (2)   He or she shall cause notice of every such election to be printed
in one or more newspapers of general circulation in such municipality at least
once not less than 30 days prior to such election and also posted in the office
of the Clerk and in at least three conspicuous places in such municipality at
least 30 days prior to such election.
      (3)   The notice shall be substantially as follows:
 

Notice is hereby given that on Tuesday, the                day of                                                       ,              , at (identify polling place or precinct) of the municipality of
                                                             , Nebraska, an election will be held at which there will be submitted to the electors of the municipality for their approval or rejection, the
following measures, propositions or issues: (naming measures, propositions or issues), which election will be open at 8:00 a.m. and will continue open until 8:00 p.m., of the same day.
 
Dated this                                 day of                                                         ,                          .
 
                                                                                                         
Clerk of the City/Village of                                                    , Nebraska.
 
   (B)   The Clerk shall make available for photocopying a copy in pamphlet
form of measures initiated or referred. Such notice provided in this section
shall designate where such a copy in pamphlet form may be obtained.
(1976 Code, § 1-1009) (Ord. 690, passed 8-5-1982; Ord. 757, passed 11-3-1983)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 18-2521
§ 32.30 BALLOTS.
   All ballots for use in special elections under this subchapter shall be
prepared by the Clerk and furnished by the governing body, unless the governing
body contracts with the county for such service, and shall be in form the same
as provided by law for election of the executive officer and governing body of
such municipality. When ordinances under such sections are submitted to the
electors at a regularly scheduled primary or general election, they shall be
placed upon the official ballots as provided in this subchapter.
(1976 Code, § 1-1010) (Ord. 690, passed 8-5-1982; Ord. 757, passed 11-3-1983)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 18-2522
§ 32.31 INITIATIVES.
   (A)   The power of initiative allows citizens the right to enact measures
affecting the governance of the municipality. An initiative proposal shall not
have as its primary or sole purpose the repeal or modification of existing law,
except if such repeal or modification is ancillary to and necessary for the
adoption and effective operation of the initiative measure.
   (B)   An initiative shall not be effective if the direct or indirect effect
of the passage of such initiative measure shall be to repeal or alter an
existing law, or portion thereof, which is not subject to referendum or subject
only to limited referendum pursuant to §
32.21 of this chapter.
   (C)   Whenever an initiative petition bearing signatures equal in number to
at least 15% of the qualified electors of the municipality has been filed with
the Clerk and verified, it shall be the duty of the governing body to consider
passage of the measure contained in the petition including an override of any
veto, if necessary. If the governing body fails to pass the measure without
amendment, including an override of any veto, if necessary, within 30 days from
the date it received notification, the Clerk shall cause the measure to be
submitted to a vote of the people at the next regularly scheduled primary or
general election held within the municipality. If the governing body desires to
submit the measure to a vote of the people at a special election prior to the
next regularly scheduled primary or general election held within the
municipality, the governing body shall, by resolution, direct the Clerk to
cause the measure to be submitted at a special election. Such resolution shall
not be subject to referendum or limited referendum.
   (D)   Whenever an initiative petition bearing signatures equal in number to
at least 20% of the qualified electors which requests that a special election
be called to submit the initiative measure to a vote of the people, has been
filed with the Clerk and verified pursuant to §
32.26 of this chapter, it shall be the duty of the governing body to consider
passage of the measure contained in the petition including an override of any
veto, if necessary. If the governing body fails to pass the measure, without
amendment, including an override of any veto, if necessary, within 30 days from
the date it received notification, the Clerk shall cause the measure to be
submitted to a vote of the people at a special election called for such
purpose. The date of such election shall not be less than 30, nor more than 60,
days from the date the governing body received notification pursuant to §
32.26 of this chapter.
   (E)   If a majority of voters voting on the initiative measure shall vote in
favor of such measure, it shall become a valid and binding measure of the
municipality 30 days after certification of the election results, unless the
governing body by resolution orders an earlier effective date or the measure
itself provides for a later effective date, which resolution shall not be
subject to referendum or limited referendum. A measure passed by such method
shall not be amended or repealed except by two-thirds majority of the members
of the governing body. No such attempt to amend or repeal shall be made within
one year from the passage of the measure by the electors.
(1976 Code, § 1-1011) (Ord. 690, passed 8-5-1982; Ord. 757, passed 11-3-1983)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 18-2523 through 18-2526
§ 32.32 REFERENDUM LIMITATIONS.
   The power of referendum allows citizens the right to repeal or amend
existing measures, or portions thereof, affecting the governance of the
municipality.
   (A)   The following measures shall not be subject to referendum or limited
referendum:
      (1)   Measures necessary to carry out contractual obligations, including,
but not limited to, those relating to the issuance of or provided for in bonds,
notes, warrants or other evidences of indebtedness, for projects previously
approved by a measure which was, or is, subject to referendum or limited
referendum or previously approved by a measure adopted prior to the effective
date of this subchapter;
      (2)   Measures relating to any industrial development projects,
subsequent to measures giving initial approval to such projects;
      (3)   Measures adopting proposed budget statements following compliance
with procedures set forth in the state’s Budget Act, being Neb. RS 13-501
through 13-513;
      (4)   Measures relating to the immediate preservation of the public
peace, health or safety which have been designated as urgent measures by
unanimous vote of those present and voting of the governing body and approved
by its executive officer;
      (5)   Measures relating to projects for which notice has been given as
provided for in division (A)(4) above for which a sufficient referendum
petition was not filed within the time limit stated in such notice or which
received voter approval after the filing of such petition;
      (6)   Resolutions directing the Clerk to cause measures to be submitted
to a vote of the people at a special elections as provided in §§
32.31(C) and
32.33(E) of this chapter;
      (7)   Resolutions ordering an earlier effective date for measures enacted
by initiative as provided in §
32.31(A) of this chapter; and
      (8)   Measures relating to any facility or system adopted or enacted
pursuant to the Integrated Solid Waste Management Act, being Neb. RS 13-2001
through 13-2043 by the municipality and which are necessary to carry out
contractual obligations provided for in previously issued bonds, notes,
warrants or other evidence of indebtedness.
   (B)   The following measures shall be subject to limited referendum:
      (1)   Measures in furtherance of a policy of the municipality or relating
to projects previously approved by a measure which was subject to referendum or
which was enacted by initiative or has been approved by the voters at an
election; except that, such measures shall not be subject to referendum or
limited referendum for a period of one year after any such policy or project
was approved at a referendum election, enacted by initiative or approved by the
voters at an election;
      (2)   Measures relating to the acquisition, construction, installation,
improvement or enlargement, including the financing or refinancing of the costs
of public ways, public property, utility systems and other capital projects,
and measures giving initial approval for industrial development projects;
      (3)   Measures setting utility system rates and charges, except for
measures necessary to carry out contractual obligations provided for in
previously issued bonds, notes, warrants or other evidences of indebtedness and
pay rates and salaries for municipal employees other than the members of the
governing body and the executive officer; and
      (4)   Measures relating to any facility or system adopted or enacted
pursuant to the Integrated Solid Waste Management Act, being Neb. RS 13-2001
through 13-2043 by the municipality, except for measures necessary to carry out
contractual obligations provided for in previously issued bonds, notes,
warrants or other evidence of indebtedness.
   (C)   Measures subject to limited referendum shall ordinarily take effect 30
days after their passage by the governing body, including an override of any
veto, if necessary. Referendum petitions directed at measures subject to
limited referendum shall be filed for signature verification pursuant to §
32.26 of this chapter within 30 days after such measure’s passage by the
governing body, including an override of any veto, if necessary, or after
notice is first published pursuant to division (D) below. If the necessary
number of signatures as provided in §
32.31 of this chapter has been obtained within the time limitation, the
effectiveness of the measure shall be suspended unless approved by the voters.
   (D)   (1)   For any measure relating to the acquisition, construction,
installation, improvement or enlargement of public ways, public property,
utility systems or other capital projects or any measure relating to any
facility or system adopted or enacted pursuant to the Integrated Solid Waste
Management Act, being Neb. RS 13-2001 through 13-2043, the municipality may
exempt all subsequent measures relating to the same project from the referendum
and limited referendum procedures provided for in this subchapter by the
following procedure:
         (a)   By holding a public hearing on the project, the time and place
of such hearing being published at least once not less than five days prior to
the date set for hearing in a newspaper of general circulation within the
governing body’s jurisdiction;
         (b)   By passage of a measure approving the project, including an
override of a veto, if necessary, at a meeting held on any date subsequent to
the date of hearing; and
         (c)   After passage of such measure, including an override of a veto,
if necessary, by giving notice as follows:
            1.   For those projects for which applicable statutes require an
ordinance or resolution of necessity, creating a district or otherwise
establishing the project, notice shall be given for such project by including
either as part of such ordinance or resolution or as part of any publicized
notice concerning such ordinance or resolution a statement that the project as
described in the ordinance or resolution is subject to limited referendum for a
period of 30 days after the first publication of such notice and that, after
such 30-day period, the project and measures related to it will not be subject
to any further right of referendum; and
            2.   For projects for which applicable statutes do not require an
ordinance or resolution of necessity, notice shall be given by publication of a
notice concerning such projects stating in general terms the nature of the
project and the Engineer’s estimate of costs of such project and stating that
the project described in the notice is subject to limited referendum for a
period of 30 days after the first publication of such notice and that, after
such 30-day period, the project and measures related to it will not be subject
to any further right of referendum. The notice required by this subdivision
shall be published in at least one newspaper of general circulation within the
municipality and shall be published not later than 15 days after passage by the
governing body, including an override of a veto, if necessary, of a measure
approving the project.
      (2)   The right to hold such a hearing prior to the passage of the
measure by the governing body and give such notice after passage of such
measure by the governing body to obtain exemption for any particular project in
a manner described in this division (D)(2) is optional and the municipality
shall not be required to hold such a hearing or give such notice of any
particular project.
   (E)   All measures, except as provided in divisions (A), (B) and (D) above,
shall be subject to the referendum procedure at any time after such measure has
been passed by the governing body, including an override of a veto, if
necessary, or enacted by the voters by initiative.
(1976 Code, § 1-1012) (Ord. 690, passed 8-5-1982; Ord. 757, passed 11-3-1983;
Ord. 1078, passed 3-8-1993)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 18-2527, 18-2528
§ 32.33 REFERENDUM PASSAGE.
   (A)   Whenever a referendum petition bearing signatures equal in number to
at least 15% of the qualified electors of the municipality has been filed with
the Clerk and verified pursuant to §
32.26 of this chapter, it shall be the duty of the governing body to reconsider
the measure or portion of such measure which is the object of the referendum.
If the governing body fails to repeal or amend the measure or portion thereof
in the manner proposed by the referendum, including an override of any veto, if
necessary, within 30 days from the date the governing body receives
notification pursuant to §
32.26 of this chapter, the Clerk shall cause the measure to be submitted to a
vote of the people at the next regularly scheduled primary or general election
held within the municipality. If the governing body desires to submit the
measure to a vote of the people at a special election prior to the next
regularly scheduled primary or general election held within the municipality,
the governing body shall, by resolution, direct the Clerk to cause the measure
to be submitted at a special election. Such resolution shall not be subject to
referendum or limited referendum.
   (B)   Whenever a referendum petition bearing signatures equal in number to
at least 20% of the qualified voters of the municipality which requests that a
special election be called to submit the referendum measure to a vote of the
people, has been filed with the Clerk and verified, it shall be the duty of the
governing body to reconsider the measure or portion of such measure which is
the object of the referendum. If the governing body fails to repeal or amend
the measure or portion thereof, in the manner proposed by the referendum,
including an override of any veto, if necessary, the Clerk shall cause the
measure to be submitted to a vote of the people at a special election called
for such purpose within 30 days from the date the governing body received
notification. The date of such special election shall not be less than 30, nor
more than 60, days from the date the governing body received notification.
   (C)   If a majority of the electors voting on the referendum measure shall
vote in favor of such measure, the law subject to the referendum shall be
repealed or amended. A measure repealed or amended by referendum shall not be
reenacted or returned to its original form, except by a two-thirds majority of
the members of the governing body. No such attempt to reenact or return the
measure to its original form shall be made within one year of the repeal or
amendment of the measure by the electors. If the referendum measure does not
receive a majority vote, the ordinance shall immediately become effective or
remain in effect.
(1976 Code, § 1-1013) (Ord. 690, passed 8-5-1982; Ord. 757, passed 11-3-1983)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 18-2529 through 18-2531
§ 32.34 APPLICABILITY.
   (A)   The provisions of the statutes of the state relating to election
officers, voting places, election apparatus and blanks, preparation and form of
ballots, information to voters, delivery of ballots, calling of elections,
conduct of elections, manner of voting, counting of votes, records and
certificates of election, and recounts of votes, so far as applicable, shall
apply to voting on ordinances by the electors pursuant to this subchapter.
   (B)   Nothing in this subchapter shall apply to procedures for initiatives
or referendums provided in Neb. RS 18-412 and 18-412.02, relating to municipal
light and power plants, Neb. RS 70-504, 70-650.01 and 70-650.02, relating to
public power districts, and Neb. RS 80-203 to 80-205, relating to soldiers and
sailors monuments.
(1976 Code, § 1-1015) (Ord. 690, passed 8-5-1982; Ord. 757, passed 11-3-1983)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 18-2536, 18-2537
§ 32.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who shall violate or refuse to comply with the enforcement
of any of the provisions of this chapter, set forth at full length herein or
incorporated by reference, shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon
conviction thereof, shall be fined not more than $500 for each offense. A new
violation shall be deemed to have been committed every 24 hours of such failure
to comply.
(1976 Code, § 1-1101)
   (B)   (1)   Whoever knowingly or willfully makes a false affidavit or takes
a false oath regarding the qualifications of any person to sign petitions under
Neb. RS 18-2501 through 18-2531 shall be guilty of a Class I misdemeanor with a
limit of $300 on the fine.
      (2)   Whoever falsely makes or willfully destroys a petition or any part
thereof, or signs a false name thereto, or signs or files any petition knowing
the same or any part thereof to be falsely made, or suppresses any petition, or
any part thereof, which has been duly filed, pursuant to Neb. RS 18-2501
through 18-2531 shall be guilty of a Class I misdemeanor with a limit of $500
on the fine.
      (3)   Whoever signs any petition under Neb. RS 18-2501 through 18-2531
knowing that he or she is not a registered voter in the place where such
petition is made, aids or abets any other person in doing any of the acts
mentioned in this division (B), bribes or gives or pays any money or thing of
value to any person directly or indirectly to induce him or her to sign such
petition, or engages in any deceptive practice intended to induce any person to
sign a petition, shall be guilty of a Class I misdemeanor with a limit of $300
on the fine.
      (4)   Any Clerk who willfully refuses to comply with the provisions of
Neb. RS 18-2501 through 18-2531 or who willfully causes unreasonable delay in
the execution of his or her duties under such sections shall be guilty of a
Class I misdemeanor, but imprisonment shall not be included as part of the
punishment.
(1976 Code, § 1-1014)
(Ord. 690, passed 8-5-1982; Ord. 757, passed 11-3-1983; Ord. 249, passed 11-8-
1983; Ord. 1449, passed 12-23-2013)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 18-2532 through 18-2535
CHAPTER 33: ELECTIONS
Section
   
33.01   Generally
   
33.02   Election of officers; certifications required
   
33.03   Term of office
   
33.04   Primary election; number of candidates filing
   
33.05   Candidate filing forms; deadlines; filing officer
   
33.06   Tie votes
   
33.07   General elections; preparation of ballot
   
33.08   Qualifications; terms
   
33.09   Filing fee
   
33.10   Joint, general; notice
   
33.11   Special elections
   
33.12   Petition, write-in and other candidates for general election ballot;
procedures
   
33.13   Council members
   
33.14   Voter qualifications
   
33.15   Wards
   
33.16   Ballots
   
33.17   Inability to assume office
   
33.18   Recall procedure
   
33.19   Candidate qualifications
§ 33.01 GENERALLY.
   (A)   All municipal issues and offices shall be combined on the statewide
primary and general election ballots whenever possible. The issuance of
separate ballots shall be avoided in a statewide election if municipal offices
or issues can reasonably be combined with the non-partisan ballot and state law
does not require otherwise. All municipal elections involving the election of
officers shall be held in accordance with the Election Act, being Neb. RS Ch.
32 and in conjunction with the statewide primary or general election.
   (B)   When the municipality holds an election in conjunction with the
statewide primary or general election, the election shall be held as provided
in the Election Act, being Neb. RS Ch. 32. Any other election held by the
municipality shall be held as provided in the Election Act, being Neb. RS Ch.
32 unless otherwise provided by the charter, code or bylaws of the
municipality.
(1976 Code, § 1-701) (Ord. 558, passed 9-22-1977; Ord. 1356, passed 11-8-2004)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 32-404, 32-556
§ 33.02 ELECTION OF OFFICERS; CERTIFICATIONS REQUIRED.
   No later than January 5 of each even-numbered year, the City Council shall
certify to the Election Commissioner or the County Clerk, on forms prescribed
by such official, the name of the city, the number of officers to be elected,
the length of the terms of office, the vacancies to be filled by election and
length of remaining term and the number of votes to be cast by a registered
voter for each office.
(1976 Code, § 1-701.01) (Ord. 1356, passed 11-8-2004)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 32-404
§ 33.03 TERM OF OFFICE.
   All elected officers of the municipality shall serve a term of four years
and until their successors are elected and have qualified.
(1976 Code, § 1-702) (Ord. 666, passed 9-17-1981)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-107.02(2)
§ 33.04 PRIMARY ELECTION; NUMBER OF CANDIDATES FILING.
   If the number of candidates properly filed for nomination at the primary
election does not exceed two for each vacancy to be filled, all candidates
properly filed shall be considered nominated and no primary election for their
nomination shall be required.
(1976 Code, § 1-703)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-107.02(4)
§ 33.05 CANDIDATE FILING FORMS; DEADLINES; FILING OFFICER.
   (A)   Any candidate may place his or her name on the general election ballot
by filing a candidate filing form prescribed by the Secretary of State as
provided in division (B). If a candidate is an incumbent of an elective office,
the filing period for filing the candidate filing form shall be between January
5 and July 15 prior to the date of the primary election. No incumbent who
resigns from elective office prior to the expiration of his or her term shall
file for any office after February 15 of that election year. All other
candidates shall file for office between January 5 and August 1 prior to the
date of the general election.
   (B)   Candidate filing forms shall be filed in the office of the Election
Commissioner or County Clerk.
(1976 Code, § 1-704) (Ord. 1426B, passed 12-5-2011; Ord. 1514, passed 5-2-2022)
Statutory reference:
   Filling of vacancy on ballot, see Neb. RS 32-625, 32-627
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 32-606, 32-607
   Withdrawal after filing, see Neb. RS 32-622
§ 33.06 TIE VOTES.
   In the case of a tie vote of any of the candidates in either the primary or
general election, the County Clerk shall notify such candidates to appear at
his or her office on a given day and hour to determine the same by lot before
the canvassing board, and the certificate of nomination or election shall be
given accordingly. Notice to appear shall be given by certified mail.
(1976 Code, § 1-705)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-107.02(6)
§ 33.07 GENERAL ELECTIONS; PREPARATION OF BALLOT.
   (A)   When more than one person becomes a candidate by filing, petition or
write-in procedures for the same position in the primary, the County Clerk, in
preparing the official ballot for the general election shall place thereon the
names of the persons who received the greatest number of votes in the primary,
but in no event shall the names on the general election ballot be more than
twice the number of vacancies to be filled at the general election.
   (B)   The County Clerk shall place the names of the candidates on the
general election ballot in the direct order according to the number of votes
received at the primary election. If no primary election was held, the name of
the candidates shall be placed upon the general election ballot in the order of
their filing.
(1976 Code, § 1-705) (Ord. 667, passed 9-17-1981)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-107.02(6), (7)
§ 33.08 QUALIFICATIONS; TERMS.
   (A)   The City Council shall consist of not less than four, nor more than
12, residents of the city who are registered voters.
   (B)   All Council members shall be nominated and elected on a non-partisan
ballot unless the city provides for a partisan ballot by ordinance.
   (C)   If members of the Council are not elected at large:
      (1)   Unless the city elects Council members at large as provided in Neb.
RS 32-554, the city shall be divided into not less than two, nor more than six,
wards, as provided by ordinance of the City Council. Each ward shall contain,
as nearly as practicable, an equal portion of the population;
      (2)   Unless the city elects council members at large as provided in Neb.
RS 32-554, each ward of the city shall have at least two Council members
elected in the manner provided in the Election Act, being Neb. RS Ch. 32. No
person shall be eligible to the office of Council member who is not at the time
of the election an actual resident of the ward for which he or she is elected
and a registered voter; and
      (3)   Such wards shall be substantially equal in population as determined
by the most recent federal decennial census.
   (D)   The term of office shall begin on the first regular meeting of the
Council in December following the statewide general election.
   (E)   Members of the Council shall serve for terms of four years or until
their successors are elected and qualified.
   (F)   If the city operates under a city manager plan, members of the City
Council shall be residents and registered voters of the city and shall hold no
other employment with the city. Any Council member who ceases to possess any of
the qualification required by this section or who has been convicted of a
felony or of any public offense involving the violation of the oath of office
of such member while in office shall forthwith forfeit such office.
(Ord. 1468, passed 2-6-2017)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-102, 17-103, 17-104, 19-613, 32-533, 32-
557
§ 33.09 FILING FEE.
   (A)   Except as provided in division (D) or (E) of this section, a filing
fee shall be paid to the City Treasurer by or on behalf of each candidate for
city office prior to filing for office. The fee shall be placed in the general
fund of the city. No candidate filing forms shall be filed until the proper
payment or the proper receipt showing the payment of such filing fee is
presented to the filing officer. On the day of the filing deadline, the City
Treasurer's office shall remain open to receive filing fees until the hour of
the filing deadline.
   (B)   Except as provided in division (D) or (E) of this section, the filing
fee shall be a sum equal to 1% of the annual salary as of November 30 of the
year preceding the election for the office for which he or she files as a
candidate.
   (C)   All declared write-in candidates shall pay the filing fees that are
required for the office at the time that they present the write-in affidavit to
the filing officer.
   (D)   No filing fee shall be required for any candidate filing for an office
in which a per diem is paid rather than a salary or for which there is a salary
of less than $500 per year.
   (E)   (1)   No filing fee shall be required of any candidate completing an
affidavit requesting to file for elective office in forma pauperis.
      (2)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning:
         AVAILABLE RESOURCES. Includes every type of property or interest in
property that an individual owns and may convert into cash except:
            1.   Real property used as a home;
            2.   Household goods of a moderate value used in the home; and
            3.   Assets to a maximum value of $3,000 used by a recipient in a
planned effort directed towards self-support.
         PAUPER. A person whose income and other resources for maintenance are
found under assistance standards to be insufficient for meeting the cost of his
or her requirements and whose reserve of cash or other available resources does
not exceed the maximum available resources that an eligible individual may own.
   (F)   If any candidate dies prior to an election, the spouse of the
candidate may file a claim for refund of the filing fee with the City Council
prior to the date of the election. Upon approval of the claim by the City
Council, the filing fee shall be refunded.
(1976 Code, § 1-708) (Ord. 1418, passed 12-20-2010; Ord. 1455B, passed 2-9-
2015; Ord. 1515, passed 5-2-2022)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 32-608
§ 33.10 JOINT, GENERAL; NOTICE.
   (A)   The County Clerk shall publish in a newspaper designated by the County
Board the notice of the election no less than 40 days prior to the primary or
general election.
   (B)   This notice will serve the notice requirement for all municipal
elections which are held in conjunction with the county.
(1976 Code, § 1-709) (Ord. 536, passed 4-21-1977)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 32-402.01
§ 33.11 SPECIAL ELECTIONS.
   (A)   (1)   Except as provided in Neb. RS 77-3444, any issue to be submitted
to the registered voters at a special election by the city shall be certified
by the City Clerk to the Election Commissioner or County Clerk on or before the
eighth Friday prior to the election. A special election may be held by mail as
provided in Neb. RS 32-952 through 32-959. Any other special election under
this section shall be subject to division (B) of this section.
      (2)   In lieu of submitting the issue at a special election, the city may
submit the issue at a statewide primary or general election or at any scheduled
county election, except that no such issue shall be submitted at a statewide
election or scheduled county election unless the issue to be submitted has been
certified by the City Clerk to the Election Commissioner or County Clerk by
March 1 for the primary election and by September 1 for the general election.
      (3)   After the Election Commissioner or County Clerk has received the
certification of the issue to be submitted, he or she shall be responsible for
all matters relating to the submission of the issue to the registered voters,
except that the City Clerk shall be responsible for the publication or posting
of any required special notice of the submission of the issue other than the
notice required to be given of the statewide election issues. The Election
Commissioner or County Clerk shall prepare the ballots and issue ballots for
early voting and shall also conduct the submission of the issue, including the
receiving and counting of ballots on the issue. The election returns shall be
made to the Election Commissioner or County Clerk. The ballots shall be counted
and canvassed at the same time and in the same manner as the other ballots.
Upon completion of the canvass of the vote by the County Canvassing Board, the
Election Commissioner or County Clerk shall certify the election results to the
City Council. The canvass by the County Canvassing Board shall have the same
force and effect as if made by the City Council.
   (B)   (1)   A city that has submitted an issue for a special election under
division (A)(1) of this section may cancel the special election if the
Secretary of State, Election Commissioner, or County Clerk receives a
resolution adopted by the political subdivision canceling the special election
on or before the fourth Thursday prior to the election. No cancellation shall
be effective after such date. If a special election is canceled in such manner,
the city shall be responsible for the costs incurred that are related to the
canceled election. Such costs shall include all chargeable costs as provided in
Neb. RS 32-1202 associated with preparing for and conducting a special
election.
      (2)   A city that has submitted an issue at a statewide primary or
general election or at any scheduled county election under division (A)(2) of
this section may withdraw the issue from the ballot if the Secretary of State,
Election Commissioner, or County Clerk receives a resolution adopted by the
city withdrawing the issue from the ballot no later than March 1 prior to a
statewide primary election or September 1 prior to a statewide general
election. No withdrawal shall be effective after such date. Any issue withdrawn
in this manner shall not be printed on the ballot.
   (C)   Any special election under the Election Act shall be held on the first
Tuesday following the second Monday of the selected month unless otherwise
specifically provided. No special election shall be held under the Election Act
in April, May, June, October, November, or December of an even-numbered year
unless it is held in conjunction with the statewide primary or general
election. No special election shall be held under the Election Act in September
of an even-numbered year except for a special election by a political
subdivision pursuant to Neb. RS 13-519 or Neb. RS 77-3444 to approve a property
tax levy or exceed a property tax levy limitation.
(1976 Code, § 1-710) (Ord. 753, passed 9-6-1984; Ord. 1346, passed 11-8-2004;
Ord. 1501, passed 6-7-2021; Ord. 1531, passed 1-9-2023)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 32-405, 32-559
§ 33.12 PETITION, WRITE-IN AND OTHER CANDIDATES FOR GENERAL ELECTION BALLOT;
PROCEDURES.
   (A)   (1)   Any registered voter who was not a candidate in the primary
election and who was not registered to vote with a party affiliation on or
after March 1 and before the general election in the calendar year of the
general election may have his or her name placed on the general election ballot
for a partisan office by filing petitions as prescribed in this section and
Neb. RS 32-621 or by nomination by political party convention or committee
pursuant to Neb. RS 32-627 or 32-710.
      (2)   Any candidate who was defeated in the primary election and any
registered voter who was not a candidate in the primary election may have his
or her name placed on the general election ballot if a vacancy exists on the
ballot under Neb. RS 32-625(2) and the candidate files for the office by
petition as prescribed in divisions (B) and (C) of this section, files as a
write-in candidate as prescribed in Neb. RS 32-615, or is nominated by
political party convention or committee pursuant to Neb. RS 32-710.
   (B)   Petitions for nomination shall conform to the requirements of Neb. RS
32-628. Petitions shall state the office to be filled and the name and address
of the candidate. Petitions for partisan office shall also indicate the party
affiliation of the candidate. A sample copy of the petition shall be filed with
the filing officer prior to circulation. Petitions shall be signed by
registered voters residing in the city, if candidates are chosen at large, or
in the ward in which the officer is to be elected, if candidates are chosen by
ward, and shall be filed with the filing officer in the same manner as provided
for candidate filing forms in Neb. RS 32-607. Petition signers and petition
circulators shall conform to the requirements of Neb. RS 32-629 and 32-630. No
petition for nomination shall be filed unless there is attached thereto a
receipt showing the payment of the filing fee required pursuant to Neb. RS 32-
608. The petitions shall be filed by September 1 in the year of the general
election.
   (C)   (1)   The number of signatures of registered voters needed to place
the name of a candidate upon the nonpartisan ballot for the general election
shall be at least 10% of the total number of registered voters voting for
Governor or President of the United States at the immediately preceding general
election in the city or in the ward in which the officer is to be elected, not
to exceed 2,000.
      (2)   The number of signatures of registered voters needed to place the
name of a candidate for an office upon the partisan ballot for the general
election shall be as follows:
         (a)   For each partisan office to be filled by the registered voters
of the entire state, at least 4,000, and at least 750 signatures shall be
obtained in each congressional district in the state;
         (b)   For each partisan office to be filled by the registered voters
of a county, at least 20% of the total number of registered voters voting for
Governor or President of the United States at the immediately preceding general
election within the county, not to exceed 2,000, except that the number of
signatures shall not be required to exceed 25% of the total number of
registered voters voting for the office at the immediately preceding general
election; and
         (c)   For each partisan office to be filled by the registered voters
of a political subdivision, other than a county, at least 20% of the total
number of registered voters voting for Governor or President of the United
States at the immediately preceding general election within the political
subdivision, not to exceed 2,000.
(1976 Code, § 1-712) (Ord. 753, passed 9-6-1984; Ord. 1426B, passed 12-5-2011;
Ord. 1455B, passed 2-9-2015; Ord. 1468, passed 2-6-2017; Ord. 1483A, passed 12-
23-2019)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 32-616, 32-617, 32-618
§ 33.13 COUNCIL MEMBERS.
   (A)   Council members shall be elected from the municipality at large unless
the residents of the municipality have voted to elect its Council members by
wards. Council members shall serve for a term of four years and shall be a
resident and qualified elector.
   (B)   If the election of Council members takes place by wards, each nominee
for Council member shall be a resident and qualified elector of the ward for
which he or she is a candidate and only residents of that ward may sign the
candidate’s nomination petitions.
(1976 Code, § 1-713)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 5-108
§ 33.14 VOTER QUALIFICATIONS.
   ELECTORS shall mean every person of the constitutionally prescribed age or
upwards, who shall have the right to vote for all officers to be elected to
public office and, upon all questions and proposals, lawfully submitted to the
voters at any and all elections authorized or provided for by the Constitution
or the laws of the state, except school elections; provided, no person shall be
qualified to vote at any election unless such person shall be a resident of the
state and shall have been properly registered with the election official of the
county.
(1976 Code, § 1-714)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-602, 32-102
§ 33.15 WARDS.
   (A)   The municipality shall redistrict as often as necessary using the most
recent Federal Census to ensure that each ward is substantially equal in
population.
   (B)   The municipality shall stand divided into the following wards as set
forth herein:
      (1)   East Ward. District line begins on the west side of Ave D from
Highway 30 running north to E 24th Street and extending to the southern and
eastern city limit boundaries; and
      (2)   West Ward. District line ends on the west side of Ave D from
Highway 30 running north to E 24th Street and extending to the southern and
western city limit boundaries.
(1976 Code, § 1-716) (Ord. 1506, passed 11-23-2021)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-102
§ 33.16 BALLOTS.
   The County Clerk shall provide printed ballots for every general municipal
election and the expense of printing and delivering the ballots and cards of
instruction shall be a charge upon the municipality.
(1976 Code, § 1-717)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 32-417, 32-418
§ 33.17 INABILITY TO ASSUME OFFICE.
   In any general election, where the person who received the highest number of
votes is ineligible, disqualified, deceased or for any other reason is unable
to assume the office for which he or she was a candidate, and the electorate
had reasonable notice of such disability at the time of the election, the
candidate in such election who received the next highest number of votes shall
be declared elected, and shall be entitled to the certificate of election;
provided that, any candidate so declared elected received not less than 35% of
the total number of votes cast for such office in the election. If any of the
qualifications of this section are not met by the candidate to be declared
elected, or reasonable notice of the winners ineligibility is not available to
the voters, a vacancy in such office shall be declared to exist at the time of
commencement of the term and shall be filled as prescribed by law.
(1976 Code, § 1-718)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 32-537(7), (8)
§ 33.18 RECALL PROCEDURE.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      FILING CLERK. The Election Commissioner or County Clerk.
   (B)   (1)   The Mayor, any member of the City Council, and any other elected
official of the city may be removed from office by recall pursuant to this
section.
      (2)   The recall procedure and special election provisions of this
section shall apply to members of the City Council who are elected by ward.
Only registered voters of such member's ward may sign a recall petition or vote
at the recall election. The recall election shall be held within the member's
ward. When a member of the City Council is nominated by ward in the primary
election and elected at large in the general election, the recall provisions
shall apply to the registered voters at the general election.
   (C)   (1)   A petition demanding that the question of removing the Mayor, a
member of the City Council, or any other elected official be submitted to the
registered voters shall be signed by registered voters equal in number to at
least 35% of the total vote cast for that office in the last general election,
except that for City Council office for which more than one candidate is
chosen, the petition shall be signed by registered voters equal in number to at
least 35% of the number of votes cast for the person receiving the most votes
for such office in the last general election. The signatures shall be affixed
to petition papers and shall be considered part of the petition.
      (2)   Petition circulators shall conform to the requirements of Neb. RS
32-629 and 32-630.
      (3)   The petition papers shall be procured from the Filing Clerk. Prior
to the issuance of such petition papers, a recall petition filing form shall be
signed and filed with the Filing Clerk by at least one registered voter. Such
voter or voters shall be deemed to be the principal circulator or circulators
of the recall petition. The filing form shall state the name and office of the
official sought to be removed, shall include in concise language of 60 words or
less the reason or reasons for which recall is sought, and shall request that
the Filing Clerk issue initial petition papers to the principal circulator for
circulation. The Filing Clerk shall notify the official sought to be removed by
any method specified in Neb. RS 25-505.01 or, if notification cannot be made
with reasonable diligence by any of the methods specified in Neb. RS 25-505.01,
by leaving a copy of the filing form at the official's usual place of residence
and mailing a copy by first-class mail to the official's last-known address. If
the official chooses, he or she may submit a defense statement in concise
language of 60 words or less for inclusion on the petition. Any such defense
statement shall be submitted to the Filing Clerk within 20 days after the
official receives the copy of the filing form. The Filing Clerk shall prepare
the petition papers within five business days after receipt of the defense
statement. The principal circulator or circulators shall gather the petition
papers within 20 days after being notified by the Filing Clerk that the
petition papers are available. The Filing Clerk shall notify the principal
circulator or circulators that the necessary signatures must be gathered within
30 days from the date of issuing the petitions.
      (4)   The Filing Clerk, upon issuing the initial petition papers or any
subsequent petition papers, shall enter in a record, to be kept in his or her
office, the name of the principal circulator or circulators to whom the papers
were issued, the date of issuance, and the number of papers issued. The Filing
Clerk shall certify on the papers the name of the principal circulator or
circulators to whom the papers were issued and the date they were issued. No
petition paper shall be accepted as part of the petition unless it bears such
certificate. The principal circulator or circulators who check out petitions
from the Filing Clerk may distribute such petitions to persons who may act as
circulators of such petitions.
      (5)   Petition signers shall conform to the requirements of Neb. RS 32-
629 and 32-630. Each signer of a recall petition shall be a registered voter
and qualified by his or her place of residence to vote for the office in
question.
   (D)   Each petition paper shall conform to the requirements of Neb. RS 32-
1304.
   (E)   (1)   The principal circulator or circulators shall file, as one
instrument, all petition papers comprising a recall petition for signature
verification with the Filing Clerk within 30 days after the Filing Clerk issues
the initial petition papers to the principal circulator or circulators as
provided in division (C) of this section.
      (2)   Within 15 business days after the filing of the petition, the
Filing Clerk shall ascertain whether or not the petition is signed by the
requisite number of registered voters. No new signatures may be added after the
initial filing of the petition papers. No signatures may be removed unless the
Filing Clerk receives an affidavit signed by the person requesting his or her
signature be removed before the petitions are filed with the Filing Clerk for
signature verification. If the petition is found to be sufficient, the Filing
Clerk shall attach to the petition a certificate showing the result of such
examination. If the requisite number of signatures has not been gathered, the
Filing Clerk shall file the petition in his or her office without prejudice to
the filing of a new petition for the same purpose.
   (F)   (1)   If the recall petition is found to be sufficient, the Filing
Clerk shall notify the official whose removal is sought and the City Council
that sufficient signatures have been gathered. Notification of the official
sought to be removed may be by any method specified in Neb. RS 25-505.01 or, if
notification cannot be made with reasonable diligence by any of the methods
specified in Neb. RS 25-505.01, by leaving such notice at the official's usual
place of residence and mailing a copy by first-class mail to the official's
last-known address.
      (2)   The City Council shall, within 21 days after receipt of the
notification from the Filing Clerk pursuant to division (F)(1) of this section,
order an election. The date of the election shall be the first available date
that complies with Neb. RS 32-405 and that can be certified to the Election
Commissioner or County Clerk at least 50 days prior to the election, except
that if any other election is to be held in the city within 90 days after such
notification, the City Council shall provide for the holding of the recall
election on the same day.
      (3)   All resignations shall be tendered as provided in Neb. RS 32-562.
If the official whose removal is sought resigns before the recall election is
held, the (City Council/Board of Trustees) may cancel the recall election if
the (City Council/Board of Trustees) notifies the Election Commissioner or
County Clerk of the cancellation on or before the fourth Thursday prior to the
election, otherwise the recall election shall be held as scheduled.
      (4)   If a Filing Clerk is subject to a recall election, the Secretary of
State shall conduct the recall election.
   (G)   The form of the official ballot at a recall election held pursuant to
division (F) of this section shall conform to the requirements of Neb. RS 32-
1307.
   (H)   (1)   If a majority of the votes cast at a recall election are against
the removal of the official named on the ballot or the election results in a
tie, the official shall continue in office for the remainder of his or her term
but may be subject to further recall attempts as provided in division (I) of
this section.
      (2)   If a majority of the votes cast at a recall election are for the
removal of the official named on the ballot, he or she shall, regardless of any
technical defects in the recall petition, be deemed removed from office unless
a recount is ordered. If the official is deemed removed, the removal shall
result in a vacancy in the office which shall be filled as otherwise provided
in this section and Neb. RS 32-567 through 32-570 and 32-574.
      (3)   If the election results show a margin of votes equal to 1% or less
between the removal or retention of the official in question, the Secretary of
State, Election Commissioner, or County Clerk shall order a recount of the
votes cast unless the official named on the ballot files a written statement
with the Filing Clerk that he or she does not want a recount.
      (4)   If there are vacancies in the offices of one-half or more of the
members of the City Council or any other governing body at one time due to the
recall of such members, a special election to fill such vacancies shall be
conducted as expeditiously as possible by the Secretary of State, Election
Commissioner, or County Clerk.
      (5)   No official who is removed at a recall election or who resigns
after the initiation of the recall process shall be appointed to fill the
vacancy resulting from his or her removal or the removal of any other member of
the same governing body during the remainder of his or her term of office.
   (I)   No recall petition filing form shall be filed against an elected
official within 12 months after a recall election has failed to remove him or
her from office or within six months after the beginning of his or her term of
office or within six months prior to the incumbent filing deadline for the
office.
(1976 Code, § 1-719) (Ord. 1426B, passed 12-5-2011; Ord. 1461, passed 2-8-2016;
Ord. 1483A, passed 12-23-2019; Ord. 1501, passed 6-7-2021; Ord. 1532, passed 1-
9-2023)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 32-1301, 32-1302, 32-1303, 32-1305, 32-1306,
32-1308, 32-1309
§ 33.19 CANDIDATE QUALIFICATIONS.
   Any person seeking elected office in the municipality shall be a registered
voter prior to holding such office and in addition shall have reached the age
of majority. The Mayor and members of the Council shall be residents and
qualified electors of the city. They shall not hold any other public elective
public office, except for officers of public power districts, public power and
irrigation districts and public utility companies.
(1976 Code, § 1-720) (Ord. 753, passed 9-6-1984)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-108.02
CHAPTER 34: PUBLIC SAFETY
Section
Fire Department
   
34.01   Operation and funding
   
34.02   Fire Chief
   
34.03   Rescue Squad Chief
   
34.04   Membership
   
34.05   Fire; distant fires
   
34.06   Preservation of property
   
34.07   Impersonating firefighters
   
34.08   Mandatory assistance
   
34.09   Power of arrest
   
34.10   Fire investigations
Police Department
   
34.25   Duties
   
34.26   Reserve officer bond
   
34.27   Arrest and enforcement jurisdiction
   
34.28   Police officers; discipline
   
34.29   Removal of intoxicated persons from public or quasi-public property
 
   
34.99   Penalty
FIRE DEPARTMENT
§ 34.01 OPERATION AND FUNDING.
   (A)   The municipality operates the Municipal Fire Department through the
Municipal Fire Chief and firefighters. The governing body, for the purpose of
defraying the cost of the management, maintenance and improving the Fire
Department may each year levy a tax not exceeding the maximum limits prescribed
by state law, on the actual valuation of all real estate and personal property
within the municipality that is subject to taxation. The revenue from the said
tax shall be known as the Fire Department Fund. The Fund shall be at all times
the possession of the Municipal Treasurer.
   (B)   In addition to the above, the Fire Department is authorized to enter
into agreement with the appropriate Rural Fire District for the mutual aid and
protection of the residents of both the municipality and the Rural Fire
District.
(1976 Code, § 3-301)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-147, 17-718, 17-953
§ 34.02 FIRE CHIEF.
   The Fire Chief shall manage the Fire Department and it shall be his or her
duty to inform the governing body when any of the fire engines, hose, ladders
or other apparatus needs repair. Upon the written consent and directive of the
governing body, the Fire Chief shall cause the repair, improvement or
maintenance of the said equipment and shall personally supervise and approve of
the same. It shall be the duty of the Fire Chief to come before the governing
body at the regular meeting in January of each year to give an annual report to
the governing body of the general condition and the proposed additions or
improvements recommended by him or her.
(1976 Code, § 3-302)
§ 34.03 RESCUE SQUAD CHIEF.
   The Rescue Squad Chief shall manage the rescue squad and it shall be his or
her duty to inform the governing body when any of the emergency units need
repair or replacement. Upon the written consent and directive of the governing
body, the Rescue Squad Chief shall cause the repair, improvement or maintenance
of the equipment of the rescue squad and shall personally supervise and approve
the same. It shall be the duty of the Rescue Squad Chief to come before the
governing body at the regular meeting in January of each year to give an annual
report to the governing body of the general condition of said equipment and the
proposed additions or improvements recommended by him or her, and further to
report on the activities of the rescue squad for the previous year.
(1976 Code, § 3-302.01) (Ord. 1113, passed 8-8-1994)
§ 34.04 MEMBERSHIP.
   (A)   The Fire Department shall consist of so many members as may be decided
by the City Council. The members may organize themselves in any way they may
decide, subject to the review of the City Council. The volunteer Fire
Department shall not have upon its rolls at one time more than 25 persons, for
each engine and hose company in the Fire Department, and no hook and ladder
company shall have upon its rolls at any one time more than 25 members. No
organization shall be deemed to be a bona fide fire or hook and ladder company
until it has procured for active service apparatus for the extinguishment or
prevention of fires, in case of a hose company, to the value of $700, and of a
hook and ladder company to the value of $500.
   (B)   All members of the Fire Department shall be subject to such rules and
regulations, and shall perform such duties, as may be prescribed or required of
them by the Fire Chief or the City Council. The members of the Fire Department
shall, during the time of a fire or great public danger, have and exercise the
powers and duties of police officers and shall have full power and authority to
arrest all persons guilty of any violation of the municipal code or the laws of
the state.
   (C)   Members of the Fire Department may hold meetings and engage in social
activities with the approval of the City Council. The Secretary shall, upon
request, keep a record of all meetings and shall make a report to the City
Council of all meetings and activities of the Fire Department.
   (D)   Members of the Fire Department shall be considered to be employees of
the city for the purpose of providing them with worker’s compensation and other
benefits, but for no other purposes whatsoever. The City Council may compensate
or reimburse any member of the Fire Department for expenses incurred in
carrying out his or her duties in an amount set by resolution.
   (E)   The City Council shall purchase and maintain in force a policy of
group term life insurance to age 65 covering the lives of all of the city’s
active volunteer fire and rescue personnel; except that, when any such person
serves more than one municipality or rural or suburban fire protection
district, the policy shall be purchased only by the first municipality or
district which he or she serves. The policy shall provide a minimum death
benefit of $10,000 for death from any cause and shall, at the option of the
insured, be convertible to a permanent form of life insurance at age 65. The
coverage of such policy shall terminate as to any individual who ceases to be
an active volunteer member of the Fire Department of the city.
   (F)   For purposes of Neb. RS 33-139.01, volunteer firefighters and rescue
squad members testifying as witnesses in that capacity alone shall not be
deemed employees of the city.
(1976 Code, § 3-303) (Ord. 1344, passed 11-8-2004; Ord. 1455A, passed 11-24-
2014; Ord. 1483, passed 2-4-2019)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 33-139.01, 35-102, 35-108, 35-109
§ 34.05 FIRE; DISTANT FIRES.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of the Fire Department to use all proper means
for the extinguishment of fires, to protect property within the municipality;
and to secure the observance of all ordinances, laws and other rules and
regulations with respect to fires and fire prevention.
(1976 Code, § 3-304)
   (B)   Upon the permission of the Mayor or Fire Chief, such fire equipment of
the municipality as may be designated by the governing body as rural equipment
may be used beyond the corporate limits to extinguish reported fires.
(1976 Code, § 3-305)
   (C)   The firefighters of the municipality shall be considered as acting in
the performance and within the scope of their duties in fighting fire or saving
property or life outside the corporate limits of the municipality when directed
to do so by the Mayor or Chief of the Fire Department or some person authorized
to act for such Chief and in so doing may take such fire equipment of the
municipality as may be designated by the governing body.
(1976 Code, § 3-306)
§ 34.06 PRESERVATION OF PROPERTY.
   Any official of the Municipal Fire Department shall have the power during
the time of a fire to cause the removal of any private or public property
whenever it shall become necessary to do so for the preservation of such
property from fire, to prevent the spreading of fire or to protect adjoining
property. The said officials may direct the hook and ladder men to remove any
building, erection or fence for the purpose of checking the progress of any
fire, and the official in charge of the firefighting effort shall have the
power to blow up, or cause to be blown up, with powder or otherwise, any
building or erection during the progress of a fire for the purpose of
extinguishing or checking the same.
(1976 Code, § 3-307)
§ 34.07 IMPERSONATING FIREFIGHTERS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to falsely personate a fireman by
wearing a badge or other apparel usually worn by a firefighter for the purpose
of obtaining any benefit whatsoever. Nothing herein shall be construed to
prohibit the theatrical representation of a fireman for bona fide entertainment
purposes when there is no intent to fraud.
(1976 Code, § 3-308) Penalty, see §
34.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 28-1219
§ 34.08 MANDATORY ASSISTANCE.
   Any official of the Municipal Fire Department may command the assistance and
services of any person present at a fire to help in extinguishing the fire, or
in the removal and protection of property. In the event that a spectator
refuses, neglects or fails to assist the Fire Department after a lawful order
to do so, he or she shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor.
(1976 Code, § 3-309) Penalty, see §
34.99
§ 34.09 POWER OF ARREST.
   The Municipal Fire Chief or the Assistant Fire Chief shall have the power
during the time of a fire and for a period of 36 hours after its
extinguishment, to arrest any suspected arsonist, or other person hindering or
resisting the firefighting effort, or any person who conducts himself or
herself in a noisy or disorderly manner. The said officials shall be severally
vested with the usual powers and authority of municipal police officers to
command all persons to assist them in the performance of their duties.
(1976 Code, § 3-310)
§ 34.10 FIRE INVESTIGATIONS.
   It shall be the duty of the Fire Department to investigate or cause to be
investigated, the cause, origin and circumstances of every fire occurring in
the municipality in which property has been destroyed or damaged. All fires of
unknown origin shall be reported, and such officers shall especially make an
investigation and report as to whether such fire was the result of
carelessness, accident or design. Such investigation shall be begun within two
days of the occurrence of such fire and the state’s Fire Marshal shall have the
right to supervise and direct the investigation whenever he deems it expedient
or necessary. The officer making the investigation of fires occurring within
the municipality shall immediately notify the state’s Fire Marshal and shall,
within one week of the occurrence of the fire, furnish him or her with a
written statement of all the facts relating to the cause and origin of the
fire, and such further information as he or she may call for.
(1976 Code, § 3-311)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 81-506
POLICE DEPARTMENT
§ 34.25 DUTIES.
   The Police Department shall consist of the Chief of Police and such further
number of regular policemen as may be duly ordered by resolution of the
Council. The Chief of Police shall, subject to the direction of the Mayor, have
control and management of all matters relating to the Police Department, its
officers and members and shall have the custody and control of all property and
books belonging to the Department. He or she shall devote his or her whole time
to the municipal affairs, interests of the municipality, and to the
preservation of peace, order, safety and cleanliness thereof. The Department
shall execute and enforce all laws and also the orders of the Mayor. It shall
be the duty of the Department to protect the rights of persons and property.
There shall be a proper police force at all fires. The Department shall take
notice of all nuisances, impediments, obstructions and defects in the streets,
avenues, alleys, business places and residences of the municipality. The
Department shall execute, or cause to be executed, the processes issued and
shall cause all persons arrested to be brought before the proper court for
trial as speedily as possible. The Chief of Police and all regular and special
police officers shall become thoroughly conversant with the laws of the
municipality, and shall see that the same are strictly enforced and shall make
sworn complaints against any person or persons for violation of the same.
(1976 Code, § 3-401)
§ 34.26 RESERVE OFFICER BOND.
   No appointment of a law enforcement reserve officer shall be valid until a
bond in the amount of $2,000, payable to the city, has been filed with the
Municipal Clerk by the individual appointed, or a blanket surety bond arranged
and paid for by the governing body and bonding all such officers of the
governing body has been filed. Such bonds shall be subject to the provisions of
Neb. RS Ch. 11, Art. 1.
(1976 Code, § 3-402) (Ord. 912, passed 10-20-1986)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 81-1444
§ 34.27 ARREST AND ENFORCEMENT JURISDICTION.
   (A)   The police officers of the city shall have the power to, arrest all
offenders against the laws of the state or of the city, by day or by night, in
the same manner as the County Sheriff and to keep such offenders in the city
prison, county jail or other place of confinement to prevent their escape until
trial can be had before the proper officer.
   (B)   Every city law enforcement officer has the power and authority to
enforce the laws of the state and the city or otherwise perform the functions
of that officer anywhere within his or her jurisdiction.
   (C)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      LAW ENFORCEMENT OFFICER IN NEED OF ASSISTANCE.
         (a)   A law enforcement officer whose life is in danger; or
         (b)   A law enforcement officer who needs assistance in making an
arrest and the suspect:
            1.   Will not be apprehended unless immediately arrested;
            2.   May cause injury to himself or herself or others or damage to
property unless immediately arrested; or
            3.   May destroy or conceal evidence of the commission of a crime.
      PRIMARY JURISDICTION. The geographic area within territorial limits of
the city.
   (D)   Any city law enforcement officer who is within the state, but beyond
his or her primary jurisdiction, has the power and authority to enforce the
laws of the state or any legal ordinance of any city or incorporated village or
otherwise perform the functions of his or her office, including the authority
to arrest and detain suspects, as if enforcing the laws or performing the
functions within his or her primary jurisdiction in the following cases:
      (1)   Any city law enforcement officer, if in a fresh attemptto apprehend
a person suspected of committing a felony, may follow that person into any
other jurisdiction in the state and there arrest and detain that person and
return that person to the officer’s primary jurisdiction;
      (2)   Any city law enforcement officer, if ina fresh attempt to apprehend
a person suspected of committing a misdemeanor or a traffic infraction, may
follow that person anywhere in an area within 25 miles of the boundaries of the
officer’s primary jurisdiction and there arrest and detain that person and
return that person to the officer’s primary jurisdiction;
      (3)   Any city law enforcement officer has this enforcement and arrest
and detention authority when responding to a call in which a local, state or
federal law enforcement officer is in need of assistance; and
      (4)   If the city, under the provisions of the Interlocal Cooperation
Act, being Neb. RS 13-801 through 13-827 or the Joint Public Agency Act, being
Neb. RS 13-2501 through 13-2550, enters into a contract with any other city or
county for law enforcement services or joint law enforcement services, law
enforcement personnel may have this enforcement authority within the
jurisdiction of each of the participating political subdivisions if provided
for in the agreement. Unless otherwise provided in the agreement, the city
shall provide liability insurance coverage for its own law enforcement
personnel as provided in Neb. RS 13-1802.
   (E)   When probable cause exists to believe that a person is operating or in
the actual physical control of any motor vehicle, motorboat, personal
watercraft or aircraft while under the influence of alcohol liquor or of any
drug or otherwise in violation of Neb. RS 28-1465, 28-1466, 28-1472, 37-
1254.01, 37-1254.05, 60-4,163, 60-4,164, 60-6,196, 60-6,197, 60-6,211.01 or 60-
6,211.02, a city law enforcement officer has the power and authority to do any
of the following or any combination thereof:
      (1)   Transport that person to a facility outside of the law enforcement
officer’s primary jurisdiction for appropriate chemical testing of the person;
      (2)   Administer outside of the law enforcement officer’s primary
jurisdiction any post-arrest test advisement to the person; or
      (3)   With respect to that person, perform other procedures or functions
outside of the law enforcement officer’s primary jurisdiction which are
directly and solely related to enforcing the laws that concern a person
operating or being in the actual physical control of any motor vehicle,
motorboat, or aircraft while under the influence of alcohol liquor or of any
other drug or otherwise in violation of Neb. RS 28-1465, 28-1466, 28-1472, 37-
1254,01, 37-1254.02, 60-4,163, 60-4,164, 60-6,196, 60-6,197, 60-6,211.01 or 60-
6,211.02.
   (F)   If city law enforcement personnel are rendering aid in their law
enforcement capacity outside the limits of the city in the event of disaster,
emergency or civil defense emergency or in connection with any program of
practice or framing for a disaster, emergency or civil defense emergency when
that program is conducted or participated in by the state’s Emergency
Management Agency or with any other related training program, the law
enforcement personnel have the power and authority to enforce the laws of this
state or any legal ordinance or resolution of the local government where they
are rendering aid or otherwise perform the functions of their office, including
the authority to arrest and detain suspects, as if enforcing the laws or
performing the functions within their primary jurisdiction. The city shall
self-insure or contract for insurance against any liability for personal
injuries or property damage that may be incurred by it or by its personnel as
the result of any movement made pursuant to this division (F).
(1976 Code, § 3-403) (Ord. 1345, passed 11-8-2004; Ord. 1426B, passed 12-5-
2011; Ord. 1479, passed 2-5-2018)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-118, 81-829.65
§ 34.28 POLICE OFFICERS; DISCIPLINE.
   (A)   (1)   The Mayor, by and with the consent of the Council, shall appoint
such a number of regular police officers as may be necessary. All police
officers appointed by the Mayor and Council may be removed, demoted, or
suspended at any time by the Mayor as provided in division (A)(2) of this
section. A police officer, including the Chief of Police, may appeal to the
City Council such removal, demotion, or suspension with or without pay. After a
hearing, the City Council may uphold, reverse, or modify the action.
      (2)   The City Council shall by ordinance adopt rules and regulations
governing the removal, demotion, or suspension with or without pay of any
police officer, including the Chief of Police. The ordinance shall include a
procedure for such removal, demotion, or suspension with or without pay of any
police officer, including the Chief of Police, upon the written accusation of
the Police Chief, the Mayor, or any citizen or taxpayer. The City Council shall
establish by ordinance procedures for acting upon such written accusation, in
accordance with Neb. RS 17-107. Nothing in this section shall be construed to
prevent the peremptory suspension or immediate removal from duty of an officer
by the appropriate authority, pending the hearing authorized by this section,
in cases of gross misconduct, neglect of duty, or disobedience of orders.
      (3)   This section does not apply to a police officer during his or her
probationary period.
   (B)   (1)   The City Council may establish a law enforcement reserve force.
Members of such force shall be appointed at the discretion of the Council. The
Council may limit the size of such reserve force.
      (2)   (a)   A member of a law enforcement reserve force appointed under
this section cannot make arrests, issue citations, detain members of the
public, or seize evidence without being under the direct supervision of a
physically present certified law enforcement officer.
         (b)   A reserve officer may perform functions at the direction of the
County Sheriff or Chief of Police when under the direct supervision of the
County Sheriff or Chief of Police. Such functions shall not include making
arrests, issuing citations, detaining members of the public, or seizing
evidence.
         (c)   A reserve officer is not limited with respect to the amount of
hours worked annually.
(1976 Code, § 3-404) (Ord. 1184, passed 1-8-1996; Ord. 1516, passed 5-2-2022)
§ 34.29 REMOVAL OF INTOXICATED PERSONS FROM PUBLIC OR QUASI-PUBLIC PROPERTY.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      MENTAL HEALTH SUBSTANCE USE TREATMENT CENTER. Has the same meaning as in
Neb. RS 71-423.
      PUBLIC PROPERTY. Any public right-of-way, street, highway, alley, park,
or other state-, county-, or city-owned property.
      QUASI-PUBLIC PROPERTY. Private or publicly owned property utilized for
proprietary or business uses which invites patronage by the public or which
invites public ingress and egress.
   (B)   Any law enforcement officer with the power to arrest for traffic
violations may take a person who is intoxicated and in the judgment of the
officer dangerous to himself, herself, or others, or who is otherwise
incapacitated, from any public or quasi-public property. An officer removing an
intoxicated person from public or quasi-public property shall make a reasonable
effort to take the intoxicated person to his or her home or to place the person
in any hospital, clinic, or mental health substance use treatment center, or
with a medical doctor as may be necessary to preserve life or to prevent
injury. The effort at placement shall be deemed reasonable if the officer
contacts such facilities or doctor which have previously represented a
willingness to accept and treat such individuals and which regularly do accept
such individuals. If these efforts are unsuccessful or are not feasible, the
officer may then place the intoxicated person in civil protective custody,
except that civil protective custody shall be used only as long as is necessary
to preserve life or to prevent injury, and under no circumstances longer than
24 hours.
   (C)   The placement of the person in civil protective custody shall be
recorded at the facility or jail at which he or she is delivered and
communicated to his or her family or next of kin, if they can be located, or to
the person designated by the person taken into civil protective custody.
   (D)   The law enforcement officer who acts in compliance with this section
shall be deemed to be acting in the course of his or her official duty and
shall not be criminally or civilly liable for these actions.
   (E)   The taking of an individual into civil protective custody under this
section shall not be considered an arrest. No entry or other record shall be
made to indicate that the person has been arrested or charged with a crime.
(Ord. 1483A, passed 12-23-2019)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 53-1,121
§ 34.99 PENALTY.
   Any person who shall violate or refuse to comply with the enforcement of any
of the provisions of this chapter, set forth at full length herein or
incorporated by reference, shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon
conviction thereof, shall be fined not more than $500 for each offense. A new
violation shall be deemed to have been committed every 24 hours of such failure
to comply.
(1976 Code, § 3-1201) (Ord. 1449, passed 12-23-2013)
CHAPTER 35: FINANCE AND REVENUE
Section
General Provisions
   
35.01   Economic Development Plan
Fiscal Management
   
35.15   Definitions
   
35.16   Proposed budget statement; contents; availability; correction
   
35.17   Proposed budget statement; hearing; adoption; certification of tax
amount
   
35.18   Property tax levy; maximum; authority to exceed
   
35.19   Adopted budget statement; filing; certification of amount of tax
   
35.20   Revisions of budget
   
35.21   Budget procedure
   
35.22   Appropriations
   
35.23   General property tax
   
35.24   Expenditures
   
35.25   Contracts and purchases; bidding and other requirements
   
35.26   Annual audit
   
35.27   Claims
   
35.28   Warrants
   
35.29   Transfer of funds
   
35.30   Special Assessment Fund
   
35.31   Sinking funds; gifts of money or property
   
35.32   General Fund
   
35.33   Deposit, investment of funds
   
35.34   Bond issues
   
35.35   Motor vehicle tax
   
35.36   Transfer of funds by Board of Public Works to General Fund
   
35.37   Property tax request; increase by more than allowable growth
percentage; procedure for setting
   
35.38   Debt collection; authority to contract with collection agency
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 35.01 ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT PLAN.
   The city’s Economic Development Plan, and any and all amendments, are hereby
adopted by reference and incorporated herein as if set out in full.
(Ord. 1469, passed 6-19-2017; Ord. 1471, passed 6-19-2017; Ord. 1476, passed 1-
8-2018)
FISCAL MANAGEMENT
§ 35.15 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BIENNIAL BUDGET. A budget by the city that provides for a biennial period to
determine and carry on the city’s financial and taxing affairs.
   BIENNIAL PERIOD. The two fiscal years comprising a biennium commencing in
odd-numbered or even-numbered years used by the city in determining and
carrying on its financial and taxing affairs.
   FISCAL YEAR. The fiscal year of the municipality and any public utility of
the municipality commences on October 1 and extends through the following
September 30, except as provided in the Municipal Proprietary Function Act,
being Neb. RS 18-2801 through 18-2808.
   PUBLIC FUNDS. All money, including non-tax money, used in the operation and
functions of governing bodies. If the city has a lottery established under the
state’s County and City Lottery Act, being Neb. RS 9-601 to 9-653, only those
net proceeds which are actually received by the city from a licensed lottery
operator shall be considered PUBLIC FUNDS and PUBLIC FUNDS shall not include
amounts awarded as prizes.
(1976 Code, § 1-801) (Ord. 1187, passed 1-22-1996; Ord. 1438, passed 12-23-
2013)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 13-503, 17-701
§ 35.16 PROPOSED BUDGET STATEMENT; CONTENTS; AVAILABILITY; CORRECTION.
   (A)   The City Council shall annually or biennially prepare a proposed
budget statement on forms prescribed and furnished by the Auditor of Public
Accounts. The proposed budget statement shall be made available to the public
prior to publication of the notice of the hearing on the proposed budget
statement pursuant to §
35.29. A proposed budget statement shall contain the following information,
except as provided by state law:
      (1)   For the immediately preceding fiscal year or biennial period, the
revenue from all sources, including motor vehicle taxes, other than revenue
received from personal and real property taxation, allocated to the funds and
separately stated as to each such source: the unencumbered cash balance at the
beginning and end of the year or biennial period; the amount received by
taxation of personal and real property; and the amount of actual expenditures;
      (2)   For the current fiscal year or biennial period, actual and
estimated revenue from all sources, including motor vehicle taxes, allocated to
the funds and separately stated as to each such source: the actual unencumbered
cash balance available at the beginning of the year or biennial period; the
amount received from personal and real property taxation; and the amount of
actual and estimated expenditures, whichever is applicable. This statement
shall contain the cash reserve for each fiscal year or biennial period and
shall note whether or not the reserve is encumbered. The cash reserve
projections shall be based upon the actual experience of prior years or
biennial periods. The cash reserve shall not exceed 50% of the total budget
adopted exclusive of capital outlay items;
      (3)   For the immediately ensuing fiscal year or biennial period, an
estimate of revenue from all sources, including motor vehicle taxes, other than
revenue to be received from taxation of personal and real property, separately
stated as to each such source: the actual or estimated unencumbered cash
balances, whichever is applicable, to be available at the beginning of the year
or biennial period; the amounts proposed to be expended during the year or
biennial period; and the amount of cash reserve, based on actual experience of
prior years or biennial period, which cash reserve shall not exceed 50% of the
total budget adopted exclusive of capital outlay items;
      (4)   A statement setting out separately the amount sought to be raised
from the levy of a tax on the taxable value of real property:
         (a)   For the purpose of paying the principal or interest on bonds
issued or authorized to be issued by the City Council or the legal voters of
the political subdivision; and
         (b)   For all other purposes.
      (5)   A uniform summary of the proposed budget statement, including each
proprietary function fund included in a separate proprietary budget statement
prepared pursuant to the Municipal Proprietary Function Act, and a grand total
of all funds maintained by the City Council; and
      (6)   A list of the proprietary functions which are not included in the
budget statement. These proprietary functions shall have a separate budget
statement which is approved by the City Council as provided in the Municipal
Proprietary Function Act.
   (B)   The actual or estimated unencumbered cash balance required to be
included in the budget statement by this section shall include deposits and
investments of the city as well as any funds held by the County Treasurer for
the city and shall be accurately stated on the proposed budget statement.
   (C)   The city shall correct any material errors in the budget statement
detected by the Auditor of Public Accounts or by other sources.
   (D)   The estimated expenditures plus the required cash reserve for the
ensuing fiscal year or biennial period less all estimated and actual
unencumbered balances at the beginning of the year or biennial period and less
the estimated income from all sources, including motor vehicle taxes, other
than taxation of personal and real property shall equal the amount to be
received from taxes, and that amount shall be shown on the proposed budget
statement pursuant to this section. The amount to be raised from taxation of
personal and real property, as determined above, plus the estimated revenue
from other sources, including motor vehicle taxes, and the unencumbered
balances shall equal the estimated expenditures, plus the necessary required
cash reserve, for the ensuing year or biennial period.
(1976 Code, § 1-802) (Ord. 754, passed 9-6-1984; Ord. 1122, passed 2-6-1995;
Ord. 1439, passed 12-23-2013; Ord. 1533, passed 1-9-2023)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 13-504, 13-505
§ 35.17 PROPOSED BUDGET STATEMENT; HEARING; ADOPTION; CERTIFICATION OF TAX
AMOUNT.
   (A)   The City Council shall each year or biennial period conduct a public
hearing on its proposed budget statement. Such hearing shall be held separately
from any regularly scheduled meeting of the governing body and shall not be
limited by time. Notice of the place and time of the hearing, together with a
summary of the proposed budget statement, shall be published at least four
calendar days prior to the date set for hearing in a newspaper of general
circulation within the village's jurisdiction. For purposes of such notice, the
four calendar days shall include the day of publication but not the day of
hearing. When the total operating budget, not including reserves, does not
exceed $10,000 per year or $20,000 per biennial period, the proposed budget
summary may be posted at the City Council's principal headquarters. At such
hearing, the governing body shall make at least three copies of the proposed
budget statement available to the public and shall make a presentation
outlining key provisions of the proposed budget statement, including, but not
limited to, a comparison with the prior year's budget. Any member of the public
desiring to speak on the proposed budget statement shall be allowed to address
the governing body at the hearing and shall be given a reasonable amount of
time to do so.
   (B)   After the hearing, the proposed budget statement shall be adopted, or
amended and adopted as amended, and a written record shall be kept of the
hearing. The amount to be received from personal and real property taxation
shall be certified to the levying board after the proposed budget statement is
adopted or is amended and adopted as amended. The certification of the amount
to be received from personal and real property taxation shall specify
separately the amount to be applied to the payment of principal or interest on
bonds issued or authorized to be issued by the City Council or the legal voters
of the political subdivision and the amount to be received for all other
purposes.
   (C)   If the adopted budget statement reflects a change from that shown in
the published proposed budget statement, a summary of the changes shall be
published within 20 calendar days after its adoption in the manner provided in
this section, but without provision for hearing, setting forth the items
changed and the reasons for the changes.
   (D)   Upon approval by City Council, the budget shall be filed with the
Auditor of Public Accounts. The Auditor may review the budget for errors in
mathematics, improper accounting, and noncompliance with the Nebraska Budget
Act or Neb. RS 13-518 to 13-522. If the Auditor detects such errors, he or she
shall immediately notify the Council of such errors. The Council shall correct
any such error as provided in §
35.34. Warrants for the payment of expenditures provided in the budget adopted
under this section shall be valid notwithstanding any errors or noncompliance
for which the Auditor has notified the Council.
   (E)   When a levy increase has been authorized by vote of the electors, the
adopted budget statement shall indicate the amount of the levy increase.
(1976 Code, § 1-803) (Ord. 1440, passed 12-23-2013; Ord. 1479, passed 2-5-2018;
Ord. 1501, passed 6-7-2021; Ord. 1534, passed 1-9-2023)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 13-506, 13-507
§ 35.18 PROPERTY TAX LEVY; MAXIMUM; AUTHORITY TO EXCEED.
   (A)   Property tax levies for the support of the city for fiscal years
beginning on or after July 1, 1998, shall be limited to the amounts set forth
in this division (A), except as provided in division (C). The city may levy a
maximum levy of $0.45 per $100 of taxable valuation of property subject to the
levy plus an additional $0.05 per $100 of taxable valuation to provide
financing for the city's share of revenue required under an agreement or
agreements executed pursuant to the Interlocal Cooperation Act or the Joint
Public Agency Act. The maximum levy shall include amounts levied to pay for
sums to support a library pursuant to Neb. RS 51-201, museum pursuant to Neb.
RS 51-501, visiting community nurse, home health nurse, or home health agency
pursuant to Neb. RS 71-1637, or statue, memorial, or monument pursuant to Neb.
RS 80-202. Property tax levies for judgments, except judgments or orders from
the Commission of Industrial Relations, obtained against the city which require
or obligate the city to pay that judgment, to the extent the judgment is not
paid by liability insurance coverage of the city, for preexisting lease-
purchase contracts approved prior to July 1, 1998, for bonded indebtedness
approved according to law and secured by a levy on property, and for payments
by a public airport to retire interest-free loans from the Division of
Aeronautics in lieu of bonded indebtedness at a lower cost to the public
airport are not included in the levy limits established by this division (A).
The limitations on tax levies provided in this division (A) are to include all
other general or special levies provided by law. Notwithstanding other
provisions of law, the only exceptions to the limits in this division (A) are
those provided by or authorized by this section. Tax levies in excess of the
limitations in this section shall be considered unauthorized levies under Neb.
RS 77-1606 unless approved under division (C).
   (B)   (1)   All city airport authorities established under the Cities
Airport Authorities Act, community redevelopment authorities established under
the Community Development Law, and off-street parking districts established
under the Offstreet Parking District Act may be allocated property taxes as
authorized by law which are authorized by the city and are counted in the
municipal levy limit provided by division (A), except that such limitation
shall not apply to property tax levies for preexisting lease-purchase contracts
approved prior to July 1, 1998, for bonded indebtedness approved according to
law and secured by a levy on property, and for payments by a public airport to
retire interest-free loans from the Division of Aeronautics in lieu of bonded
indebtedness at a lower cost to the public airport. For off-street parking
districts established under the Offstreet Parking District Act, the tax shall
be counted in the allocation by the city proportionately, by dividing the total
taxable valuation of the taxable property within the district by the total
taxable valuation of the taxable property within the city multiplied by the
levy of the district. The City Council shall review and approve or disapprove
the levy request of the political subdivisions subject to this division (B).
The City Council may approve all or a portion of the levy request and may
approve a levy request that would allow a levy greater than that permitted by
law. The levy allocated by the city may be exceeded as provided in division
(C).
      (2)   On or before August 1, all political subdivisions subject to city
levy authority under this division (B) shall submit a preliminary request for
levy allocation to the City Council. The preliminary request of the political
subdivision shall be in the form of a resolution adopted by a majority vote of
members present of the political subdivision's governing body. The failure of a
political subdivision to make a preliminary request shall preclude that
political subdivision from using procedures set forth in Neb. RS 77-3444 to
exceed the final levy allocation as determined in this division (B).
      (3)   (a)   The City Council shall:
            1.   Adopt a resolution by a majority vote of members present which
determines a final allocation of levy authority to its political subdivisions;
and
            2.   Forward a copy of that resolution to the chairperson of the
governing body of each of its political subdivisions.
         (b)   No final levy allocation shall be changed after September 1
except by agreement between both the City Council and the governing body of the
political subdivision whose final levy allocation is at issue.
   (C)   (1)   The city may exceed the limits provided in division (A) by an
amount not to exceed a maximum levy approved by a majority of registered voters
voting on the issue in a primary, general, or special election at which the
issue is placed before the registered voters. A vote to exceed the limits must
be approved prior to October 10 of the fiscal year which is to be the first to
exceed the limits.
      (2)   The City Council may call for the submission of the issue to the
voters:
         (a)   By passing a resolution calling for exceeding the limits by a
vote of at least two-thirds of the members of the City Council and delivering a
copy of the resolution to the County Clerk or Election Commissioner of every
county which contains all or part of the city; or
         (b)   Upon receipt of a petition by the County Clerk or Election
Commissioner of every county containing all or part of the city requesting an
election signed by at least 5% of the registered voters residing in the city.
      (3)   The resolution or petition shall include the amount of levy which
would be imposed in excess of the limits provided in division (A) and the
duration of the excess levy authority. The excess levy authority shall not have
a duration greater than five years. Any resolution or petition calling for a
special election shall be filed with the County Clerk or Election Commissioner
on or before the fifth Friday prior to the election, and the time of
publication and providing a copy of the notice of election required in Neb. RS
32-802 shall be no later than 20 days prior to the election.
      (4)   The County Clerk or Election Commissioner shall place the issue on
the ballot at an election as called for in the resolution or petition which is
at least 31 days after receipt of the resolution or petition. The election
shall be held pursuant to the Election Act. For petitions filed with the County
Clerk or Election Commissioner on or after May 1, 1998, the petition shall be
in the form as provided in Neb. RS 32-628 through 32-631.
      (5)   Any excess levy authority approved under this division (C) shall
terminate pursuant to its terms, on a vote of the City Council to terminate the
authority to levy more than the limits, at the end of the fourth fiscal year
following the first year in which the levy exceeded the limit, or as provided
in division (C)(8), whichever is earliest.
      (6)   The City Council may pass no more than one resolution calling for
an election pursuant to this division (C) during any one calendar year. Only
one election may be held in any one calendar year pursuant to a petition
initiated under this division (C). The ballot question may include any terms
and conditions set forth in the resolution or petition and shall include the
language specified in Neb. RS 77-3444.
      (7)   If a majority of the votes cast upon the ballot question are in
favor of the tax, the County Board shall authorize a tax in excess of the
limits in division (A), but the tax shall not exceed the amount stated in the
ballot question. If a majority of those voting on the ballot question are
opposed to the tax, the City Council shall not impose the tax.
      (8)   (a)   The city may rescind or modify a previously approved excess
levy authority prior to its expiration by a majority of registered voters
voting on the issue in a primary, general, or special election at which the
issue is placed before the registered voters. A vote to rescind or modify must
be approved prior to October 10 of the fiscal year for which it is to be
effective.
         (b)   The City Council may call for the submission of the issue to the
voters:
            1.   By passing a resolution calling for the rescission or
modification by a vote of at least two-thirds of the members of the City
Council and delivering a copy of the resolution to the County Clerk or Election
Commissioner of every county which contains all or part of the city; or
            2.   Upon receipt of a petition by the County Clerk or Election
Commissioner of every county containing all or part of the city requesting an
election signed by at least 5% of the registered voters residing in the city.
         (c)   The resolution or petition shall include the amount and the
duration of the previously approved excess levy authority and a statement that
either the excess levy authority will be rescinded or the excess levy authority
will be modified. If the excess levy authority will be modified, the amount and
duration of the modification shall be stated. The modification shall not have a
duration greater than five years. The County Clerk or Election Commissioner
shall place the issue on the ballot at an election as called for in the
resolution or petition which is at least 31 days after receipt of the
resolution or petition, and the time of publication and providing a copy of the
notice of election required in Neb. RS 32-802 shall be no later than 20 days
prior to the election. The election shall be held pursuant to the Election Act.
(Ord. 1479, passed 2-5-2018; Ord. 1535, passed 1-9-2023)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 77-3442, RS 77-3443, 77-3444
§ 35.19 ADOPTED BUDGET STATEMENT; FILING; CERTIFICATION OF AMOUNT OF TAX.
   (A)   (1)   After publication and hearing on the proposed budget statement
and within the time prescribed by law, the City Council shall file with and
certify to the levying board or boards on or before September 30 of each year
or September 30 of the final year of a biennial period and file with the
Auditor of Public Accounts a copy of the adopted budget statement which
complies with Neb. RS 13-518 to 13-522, together with the amount of the tax
required to fund the adopted budget, setting out separately:
         (a)   The amount to be levied for the payment of principal or interest
on bonds issued or authorized to be issued by the City Council or the legal
voters of the political subdivision; and
         (b)   The amount to be levied for all other purposes.
      (2)   Proof of publication shall be attached to the statements.
   (B)   If the prime rate published by the Federal Reserve Board is 10% or
more at the time of the filing and certification required under this section,
the City Council, in certifying the amount required, may make allowance for
delinquent taxes not exceeding 5% of the amount required plus the actual
percentage of delinquent taxes for the preceding tax year or biennial period
and for the amount of estimated tax loss from any pending or anticipated
litigation which involves taxation and in which tax collections have been or
can be withheld or escrowed by court order. For purposes of this section,
anticipated litigation shall be limited to the anticipation of an action being
filed by a taxpayer who or which filed a similar action for the preceding year
or biennial period which is still pending. Except for such allowances, the City
Council shall not certify an amount of tax more than 1% greater or lesser than
the amount determined under §
35.28.
   (C)   The City Council shall use the certified taxable values as provided by
the County Assessor pursuant to Neb. RS 13-509 for the current year in setting
or certifying the levy. The City Council may designate one of its members to
perform any duty or responsibility required of the Council by this section.
(1976 Code, § 1-804.01) (Ord. 1150, passed 2-6-1995; Ord. 1442, passed 12-23-
2013; Ord. 1517, passed 5-2-2022; Ord. 1536, passed 1-9-2023)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 13-508, 13-509.02
§ 35.20 REVISIONS OF BUDGET.
   (A)   (1)   Unless otherwise provided by law, the City Council may propose
to revise the previously adopted budget statement and shall conduct a public
hearing on that proposal whenever during the current fiscal year it becomes
apparent to the City Council that:
         (a)   There are circumstances which could not reasonably have been
anticipated at the time the budget for the current year was adopted;
         (b)   The budget adopted violated Neb. RS 13-518 through 13-522, such
that the revenue of the current fiscal year for any fund thereof will be
insufficient, additional expenses will be necessarily incurred or there is a
need to reduce the budget requirements to comply with Neb. RS 13-518 through
13-522; or
         (c)   The City Council has been notified by the Auditor of Public
Accounts of a mathematical or accounting error or non-compliance with the
state’s Budget Act, being Neb. RS 13-501 through 13-513.
      (2)   The public hearing requirement shall not apply to emergency
expenditures pursuant to Neb. RS 81-829.51.
   (B)   Notice of the time and place of the hearing shall be published at
least four calendar days prior to the date set for hearing in a newspaper of
general circulation within the Council’s jurisdiction. For purposes of such
notice, the four calendar days shall include the day of publication but not the
day of hearing. This published notice shall set forth:
      (1)   The time and place of the hearing;
      (2)   The amount in dollars of additional or reduced money required and
for what purpose;
      (3)   A statement setting forth the nature of the unanticipated
circumstances and, if the budget requirements are to be increased, the reasons
why the previously adopted budget of expenditures cannot be reduced during the
remainder of the current year to meet the need for additional money in that
manner;
      (4)   A copy of the summary of the originally adopted budget previously
published; and
      (5)   A copy of the summary of the proposed revised budget.
   (C)   At the hearing any taxpayer may appear or file a written statement
protesting any application for additional money. A written record shall be kept
of all such hearings.
   (D)   Upon conclusion of the public hearing on the proposed revised budget
and approval of the proposed revised budget by the City Council, the City
Council shall file with the County Clerk of the county or counties in which the
City Council is located, and with the Auditor of Public Accounts, a copy of the
revised budget, as adopted. The City Council may then issue warrants in payment
for expenditures authorized by the adopted revised budget. These warrants shall
be referred to as registered warrants and shall be repaid during the next
fiscal year from funds derived from taxes levied therefor.
   (E)   Within 30 days after the adoption of the budget under §
35.17 of this chapter, the City Council may, or within 30 days after
notification of an error by the Auditor of Public Accounts, the City Council
shall, correct an adopted budget which contains a clerical, mathematical or
accounting error which does not affect the total amount budgeted by more than
1% or increase the amount required from property taxes. No public hearing shall
be required for such a correction. After correction, the City Council shall
file a copy of the corrected budget with the County Clerk of the county of
counties in which the City Council is located and with the Auditor of Public
Accounts. The City Council may then issue warrants in payment for expenditures
authorized by the budget.
(1976 Code, § 1-804.02) (Ord. 1461, passed 2-8-2016)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 13-511
§ 35.21 BUDGET PROCEDURE.
   The Manual of Instructions for City/Village Budgets, prepared by the Auditor
of Public Accounts, State Capitol, Lincoln, Nebraska 68509 is incorporated by
reference for the purpose of proper budget preparation.
(1976 Code, § 1-805)
§ 35.22 APPROPRIATIONS.
   The governing body shall adopt a budget statement pursuant to the state’s
Budget Act, being Neb. RS 13-501 through 13-513, to be termed “The Annual
Appropriation Bill”, in which are appropriated such sums of money as may be
deemed necessary to defray all necessary expenses and liabilities of the city.
(1976 Code, § 1-806) (Ord. 1124, passed 2-6-1995; Ord. 1189, passed 1-22-1996)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-706
§ 35.23 GENERAL PROPERTY TAX.
   (A)   The governing body shall cause to be certified to the County Clerk the
amount of tax to be levied upon the assessed value of all the taxable property
of the municipality for the requirements of the adopted budget for the ensuing
year, including all special assessments and taxes.
   (B)   The maximum amount of tax which may be certified and assessed shall
not require a tax levy in excess of the legal maximum as prescribed by state
law.
(1976 Code, § 1-807)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-702
§ 35.24 EXPENDITURES.
   (A)   No municipal official shall have the power to appropriate, issue or
draw any order or warrant on the Municipal Treasury for money, unless the same
has been appropriated or ordered by ordinance.
   (B)   No expenditure for any improvement to be paid for out of the General
Fund of the municipality shall exceed in any one year the amount provided for
that improvement in the adopted budget statement.
(1976 Code, § 1-808)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-708
§ 35.25 CONTRACTS AND PURCHASES; BIDDING AND OTHER REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Except as provided in Neb. RS 18-412.01 for a contract with a public
power district to operate, renew, replace or add to the electric distribution,
transmission or generation system of the municipality, no contact for
enlargement or general improvements, such as water extensions, sewers, public
heating systems, bridges, work on streets or any other work or improvements
when the cost of the enlargement or improvement is assessed to the property,
costing over $30,000, shall be made unless it is first approved by the
governing body.
   (B)   (1)   Except as provided in Neb. RS 18-412.01, before the governing
body makes any contract in excess of $30,000 for enlargement of general
improvements, such as water extensions, sewers, public heating system, bridges,
work on streets or any other work or improvement when the cost of the
enlargement or improvement is assessed to the property, an estimate of the cost
shall be made by the Municipal Engineer and submitted to the governing body.
      (2)   In advertising for bids as provided in divisions (C) and (E) below,
the governing body may publish the amount of estiniate.
   (C)   Advertisements for bids shall be required for any contract costing
over $30,000 entered into:
      (1)   For enlargement or general improvements, such as water extensions,
sewers, public heating systems, bridges, work on streets or any other work or
improvement when the cost of the enlargement or improvement is assessed to the
property; or
      (2)   For the purchase of equipment used in the construction of the
enlargement or general improvements.
   (D)   A municipal electric utility may enter into a contract for the
enlargement or improvement of the electric system or for the purchase of
equipment uses for the enlargement or improvement without advertising forbids
if the price is:
      (1)   Thirty thousand dollars or less;
      (2)   Sixty thousand dollars or less and the municipal electric utility
has gross annual revenue from retail sales in excess of $1,000,000;
      (3)   Ninety thousand dollars or less and the municipal electric utility
has gross annual revenue from retail sales in excess of $5,000,000; or
      (4)   One hundred twenty thousand dollars or less and the municipal
electric utility has gross annual revenue from retail sales in excess of
$10,000,000.
   (E)   The advertisement provided for in division (C) above shall be
published at least seven days prior to the bid closing in a legal newspaper in
of of general circulation in the municipality. In case of a public emergency
resulting from infectious or contagious diseases, destructive windstorms,
floods, snow, war or an exigency or pressing necessity or unforeseen need
calling for immediate action or remedy to prevent a serious loss of or serious
injury or damage to life, health or property, estimates of costs and
advertising for bids may be waived in the emergency ordinance authorized by
Neb. RS 17-613 when adopted by a two-thirds vote of the governing body and
entered of record.
   (F)   If, after advertising for bids as provided in this section, the
governing body receives fewer than two bids on a contract or if the bids
received by the governing body contain a price which exceeds the estimated
cost, the governing body may negotiate a contract in an attempt to complete the
proposed enlargement or general improvement at a cost commensurate with the
estimate given.
   (G)   If the materials are of such a nature that, in the opinion of the
manufacturer and with the concurrence of the governing body or Board of Public
Works, no cost can be estimated until the materials have been manufactured or
assembled to the specific qualifications of the miinicipality, the governing
body or Board of Public Works may authorize the manufacture and assemblage of
those materials and may thereafter approve the estimated cost expenditure when
it is provided by the manufacturer.
   (H)   Any municipal bidding procedure maybe waived by the governing body or
Board of Public Works:
      (1)   When materials or equipment are purchased at the same price and
from the same seller as materials or equipment which have formerly been
obtained pursuant to the state bidding procedure in Neb. RS 81-145 through 81-
162;
      (2)   When the contract is negotiated directly with a sheltered workshop
pursuant to Neb. RS 48-1503; or
      (3)   When required to comply with any federal grant, loan or program.
   (I)   (1)   Notwithstanding any other provisions of law or a home rule
charter, a municipality which has established, by an interlocal agreement with
any county, a joint purchasing division or agency may purchase personal
property without competitive bidding if the price of the property has been
established by the Federal General Services Administration or the material
division of the Department of Administrative Services.
      (2)   For the purpose of this division (I), the following definitions
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
         PERSONAL PROPERTY. Includes, but is not limited to, supplies,
materials, and equipment used by or furnished to any officer, office,
department, institution, boards or other agency.
         PURCHASING or PURCHASE. The obtaining of personal property by sale,
lease or other contractual means.
(1976 Code, § 1-809) (Ord. 1479, passed 2-5-2018)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-568.01, 17-568.02, 18-1756
§ 35.26 ANNUAL AUDIT.
   The governing body shall cause an audit of the municipal accounts to be made
by a qualified accountant as expeditiously as possible following the close of
the fiscal year. The said audit shall be completed, and the annual audit report
made not later than six months after the close of the fiscal year. The
accountant making the audit shall submit not less than three copies of the
audit report to the governing body. All public utilities or other enterprises
which substantially generate their own revenue shall be audited separately, and
the results of such audits shall appear separately in the annual audit report,
and such audits shall be on an accrual basis and shall contain statements and
materials which conform to generally accepted accounting principles. The audit
report shall set forth the financial position and results of financial
operations for each fund or group of accounts of the municipality as well as an
opinion by the accountant with respect to the financial statements. Two copies
of the annual audit report shall be filed with the Municipal Clerk, and shall
become a part of the public records of the Municipal Clerk’s office, and will
at all times thereafter, be open for public inspection. One copy shall be filed
with the Auditor of Public Accounts.
(1976 Code, § 1-810) (Ord. 560, passed 9-22-1977)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 19-2901 through 19-2909
§ 35.27 CLAIMS.
   All claims against the municipality shall be presented to the governing body
in writing with a full account of the items, and no claim or demand shall be
audited or allowed unless presented as provided for in this section. No costs
shall be recovered against the municipality in any action brought against it
for an unliquidated claim which has not been presented to the governing body to
be audited, nor upon claims allowed in part, unless the recovery shall be for a
greater sum than the amount allowed, with the interest due. No order or warrant
shall be drawn in excess of 85% of the current levy for the purpose for which
it is drawn unless there shall be sufficient money in the Municipal Treasury
for the appropriate fund against which it is to be drawn; provided that, in the
event there exists obligated funds from the federal and/or state government for
the general purpose of such warrant, then such warrant may be drawn in excess
of 85%, but not more than 100% of the current levy for the purpose for which
said warrant is drawn.
(1976 Code, § 1-811)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-714, 17-715
§ 35.28 WARRANTS.
   All warrants drawn upon the Municipal Treasury must be signed by the Mayor
and countersigned by the Municipal Clerk, stating the particular fund to which
the warrant is chargeable, the person to whom it is payable, and the purpose of
the expenditure. No money shall be otherwise paid than upon warrants so drawn.
Each warrant shall specify the amount included in the adopted budget statement
for the fund upon which it is drawn, and the amount already expended of such
fund.
(1976 Code, § 1-812)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-711
§ 35.29 TRANSFER OF FUNDS.
   The governing body may, whenever during the current fiscal year it becomes
apparent due to unforeseen emergencies that there is temporarily insufficient
money in a particular fund to meet the requirements of the adopted budget of
expenditures for that fund, by a majority vote transfer money from other funds
to such fund. No expenditure during any fiscal year shall be made in excess of
the amounts indicated in the adopted budget statement, except as authorized
herein. If, as the result of unforeseen circumstances, the revenue of the
current fiscal year shall be insufficient, the governing body may propose to
supplement the previously adopted budget statement and shall conduct a public
hearing at which time any taxpayer may appear, or file a written statement
protesting the application for additional money. A written record shall be kept
of all such hearings. Notice of a place, and time for the said hearing shall be
published at least five days prior to the date set for the hearing in a
newspaper of general circulation in the municipality. The published notice
shall set forth the time and place of the proposed hearing, the amount of
additional money required, the purpose of the required money, a statement
setting forth the reasons why the adopted budget of expenditures cannot be
reduced to meet the need for additional money, and a copy of the summary of the
originally adopted budget previously published. Upon the conclusion of the
public hearing on the proposed supplemental budget, and the approval by the
governing body, the governing body shall file with the County Clerk and the
State Auditor a copy of the supplemental budget, and shall certify the amount
of additional tax to be levied. The governing body may then issue warrants in
payment for expenditures authorized by the adopted supplemental budget. The
said warrants shall be referred to as “registered warrants”, and shall be
repaid during the next fiscal year from funds derived from taxes levied
therefor.
(1976 Code, § 1-813)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 23-928, 23-929
§ 35.30 SPECIAL ASSESSMENT FUND.
   All money received on special tax assessments shall be held by the Municipal
Treasurer as a special fund to be applied to the payment of the improvement for
which the assessment was made, and such money shall be used for no other
purpose unless to reimburse the municipality for money expended for any such
improvement.
(1976 Code, § 1-814)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-710
§ 35.31 SINKING FUNDS; GIFTS OF MONEY OR PROPERTY.
   (A)   The city is hereby empowered to receive money or property by donation,
bequest, gift, devise, or otherwise for the benefit of any one or more of the
public purposes for which sinking funds are established by this section, as
stipulated by the donor. Title to any money or property so donated shall vest
in the City Council, or in its successors in office, who shall become the
owners thereof in trust to the uses of the sinking fund or funds. In the event
of a donation of real estate, the City Council may manage such real estate as
in the case of real estate donated to the city for city library purposes under
the provisions of Neb. RS 51-215 and 51-216.
   (B)   The City Council, subject to all the limitations set forth in this
section, shall have the power to levy a tax of not to exceed $0.105 on each
$100 in any one year upon the taxable value of all the taxable property within
the city for a term of not to exceed 10 years, in addition to the amount of tax
which may be annually levied for the purposes of the adopted budget statement
of the city, for the purpose of establishing a sinking fund for the
construction, purchase, improvement, extension, original equipment, or repair,
not including maintenance, of any one or more of the following public
improvements, including acquisition of any land incident to the making thereof:
city libraries; city auditoriums or community houses for social or recreational
purposes; city halls; city public libraries, auditoriums, or community houses
in a single building; city swimming pools; city jails; city fire stations,
together with firefighting equipment or apparatus; city parks; city cemeteries;
city medical buildings, together with furnishings and equipment; or city
hospitals. The city shall not be authorized to levy the tax or to establish the
sinking fund as provided in this division if, having bonded indebtedness, such
city has been in default in the payment of interest thereon or principal
thereof for a period of 10 years prior to the date of the passage of the
resolution providing for the submission of the proposition for establishment of
the sinking fund as required in division (C).
   (C)   Before any sinking fund or funds are established or before any annual
tax is levied for any such planned city improvements mentioned in division (B)
by the city, the City Council shall declare its purpose by resolution to submit
to the qualified electors of the city at the next general city election the
proposition to provide the city with the specific city improvement planned
under this section. The resolution of submission shall, among other things, set
forth a clear description of the improvement planned, the estimated cost
according to the prevailing costs, the amount of annual levy over a definite
period of years, not exceeding 10 years, required to provide such cost, and the
specific name or designation for the sinking fund sought to be established to
carry out the planned improvement, together with a statement of the proposition
for placement upon the ballot at the election. Notice of the submission of the
proposition, together with a copy of the official ballot containing the
proposition, shall be published in its entirety three successive weeks before
the day of the election in a legal newspaper in or of general circulation in
the city or, if no legal newspaper is in or of general circulation in the city,
in a legal newspaper in or of general circulation in the county in which the
city is located. No such sinking fund shall be established unless the same has
been authorized by a majority or more of the legal votes of the city cast for
or against the proposition. If less than a majority of the legal votes favor
the establishment of the sinking fund, the planned improvement shall not be
made, no annual tax shall be levied therefor, and no sinking fund or sinking
funds shall be established in connection therewith, but such resolution of
submission shall immediately be repealed. If the proposition shall carry at
such election in the manner prescribed in this division, the City Council and
its successors in office shall proceed to do all things authorized under such
resolution of submission but never inconsistent with this section. The election
provided for under this section shall be conducted as provided under the
Election Act.
   (D)   All funds received by the City Treasurer, by donation or by tax levy,
as hereinbefore provided, shall, as they accumulate, be immediately invested by
the Treasurer, with the written approval of the City Council, in the manner
provided in Neb. RS 17-540. Whenever investments of such sinking fund or funds
are made, as aforesaid, the nature and character of the same shall be reported
to the City Council, and the investment report shall be made a matter of record
by the City Clerk in the proceedings of the City Council, The sinking fund, or
sinking funds, accumulated under the provisions of this section, shall
constitute a special fund, or funds, for the purpose or purposes for which the
same was authorized and shall not be used for any other purpose unless
authorized by 60% of the qualified electors of the city voting at a general
election favoring such change in the use of the sinking fund or sinking funds.
The question of the change in the use of the sinking fund or sinking funds,
when it fails to carry, shall not be resubmitted in substance for a period of
one year from and after the date of such election.
(1976 Code, § 1-815) (Ord. 1483A, passed 12-23-2019)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 19-1301 through 19-1304, 77-2337, 77-2339
§ 35.32 GENERAL FUND.
   All money not specifically appropriated in the annual appropriation bill
shall be deposited in and known as the “General Fund”.
(1976 Code, § 1-816)
§ 35.33 DEPOSIT, INVESTMENT OF FUNDS.
   (A)   (1)   The City Treasurer shall deposit, and at all times keep on
deposit, for safekeeping, in banks, capital stock financial institutions or
qualifying mutual financial institutions of approved and responsible standing,
all money collected, received or held by him or her as City Treasurer. Such
deposits shall be subject to all regulations imposed by law or adopted by the
City Council for the receiving and holding thereof. The fact that a
stockholder, director, or other officer of such bank, capital stock financial
institution or qualifying mutual financial institution is also serving as
Mayor, as a member of the City Council, as a member of the Board of Public
Works, or as any other officer of the city shall not disqualify such bank,
capital stock financial institution or qualifying mutual financial institution
from acting as a depository for such municipal funds.
      (2)   (a)   The City Council shall require from all banks, capital stock
financial institutions or qualifying mutual financial institutions:
            1.   A bond in such penal sum as may be the maximum amount on
deposit at any time less the amount insured or guaranteed by the Federal
Deposit Insurance Corporation or, in lieu thereof; and
            2.   Security given as provided in the Public Funds Deposit
Security Act to secure the payment of all such deposits and accretions.
         (b)   The City Council shall approve such bond or giving of security.
The City Treasurer shall not be liable for any loss of any money sustained by
reason of the failure of any such depository so designated and approved.
      (3)   The insurance afforded to depositors in banks, capital stock
financial institutions or qualifying mutual financial institutions through the
Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation shall be deemed and construed to be a
surety bond to the extent that the deposits are insured or guaranteed by such
corporation and for deposits so insured or guaranteed, no other surety bond or
other security shall be required.
      (4)   Neb. RS 77-2366 shall apply to deposits in capital stock financial
institutions. Neb. RS 77-2365.01 shall apply to deposits in qualifying mutual
financial institutions.
(1976 Code, § 1-817)
   (B)   Whenever the city has accumulated a surplus of any fund in excess of
its current needs or has accumulated a sinking fund for the payment of its
bonds and the money in such sinking fund exceeds the amount necessary to pay
the principal and interest of any such bonds which become due during the
current year, the governing body of the city may invest any such surplus in
certificates of deposit, in time deposits and in any securities in which the
state investment officer is authorized by law and as provided in the authorized
investment guidelines of the state’s Investment Council in effect on the date
the investment is made.
(1976 Code, § 1-818)
(Ord. 988, passed 12-18-1989; Ord. 1349, passed 11-8-2004)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-607, 77-2362, 17-608, 17-609, 21-1316.01,
77-2341
§ 35.34 BOND ISSUES.
   The governing body may, after meeting all the requirements of state law,
issue bonds, fund bonds and retire bonds for such purposes as may be permitted
by state law. The governing body shall have the authority to levy special
assessments for the payment of interest and principal on such bonds and may
spread the payments up to the maximum number of years permitted by state law.
(1976 Code, § 1-819)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 10-201 through 10-411, 10-601 through 10-
614, 12-1001,
    17-529.01, 17-529.08, 17-534, 17-905, 17-908, 17-911, 17-939, 17-958, 17-
968, 18-1801
    through 18-1805, 23-343.13, 39-836
§ 35.35 MOTOR VEHICLE TAX.
   The governing body of the city may levy a tax on all motor vehicles owned or
used in such city. Until the implementation date designated by the Director of
Motor Vehicles under Neb. RS 23-186, the tax shall be paid to the County
Treasurer of Dawson County when the registration fees as provided in the Motor
Vehicle Registration Act, being Neb. RS 60-301 through 60-3,235 are paid. Such
taxes shall be credited by the County Treasurer to the road fund of the city.
On and after the implementation date designated under Neb. RS 23-186, the tax
shall be paid to the County Treasurer for credit to such road fund. Such funds
shall be used by the city for construction, resurfacing, maintaining or
improving streets, roads, alleys, public ways or parts thereof, for the
amortization of bonded indebtedness when created for such purposes.
(1976 Code, § 1-820) (Ord. 951, passed 9-26-1988; Ord. 989, passed 12-18-1989)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 18-1214
§ 35.36 TRANSFER OF FUNDS BY BOARD OF PUBLIC WORKS TO GENERAL FUND.
   The Board of Public Works of the city is hereby directed to transfer to the
City Treasurer for deposit in the General Fund of the municipality, 9% of
receipts from customer billings by the Board of Public Works for electric and
water service within the municipality; provided, however, that, receipts from
Hazardous Waste Pumping (HWP) under §
52.06 of this code of ordinances shall not be included in receipts for the
purpose of calculating this transfer. The Board of Public Works shall make the
transfer provided for above each month, based on receipts for the immediately
preceding monthly period, as determined by the Board of Public Works, and as
reported to the municipality. The basis for the calculation of the transfer
shall be provided to the municipality with each monthly payment.
(1976 Code, § 1-821) (Ord. 1227, passed 11-4-1996; Ord. 1241, passed 10-6-1997)
§ 35.37 PROPERTY TAX REQUEST; INCREASE BY MORE THAN ALLOWABLE GROWTH
PERCENTAGE; PROCEDURE FOR SETTING.
   (A)   For purposes of this section, POLITICAL SUBDIVISION means any county,
city, school district, or community college.
   (B)   If any political subdivision seeks to increase its property tax
request by more than the allowable growth percentage, such political
subdivision may do so if:
      (1)   A public hearing is held and notice of such hearing is provided in
compliance with division (C) of this section; and
      (2)   The governing body of such political subdivision passes a
resolution or an ordinance that complies with division (D) of this section.
   (C)   (1)   Each political subdivision within a county that seeks to
increase its property tax request by more than the allowable growth percentage
shall participate in a joint public hearing. Each such political subdivision
shall designate one representative to attend the joint public hearing on behalf
of the political subdivision. If a political subdivision includes area in more
than one county, the political subdivision shall be deemed to be within the
county in which the political subdivision's principal headquarters are located.
At such hearing, there shall be no items on the agenda other than discussion on
each political subdivision's intent to increase its property tax request by
more than the allowable growth percentage.
      (2)   The joint public hearing shall be held on or after September 17 and
prior to September 29 and before any of the participating political
subdivisions file their adopted budget statement pursuant to Neb. RS 13-508.
      (3)   The joint public hearing shall be held after 6:00 p.m. local time
on the relevant date.
      (4)   The joint public hearing shall be organized by the County Clerk or
his or her designee. At the joint public hearing, the representative of each
political subdivision shall give a brief presentation on the political
subdivision's intent to increase its property tax request by more than the
allowable growth percentage and the effect of such request on the political
subdivision's budget. The presentation shall include:
         (a)   The name of the political subdivision;
         (b)   The amount of the property tax request; and
         (c)   The following statements:
            1.   The total assessed value of property differs from last year's
total assessed value by _____ percent;
            2.   The tax rate which would levy the same amount of property
taxes as last year, when multiplied by the new total assessed value of
property, would be $ _____ per $100 of assessed value;
            3.   The (name of political subdivision) proposes to adopt a
property tax request that will cause its tax rate to be $ _____ per $100 of
assessed value;
            4.   Based on the proposed property tax request and changes in
other revenue, the total operating budget of (name of political subdivision)
will exceed last year's by _____ percent; and
            5.   To obtain more information regarding the increase in the
property tax request, citizens may contact the (name of political subdivision)
at (telephone number and email address of political subdivision).
      (5)   Any member of the public shall be allowed to speak at the joint
public hearing and shall be given a reasonable amount of time to do so.
      (6)   Notice of the joint public hearing shall be provided:
         (a)   By sending a postcard to all affected property taxpayers. The
postcard shall be sent to the name and address to which the property tax
statement is mailed;
         (b)   By posting notice of the hearing on the home page of the
relevant county's website, except that this requirement shall only apply if the
county has a population of more than 25,000 inhabitants; and
         (c)   By publishing notice of the hearing in a legal newspaper in or
of general circulation in the relevant county.
      (7)   Each political subdivision that participates in the joint public
hearing shall send the information prescribed in division (C)(8) of this
section to the County Clerk by September 5. The County Clerk shall transmit the
information to the county assessor no later than September 10. The County Clerk
shall notify each participating political subdivision of the date, time, and
location of the joint public hearing. The County Assessor shall send the
information required to be included on the postcards pursuant to division (C)
(8) of this section to a printing service designated by the County Board. The
initial cost for printing the postcards shall be paid from the county general
fund. Such postcards shall be mailed at least seven calendar days before the
joint public hearing. The cost of creating and mailing the postcards, including
staff time, materials, and postage, shall be charged proportionately to the
political subdivisions participating in the joint public hearing based on the
total number of parcels in each participating political subdivision.
      (8)   The postcard sent under this section and the notice posted on the
county's website, if required under division (C)(6)(b) of this section, and
published in the newspaper shall include the date, time, and location for the
joint public hearing, a listing of and telephone number for each political
subdivision that will be participating in the joint public hearing, and the
amount of each participating political subdivision's property tax request. The
postcard shall also contain the following information:
         (a)   The following words in capitalized type at the top of the
postcard: NOTICE OF PROPOSED TAX INCREASE;
         (b)   The name of the county that will hold the joint public hearing,
which shall appear directly underneath the capitalized words described in
division (C)(8)(a) of this section;
         (c)   The following statement: The following political subdivisions
are proposing a revenue increase which would result in an overall increase in
property taxes in (insert current tax year). THE ACTUAL TAX ON YOUR PROPERTY
MAY INCREASE OR DECREASE. This notice contains estimates of the tax on your
property as a result of this revenue increase. These estimates are calculated
on the basis of the proposed (insert current tax year) data. The actual tax on
your property may vary from these estimates.
         (d)   The parcel number for the property;
         (e)   The name of the property owner and the address of the property;
         (f)   The property's assessed value in the previous tax year;
         (g)   The amount of property taxes due in the previous tax year for
each participating political subdivision;
         (h)   The property's assessed value for the current tax year;
         (i)   The amount of property taxes due for the current tax year for
each participating political subdivision;
         (j)   The change in the amount of property taxes due for each
participating political subdivision from the previous tax year to the current
tax year; and
         (k)   The following statement: To obtain more information regarding
the tax increase, citizens may contact the political subdivision at the
telephone number provided in this notice.
   (D)   After the joint public hearing required in division (C) of this
section, the governing body of each participating political subdivision shall
pass an ordinance or resolution to set such political subdivision's property
tax request. If the political subdivision is increasing its property tax
request over the amount from the prior year, including any increase in excess
of the allowable growth percentage, then such ordinance or resolution shall
include, but not be limited to, the following information:
      (1)   The name of the political subdivision;
      (2)   The amount of the property tax request;
      (3)   The following statements:
         (a)   The total assessed value of property differs from last year's
total assessed value by ____ percent;
         (b)   The tax rate which would levy the same amount of property taxes
as last year, when multiplied by the new total assessed value of property,
would be $ _____ per $100 of assessed value;
         (c)   The (name of political subdivision) proposes to adopt a property
tax request that will cause its tax rate to be $ _____ per $100 of assessed
value; and
         (d)   Based on the proposed property tax request and changes in other
revenue, the total operating budget of (name of political subdivision) will
exceed last year's by _____ percent; and
      (4)   The record vote of the governing body in passing such resolution or
ordinance.
   (E)   Any resolution or ordinance setting a property tax request under this
section shall be certified and forwarded to the County Clerk on or before
October 15 of the year for which the tax request is to apply.
   (F)   The County Clerk, or his or her designee, shall prepare a report which
shall include (a) the names of the representatives of the political
subdivisions participating in the joint public hearing and (b) the name and
address of each individual who spoke at the joint public hearing, unless the
address requirement is waived to protect the security of the individual, and
the name of any organization represented by each such individual. Such report
shall be delivered to the political subdivisions participating in the joint
public hearing within ten days after such hearing.
(Ord. 1483A, passed 12-23-2019; Ord. 1518, passed 5-2-2022; Ord. 1519, passed
5-2-2022; Ord. 1537, passed 1-9-2023)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 77-1601.02
§ 35.38 DEBT COLLECTION; AUTHORITY TO CONTRACT WITH COLLECTION AGENCY.
   (A)   The city may contract to retain a collection agency licensed pursuant
to the Collection Agency Act, within or without this state, for the purpose of
collecting public debts owed by any person to the city.
   (B)   No debt owed pursuant to division (A) of this section may be assigned
to a collection agency unless:
      (1)   There has been an attempt to advise the debtor by first-class mail,
postage prepaid, at the last known address of the debtor:
         (a)   Of the existence of the debt; and
         (b)   That the debt may be assigned to a collection agency for
collection if the debt is not paid; and
      (2)   At least 30 days have elapsed from the time the notice was sent.
   (C)   A collection agency which is assigned a debt under this section shall
have only those remedies and powers which would be available to it as an
assignee of a private creditor.
   (D)   For purposes of this section, debt shall include all delinquent fees
or payments except delinquent property taxes on real estate. In the case of
debt arising as a result of an order or judgment of a court in a criminal or
traffic matter, a collection fee may be added to the debt. The collection fee
shall be $25 or 4.5% of the debt, whichever is greater. The collection fee
shall be paid by the person who owes the debt directly to the person or agency
providing the collection service.
(Ord. 1501, passed 6-7-2021)
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
   Chapter
      
50.   UTILITIES GENERALLY
      
51.   GARBAGE AND REFUSE
      
52.   ELECTRICAL SYSTEM
      
53.   NATURAL GAS
      
54.   WATER
      
55.   SEWERS
CHAPTER 50: UTILITIES GENERALLY
Section
   
50.01   Diversion of services; penalty
   
50.02   Discontinuance of service; notice procedure
   
50.03   New subdivisions; underground installation
   
50.04   Meters tampering; unauthorized reconnection
   
50.05   Utility service applications and landlord guarantees
§ 50.01 DIVERSION OF SERVICES; PENALTY.
   (A)   The city may bring a civil action for damages against any person who
commits, authorizes, solicits, aids, abets or attempts bypassing, tampering or
unauthorized metering when such act results in damages to a city utility. A
city may bring a civil action for damages pursuant to this section against any
person receiving the benefit of utility service through means of bypassing,
tampering or unauthorized metering.
   (B)   In any civil action brought pursuant to this section, the city shall
be entitled, upon proof of willful or intentional bypassing, tampering or
unauthorized metering, to recover as damages:
      (1)   The amount of actual damage or loss if the amount of the damage or
loss is susceptible of reasonable calculation; or
      (2)   Liquidated damages of until 7-1-1985, $500; and, on 7-1-1985 and
thereafter, $750, if the amount of actual damage or loss is not susceptible of
reasonable calculation.
   (C)   In addition to damage or loss under divisions (A) or (B) above, the
city may recover all reasonable expenses and costs incurred on account of the
bypassing, tampering or unauthorized metering including, but not limited to,
disconnection, reconnection, service calls, equipment, costs of the suit and
reasonable attorneys’ fees in cases within the scope of Neb. RS 25-1801.
   (D)   There shall be a rebuttable presumption that a tenant or occupant at
any premises where bypassing, tampering or unauthorized metering is proven to
exist caused or had knowledge of such bypassing, tampering or unauthorized
metering if the tenant or occupant had access to the part of the utility supply
system on the premises where the bypassing, tampering or unauthorized metering
is proven to exist and was responsible or partially responsible for payment,
either directly or indirectly, to the utility or to any other person for
utility services to the premises.
   (E)   There shall be a rebuttable presumption that a customer at any
premises where bypassing, tampering or unauthorized metering is proven to exist
caused or had knowledge of such bypassing, tampering or unauthorized metering
if the customer controlled access to the part of the utility supply system on
the premises where the bypassing, tampering or unauthorized metering was proven
to exist.
   (F)   The remedies provided by this section shall be deemed to be
supplemental and additional to powers conferred by existing laws and the
remedies provided in this section are in addition to and not in limitation of
any other civil or criminal statutory or common law remedies.
(1976 Code, § 3-1101) (Ord. 729, passed 9-1-1983)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 86-331.01 through 86-331.04
§ 50.02 DISCONTINUANCE OF SERVICE; NOTICE PROCEDURE.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      DOMESTIC SUBSCRIBER. Shall not include municipalities, cities, villages,
political subdivisions, companies, corporations, partnerships, limited
liability companies or businesses of any nature.
   (B)   No public or private utility company, including any utility owned and
operated by the city, furnishing water, natural gas or electricity at retail in
the city shall discontinue service to any domestic subscriber for non-payment
of any past-due account unless the utility company first gives notice to any
subscriber whose service is proposed to be terminated. Such notice shall be
given in person, by first-class mail, or by electronic delivery, except that
electronic delivery shall only be used if the subscribed has specifically
elected to receive such notices by electronic delivery. If notice is given by
first-class mail or electronic delivery, such notice shall be conspicuously
marked as to its importance. Service shall not be discontinued for at least
seven days after notice is sent or given. Holidays and weekends shall be
excluded from the seven days.
   (C)   The notice required by division (A) above shall contain the following
information:
      (1)   The reason for the proposed disconnection;
      (2)   A statement of the intention to disconnect unless the domestic
subscriber either pays the bill or reaches an. agreement with the utility
regarding payment of the bill;
      (3)   The date upon which service will be disconnected if the domestic
subscriber does not take appropriate action;
      (4)   The name, address, and telephone number of the utility’s employee
or department to whom the domestic subscriber may address an inquiry or
complaint;
      (5)   The domestic subscriber’s right, prior to the disconnection date,
to request a conference regarding any dispute over such proposed disconnection;
      (6)   A statement that the utility may not disconnect service pending the
conclusion of the conference;
      (7)   A statement to the effect that disconnection may be postponed or
prevented upon presentation of a duly licensed physician’s certificate which
shall certify that a domestic subscriber or resident within such subscriber’s
household has an existing illness or handicap which would cause such subscriber
or resident to suffer an immediate and serious health hazard by the
disconnection of the utility’s service to that household. Such certificate
shall be filed with the utility within five days of receiving notice under this
section and will prevent the disconnection of the utility’s service for a
period of 30 days from such filing. Only one postponement of disconnection
shall be allowed under this division (C)(7) for each incidence of non-payment
of any past-due account;
      (8)   The cost that will be borne by the domestic subscriber for
restoration of service;
      (9)   A statement that the domestic subscriber may arrange with the
utility for an installment payment plan;
      (10)   A statement to the effect that those domestic subscribers’ who are
welfare recipients may qualify for assistance in payment of their utility bill
and that they should contact their caseworkers in that regard; and
      (11)   Any additional information not inconsistent with this section
which has received prior approval from the City Council or Board of Public
Works, in the case of a city utility, or the board of directors or
administrative board of any other utility.
   (D)   The utility shall establish a third-party notice procedure for the
notification of a designated third party of any proposed discontinuance of
service and shall advise its subscribers including new subscribers, of the
availability of such procedures.
   (E)   The provisions of Neb. RS 70-1608 through 70-1614 shall apply to
disputes over a proposed discontinuance of service.
   (F)   The procedures adopted for resolving utility bills by the City Council
or Board of Public Works for any city utility, one copy of which is on file in
the office of the City Clerk, are hereby incorporated by reference in addition
to any amendments thereto and are made a part of this section as though set out
in full.
   (G)   This section shall not apply to any disconnections or interruptions of
services made necessary by the utility for reasons of repair or maintenance or
to protect the health or safety of the domestic subscriber or of the general
public.
(1976 Code, § 3-1102) (Ord. 6/605, passed - -; Ord. 759, passed 9-6-1984; Ord.
1380, passed - -; Ord. 1461, passed 2-8-2016)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 70-1605, 70-1607 and 70-1615
§ 50.03 NEW SUBDIVISIONS; UNDERGROUND INSTALLATION.
   (A)   In new subdivisions to the city approved by the governing body after
the effective date of this section, all utilities shall be installed
underground. UTILITIES shall include water, sewer, electricity, telephone,
natural gas and cable television.
   (B)   In the installation for electrical services, the Municipal Power
Department shall provide electrical service to the meter. The meter shall be
installed on the improvement on the premises or as prescribed by the Municipal
Power Department.
(1976 Code, § 3-1103) (Ord. 713, passed 6-9-1983)
§ 50.04 METERS TAMPERING; UNAUTHORIZED RECONNECTION.
   (A)   Any person who connects any instrument, device or contrivance with any
wire supplying or intended to supply electricity or electric current or
connects any pipe or conduit supplying water, without the knowledge and consent
of the city, in such manner that any portion thereof may be supplied to any
instrument by or at which electricity, electric current or water may be
consumed without passing through the meter provided for measuring or
registering the amount or quantity passing through it, and any person who
knowingly uses or knowingly permits the use of electricity, electric current or
water obtained in the above mentioned unauthorized ways shall be deemed guilty
of an offense.
   (B)   Any person who willfully injures, alters or by any instrument, device
or contrivance in any manner interferes with or obstructs the action or
operation of any meter made or provided for measuring or registering the amount
or quantity of electricity or water passing through it, without the knowledge
and consent of the city shall be deemed guilty of an offense.
   (C)   When electrical or water service has been disconnected pursuant to
Neb. RS 70-1601 through 70-1615 or §
50.02 of this chapter, any person who reconnects such service without the
knowledge and consent of the city shall be deemed guilty of an offense.
   (D)   Proof of the existence of any wire, pipe or conduit connection or
reconnection or of any injury, alteration or obstruction of a meter, as
provided in this section, shall be taken as prima facie evidence of the guilt
of the person in possession of the premises where such connection,
reconnection, injury, alteration or obstruction is proved to exist.
(1976 Code, § 3-1104) (Ord. 1192, passed 1-22-1996)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 86-329 through 86-331
§ 50.05 UTILITY SERVICE APPLICATIONS AND LANDLORD GUARANTEES.
   (A)   Any consumer desiring to receive utility services from the city
through the Board of Public Works, shall submit an application for said
services on a form provided by the Board of Public Works and pay the required
deposit for said services.
   (B)   Any tenant or renter applying for utility services must include with
such application and deposit, a signed owner's consent form and an agreement
from the landlord agreeing to pay all unpaid utility charges for the subject
property.
(Ord. 1529, passed 12-19-2022)
CHAPTER 51: GARBAGE AND REFUSE
Section
Collection
   
51.01   Garbage and refuse
Disposal
   
51.15   Definitions
   
51.16   Solid waste, compost and recycling materials
   
51.17   Dead animals
Landfill
   
51.30   Operation and funding
   
51.31   State regulation
 
   
51.99   Penalty
COLLECTION
§ 51.01 GARBAGE AND REFUSE.
   (A)   The owner, duly authorized agent, or tenant of any lot or land within
the corporate limits or extraterritorial zoning jurisdiction of the city shall
remove garbage or refuse found upon the lot, land, streets, roads, or alleys
abutting the lot or land which constitutes a public nuisance.
   (B)   Notice that removal of garbage or refuse is necessary shall be given
to each owner or owner's duly authorized agent and to the tenant if any. The
notice shall be provided by personal service or by certified mail. After
providing the notice, the city shall, in addition to other proper remedies,
remove the garbage or refuse, or cause it to be removed, from the lot, land,
streets, roads, or alleys.
   (C)   If the Mayor declares that the accumulation of garbage or refuse upon
any lot or land constitutes an immediate nuisance and hazard to public health
and safety, the city shall remove the garbage or refuse, or cause it to be
removed, from the lot or land within 48 hours after notice by personal service
or following receipt of a certified letter in accordance with division (B) of
this section if the garbage or refuse has not been removed.
   (D)   Whenever the city removes any garbage or refuse, or causes it to be
removed, from any lot or land pursuant to this section, it shall, after a
hearing conducted by the Mayor, assess the cost of the removal against the lot
or land.
(1976 Code, § 4-401) (Ord. 953, passed 9-26-1988; Ord. 1520, passed 5-2-2022)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 16-230, 16-231, 16-246, 16-901 and 18-1303
DISPOSAL
§ 51.15 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   GARBAGE. Kitchen refuse, decayed waste, dead animals or anything that may
decompose and become offensive to the public health.
(1976 Code, § 4-201)
   RUBBISH or TRASH. Discarded machinery, chips, pieces of wood, sticks, dead
trees, branches, bottles, broken glass, crockery, tin cans, boxes, papers, rags
or any other litter or debris that is not an immediate hazard to the health of
the residents of the city.
(1976 Code, § 4-202)
   YARD WASTE. Grass and leaves.
(1976 Code, § 4-206)
(Ord. 1154, passed 2-6-1995)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 13-2016.01
§ 51.16 SOLID WASTE, COMPOST AND RECYCLING MATERIALS.
   (A)   The term WASTE, as herein defined, shall mean cinders, ashes, plaster,
brick, stone, sawdust or sand.
(1976 Code, § 4-203)
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to keep in, on or about any
residence or commercial enterprise, decayed vegetable or animal substance,
garbage, trash, solid waste, compost materials or refuse matter of any kind
that may be injurious to the public health or offensive to the residents of the
city. It shall be unlawful to throw or sweep into the streets, alleys, parks or
other public grounds any dirt, paper, nails, pieces of glass, refuse, waste,
trash, compost materials or rubbish of any kind. No person may permit garbage,
rubbish, waste, trash, compost materials or refuse to collect and all persons
shall remove the same from his or her property within 24 hours after being
notified to do so by the city’s Police Chief, who shall represent the city’s
Board of Health. All persons residing in residential districts as indicated on
the city’s Zoning Map shall have provided and maintained by the city
receptacles for the collection of solid waste, compost materials and recycling
materials. The city shall provide for the removal of such solid waste, compost
materials and recycling materials with cost for removal to be assessed to the
residents within the city at the rate of $15 per month for residential unit;
and at a rate set by resolution by the City Council for non-residential solid
waste, compost materials and recycling material removal.
(1976 Code, § 4-204)
   (C)   The city has provided, for the use of all residents of the city, solid
waste receptacles which are tan in color and compost material receptacles which
are green in color. It shall be unlawful to place compost materials, primarily
consisting of grass, leaves and small branches less than two inches in
diameter, in receptacles designated for solid waste. It shall also be unlawful
to place solid waste, which shall mean material which does not meet the
definition of compost materials, in receptacles designated for compost
materials.
(1976 Code, § 4-204.01)
(Ord. 557, passed 9-22-1977; Ord. 644, passed 7-31-1980; Ord. 686, passed 7-29-
1982; Ord. 747, passed 8-9-1984; Ord. 1063, passed 7-20-1992; Ord. 1221, passed
9-9-1996; Ord. 1283, passed 9-25-2000; Ord. 1296, passed 10-8-2001; Ord. 1406,
passed 10-6-2008; Ord. 1415, passed 9-13-2010; Ord. 1474, passed 9-5-2017)
Penalty, see §
51.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 19-2106
§ 51.17 DEAD ANIMALS.
   All dead animals shall be immediately removed and buried by the owner of
such animals; and, if the owner of such animal cannot be found within two hours
after discovering the same, then such animal shall be removed by and at the
expense of the city. Dead animals shall not be buried within the corporate
limits of the city, nor within one mile thereof, nor in or above the course of
ground water that is used for drinking purposes by the city or its inhabitants.
(1976 Code, § 4-205) Penalty, see §
51.99
Statutory reference:
   Neb. RS 17-114, 17-123 and 17-207
LANDFILL
§ 51.30 OPERATION AND FUNDING.
   The city owns and operates the city landfill through the Street
Commissioner. The governing body, for the purpose of defraying the cost of the
care, management and maintenance of the city landfill may each year levy a tax
not to exceed the maximum limit prescribed by state law, on the actual
valuation of all real estate and personal property within the corporate limits
that is subject to taxation. The revenue from the said tax shall be known as
the Landfill Fund and shall remain in the custody of the City Treasurer. The
Street Commissioner shall have the direct management and control of the city
landfill and shall faithfully carry out the duties of his or her position. The
Street Commissioner shall have the authority to adopt rules and regulations for
the sanitary and efficient management of the landfill subject to the
supervision and review of the governing body. The governing body shall provide
by ordinance for the management and operation of the landfill and shall set the
rates to be charged for services rendered by ordinance and file the same in the
office of the City Clerk/Treasurer for public inspection at any reasonable
time.
(1976 Code, § 3-901)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 19-2101 through 19-2106
§ 51.31 STATE REGULATION.
   The city shall each year apply for a license to operate the city landfill.
Application shall be made to the Department of Environmental Control on forms
provided by the Department. No fee shall be charged for such licensing. Each
license so issued shall expire on October 1, following the date of issuance. It
shall be the duty of the Street Commissioner to comply with the rules and
regulations prescribed by the Department of Environmental Control for the use
and operation of the city landfill.
(1976 Code, § 3-902)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 81-1517 and 81-1519
§ 51.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who shall violate or refuse to comply with the enforcement
of any of the provisions of this chapter, set forth at full length herein or
incorporated by reference, shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon
conviction thereof, shall be fined not more that $500 for each offense. A new
violation shall be deemed to have been committed every 24 hours of such failure
to comply.
(1976 Code, § 4-501)
   (B)   (1)   Whenever a nuisance exists, as defined in this chapter, the city
may proceed by a suit in equity to enjoin and abate the same, in the manner
provided by law.
      (2)   Whenever, in any action, it is established that a nuisance exists,
the court may, together with the fine or penalty imposed, enter an order of
abatement as a part of the judgment in the case.
(1976 Code, § 4-502)
(Ord. 1449, passed 12-23-2013)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 18-1720 and 18-1722
CHAPTER 52: ELECTRICAL SYSTEM
Section
   
52.01   Ownership
   
52.02   Contracts and terms
   
52.03   Licensed electricians
   
52.04   Fees and collections
   
52.05   Electric rate classifications and service regulations
   
52.06   Restricted use
   
52.07   Posting signs
   
52.08   Cogeneration and small power production
§ 52.01 OWNERSHIP.
   The city owns and operates the city electrical system through the Board of
Public Works. The governing body, for the purpose of defraying the cost of the
care, management and maintenance of the municipal electrical system may each
year levy a tax not exceeding the maximum limit prescribed by state law, on the
actual valuation of all real estate and personal property within the corporate
limits that is subject to taxation. The revenue from the said tax shall be
known as the Electrical Fund and shall remain in the custody of the City Clerk/
Treasurer. The Light Commissioner shall have the direct management and control
of the city electrical system and shall faithfully carry out the duties of his
or her office. The governing body shall by ordinance set the rates to be
charged for services rendered and shall file the same in the office of the City
Clerk/Treasurer for public inspection at any reasonable time.
(1976 Code, § 3-1001) (Ord. 945, passed 9-12-1988)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-902 through 17-904, 17-906 and 17-909
§ 52.02 CONTRACTS AND TERMS.
   The city, through its Electrical Department, shall furnish electric current
for light and power purposes to persons whose premises abut on any supply wire
of the distribution system and may furnish electric current to such other
persons within or without its corporate limits, as and when, according to law,
its governing body or Board of Public Works may see fit to do so. The rules,
regulations and rates for electric service, hereinafter named in this chapter,
shall be considered a part of every application hereafter made for electric
service and shall be considered a part of the contract between every consumer
now served by the Electrical Department. Without further formality, the making
of application on the part of any applicant or the use or consumption of
electric energy by present customers and the furnishing of electric service to
said applicant or customer shall constitute a contract between applicant or
customer and the city, to which both parties are bound. If a customer should
violate any of the provisions of said contract or any reasonable rules and
regulations that the Board of Public Works may hereafter adopt, the Light
Commissioner, or his or her agent, shall cut off or disconnect the electric
service from the building or place of such violation and no further connection
of electric service for such building or place shall again be made save or
except by order of the Commissioner or his or her agent.
(1976 Code, § 3-1002) (Ord. 945, passed 9-12-1988)
§ 52.03 LICENSED ELECTRICIANS.
   (A)   (1)   Under no circumstances shall connections be made between the
wires of the electrical distribution system of the city and the meter of the
consumer, except by an employee of the city or a licensed electrician
authorized to do so by the Light Commissioner.
      (2)   The consumer may have wiring done by any competent licensed
electrician from the meter to the points of distribution.
      (3)   All wiring, equipment and apparatus shall be installed according to
the Electrical Code duly adopted by the city. All installation shall be done
under the supervision and strictly in accordance with the rules, regulations
and specifications for such installation prescribed by the Light Commissioner
and Building Inspector; provided that, such rules, regulations and
specifications have been reviewed and approved by the Board of Public Works.
   (B)   The city shall have the right to refuse electric service to any
premises if the initial wiring was not installed by an electrician licensed by
the city.
(1976 Code, § 3-1005) (Ord. 945, passed 9-12-1988) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-902
§ 52.04 FEES AND COLLECTIONS.
   (A)   The governing body has the power and authority to fix the rates to be
paid by electrical consumers for the use of electricity.
   (B)   All rates shall be on file for public inspection at the office of the
City Clerk/Treasurer.
   (C)   The Board of Public Works shall bill the consumers and collect all
money received by the city on the account of the city electrical system.
   (D)   It shall faithfully account to the City Clerk/Treasurer all revenue
collected by it, taking its receipt therefor in duplicate, filing one with the
City Clerk/Treasurer and keeping the other on file in its official records.
(1976 Code, § 3-1008) (Ord. 945, passed 9-12-1988)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-902
§ 52.05 ELECTRIC RATE CLASSIFICATIONS AND SERVICE REGULATIONS.
   (A)   (1)   All electric consumers shall be liable for the rates provided by
ordinance unless and until the consumer shall, by written order, direct the
Light Commissioner to shut off the electricity in which case consumer shall not
be liable thereafter for electrical services until electricity is turned back
on again.
      (2)   These terms of payment and terms and conditions shall apply to the
following rate classes: Residential Service (RE), Religious and Charitable
(RC), Rural Residential Service (RR), General Service (GS), General Service-
Demand (GSD), and Large Power (LP).
   (B)   Terms of payments. Bills are due and payable upon receipt and
delinquent if not paid by the 20th of the month following the month for which
the bill is rendered.
   (C)   Terms and conditions.
      (1)   Usage may be fractionalized on the actual days of service for
application of a change in rate or changing from summer to winter or from
winter to summer.
      (2)   Service will be furnished under the city's general terms and
conditions.
      (3)   Extensions made for service under this classification are subject
to the provisions of the city's rules governing extension of service and
facilities.
      (4)   The rates may be increased by the amount of any new or increased
governmental tax imposed and levied on transmission, distribution, production,
or the sale of electrical power.
   (D)   Residential service (RE).
      (1)   Available. Within established service area.
      (2)   Applicable. To single-family residences, individually metered
apartments and rooming houses for all domestic purposes when all service is
supplied through a single meter. Applicable also to churches whose peak demands
do not exceed 25 kW, and whose usage does not exceed 10,000 kWh for two
consecutive months. Ratings of individual single-phase motors shall not exceed
ten horsepower.
      (3)   Character of service. AC, 60 Hertz, 120/240 volt, three wire,
single-phase; or 120 volt, two wire. Three-phase service is not available under
this rate schedule.
      (4)   Rate.
 
Rate:
Customer charge                              $14 per month, plus
                                            Summer   Winter
Per kWH for the first 700 kWH used per month $0.10577 $0.10577
Per kWH for all additional use               $0.10577 $0.08577
Minimum bill                                 The customer charge
 
   (E)   Religious and charitable (RC).
      (1)   Available. Within established service area.
      (2)   Applicable. This category shall apply to all entities recognized
under the Internal Revenue Code section 501(c)(3) and to entities which are
religious organizations with a dedicated church building exempt from real
estate taxes as established by the county.
      (3)   Character of service. At any of the city's standard distribution
voltages, as available.
      (4)   Rate.
 
Rate:
Customer charge                              $14 per month, plus
                                            Summer   Winter
Per kWH for the first 700 kWH used per month $0.10577 $0.10577
Per kWH for all additional use               $0.10577 $0.08577
Minimum bill                                 The customer charge
 
   (F)   Rural residential service (RR)
      (1)   Available. Within established service area.
      (2)   Applicable. To single-family residences, individually metered
apartments, and rural schools and churches for lighting, heating and power when
all service is supplied through a single meter. Ratings of individual single-
phase motors shall not exceed ten horsepower.
      (3)   Character of service. AC, 60 Hertz, 120/240 volt, three wire,
single-phase; or 120 volt, two wire. Three-phase service is not available under
this rate schedule.
      (4)   Rate.
 
Rate:
Customer charge                              $17 per month, plus
                                            Summer   Winter
Per kWH for the first 800 kWH used per month $0.10449 $0.10449
Per kWH for all additional use               $0.10449 $0.08449
Minimum bill                                 The customer charge
 
   (G)   General service (GS).
      (1)   Available. Within established service area.
      (2)   Applicable. To any customer for lighting, heating and power
purposes where all service is taken through a single meter at one location, and
where the customer's monthly peak demand does not exceed 25 kW for three
consecutive months, and usage does not exceed 10,000 kWh for two consecutive
months. Ratings of individual single-phase motors shall not exceed ten
horsepower.
      (3)   Character of service. AC, 60 Hertz, 120 volts or 120/240 volts,
single-phase; 120/240 volts or 120/208 volts, or 277/480 volts, three-phase,
four-wire; or at any of the city's standard distribution voltages, as
available.
      (4)   Rate.
 
Rate:
Customer charge                 $28 per month, plus
                               Summer   Winter
Per kWH for the first 2,000 kWH $0.11408 $0.11408
used per month
Per kWH for all additional use  $0.11408 $0.09408
                                The customer charge. In case of equipment
                                having abnormally low annual utilization
Minimum bill                    factors or unusual operating characteristics,
                                special minimum charges may be prescribed by
                                the Board of Public Works.
 
   (H)   General service-demand (GD).
      (1)   Available. Within established service area.
      (2)   Applicable. To existing customers, or to new customers with demands
of 25 kilowatts or more, but not exceeding 799 kilowatts, for three consecutive
months whose entire requirements are taken through one meter, and whose usage
exceeds 10,000 kilowatt-hours within two consecutive months. (Not applicable to
resale, stand-by or auxiliary service).
      (3)   Character of service. AC, 60 Hertz, three-phase, at any of the
city's standard voltages (4,160 voltz or less) where the service may be
supplied by a single power transformation.
      (4)   Rate.
Rate:
Customer charge                                          $80 per month, plus
                                                        Summer   Winter
Demand charge (per kW — month of billing demand)       $17      $11
Interruptible demand charge (per kW — month of billing $7       $11
demand)
Plus energy charge of (per kWH for all use)              $0.0552  $0.0492
Plus interruptible energy charge of (per kWH for all     $0.05434 $0.05334
use)
                                                         57% of summer on-peak
Ratchet                                                  demand (waived for
                                                         interruptible
                                                         customers)
Minimum bill                                             Demand charge, but not
                                                         less than $400
 
      (5)   Determination of billing demand. The billing demand shall be the
greater of one or two below:
         (a)   The highest measured demand (corrected for power factor if
required) during any 15 minute period occurring in the current billing period.
         (b)   57% of the highest measured on-peak demand (corrected for power
factor if required) during any 15 minute period occurring in the summer season
of the preceding 11 months.
      (6)   Interruptible customers. Demand customers may qualify for the
interruptible demand rate upon execution of a written contract with the city
agreeing to curtail 100% of their specified load upon 30 minutes notice from
city, and until the city notifies customer that they may resume normal
operations. If determination is made that the customer did not curtail
operations and subsequently contributed to the city's peak demand and costs,
customer shall be placed on the firm General Service Demand (GSD) rate
immediately for a minimum of 12 months.
      (7)   (a)   Duration of interruption. The city expects, but does not
guarantee, that curtailment will not exceed 12 hours in any 24 hour period, and
30 curtailments in any season (summer or winter).
         (b)   The city will curtail loads based upon city needs and matching
customer load characteristics, but will endeavor to rotate curtailment
candidates as it deems necessary and as fitted to demand reduction
requirements.
      (8)   Curtailment demand. Qualifying customers will curtail 100% of the
load as agreed upon between customer and city.
      (9)   Fluctuating loads. Customers operating equipment having a highly
fluctuating or large instantaneous demand, such as welders and x-ray machines,
shall be required to pay all non-betterment costs of isolating the load from
the balance of the city's system so that the load will not unduly interfere
with service on the city's lines. In addition, customers who fail to provide
adequate corrective equipment shall within six months of written notification,
be required to own and maintain their own transformers.
      (10)   Power factor adjustment. For loads of 25 kW or more, at the option
of the city, power factor adjustments may be made in the billing demand, when
the power factor, as determined by test, at the time of the customer's maximum
use is less than 90%. If the power factor, as measured by the Electric
Department, is lower than 90%, the monthly demand charge will be multiplied by
the ratio 90% bears to the measured power factor, or at the city's option, the
power factor may be corrected at the customer's expense.
   (I)   Large power (LP).
      (1)   Available. Within established service areas.
      (2)   Applicable. To existing customers, or to new customers with demands
of 800 kilowatts or more, for three consecutive months, whose entire
requirements are taken through one meter. (Not applicable to resale, stand-by
or auxiliary service.)
      (3)   Character of service. AC, 60 Hertz, three-phase, at any of the
city's standard voltages (4,160 voltz or less) where the service may be
supplied by a single power transformation.
      (4)   Rate. The rate shall be reviewed and adjusted semi-annually or as
deemed necessary by the city. The currently effective rate is shown below:
 
Rate:
Customer charge                            $400 per month, plus
                                          Summer   Winter
Demand charge (per kW — month of billing $19      $17
demand)
Plus energy charge of (per kWH per on-peak $0.03919 $0.03836
energy per month
Ratchet                                    57% of summer on-peak demand
Minimum bill                               Demand charge but not less than $400
 
      (5)   Application. Loads of 800 kilowatt or greater.
      (6)   Determination of billing demand. The billing demand shall be the
greater of one or two below:
         (a)   The highest measured demand (corrected for power factor if
required) during any 15 minute period occurring in the current billing period.
         (b)   57% of the highest measured demand (corrected for power factor
if required) during any 15 minute period occurring in the summer rate season of
the preceding 11 months.
   (J)   Area lighting (AL).
      (1)   Available. To any customer meeting city criteria for service under
this classification and whose security lighting needs are not being furnished
under any other classification.
      (2)   Applicable. As determined by city, but generally to private roadway
and area lighting: Lighting unit burning time is limited to dusk through
daylight (approximately 4,000 hours per year). Where other metered service is
supplied by the city at the same location, the customer shall have the option
of:
         (a)   Including energy used for area and roadway lighting with the
metered service, in which case no time control switch will be required.
         (b)   Connecting the wires supplying the energy for the roadway and
area lighting service directly to the city's secondary wires without a meter,
in which case the city will make the connection, and approved photo-electric
control switch will be required, and service will be supplied under this
schedule.
      (3)   Character of service. 120/240 volts, AC, as available.
      (4)   Rate.
 
Rate:
                  Summer Winter
Per lamp per month $14.80 $14.15
 
      (5)   Ownership of equipment. The customer will install, own, and operate
the lighting units including fixtures, control equipment, and poles unless
otherwise agreed upon by city and customer.
      (6)   Terms and conditions.
         (a)   Customers requiring lighting service during certain seasons of
the year only may take service under this schedule provided the city is not
required to disconnect and reconnect the service more often than once each
year.
         (b)   Usage may be fractionalized on the actual days of service for
application of a change in rate.
      (7)   Lamp replacements. Lamp replacements may be made by the city at the
customer's expense, when and as requested by the customer, provided the
lighting units are of a size and type used by the city in its street lighting
systems.
      (8)   Terms of payment. Bills are due and payable upon receipt and
delinquent if not paid by the twentieth of the month following the month for
which the bill is rendered.
      (9)   General terms and conditions applicable to unmetered area lighting
service.
         (a)   Area lighting installed on non-joint city-owned poles shall not
be of the type that interferes with climbing room, work space, or wire
clearance as defined by the National Electrical Safety Code and is to be
installed below the secondary line and service drops. The city will make the
installation of area lighting on city-owned poles at the customer's expense.
         (b)   No area lighting will be installed on jointly owned poles, used
poles, poles supporting transformers, regulators (secondary or primary),
capacitors, reclosers, sectionalizers, or any major equipment or devices, or on
the city's wood, steel, or concrete street light poles.
         (c)   No area lighting is to be connected to existing street light
circuits, either series or multiple.
         (d)   All area lighting units installed under classification shall be
equipped with a photo-electric control which will limit the burning time to
approximately 4,000 hours per year.
         (e)   All labor and material charges which arise from service under
this classification, except the labor and material necessary to connect the
customer's lines to the city's lines, will be paid for by the customer. No
extensions of the city's primary or secondary lines at the city's expense are
authorized under this classification.
         (f)   The rates may be increased by the amount of any new or increased
governmental tax imposed and levied on transmission, distribution, production,
or the sale of electrical power.
   (K)   Municipal service (MS).
      (1)   Available. Within established service area.
      (2)   Applicable. All municipal owned properties.
      (3)   Character of service. AC, 60 Hertz, 120 volt, two wire; 120/208
volts, or 120/240 volts, or 240/480 volts, three wire, single-phase.
 
Rate:
                 Summer   Winter
Per kWH per month $0.10492 $0.08522
There shall be no charge to the city for street lighting
 
   (L)   Irrigation (IR).
      (1)   Available. Within established service area.
      (2)   Applicable. For irrigation services.
      (3)   Character of service. AC, 60 Hertz, 120 volts or 120/240 volts,
single-phase; 120/240 volts, or 277/480 volts, three-phase, four-wire; or at
any of the city's standard distribution voltages, as available.
 
Rate:
Customer charge                                                 $30, plus
Demand charge (per kW — month of billing demand)              $17
Plus energy charge of (per kWH used per month)                  $0.08428
Annual charge (due prior to irrigation season — per horsepower$28
 
   (M)   General terms and conditions applicable to all electric service.
      (1)   Terms of payment. Bills are due and payable upon receipt and
delinquent if not paid by the due date noted on the bill. All accounts not paid
by the close of business at 4:30 p.m. on the due date shown on the bill are
subject to all applicable penalties.
      (2)   Terms and conditions.
         (a)   Usage may be fractionalized on the actual days of service for
application of a change in rates or changing from summer to winter or from
winter to summer rates.
         (b)   Service shall be furnished under the General Terms and
Conditions. Acceptance of service shall constitute agreement by customer to
abide by said terms and conditions.
         (c)   The rates set forth herein may be adjusted by the amount of
governmental tax imposed and levied on the transmission, distribution,
production, or the sale of electrical power and energy.
      (3)   Rate seasons. That for the purpose of defining summer and winter
rates, summer months shall be considered to be the usage months from
approximately April 20 through October 20 (May through October for large power
and interruptible customers) and winter months shall be considered to be the
usage months from approximately October 20 through April 20 (November through
April for large power and interruptible customers).
      (4)   Metering. One meter shall be installed to service one class of
business. If additional buildings are required for a given business, they shall
be interconnected by the customer to obtain one meter. If additional meters and
services are requested by the customer, each shall be treated as a separate
customer.
      (5)   Demand meter. Demand metering may be installed at any meter
location for the purpose of determining actual demand or for other necessary
purposes, such as load research.
      (6)   Special metering. Special metering, for load research and other
reasonable purposes, may be installed by the city at any time at no cost to the
customer. Special metering requested by the customer may be installed at the
sole or partial cost to the customer.
      (7)   Determination of demand. The demand for all rates, which include a
demand related charge, shall be based upon the maximum integrated kilowatt load
during any 15 minute period occurring during the billing month, or any higher
or ratcheted demands occasioned by rate application or individual contract.
      (8)   Changing rate classifications. Where an option exists, customer
shall choose which rate classification is desired. Once a classification is
chosen, customer must remain on that rate for 12 consecutive months unless
there is a substantial and permanent change in the customer's load
characteristics.
      (9)   Power factor adjustment. For loads of 25 kW or more, power factor
adjustments will be made in the billing demand, when the power factor, as
determined by meter or test, at the approximate or actual time of the
customer's maximum use is less than 90% lagging. If the power factor, as
measured, is lower than 90%, the monthly demand charge will be multiplied by a
factor of 90% divided by the actual power factor. The power factor may also be
corrected at the customer's expense if it proves detrimental to system
operation.
      (10)   All rates are subject to the Electric Rate Classifications and
Service Regulations of the city Municipal Electric System.
   (N)   Service regulations.
      (1)   (a)   Effective date. The rate classifications applicable to the
various classes of electric service supplied by the city, and the service
regulations appertaining to the supply of such service, hereinafter set forth,
are established by resolution or ordinance of the City Council and applied by
the Board of Public Works. All rate classifications are subject from time to
time to amendment or repeal by the Mayor and City Council, the effective date
of any classification herein shall be the effective date as shown on the face
thereof.
         (b)   Service regulations are subject to revision by the Board of
Public Works and shall be effective upon approval.
      (2)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning
         BPW. Board of Public Works.
         CONSUMER. Any person, partnership, association, firm, corporation
(public or private), or governmental agency, taking service from the BPW at a
specific location.
         FIRM SERVICE. BPW will furnish the customer's electrical requirements
subject to contract nomination.
         HOLIDAYS. The official holidays defined here are one-half of New Years
Eve, New Years Day, Good Friday, Memorial Day, Independence Day, Labor Day,
Veterans Day, Thanksgiving Day, Friday after Thanksgiving, one-half of
Christmas Eve, Christmas Day, and/or the days these holidays are observed in
the BPW's service area.
         METER. The meter or meters, and any auxiliary equipment required to
measure the electric service supplied by the BPW to a consumer at a point of
delivery.
         POINT OF DELIVERY. The point where the BPW supplies service to a
consumer and which, unless otherwise agreed upon between the BPW and the
consumer, shall be the point where the BPW's service wires are joined to the
consumer's service terminals or conductors.
         SERVICE WIRES. The wires, owned by the BPW, connecting the BPW's
distribution system to a consumer's service terminals.
      (3)   Application of rate classifications.
         (a)   A consumer may take service under any applicable rate
classification, and may change to another such classification at any time;
provided that any classification applied to a consumer's service shall continue
in force and effect until the consumer shall make application for service under
another classification and that in no case shall any classification be applied
for a period of less than 12 consecutive months, unless the BPW is notified by
the consumer of a change in his appliances, equipment, or usage, which would
permit the application of some other classification. Ratchet and penalty
charges shall not be waived.
         (b)   The BPW will furnish a consumer, at his or her request and
without charge, all reasonable information and assistance in choosing the
classification most advantageous to the consumer.
         (c)   The rate classifications provided are applicable to electric
service supplied during a period of one month, such month to be either a
calendar month or the equivalent period between consecutive monthly meter
reading dates of the BPW, and the provisions thereof are premised upon the
continuous use of service of a consumer for periods of not less than 12
consecutive months; provided, if a consumer shall permanently disconnect part
of his appliances or equipment, upon notification of the BPW by the consumer,
the application of the provisions of the classification under which service is
being supplied may be changed to meet the consumer's changed conditions.
         (d)   Termination of service, or any part thereof, by a nonresidential
consumer followed by reconnection at any time within the next 12 months at the
same facility, shall not suspend or eliminate the minimum monthly charge,
connected load charge or demand charge specified in the rate classification
under which they are taking service, for the months so terminated.
         (e)   The service supplied under the rate classification is made
subject, in addition to the provisions and specification thereof, to the
service regulations contained in this section, and to such amendments or
additions thereto as hereafter may be made by the BPW.
         (f)   Unless otherwise provided therein, or indicated by the contents
thereof, these regulations shall apply to service supplied by the BPW in all
the area served by the BPW.
   (O)   Service contracts.
      (1)   Service contract. The BPW will supply service to a consumer under
and in accordance with the BPW's service regulations. If the consumer has
special conditions of service not covered by the specifications of the rate
classifications, service may be supplied under an individual contract covering
only such consumer's service as approved by the BPW.
      (2)   Terms and conditions. Service contracts of the BPW will include the
following terms and conditions:
         (a)   Consumer will take from the city Board of Public Works (BPW)
electric service at the given address, and pay for said service at the rate
classification specified herein and in accordance with the BPW's regulations.
All consumers requesting new or revised service after the effective date of
this policy shall be required to have a written service contract with the BPW.
         (b)   This contract shall remain in force and effect for a period of
one year from date of service connection, and thereafter until cancelled by 30
days written notice by either party to the other unless otherwise waived by
BPW. The minimum monthly charge provided in the rate classification shall apply
on a yearly basis, and temporary terminations of service of less than 12 months
will not eliminate the minimum charge for nonresidential services. All rate
schedules and service regulations are on file in the offices of the BPW. No
representations have been made by the BPW as to which rate classification
should be chosen by the consumer, but all information requested has been
furnished by the BPW.
         (c)   Consumer shall, without expense to the BPW, make or procure the
desirable easements, satisfactory to the BPW, across the property owned or
controlled by the consumer, for the BPW's lines or extensions thereof required
to furnish service to the consumer. Consumer shall permit the BPW to trim
trees, including the removal of limbs, to the extent that such trimming shall
be reasonably necessary to prevent interference with BPW's lines. Except that
trimming of trees on the consumer's premises, which interfere with the BPW's
service wires, shall be the responsibility of the consumer.
         (d)   BPW will designate a point on the consumer's premises where
service will be delivered. Consumer will provide and maintain on his premises
adequate support or protection for attachment of the BPW's overhead or
underground service wires, and will at all times be responsible for any damages
occasioned by failure of or defect in such support or protection. BPW will
furnish metering equipment required to measure the service supplied, and will
keep said equipment accurate within reasonable limits. Consumer shall furnish
without cost to the BPW adequate space in a suitable location for the BPW's
metering equipment.
         (e)   Consumer shall secure all necessary permits for wiring on the
consumer's premises, install such wiring in accordance with the National
Electrical Code and all applicable laws and ordinances, and pay all inspection
fees. BPW will not be responsible for inspection of wiring on the consumer's
premises but reserves the right to require inspection before connecting
service.
         (f)   Title to all property installed or supplied by the BPW on a
consumer's premises is and shall remain in the BPW, and said property may be
removed by the BPW at any time. Consumer shall safeguard and provide adequate
protection for the property of the BPW, including metering equipment, located
on consumer's premises and maintain clear and safe access thereto at all
reasonable times.
         (g)   Consumer shall pay for electric service monthly, or at regular
intervals prescribed at the option of the BPW. The net monthly bill, calculated
as provided in the rate classification specified herein, will apply when the
bill rendered for service hereunder is paid in a BPW office or to an authorized
BPW agent on or before the date designated on the bill after which the gross
amount is due (net bill plus 15% penalty charge). Failure to receive a bill
shall not entitle the consumer to the difference between the gross and net
bill. If a bill is not paid on or before the date after which the gross amount
is due, such bill is delinquent and the BPW reserves the right to charge a fee
for field collection calls and/or to discontinue service if such action is
warranted and after proper notice is given. If a balance due for service at any
previous address of a consumer is not paid within 15 days after removal from
such address, such balance shall become delinquent and service at the address
covered by customer's current contract may be discontinued. Service
discontinued for delinquency will be reconnected when all charges including the
expense of disconnection are paid.
         (h)   Each customer is mailed a utility bill on the last day of the
month, local customers receive their bill on the first. Payment is due upon
receipt of each month's bill and any outstanding balance is considered
delinquent after the twentieth of same month. On the twenty-first, penalties
are applied to any unpaid balance and a Service Disconnect Notice is mailed.
         (i)   Disconnect is generally the first Thursday of the following
month that bills are mailed. Disconnect is never before the third of the month,
when the third falls before the first Thursday, the disconnect date becomes the
second Thursday.
         (j)   Once disconnection has occurred, reconnection may be made upon
payment of current balance plus a reconnect charge of $30 for electrical and
$30 for water during regular business hours, $75 and $75 after business hours.
The residential customer must also have a current $400 deposit, $600 for all
other customers, before reconnection is processed.
         (k)   When a consumer pays a billing with an insufficient funds check,
the consumer must reimburse the BPW for the amount of the check plus a $25
service charge. This reimbursement must be in cash. If the BPW receives more
than one insufficient funds check in a 12 month period, the consumer will be
required to pay in cash for a 12 month period. Insufficient funds checks used
in payment for disconnect notices will result in automatic termination of
service without notice; reconnection may be made upon payment of current
balance plus a reconnect charge of $30 for electrical and $30 for water during
regular business hours, $75 and $75 after business hours. The residential
customer must also have a current $400 deposit, $600 for all other customers,
before reconnection is processed.
         (l)   If a consumer who is a tenant chooses to cancel their contract
with the BPW or become in breach of their contract with the BPW, the landlord
of such property has the option to have services transferred into the
landlord's name. Landlords may carry services between renters or during
renovations and repairs, however, once residency is established services will
need to be transferred to the tenant according to the Service Contract Terms
and Conditions.
         (m)   Accounts will not be transferred when the effect is to
circumvent policies of the BPW. No landlord or consumer will be allowed more
than one residential contract with the BPW. The BPW Commissioner shall have the
option to make decisions in this regard.
         (n)   Deposits shall be required of all customers requesting service.
Said deposits shall be $400 for residential service and $600 for all others
unless otherwise required by the BPW. The charges for field collection calls
shall be $30 due and payable upon request.
         (o)   BPW will endeavor to supply, but not guarantee, uninterrupted
service of a generally accepted standard. Interruption of service for repairs;
alterations; want of supply; conditions on a consumer's premises dangerous to
persons, property or service of the consumer or others; nonpayment by the
consumer of amounts payable hereunder; failure by the consumer to provide means
of access for obtaining regularly scheduled readings of the meter or for
testing the BPW's metering equipment from theft, abuse or vandalism; or
prevention of fraud or abuse, shall not be a breach by the BPW of its part of
this contract.
         (p)   Consumer waives claim for, and hereby releases and discharges
the BPW from claims for, and shall indemnify and save harmless the BPW from,
any and all loss and damage arising from interruption of service, or an account
of injury to persons (including death), or damage to property on the premises
of a consumer or under a consumer's control unless such loss, damage, or injury
is the natural, probable and reasonably foreseeable consequence of the BPW
negligence, and such negligence is the sole and approximate cause thereof.
         (q)   This contract is binding unless rejected by the BPW within 30
days after connection of service.
         (r)   Neither this contract, nor the service supplied thereunder,
shall be assignable or transferable by the consumer without the written consent
of the BPW.
   (P)   Service regulations - general.
      (1)   Billing adjustments.
         (a)   If the BPW or a consumer shall discover, at any time, a rate
classification available to such consumer more advantageous than the one under
which he is being served, such rate classification, with the agreement of the
consumer, will be applied to the consumer's service thereafter, effective for
all billings after receipt of written request from the consumer for a change in
classification.
         (b)   When the consumer has been billed inaccurately, whether as an
overcharge or an undercharge, for service as a result of, but not limited to,
meter inaccuracy, meter connection, arrears, equipment failure, incorrect
reading of a meter, incorrect bill calculation, incorrect coding error,
specifically accepting diversion of services, tampering, or subterfuge, the
amount of the inaccuracy shall be adjusted and either credited to the consumer
or billed to the consumer. The adjustment shall be without interest and the
period of adjustment from any such inaccuracy shall be for the entire period of
the inaccuracy or for one year, whichever is the lesser. When a customer has
been undercharged as a result of tampering, diversion of services or
subterfuge, the customer's account shall be charged for the entire period of
the inaccuracy. Any amount greater than $50 shall bear interest at the rate of
12% per annum until paid in full. The Board of Public Works may choose to
refuse services to any party when it has been determined that such party
obtained services at less than full value as a result of tampering, diversion
of services or subterfuge.
         (c)   All electrical meters shall be read at least one time each month
between the fifteenth day and the twenty-first day of the month. To promote
quick and efficient reading of electric meters, it shall be the responsibility
of every consumer of municipal electricity to provide easy and safe access from
the backside of his lot or lots to the electric meters on his premises. Any
fences constructed on the back side of a lot shall be equipped with a workable
gate for this purpose and all shrubbery and trees shall be trimmed to
accomplish the purposes of this section.
         (d)   When easy and safe access is not maintained for the reading of
electric meters, the current reading will be estimated for purpose of utility
billing. For repeated violators a violation penalty may be issued in accordance
with §
10.99.
         (e)   For diversion of service as defined in Neb. RS 86-331.01 through
86-331.04, as amended, the BPW may pursue any or all civil or criminal
statutory or common law remedies.
      (2)   Transfer of demand. Whenever a new service contract with an
existing consumer at the same location supersedes a previous contract, the
demand established by the consumer under his previous contract will be
considered as having been established under the new contract.
      (3)   Separate billing for each meter.
         (a)   Whenever a consumer requires the BPW to supply service to
premises at more than one point of delivery, the service measured by the meter
at each point of delivery will be considered a separate service, and meter
readings will not be combined for billing purposes.
         (b)   However, where it is impractical or uneconomical for such
service to be supplied at one point of delivery, then, at the option of the
BPW, such service may be supplied at more than one point of delivery on the
consumer's premises if consumer provides such facilities as are specified by
the BPW.
      (4)   Exceptions to all service requirements. Rate classifications, which
provide that all of a consumer's service thereunder shall be measured by one
meter, nevertheless shall be available to:
         (a)   The consumer who is required by law to provide separate wiring
circuits for emergency lighting service, sprinklers or alarm systems, and such
service cannot feasibly be metered with the remainder of the consumer's
service;
         (b)   The consumer who wishes to operate X-ray, welder or other
equipment producing abnormal voltage fluctuations, and the BPW requires that
service to such equipment be metered separately;
         (c)   A consumer who occupies two or more spaces within the same
building, which spaces are separated by fire walls or intervening spaces, or
are on different floors, and are not interconnected by private doors, passages,
or stairways, in which cases each such space may be metered separately under an
all-service rate classification;
         (d)   In each of the above cases, the separately metered special
service shall be billed under an all-service rate classification.
      (5)   Resale, redistribution, or extension of electric service. Electric
service purchased by a consumer shall be for the sole use of such consumer in
and upon the premises to which such service is supplied and shall not be sold
directly nor a bill rendered, on a metered or unmetered basis, by a consumer to
lessees, tenants or others. However, a consumer may redistribute or extend the
use of such service where:
         (a)   The consumer owns or operates a building or service in which
electric service is furnished to the tenants without a specific or separate
charge for such service;
         (b)   The consumer occupies adjacent buildings for carrying on parts
of the same commercial or industrial business, and when such business is
operated as one integral unit under the same name. All such service is to be
used by the consumer and served through one meter.
         (c)   Adjacent buildings, as used in this section, shall include a
directly adjoining building, or buildings, but shall not include buildings
separated from the consumer's place of business by intervening buildings.
         (d)   A place of business, as used in this section, shall include
industrial plants, commercial stores, educational institutions, hospitals, and
similar organizations, but shall not include persons, firms, corporations or
associations owning or operating groups of separate, even though
interconnected, buildings offering space for rent for residential, commercial
or other purposes.
      (6)   Master metering. Master metering shall be prohibited in new multi-
family residential buildings except where the living units are financed and
used as housing for disabled, handicapped, or low-income elderly who are
eligible for a federally assisted housing program. Provisions for individual-
tenant metering will be installed at the time of construction so that if the
use of the building changes from the above criteria, the living units can be
easily converted to individual metering and billing in accordance with BPW
standards. Master metering of trailer courts will not be allowed after January
1, 1990.
      (7)   Parallel operation of consumer's generating equipment with BPW's
service. To protect the safety of the BPW personnel, and to protect the service
of other consumers, a consumer who operates his or her own electric generating
equipment shall not parallel such equipment with the service of the BPW except
as authorized in this section. No connections whatsoever shall be made between
such equipment and the service lines of the BPW without specific inspection and
approval by the BPW. Any unapproved installation shall be grounds for immediate
disconnection of the BPW's service without constituting a breach of contract.
      (8)   Consumer owned generation.
         (a)   A consumer may connect qualified cogeneration and/or small power
production equipment in parallel with the BPW's safety, metering and
interconnection standards are complied with. There shall be a written agreement
between the BPW and the consumer. The agreement will outline the
interconnection point, the metering and other equipment required, inspection
and maintenance of the interconnecting equipment, the rates involved, and the
responsibilities of each party involved. The BPW will not operate in parallel
without a signed agreement.
         (b)   The consumer would provide or reimburse the BPW for the
necessary metering and switchgear for the interconnection. The BPW will
consider the purchases of the consumer's kilowatt-hours generated in excess of
the consumer's energy requirements, on an individual basis. Unapproved
installation shall be grounds for immediate disconnection of the BPW service
without constituting a breach of contract.
         (c)   Wind generators located within the service limits of the city
must be located in such a manner so that the structure upon which the propeller
is installed is a minimum of three times the structure's length distance from
buildings, power lines, television antennas and adjacent property lines.
         (d)   A wind generator and component parts must be totally surrounded
by a fence having a minimum height of six feet.
         (e)   The height of the tower for a wind generator system shall be at
least twice as high as the length of the propeller, with such tower to have a
minimum height of 15 feet and a maximum height of 50 feet. The bottom tip of
the propeller shall be a minimum of ten feet above any accessible pedestrian
area.
         (f)   The owner of a wind generator facility shall assume all
liability incident to the installation and operation of such facility, and the
city shall be held harmless by such owner from all liabilities resulting from
the installation and operation of the wind generator system.
      (9)   New subdivisions; underground installation required.
         (a)   In new subdivisions to the city, approved by the BPW, all
utilities shall be installed underground. In the installation for electrical
services the BPW shall provide electrical service to the lot line. The meter
may be located at the lot line or on the improvement, said location to be
determined by the BPW. The customer shall be responsible for the installation
of the underground service from the lot line to the improvement. Electrical
services shall be a minimum of 24 inches deep in the new subdivisions.
         (b)   The BPW shall charge a service connection fee of $150 for each
permanent electrical service connection in new subdivisions.
      (10)   Construction of facilities before consumer's premises are wired.
         (a)   The BPW may postpone actual construction of its facilities to a
consumer until such consumer's wiring has been approved by the proper
inspections authorities, has met the BPW's requirements, and is ready for
connection to the BPW's distribution system. Temporary connections or
construction connections shall be billed at the general service rate until
construction is complete and proper notification made to the BPW, by the
customer.
         (b)   The BPW shall install, at BPW expense, all electrical service
lines from the supply line of the distribution system to the meter servicing
the premises. The BPW shall provide, at BPW expense, the meter and meter socket
but said loop and necessary conduit shall be provided and installed by the
consumer.
         (c)   The consumer shall be responsible for installation and expense
of a temporary meter pole prior to permanent installation of the meter and said
meter pole shall be grounded with a ground fault breaker.
         (d)   Should a consumer request underground electrical or overhead
electrical service with the electric meter located on a city owned pole, the
consumer shall supply the meter loop and all overhead and underground lines to
consumer’s house or building. The installation shall be by a licensed
electrician with approval of the city's Light Commissioner or Electric
Supervisor at consumer’s expense. The consumer shall also be required to
furnish and install a circuit breaker on the municipal pole.
      (11)   Combined residential and general service. A consumer in a single-
family dwelling, parts of which are used for business purposes, may purchase
service under a residential rate classification when the floor area of the part
used for general service purposes does not exceed 25% of the combined
residential and general service floor area.
      (12)   Low power factor equipment.
         (a)   Fluorescent, mercury vapor, neon, or other types of gaseous
tubes or lamps, or other lighting devices or signs having inherently low power
factor characteristics, shall be equipped at the consumer's expense with
devices to maintain the power factor of each unit or separately controlled
group of units at not less than 90% lagging.
         (b)   If the consumer's power factor by measurement or test is less
than 90%, the BPW, at its option, may require the consumer to provide
facilities for the BPW to install kilovolt ampere metering and may increase the
consumer's kilowatt demand for billing by the ratio 90% bears to the measured
demand of the kilovolt ampere demand.
   (Q)   Service regulations - special.
      (1)   Charge for permanent service. When a consumer applies for service
which necessitates a permanent extension of BPW's facilities, the BPW reserves
the right to collect from the consumer, in advance, part or all of the cost of
such extension, when, in the opinion of the BPW:
         (a)   The anticipated revenue to the BPW may not be commensurate with
the cost of such extension;
         (b)   The extension is required because of abnormal operating
characteristics of the equipment to be operated by the consumer;
         (c)   The extension is required for emergency or special service;
         (d)   The BPW shall allow maximum construction costs of three times
estimated or actual annual revenue as a contribution allowance. The allowable
investment limit will be calculated according to the specified rate class as
defined in the BPW General Extension Policy. Costs above that amount shall be
due from the customer as an “aid to construction” contribution. This
contribution shall be due and payable prior to initiation of the work or
construction by the BPW;
         (e)   Betterment costs are additional costs for electric system
improvements generally not required solely for the extension to the customer
but are costs the BPW elects to incur now due to anticipated or planned
electric system capacity or configuration requirements. All betterment costs
shall be the BPW'S expense.
      (2)   Charge for temporary service.
         (a)   A charge of $150 will be made for each temporary overhead
single-phase service connection, consisting of service wires and meter only.
These charges exclude the account service charge. When more than the above is
required, the consumer shall pay for the work done by the BPW on a contract
basis.
         (b)   The consumer shall pay for the energy consumed based upon the
general service rate classification with applicable fuel and production cost
adjustment factors. The minimum bill shall be as indicated on the general
service rate classification. Billing will be charged at the general service
rate until construction is complete and proper notification made to the BPW by
the customer and a new service agreement signed.
         (c)   A collection fee pursuant to the rate resolution established by
the city, will be charged for services performed for the purpose of moving
buildings, removal of trees, or for other similar purposes.
         (d)   When a consumer's meter loop is in need of repairs, the BPW will
notify the consumer of the problem and allow 30 days to make the repair. If the
problem is not corrected after 30 days, the BPW will make the necessary repairs
and charge the consumer for the time and material involved.
      (3)   Charge for re-establishing service. The charge for permanent
service and the charge for temporary service established by this section and
the reconnection charge required by the BPW's electric rate schedules shall not
apply to the re-establishment of service after the destruction of the
consumer's premises or a portion thereof resulting from explosion, fire, flood
or storm. In such cases, the equivalent service will be re-established at the
consumer's option at a temporary or permanent location. If the damaged premises
are repaired within a reasonable time, not to exceed two years, the charges
defined herein shall not apply if the consumer moves back to his or her
original location.
      (4)   Tax clause. To the total of all charges for service under the
appropriate rate classification or classifications, shall be added the
applicable existing state and municipal taxes; and also added shall be any new
or additional tax or taxes, or increases in the rates of existing taxes,
imposed after the effective date of these rate classifications by any
governmental authority upon the service rendered by the BPW.
(1976 Code, § 3-1009) (Ord. 595, passed 1-11-1979; Ord. 910, passed 11-17-1986;
Ord. 945, passed 9-12-1988; Ord. 1167, passed 8-21-1995; Ord. 1284, passed 12-
20-2000; Ord. 1377, passed 6-6-2005; Ord. 1381, passed 7-25-2005; Ord. 1402,
passed 3-10-2008; Ord. 1414, passed 8-9-2010; Ord. 1450, passed 2-17-2014; Ord.
1452, passed 5-5-2014; Ord. 1458, passed 5-18-2015; Ord. 1465, passed 10-17-
2016; Ord. 1499, passed 8-16-2021; Ord. 1528, passed 2-20-2023)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-902
§ 52.06 RESTRICTED USE.
   (A)   The city electrical system does not guarantee the delivery of electric
current over the lines of the distribution system, except when it has
sufficient power, current, equipment and machinery to do so.
   (B)   The Light Commissioner has the power and authority to disconnect or
discontinue such service for any good and sufficient reason without liability.
The city shall use due care and reasonable diligence to provide and supply
uninterrupted service to consumers, but shall not be liable for damages
resulting from interruption of service due to causes over which the city has no
control and the city expressly reserves the right to discontinue or disconnect
any consumer’s service without preliminary notice.
(1976 Code, § 3-1011) (Ord. 945, passed 9-12-1988)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-902
§ 52.07 POSTING SIGNS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to post, tack or fasten to the poles,
structures, fixtures or equipment of the city electrical system any sign,
poster, advertisement or banner without written permission from the Light
Commissioner.
(1976 Code, § 3-1013) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 52.08 COGENERATION AND SMALL POWER PRODUCTION.
   The city shall establish guidelines regarding cogeneration and small power
production as it affects the city utilities. The guidelines shall be
established in pamphlet form and incorporated by reference herein as if an
original part hereof.
(1976 Code, § 3-1025) (Ord. 1416, passed 11-8-2010)
CHAPTER 53: NATURAL GAS
Section
   
53.01   Regulatory authority
   
53.02   Rate schedules
   
53.03   Refund
   
53.04   Other rate changes
   
53.05   Information to be provided
   
53.06   Notice of application
   
53.07   General information
   
53.08   Validity of franchise
§ 53.01 REGULATORY AUTHORITY.
   The franchisee shall, at all times, be subject to all rights, power and
authority now or hereafter possessed by the city to regulate and control and
direct the rates and tariffs charged for natural gas service in the city.
(1976 Code, § 10-1001)
§ 53.02 RATE SCHEDULES.
   The franchisee shall provide to the city for informational purposes, copies
of all rate schedules and contracts for all rates charged and the requirements
for service under such schedule within the city. They should also show
separately the base rate and the purchased gas adjustment (PGA) rate. The base
rate shall exclude all gas supply costs and gas supply cost adjustments. Gas
supply costs and gas supply cost adjustments shall be collected solely through
the PGA rate.
(1976 Code, § 10-1002)
§ 53.03 REFUND.
   Any refund including interest thereon, if any, received by the franchisee
from its supplier related to increased rates paid by the franchisee subject to
refund and applicable to natural gas purchased for resale within the city shall
be passed on to presently served customers by an appropriate adjustment shown
as a credit on subsequent bills during a period selected by the franchisee, not
to exceed 12 months, or by a cash refund at the franchisee’s option, or by such
other method as may be approved jointly by the franchisee and city.
(1976 Code, § 10-1003)
§ 53.04 OTHER RATE CHANGES.
   (A)   In the event the franchisee desires to change its rates for natural
gas service within the city other then to reflect an adjustment for the cost of
purchased gas, the franchisee will present to the city copies of present and
proposed rate schedules and information supporting the proposed rates to be
charged for natural gas service within the city. The rate schedule and
information submitted with the rate schedules shall be referred to as the rate
filing. A filing fee in the amount of $1,500 shall be paid to the city with the
rate filing. Any such rate filing shall be deemed filed upon receipt of the
same and the filing fee by the City Clerk. The fee shall be considered as an
operating cost of the franchisee and shall not be separately itemized on any
customer billings.
   (B)   The City Council shall have the right to select and engage rate
consultants, accountants, auditors, attorneys, engineers and other experts as
deemed necessary or desirable by the City Council to advise and represent the
City Council in evaluating any proposed rate change. The franchisee shall
reimburse the city within 90 days of the presentation of a bill by the city for
the reasonable costs of those services only to the extent that said costs
exceed the filing fee for the rate filing.
   (C)   If the proposed rates sought by the franchisee in its rate filing have
not been passed on final reading by the City Council within 90 days after it
was filed, or as such time may be extended by agreement between franchisee and
city in order to supply additional information if requested by the city, the
proposed rates shall be put into effect as interim rates and shall be collected
subject to refund pursuant to Neb. RS 18-415, as the same may be amended from
time to time. Such interim rates shall remain in effect pending final
determination by the city, which determination shall be made within one year
or, in the event of litigation, final rate determination by the courts.
   (D)   The rates proposed to be charged for non-contract firm natural gas
service within the city shall be based upon the utility’s cost of providing
service to the city or the representative costs in that part of utility’s
service area which includes the city. The period for which the cost of service
is to be recognized may be either a 12-month period preceding the application
for increase or a projected 12-month period commencing not later than the
proposed effective date of the increase. In the event franchisee utilizes a
period of time preceding the application, the city may require that the
franchisee provide a projection based upon the costs of providing service
during a future projected 12-month period commencing not later than the
effective date of the increase, and the city may, at its option, require that
this projection be specifically for the city instead of another in the service
area. The cost of service shall be determined in a manner consistent with
regulated public utility practices and shall include: appropriate costs as
defined and set forth in the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission Uniform
System of Accounts Prescribed for Natural Gas Companies FERC Accounts; and a
reasonable return on the utility’s rate base.
   (E)   In determining a reasonable return, a rate (percentage) shall be
employed that is representative of the cost of debt, preferred stock and common
equity capital. The rate base shall consist of the applicable net investment in
utility plant (as defined in the FERC Accounts), allowance for working capital
and such other items as may reasonably be included; less such investment as
may, unless otherwise prevented by law, be attributed to other than investor
capital.
   (F)   The franchisee’s appropriate costs and items of rate base shall
include allocated or apportioned expenses and rate base items, when such
allocations or apportionment are reasonably representative of assigned common
costs and arise from the manner in which the franchisee’s operations are
conducted or from an avoidance of excessive and costly financial record
keeping.
   (G)   Rate filings, not including changes reflecting the cost of gas, shall
be limited to a maximum of one in any 12-calendar-month period.
(1976 Code, § 10-1004)
§ 53.05 INFORMATION TO BE PROVIDED.
   (A)   The franchisee shall provide, in its rate filing, three copies of its
most recent annual report to the stockholders and the completed and signed
copies of the “summary of proposed rate change” sheets.
   (B)   In addition, three copies of the following information shall, on
request by city, be provided by the franchisee.
      (1)   A financial summary showing aggregate rate base, operating
revenues, operating expenses, return on rate base and rate of return:
         (a)   Actual for the most recent calendar year;
         (b)   Number of customers and volume of sales by customer classes for
the projected 12-month period. For the projected 12-month period using natural
gas rates currently in effect; and
         (c)   For the projected 12-month period using the proposed natural gas
rates.
      (2)   Rate base schedules, on an original cost basis, showing for the
most recent 12-month period available and for the projected 12-month period:
         (a)   For utility plant and accumulated depreciation and amortization
components: the beginning and end of period balances by account, explanations
of changes in balances during the period and the calculated rate base amounts;
         (b)   For cash working capital: in manner in which rate base amounts
are calculated;
         (c)   For other rate base components: beginning and end of period
amounts, explanations of changes in balances during the period and calculated
rate base amounts; and
         (d)   Explanations and calculations of allocated amounts included in
divisions (B)(2)(a) through (B)(2)(c) above.
      (3)   Operating expense schedules, showing:
         (a)   Expenses by FERC accounts for the most recent calendar year
including filing fees and occupation taxes paid to the city;
         (b)   Explanation and calculations of allocated amounts included in
division (B)(3)(a) above;
         (c)   Expenses by FERC accounts or their equivalent for the projected
12-month period;
         (d)   Explanation of methods employed to develop projected expenses;
and
         (e)   Explanations and calculations of allocated amounts included in
division (B)(3)(c) above.
      (4)   Rate of return/cost of capital schedules showing debt, preferred
stock and common equity amounts at the beginning and end of the projected 12-
month period, explanations of changes during the period and methods used to
calculate or otherwise determine cost of capital.
      (5)   Operating revenue schedules, showing:
         (a)   Number of customers, volume of sales and operating revenue by
customer classes for the most recent calendar year;
         (b)   Number of customers and volume of sales by customer classes for
the projected 12- month period;
         (c)   Explanation of methods employed to determine data in division
(B)(5)(b) above;
         (d)   Operating revenues by rate schedules for the projected 12-month
period using current rates;
         (e)   Operating revenue by customer classes for the projected 12-month
period using proposed rates; and
         (f)   Detailed rates and calculations for divisions (B)(5)(d) and (B)
(5)(e) above, including customer usages (consumption and analysis) data, peak
demand and load factor data by customer class, allocation methods and
justifications and the like.
      (6)   Informational schedules showing for the city as a whole:
         (a)   Cost of utility plant; and
         (b)   Number of customers, volume of sales and operating revenue by
customer classes.
      (7)   Grantee shall clearly designate as part of its expenses, all
expenditures for business gifts and entertainment, institutional, consumption
inducing and other advertising or public relations expenses and legislative-
advocacy expenses. The city may not allow its cost of expenses for rate making
purposes any of these expenditures which the city determines not to be in the
public interest. The franchisee has the burden of showing these expenses are in
the public interest.
(1976 Code, § 10-1005)
§ 53.06 NOTICE OF APPLICATION.
   (A)   The franchisee shall not make changes in its rates, except by filing a
rate filing prescribed with the City Clerk at least 90 days prior to the
proposed effective date of the requested change. Notice of the filing shall be
given by publication by placing a notice to the public of the proposed change
in a newspaper having general circulation in the city. However, notwithstanding
the above, instead of the publication of newspaper notice contemplated above,
the franchisee may provide notice to the public by mailing such notice by
United States mail, postage prepaid, to the billing address of each directly
affected customer, or by including the notice in such customer’s bill in a
conspicuous form. The notice must be in the following form:
 
NOTICE OF RATE INCREASE
 
The (name of the utility) proposes to increase your rates by (amount of total
annual increase requested) dollars per year, which is an overall increase of
(percentage of increase over all revenues during the applicable test year)
percent and is an increase in base rates of (percentage of increase over all
revenues during the applicable test year which are not subject to escalation
through some form of automatic adjustment clause) per cent. Further information
may be obtained from (name and address of utility official) or the application
on file with the City Clerk.
 
   (B)   An affidavit signed by an official of franchisee and describing the
method of publication of the notice shall be filed with the City Clerk.
(1976 Code, § 10-1006)
§ 53.07 GENERAL INFORMATION.
   The franchisee shall provide the city, at the request of city, on a regular
continuing basis, within 30 days of publication, copies of documents,
information and data listed below for the franchisee or its parent company as
applicable:
   (A)   Annual report to stockholders;
   (B)   Quarterly report to stockholders;
   (C)   Securities and Exchange Commission Form 10-K, as the same may be
changed from time to time;
   (D)   Securities and Exchange Commission Form 10-Q, as the same may be
changed from time to time;
   (E)   Prospectus for debt securities to be issued;
   (F)   Prospectus for equity securities to be issued; and
   (G)   Distribution system map of the city.
(1976 Code, § 10-1007)
§ 53.08 VALIDITY OF FRANCHISE.
   If any section, division, sentence, clause, phrase or portion of this
franchise shall for any reason be held invalid or unconstitutional by any court
of competent jurisdiction, such portion shall be deemed a separate, distinct
and independent provision and such holding shall not affect the validity of the
remaining portions hereof.
(1976 Code, § 10-1008)
CHAPTER 54: WATER
Section
   
54.01   Operation and funding
   
54.02   Definitions
   
54.03   Consumer’s application
   
54.04   Water contract
   
54.05   Installation procedure; metered service
   
54.06   Installation expense
   
54.07   Repairs
   
54.08   Fees and collections
   
54.09   Water rates
   
54.10   Water bills
   
54.11   Lien
   
54.12   Single premises
   
54.13   Restricted use
   
54.14   Fire hydrants
   
54.15   Pollution
   
54.16   Mandatory hook-up
   
54.17   Water service contracts
   
54.18   Inspections
   
54.19   Police reports
   
54.20   Destruction of property
   
54.21   Licensed plumbers
   
54.22   Fluoride prohibited
   
54.23   Lead pipes, solder and flux
   
54.24   Wellhead protection; permit required
§ 54.01 OPERATION AND FUNDING.
   The city owns and operates the city’s Water Department through the Water
Commissioner. The governing body, for the purpose of defraying the cost of the
care, management and maintenance of the city’s Water Department may each year
levy a tax not exceeding the maximum limit prescribed by state law, on the
actual valuation of all real estate and personal property within the corporate
limits that is subject to taxation. The revenue from the said tax shall be
known as the Water Fund and shall remain in the custody of the City Clerk/
Treasurer. The Water Commissioner shall have the direct management and control
of the city’s Water Department and shall faithfully carry out the duties of his
or her office. The Water Commissioner shall have the authority to adopt rules
and regulations for the sanitary and efficient management of the Water
Department subject to the supervision and review of the Board of Public Works
or the governing body. The governing body shall set the rates to be charged for
services rendered by ordinance and shall file a copy of the rates in the office
of the City Clerk/Treasurer for public inspection at any reasonable time.
(1976 Code, § 3-101)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-531, 17-534 and 19-1305
§ 54.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning. Also,
where no definition is specified, the normal dictionary usage of the word shall
apply.
   MAIN. Any pipe other than a supply or service pipe that is used for the
purpose of carrying water to, and dispersing the same in the city.
   SEPARATE PREMISES. More than one consumer procuring water from the same
service or supply pipe. The second premises may be a separate dwelling,
apartment, building or structure used for a separate business.
   SERVICE PIPE. Any pipe extending from the shutoff, stop box or curb stop to
the premises being served by said service pipe.
   SUPPLY PIPE. Any pipe tapped into a main and extending from the main to the
shutoff, stop box or curb stop for the premises being served by said SUPPLY
PIPE.
   WATER WELL. Any excavation that is drilled, cored, bored, washed, driven,
dug, jetted or otherwise constructed for the purpose of exploring for ground
water, monitoring ground water, utilizing the geothermal properties of the
ground or extracting water from or injecting water into the underground water
reservoir. WATER WELL shall not include any excavation made for obtaining or
prospecting for oil, natural gas, minerals or products mined or quarried or for
inserting media to repressure oil or natural gas-bearing formations.
(1976 Code, § 3-102) (Ord. 1046, passed 11-20-1991; Ord. 1186, passed 12-18-
1995)
§ 54.03 CONSUMER’S APPLICATION.
   (A)   Every owner of property desiring a supply of water must make
application therefor to the Water Commissioner.
   (B)   The Water Commissioner may require any applicant to make a service
deposit in such amount as he or she deems necessary subject to the review of
the Board of Public Works.
   (C)   Water may not be supplied to any house or private service pipe, except
upon the order of the Water Commissioner.
(1976 Code, § 3-103)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-537
§ 54.04 WATER CONTRACT.
   The city, through its Water Department, shall furnish water to persons
within its corporate limits whose premises abut a street or alley in which a
commercial main now is or may hereafter be laid. The city may furnish water to
persons within its corporate limits whose premises do not abut a street or
alley in which a city commercial main is now or may hereafter be laid and may
also furnish water to persons whose premises are situated outside the corporate
limits of the city, as and when, according to law, the governing body may see
fit to do so. The rules, regulations and water rates, hereinafter named in this
chapter, shall be considered a part of every application hereafter made for
water service and shall be considered a part of the contract between every
consumer now or hereafter served. Without further formality, the making of
application on the part of any applicant or the use or consumption of water
service by present consumers thereof and the furnishing of water service to
said consumer shall constitute a contract between the consumer and the city, to
which said contract both parties are bound. If the consumer shall violate any
of the provisions of said contract or any reasonable rules and regulations that
the governing body or Board of Public Works may hereafter adopt, the Water
Commissioner or his or her agent may cut off or disconnect the water service
from the building or premises or place of such violation. No further connection
for water service to said building, premises or place shall again be made save
or except by order of said Water Commissioner or his or her agent.
(1976 Code, § 3-104)
§ 54.05 INSTALLATION PROCEDURE; METERED SERVICE.
   (A)   (1)   The city shall install all water mains and supply lines,
including the actual tapping into the city main and installation of the stop
box, curb stop and corporation stop. The consumer shall be responsible for any
trenching necessary from the city main to the premises to be served and for all
installation of the service line from the shut off, stop box or curb stop to
the premises served. Meters shall be installed by the city when the consumer
requests service in excess of a three-fourth-inch tap or where there is more
than one tap, the combined size of which is more than three-fourths of an inch.
      (2)   All installations of the supply line must be of a type or types of
pipe as the governing body or Board of Public Works may from time to time
approve. Installation of the service line must be of copper, one-inch plastic,
165 pound per square inch plastic or such other type or types of pipe as the
governing body or Board of Public Works may from time to time approve, and must
be laid not less than four feet beneath the surface of the ground.
      (3)   No tap shall be made into the city water main which is nearer than
two feet of either end of any joint of pipe, nor which is within 18 inches of
an existing tap. On four- to six-inch mains, no tap shall be larger than one
inch.
      (4)   In making excavations in streets, alleys or sidewalks for the
purpose of installing pipe, or making repairs, the paving, stones and earth
must be removed and deposited in a manner that will occasion the least
inconvenience to the public and provide for adequate drainage. No person shall
leave an excavation made in the street, alley or sidewalk open at any time
without a barricade and, during the night, warning lights. After service pipes
are laid, the streets, alleys and sidewalks shall be restored to good
condition. If the excavation in any street, alley or sidewalk is left open or
unfinished for a period of 24 hours or more, the Water Commissioner shall have
the duty to finish or correct the work, and all expenses so incurred shall be
charged to the consumer. All installations or repairs of pipes require
inspection by the Water Commissioner. It is the customer’s responsibility to
notify the Commissioner at the time the work is ready for each inspection. All
installation shall be done under the supervision of and strictly in accordance
with the rules, regulations and specifications prescribed for such installation
by the Water Commissioner; provided that, the said rules, regulations and
specifications have been reviewed and approved by the governing body or the
Board of Public Works.
(1976 Code, § 3-105)
   (B)   (1)   All water furnished to industrial or commercial premises shall
be at metered rates through a water meter.
      (2)   All water furnished to residential premises shall be at metered
rates through a water meter.
      (3)   Residential premises without a water meter as of the effective date
of this section shall be permitted to be serviced without a water meter at the
non-metered rate, until the municipality installs a water meter for such
residential premises.
      (4)   All water meters installed pursuant to this division (B) shall
measure water in gallons.
      (5)   (a)   All water meters three-fourths of an inch or smaller shall
remain the property of the city and shall be installed, maintained and repaired
by the city.
         (b)   All water meters in excess of three-fourths of an inch shall
remain the property of the city and be installed, maintained and repaired at
the expense of the city, and the customer shall reimburse the city the excess
cost of acquiring and installing a water meter larger than three-fourths of an
inch.
(1976 Code, § 3-105.01)
(Ord. 949, passed 9-12-1988; Ord. 1030, passed 4-15-1991; Ord. 1121, passed 1-
24-1995; Ord. 1186, passed 12-18-1995; Ord. 1212, passed 1-22-1996)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-537
§ 54.06 INSTALLATION EXPENSE.
   (A)   The expense of providing water service from the city main to the
premises served shall be paid by the customer. Said expense shall include all
costs of materials, labor, trenching and tapping, including pipe, stop box,
stop cock and corporation cock.
   (B)   The city shall pay the cost of a water meter where required; provided,
if a meter larger than three-fourths of an inch is required, the customer shall
pay any expense incurred by the city above the price of a three-fourths-inch
meter.
(1976 Code, § 3-106)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-542
§ 54.07 REPAIRS.
   Repairs to the service pipe shall be made by and at the expense of the
customer. All other repairs to the property of the Water Department, including
the meter, shall be made by the city. All water meters shall be kept in repair
by the city at the expense of the city. When meters are worn out, they shall be
replaced and reset by the city at the expense of the city; provided that, if
the customer permits or allows a water meter to be damaged, injured or
destroyed through his or her own recklessness, carelessness or neglect so that
the meter must be repaired or replaced, the Water Commissioner shall bill and
collect from the customer the cost of such meter repair or replacement in the
same manner as water rent is collected. Permitting a water meter to be damaged
or destroyed by freezing shall always be considered negligence on the part of
the customer. All meters shall be tested at the customer’s request at the
expense of the customer any reasonable number of times; provided that, if the
test shows the water meter to be running 2% or more fast, the expense of such
test shall be borne by the city. The city reserves the right to test any water
service meter at any time and, if said meter is found to be beyond repair, the
city shall always have the right to place a new meter on the customer’s water
service fixtures at city expense. Should a consumer’s meter fail to register
properly, the customer shall be charged for water during the time the meter is
out of repair on the basis of the monthly consumption during the same month of
the preceding year; provided that, if no such basis for comparison exists, the
customer shall be charged such amount as may be reasonably fixed by the Water
Commissioner.
(1976 Code, § 3-107)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-542
§ 54.08 FEES AND COLLECTIONS.
   (A)   The governing body has the power and authority to fix the rates to be
paid by the water consumers for the use of water from the Water Department. All
such fees shall be on file for public inspection at the office of the City
Clerk/Treasurer.
   (B)   The Water Commissioner shall bill the consumers and collect all money
received by the city on the account of the Water Department.
(1976 Code, § 3-108)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-540
§ 54.09 WATER RATES.
   All water consumers shall be liable for the following rates unless and until
the consumer shall, by written order, direct the Water Commissioner to shut off
the water at the stop box, in which case the consumer shall not be liable
thereafter for water service until the water is turned on again.
 
Residential - Monthly Use Rate
Un-metered residential $23 per dwelling unit, per month
Metered                $15.50 base charge plus $0.90 commodity fee per 1,000
                       gallons
 
Business and Commercial - Monthly Use Rate
Base charge                     $20 plus commodity fee (see below)
Commodity fee per 1,000 gallons $0.90
NOTES TO TABLE:
All account metered.
 
(1976 Code, § 3-109) (Ord. 596, passed 1-11-1979; Ord. 659, passed 3-26-1981;
Ord. 898, passed 5-12-1986; Ord. 948, passed 7-18-1988; Ord. 985, passed 11-6-
1989; Ord. 1031, passed 4-15-1991; Ord. 1034, passed 5-21-1991; Ord. 1301,
passed 5-20-2002; Ord. 1378, passed 6-6-2005; Ord. 1423, passed 8-8-2011; Ord.
1460, passed 1-18-2016)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-542
§ 54.10 WATER BILLS.
   Water bills shall be due and payable monthly at the office of the city’s
Book Keeper. The Water Commissioner shall read or cause to be read water meters
monthly between the eighteenth day and the twentieth day of the month during
which service is used; provided, meters will be read on the last day of the
month, upon request. The Water Commissioner shall direct the city’s Book Keeper
to charge and collect from each customer for the amount of water consumed since
the last examination together with any other charges, properly itemized, due
the Water Department. Bills shall be mailed on the last day of each month and
shall be payable by the tenth of each month. Bills not paid by the tenth day of
each month shall be deemed to be delinquent. Upon being deemed to be
delinquent, as herein defined, the city’s Book Keeper shall give a written
notice to the customer of such delinquency and shall demand payment
immediately. In the event that the bill is not paid within seven days after the
sending of said notice, it shall be discretionary with the Commissioner to cut
off service at any time; provided, if the delinquent customer is a known
welfare recipient, it shall be the duty of the city’s Book Keeper to notify the
customer and the county’s Welfare Department by certified mail of the proposed
termination. The Water Commissioner shall assess an additional fee set by
resolution of the governing body and on file at the office of the City Clerk/
Treasurer in the event that water is shut off for the non-payment of any water
bill, to compensate the city for the additional hookup necessary to again
provide water service to the delinquent customer.
(1976 Code, § 3-110)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-542 and 18-416
§ 54.11 LIEN.
   In addition to all other remedies, if a customer shall for any reason remain
indebted to the city for water service furnished, such amount due, together
with any rents and charges in arrears, shall be considered a delinquent water
rent which is hereby declared to be a lien upon the real estate for which the
same was used. The City Clerk/Treasurer shall notify in writing or cause to be
notified in writing, all owners of premises or their agents whenever their
tenants or lessees are 60 days or more delinquent in the payment of water rent.
It shall be the duty of the Water Commissioner on June 1 of each year to report
to the governing body a list of all unpaid accounts due for water together with
a description of the premises upon which the same was used. The report shall be
examined and, if approved by the governing body, shall be certified by the City
Clerk/Treasurer to the County Clerk to be collected as a special tax in the
manner provided by law.
(1976 Code, § 3-111)
§ 54.12 SINGLE PREMISES.
   (A)   No consumer shall supply water to other families, or allow them to
take water from his or her premises, nor after water is supplied into a
building shall any person make or employ a plumber or other person to make a
tap or connection with the pipe upon the premises for alteration, extension or
attachment without the written permission of the Water Commissioner.
   (B)   It shall further be unlawful for any person to tamper with any water
meter or by means of any contrivance or device to divert the water from the
service pipe so that the water will not pass through the meter or while passing
through said meter to cause the meter to register inaccurately.
(1976 Code, § 3-112) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-537
§ 54.13 RESTRICTED USE.
   The governing body or the Water Commissioner may order a reduction in the
use of water or shutoff the water on any premises in the event of a water
shortage due to fire or other good and sufficient cause. The city shall not be
liable for any damages caused by shutting off the supply of water of any
consumer while the system or any part thereof is undergoing repairs or when
there is a shortage of water due to circumstances over which the city has no
control.
(1976 Code, § 3-113)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-537
§ 54.14 FIRE HYDRANTS.
   All hydrants for the purpose of extinguishing fires are hereby declared to
be public hydrants, and it shall be unlawful for any person other than members
of the city’s Fire Department under the orders of the Fire Chief, or the
Assistant Fire Chief; or members of the Water Department to open or attempt to
open any of the hydrants and draw water from the same, or in any manner to
interfere with the hydrants.
(1976 Code, § 3-114) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 54.15 POLLUTION.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to pollute or attempt to pollute any
stream or source of water for the supply of the city’s Water Department.
(1976 Code, § 3-115) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-536
§ 54.16 MANDATORY HOOK-UP.
   All persons within 300 feet of a water main shall be required, upon notice
by the governing body, to hookup with the city water system.
(1976 Code, § 3-116) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-539
§ 54.17 WATER SERVICE CONTRACTS.
   (A)   Contracts for water service are not transferable.
   (B)   Any person wishing to change from one location to another shall make a
new application and sign a new contract.
   (C)   If any consumer shall move from the premises where service is
furnished, or if the said premises is destroyed by fire or other casualty, he
or she shall at once inform the Water Commissioner who shall cause the water
service to be shut off at the said premises.
   (D)   If the consumer should fail to give such notice, he or she shall be
charged for all water used on the said premises until the Water Commissioner is
otherwise advised of such circumstances.
(1976 Code, § 3-117)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-537
§ 54.18 INSPECTIONS.
   The Water Commissioner, or his or her duly authorized agents, shall have
free access, at any reasonable time, to all parts of each premises and building
to, or in which, water is delivered for the purpose of examining the pipes,
fixtures and other portions of the system to ascertain whether there is any
disrepair or unnecessary waste of water.
(1976 Code, § 3-118)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-537
§ 54.19 POLICE REPORTS.
   It shall be the duty of the city police to report to the Water Commissioner
all cases of leakage and waste in the use of water and all violations of the
city code relating to the Water Department. They shall have the additional duty
of enforcing the observance of such regulations.
(1976 Code, § 3-119)
§ 54.20 DESTRUCTION OF PROPERTY.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to willfully or carelessly break,
injure or deface any building, machinery, apparatus, fixture, attachment or
appurtenance of the city’s Water Department.
   (B)   No person may deposit anything in a stop box or commit any act tending
to obstruct or impair the intended use of any of the above mentioned property
without the written permission of the Water Commissioner.
(1976 Code, § 3-120) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 54.21 LICENSED PLUMBERS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any plumber or pipe fitter to do any work
upon any of the pipes or appurtenances of the system of waterworks, or to make
any connection with or extension of the supply pipes of any consumer taking
water from the said system until such plumber or pipe fitter shall have first
procured a license or permit from the city.
   (B)   All plumbing shall be done in the manner required by the Water
Commissioner.
   (C)   The said licensed plumber shall be at all times subject to the
inspection and approval of the Water Commissioner and it shall be further
unlawful to cover or conceal willfully any defective or unsatisfactory plumbing
work.
(1976 Code, § 3-121) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-537
§ 54.22 FLUORIDE PROHIBITED.
   Fluoride shall not be added to the water supply of the city.
(1976 Code, § 3-122)
§ 54.23 LEAD PIPES, SOLDER AND FLUX.
   (A)   Any pipe, solders or flux used in the installation or repair of any
residential or non-residential facility which is connected to the public water
supply system shall be lead free.
   (B)   For purposes of this section, LEAD-FREE shall mean:
      (1)   Solders and flux: not more than 0.2% lead; and
      (2)   Pipe and pipe fittings: not more than 8% lead.
(1976 Code, § 3-125) (Ord. 946, passed 5-2-1988)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 71-5301
§ 54.24 WELLHEAD PROTECTION; PERMIT REQUIRED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to place, maintain, construct or otherwise have
any of the following structures or activities within the distance specified
below from an existing city well.
Category Distance
Category                               Distance
Absorption or disposal field for waste 500 ft.
All water wells                        1,000 ft.
Cesspool                               500 ft.
Chemical storage                       500 ft.
Corral                                 500 ft.
Dump                                   500 ft.
Feedlot or feedlot runoff              500 ft.
Petroleum storage                      500 ft.
Pit toilet                             500 ft.
Sanitary landfill                      500 ft.
Septic tank                            500 ft.
Sewage lagoon                          1,000 ft.
Sewage treatment plant                 500 ft.
Sewage wet well                        500 ft.
 
   (B)   The City Council may consider locations at a closer proximity than the
minimum distances above. Approval for such location may be given when
circumstances require such a location and when the applicant demonstrates to
the City Council that such a location will not constitute a pollution hazard to
the city water supply. Before the City Council may consider such a request, the
applicant must ensure present and future compliance with all State Department
of Health and Department of Water Resources regulations.
   (C)   The placement of a water well in the city or within 1,000 feet of the
corporate limits of the city is prohibited, unless the owner of the property
upon which the water well is to be placed first obtains the written permission
of the City Council. Permission of the City Council shall not be required if
the well is required by a federal or state governmental agency; provided that,
application is made to and permission is granted by the city’s Water
Commissioner prior to placement of any such well. The city’s Water Commissioner
shall have the authority to grant permission for the placement of a water well
in an emergency situation; provided that, the matter shall be submitted to the
City Council for approval as soon as possible following approval by the Water
Commissioner.
   (D)   Wells in existence and in use as of 11-20-1991 shall continue to be
permitted unless such continued existence or use presents a hazard to the
quality or quantity of drinking water available for public use. The owner of
any well shall have the burden of establishing the existence and use of such
well at the time of the effective date of this section to the satisfaction of
the City Council.
(1976 Code, § 3-126) (Ord. 1046, passed 11-20-1991; Ord. 1047, passed 1-20-
1992; Ord. 1094, passed 8-9-1993)
CHAPTER 55: SEWERS
Section
General Provisions
   
55.01   Operation and funding
   
55.02   Definitions
   
55.03   Unlawful deposits of waste; cesspools and the like
   
55.04   Mandatory hookup
   
55.05   Connection to public sewer; notice
   
55.06   Service contracts
   
55.07   Repairs and replacement
   
55.08   Classification for fees
   
55.09   User charge system
   
55.10   Payment of charges
   
55.11   User charge review
   
55.12   Manholes
   
55.13   Prohibited discharges
   
55.14   Hazardous and prohibited discharges; preliminary treatment
   
55.15   Destruction of property
   
55.16   Inspections
Private Sewage Disposal
   
55.30   When applicable
   
55.31   Permit required; fee
   
55.32   Permit; when effective; inspections
   
55.33   Specifications
   
55.34   When not applicable
   
55.35   Maintenance
   
55.36   Additional requirements
Building Sewer Installation
   
55.50   Permit required
   
55.51   Classification; permit application fee
   
55.52   Expense
   
55.53   Single premises
   
55.54   Use of existing sewers
   
55.55   Construction codes
   
55.56   Unlawful connection
   
55.57   Inspections
   
55.58   Excavations
 
   
55.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 55.01 OPERATION AND FUNDING.
   The city owns and operates the city sewer system through the Sewer
Commissioner. The governing body, for the purpose of defraying the cost of the
management and maintenance of the city sewer system may, each year, levy a tax
not exceeding the maximum limit prescribed by state law on the actual valuation
of all real estate and personal property within the corporate limits that is
subject to taxation. The revenue from the said tax shall be known as the “Sewer
Maintenance Fund”. The Sewer Commissioner shall have the direct management and
control of the Sewer Department and shall faithfully carry out the duties of
his or her office. He or she shall have the authority to adopt rules and
regulations for the sanitary and efficient management of the Department subject
to the supervision and review of the governing body or Board of Public Works.
(1976 Code, § 3-201)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-149 and 17-925.01
§ 55.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BIOLOGICAL OXYGEN DEMAND. The quantity of oxygen utilized in the biochemical
oxidation of organic matter under standard laboratory procedure in five days at
20°C, expressed in milligrams per liter.
   BUILDING DRAIN. The part of the lowest horizontal piping of a drainage
system which receives the discharge from soil, waste or other drainage pipes
inside the walls of the building and conveys it to the building sewer,
beginning five feet (one and one-half meters) outside the inner face of the
building wall.
   BUILDING SEWER. The extension from the building drain to the public sewer or
other place of disposal.
   COMBINED SEWER. A sewer receiving both surface runoff and sewage.
   GARBAGE. Solid wastes from the domestic and commercial preparation, cooking
and dispensing of food, and from the handling, storage and sale of produce.
   HEAVY COMMERCIAL OR HEAVY INSTITUTIONAL CONTRIBUTOR. Any commercial or
institutional contributor whose discharge may exceed 15,000 gallons per month,
but whose discharge can reasonably be expected to be of normal or less than
normal strength.
   HEAVY INDUSTRIAL CONTRIBUTOR. Any industrial contributor whose discharge may
be of greater than normal strength or may exceed 15,000 gallons per month.
   INDUSTRIAL WASTES. The liquid wastes from industrial manufacturing
processes, trade or business as distinct from sanitary sewage.
   LIGHT COMMERCIAL CONTRIBUTOR. Any contributor to the city’s treatment works
whose premises are used for commercial retail trade or office purposes and
whose discharge to the wastewater system can reasonably be expected to be less
than 15,000 gallons per month.
   LIGHT INDUSTRIAL CONTRIBUTOR. Any contributor whose premises are used for
industrial or manufacturing purposes, who discharges no process, product
cleaning or cooling water to the wastewater system and whose discharge can
reasonably be expected to be of normal or less than normal strength and less
than 15,000 gallons per month.
   LIGHT INSTITUTIONAL CONTRIBUTOR. Any city office, school, library and the
like, whose discharge can reasonably be expected to be less than 15,000 gallons
per month.
   MAY. The act referred to is permissive.
   NATURAL OUTLET. Any outlet into a watercourse, pond, ditch, lake or other
body of surface or ground water.
   NORMAL DOMESTIC WASTEWATER. Wastewater that has a BOD concentration of not
more than 165 mg/l and a suspended solids concentration of not more than 170
mg/l.
   OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE. All expenditures during the useful life of the
treatment works for materials, labor, utilities and other items which are
necessary for managing and maintaining the sewage works to achieve the capacity
and performance for which such works were designed and constructed.
   PERSON. Any individual, firm, company, association, society, corporation or
group.
   pH. The logarithm of the reciprocal of the weight of hydrogen ions in grams
per liter of solution.
   PROPERLY SHREDDED GARBAGE. The wastes from the preparation, cooking and
dispensing of food that have been shredded to such a degree that all particles
will be carried freely under the flow conditions normally prevailing in public
sewers, with no particle greater than one-half inch (1.27 centimeters) in any
dimension.
   PUBLIC SEWER. A sewer in which all owners of abutting properties have equal
rights and is controlled by public authority.
   REPLACEMENT. Expenditures for obtaining and installing equipment,
accessories or appurtenances which are necessary during the useful life of the
treatment works to maintain the capacity and performance for which such works
were designed and constructed. The term OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE includes
REPLACEMENT.
   RESIDENTIAL CONTRIBUTOR. Any contributor to the city’s treatment works whose
lot, parcel of real estate or building is used primarily or essentially for
single-family domestic dwelling purposes. Rooming or boarding house will be
considered to be RESIDENTIAL CONTRIBUTORS only if the area rented out comprises
less than 40% of the total usable area of the dwelling. Apartment units,
trailers and other multiple dwelling units shall be billed as individual
residential units.
   SANITARY SEWER. A sewer which carries sewage and to which storm, surface and
ground waters are not intentionally admitted.
   SEWAGE. A combination of the water-carried wastes from residences, business
buildings, institutions and industrial establishments together with such
ground, surface and storm waters as may be present.
   SEWAGE TREATMENT PLANT. Any arrangement of devices and structures used for
treating sewage.
   SEWAGE WORKS. All facilities for collecting, pumping, treating and disposing
of sewage.
   SEWER. A pipe or conduit for carrying sewage.
   SHALL. The act referred to is mandatory.
   SLUG. Any discharge of water, sewage or industrial waste which in
concentration of any given constituent or in quantity of flow exceeds for any
period of duration longer than 15 minutes more than five times the average 24-
hour concentration or flows during normal operation.
   STORM SEWER. A sewer which carries storm and surface waters and drainage,
but excludes sewage and industrial wastes, other than unpolluted cooling water.
   SUPERINTENDENT. The Superintendent of the Board of Public Works of the city,
or his or her authorized deputy, agent or representative.
   SUSPENDED SOLIDS. Solids that either float on the surface of, or are in
suspension in water, sewage or other liquids, and are removable by laboratory
filtering.
   TRAP. A fitting or device so constructed as to prevent the passage of air or
gas through a pipe without materially affecting the flow of sewage or waste
through it.
   TREATMENT WORKS.
      (1)   Any devices and systems for the storage, treatment, recycling and
reclamation of city sewage, domestic sewage or liquid industrial wastes.
      (2)   These include intercepting sewers, outfall sewers, sewage
collection systems, individual systems, pumping, power and other equipment and
their appurtenances; extensions improvement, remodeling, additions and
alterations thereof; elements essential to provide a reliable recycled supply
such as standby treatment units and clear well facilities; and any works,
including site acquisition of the land that will be an integral part of the
treatment process or is used for ultimate disposal of residues resulting from
such treatment (including land for composting sludge, temporary storage of such
compost and land used for the storage of treated wastewater in land treatment
systems before land application); or any other method or system of preventing,
abating, reducing, storing, treating, separating or disposing of city waste or
industrial waste, including waste in combined storm water and sanitary sewer
systems.
   USEFUL LIFE. The estimated period during which a treatment works will be
operated.
   USER CHARGE. The portion of the total wastewater service charge which is
levied in a proportional and adequate manner for the cost of operation,
maintenance and replacement of the wastewater treatment works.
   WATER METER. A water volume measuring and recording device, furnished and/or
installed by the city or furnished and/or installed by a user and approved by
the city.
   WATERCOURSE. A natural or artificial channel for the passage of water either
continuously or intermittently.
(1976 Code, § 3-202) (Ord. 1036, passed 6-17-1991; Ord. 1379, passed 6-6-2005)
§ 55.03 UNLAWFUL DEPOSITS OF WASTE; CESSPOOLS AND THE LIKE.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to place, deposit or permit to be
deposited in any unsanitary manner on public or private property within the
city, or in any area under the jurisdiction of said city, any human or animal
excrement, garbage or other objectionable waste.
(1976 Code, § 3-203)
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to discharge to any natural outlet within the
city or in any area under the jurisdiction of said city, any sewage or other
polluted waters, except where suitable treatment has been provided in
accordance with subsequent provisions of this chapter.
(1976 Code, § 3-203.01)
   (C)   Except as hereinafter provided, it shall be unlawful to construct or
maintain any privy, privy vault, septic tank, cesspool or other facility
intended or used for the disposal of sewage.
(1976 Code, § 3-203.02)
(Ord. 629, passed 5-8-1980) Penalty, see §
55.99
§ 55.04 MANDATORY HOOKUP.
   (A)   The owner of all houses, buildings or properties used for human
employment, recreation or other purposes, situated within the city and abutting
on any street, alley or right-of-way in which there is now located or may in
the future be located a public sanitary or combined sewer of the city, is
hereby required at his or her expense to install suitable toilet facilities
therein, and to connect such facilities directly with the proper public sewer
in accordance with the provisions of this chapter within 60 days after date of
official notice to do so; provided that, said public sewer is within 100 feet
(30.5 meters) of the property line.
   (B)   In the event that any property owner, occupant or lessee shall
neglect, fail or refuse, within a period of ten days after second notice has
been given to him or her to do so by registered mail or by publication in a
newspaper in or of general circulation in the city, to make such connection,
the governing body shall have the power to cause the same to be done, to assess
the cost thereof against the property and to collect the assessment thus made
in the manner provided for collection of other special taxes and assessments.
(1976 Code, § 3-204) (Ord. 629, passed 5-8-1980)
§ 55.05 CONNECTION TO PUBLIC SEWER; NOTICE.
   (A)   When a public sewer becomes available, the building sewer shall be
connected to said sewer within 60 days and the private sewage disposal system
shall be cleaned of sludge and filled with clean bank run gravel or dirt.
   (B)   In the event that any property owner, occupant or lessee shall
neglect, fail or refuse, within a period of ten days after second notice has
been given to him or her to do so by registered mail or by publication in a
newspaper in or of general circulation in the city, to make such connection,
the governing body shall have the power to cause the same to be done, to assess
the cost thereof against the property and to collect the assessment thus made
in the manner provided for collection of other special taxes and assessments.
(1976 Code, § 3-206) (Ord. 629, passed 5-8-1980)
§ 55.06 SERVICE CONTRACTS.
   (A)   Contracts for sewer service are not transferable. Any person wishing
to change from one location to another shall make a new application and sign a
new contract.
   (B)   If any customer shall move from the premises where service is
furnished, or if the said premises is destroyed by fire or other casualty, he
or she shall at once inform the Sewer Commissioner who shall cause the sewer
service to be shut off from the said premises. If the customer should fail to
give notice, he or she shall be charged for that period of time until the Sewer
Commissioner is otherwise advised of such circumstances.
(1976 Code, § 3-207)
§ 55.07 REPAIRS AND REPLACEMENT.
   (A)   (1)   The city’s Sewer Department may require the owner of any
property which is within the city and connected to the public sewers or drains
to repair or replace any connection line which serves the owner’s property and
is broken, clogged or otherwise in need of repair or replacement.
      (2)   The property owner’s duty to repair or replace such a connection
line shall include those portions upon the owner’s property and those portions
upon public property or easements up to and including the point of junction
with the public main.
   (B)   (1)   The city’s Clerk/Treasurer shall give the property owner notice
by registered letter or certified mail, directed to the last-known address of
such owner or the agent of such owner, directing the repair or replacement of
such connection line.
      (2)   If, within 30 days of mailing such notice, the property owner fails
or neglects to cause such repairs or replacements to be made, the Utilities
Superintendent may cause such work to be done and assess the cost upon the
property served by such connection.
(1976 Code, § 3-210) (Ord. 758, passed 9-6-1984)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 18-1748
§ 55.08 CLASSIFICATION FOR FEES.
   The governing body may classify for the purpose of rental fees the customers
of the city’s Sewer Department; provided that, such classifications are
reasonable and do not discriminate unlawfully against any consumer or group of
consumers.
(1976 Code, § 3-211)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-925.02
§ 55.09 USER CHARGE SYSTEM.
   (A)   (1)   The user charge system shall generate adequate annual revenues
to pay costs of annual operation and maintenance including replacement and
costs associated with debt retirement of bonded capital associated with
financing the treatment works which the city may by ordinance designate to be
paid by the user charge system. The portion of the total user charge which is
designated for operation and maintenance including replacement of the treatment
works shall be established by this division (A) and division (B) below.
      (2)   The portion of the total user charge collected which is designated
for operation and maintenance including replacement purposes as established in
division (A)(a) above shall be deposited in a separate non-lapsing fund known
as the Operation, Maintenance and Replacement Fund and will be kept in two
primary accounts as follows:
         (a)   An account designated for the specific purposes of defraying
operation and maintenance costs (excluding replacement) of the treatment works
(Operation and Maintenance Account); and
         (b)   An account designated for the specific purpose of ensuring
replacement needs over the useful life of the treatment works (Replacement
Account). Deposits in the replacement account shall be made annually from the
operation, maintenance and replacement revenue in the amount of $7,631
annually.
      (3)   Fiscal year-end balances in the operation and maintenance account
and the replacement account shall be carried over to the same accounts in the
subsequent fiscal year, and shall be used for no other purposes than those
designated for these accounts. Moneys which have been transferred from other
sources to meet temporary shortages in the Operation, Maintenance and
Replacement Fund shall be returned to their respective accounts upon
appropriate adjustment of the user charge rates for operation, maintenance and
replacement. The user charge rate(s) shall be adjusted such that the
transferred moneys will be returned to their respective amounts within the
fiscal year following the fiscal year in which the moneys were borrowed.
(1976 Code, § 3-212)
   (B)   The following classes of users and charges to those users are hereby
established.
      (1)   Residential.
 
Residential - Monthly Use Rate
Base charge                     $30, plus commodity fee (see below)
Commodity fee per 1,000 gallons $1.25
NOTES TO TABLE:
Sewer usage charge shall be based on water usage computed on the average
monthly usage during the months of December, January and February.
 
      (2)   Business and commercial.
 
Business and Commercial - Monthly Use Rate
Base charge                     $30, plus commodity fee (see below)
Commodity fee per 1,000 gallons $1.25
NOTES TO TABLE:
(1) Any business or commercial account that waters its lawn or landscaping
will have its sewer charged based on average monthly water usage during the
months of December, January and February.
(2) All other businesses or commercial accounts will be charged sewer rates
based on actual monthly water usage.
 
      (3)   Surcharges.
         (a)   Sewer surcharges shall apply to all customers discharging
wastewater with a five-day biological oxygen demand (BOD) greater than 300 mg/
l per weight or containing more than 350 mg/l by weight total suspended solids
(TSS) or containing more than 50 mg/l by weight of total Kjeldahl nitrogen
(TKN-ammonia).
         (b)   Monthly loading rates shall be calculated with the average
monthly water use and monthly laboratory testing.
            1.   The surcharge rate for excess BOD shall be billed at the rate
of $0.35/lb.
            2.   The surcharge for excess TSS shall be billed at the rate of
$0.35/lb.
            3.   The surcharge for excess TKN shall be billed at the rate of
$0.35/lb.
      (4)   The effective date of this division (B) shall be 3-1-2016.
(1976 Code, § 3-212.01)
   (C)   Any user which discharges any toxic pollutants which cause an increase
in the cost of managing the effluent or the sludge from the city’s treatment
works, or any user which discharges any substance which singly or by
interaction with other substances causes identifiable increases in the cost of
operation, maintenance or replacement of the treatment works, shall pay for
such increased costs. The charge to each such user shall be as determined by
the responsible plant operating personnel and approved by the City Council. The
user charge rates established in this chapter apply to all users, regardless of
their location of the city’s treatment works.
(1976 Code, § 3-212.03)
(Ord. 630, passed 9-27-1979; Ord. 655, passed 2-19-1981; Ord. 897, passed 5-12-
1986; Ord. 1036, passed 6-17-1991; Ord. 1117, passed 11-21-1994; Ord. 1242,
passed 10-20-1997; Ord. 1379, passed 6-6-2005; Ord. 1383, passed 10-24-2005;
Ord. 1424, passed 8-8-2011; Ord. 1460, passed 1-18-2016)
§ 55.10 PAYMENT OF CHARGES.
   (A)   All users shall be billed monthly. Billings for any particular month
shall be made within 30 days after the end of that month. Payments are due when
the billings are made. Any payment not received within ten days after the
billing is made shall be delinquent.
   (B)   (1)   If delinquent for more than 30 days, water and/or sewer service
shall be discontinued.
      (2)   After payment of the delinquent payment, plus a reconnection charge
of $3, service will be restored.
(1976 Code, § 3-213) (Ord. 655, passed 2-19-1981)
§ 55.11 USER CHARGE REVIEW.
   (A)   The city will review the user charge system every two years, and
revise user charge rates as necessary to ensure that the system generates
adequate revenues to pay the costs of operation and maintenance including
replacement and that the system continues to provide for the proportional
distribution of operation and maintenance including replacement costs among
users and user classes. For the flat rate system of user charges, any excess
revenues collected from a class of users shall be credited to that class for
the next year and its rates will be adjusted accordingly.
   (B)   The city will notify each user at least annually, in conjunction with
a regular bill, of the rate being charged for operation, maintenance including
replacement of the treatment works.
(1976 Code, § 3-214) (Ord. 655, passed 2-19-1981)
§ 55.12 MANHOLES.
   Entrance into a manhole or opening for any purpose, except by authorized
persons is hereby prohibited. It shall be unlawful to deposit or cause to be
deposited in any receptacle connected with the sewer system any substance which
is not the usual and natural waste carried by the sewer system.
(1976 Code, § 3-215) Penalty, see §
55.99
§ 55.13 PROHIBITED DISCHARGES.
   (A)   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged any stormwater,
surface water, ground water, roof runoff, subsurface drainage, including
interior and exterior foundation drains, uncontaminated cooling water or
unpolluted industrial waters to any sanitary sewer.
   (B)   Storm water and all other unpolluted drainage shall be discharged to
such sewers as are specifically designated as combined sewers or storm sewers,
or to a natural outlet approved by the Superintendent. Industrial cooling water
or unpolluted process water may be discharged, on approval of the
Superintendent, to a storm sewer, combined sewer or natural outlet.
(1976 Code, § 3-216) (Ord. 629, passed 5-8-1980) Penalty, see §
55.99
§ 55.14 HAZARDOUS AND PROHIBITED DISCHARGES; PRELIMINARY TREATMENT.
   (A)   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged any of the
following described waters or wastes to any public sewers:
      (1)   Any gasoline, benzene, naphtha, fuel oil or other flammable or
explosive liquid, solid or gas;
      (2)   Any waters or wastes containing toxic or poisonous solids, liquids
or gases in sufficient quantity, either singly or by interaction with other
wastes, to injure or interfere with any waste treatment process, constitute a
hazard to humans or animals, create a public nuisance or create any hazard in
the receiving waters of the sewage treatment plant including, but not limited
to, cyanides in excess of two mg/l as CN in the wastes as discharged to the
public sewer;
      (3)   Any waters or wastes having a pH lower than 5.5, or having any
other corrosive property capable of causing damage or hazard to structures,
equipment and personnel of the sewage works; and
      (4)   Solid or viscous substances in quantities or of such size capable
of causing obstruction to the flow in sewers, or other interference with the
proper operation of the sewage works such as, but not limited to, ashes,
cinders, sand, mud, straw, shavings, metal, glass, rags, feathers, tar,
plastics, wood, unground garbage, whole blood, paunch manure, hair and
fleshings, entrails and paper dishes, cups, milk containers and the like,
either whole or ground by garbage grinders.
(1976 Code, § 3-217)
   (B)   (1)   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged the
following described substances, materials, waters or wastes if it appears
likely in the opinion of the Superintendent that such wastes can harm either
the sewers, sewage treatment process or equipment, have an adverse effect on
the receiving stream, or can otherwise endanger life, limb, public property or
constitute a nuisance. In forming his or her opinion as to the acceptability of
these wastes, the Superintendent will give consideration to such factors as the
quantities of subject wastes in relation to flows and velocities in the sewers,
materials of construction of the sewers, nature of the sewage treatment
process, capacity of the sewage treatment plant, degree of treatability of
wastes in the sewage treatment plant and other pertinent factors. The
substances prohibited are:
         (a)   Any liquid or vapor having a temperature higher than 150°F
(65°C);
         (b)   Any water or waste containing fats, wax, grease or oils, whether
emulsified or not, in excess of 100 mg/l or containing substances which may
solidify or become viscous at temperatures between 32°F and 150°F (0°C and
65°C);
         (c)   Any garbage that has not been properly shredded. The
installation and operation of any garbage grinder equipped with a motor three-
fourths horsepower (seventy-six-hundredths hp metric) or greater shall be
subject to the review and approval of the Superintendent;
         (d)   Any waters or wastes containing iron, chromium, copper, zinc and
similar objectionable or toxic substances; or wastes exerting an excessive
chlorine requirement, to such degree that any such material received in the
composite sewage at the sewage treatment works exceeds the limits established
by the Superintendent for such materials;
         (e)   Any waters or wastes containing phenols or other taste- or odor-
producing substances, in such concentrations exceeding limits which may be
established by the Superintendent as necessary, after treatment of the
composite sewage, to meet the requirements of state, federal or other public
agencies of jurisdiction for such discharge to the receiving waters;
         (f)   Any radioactive wastes or isotopes of such half-life or
concentration as may exceed limits established by the Superintendent in
compliance with applicable state or federal regulations;
         (g)   Any waters of wastes having a pH in excess of 9.5;
         (h)   Materials which exert or cause:
            1.   Unusual concentrations of inert suspended solids (such as, but
not limited to, Fuller’s earth, lime slurries and lime residues) or of
dissolved solids, (such as but not limited to, sodium chloride or sodium
sulfate);
            2.   Excessive discoloration (such as, but not limited to, dye
wastes and vegetable tanning solutions);
            3.   Unusual BOD, chemical oxygen demand or chlorine requirements
in such quantities as to constitute a significant load on the sewage treatment
works; and/or
            4.   Unusual volume of flow or concentration of wastes constituting
“slugs”, as defined herein.
         (i)   Waters or wastes containing substances which are not amenable to
treatment or reduction by the sewage treatment processes employed, or are
amenable to treatment only to such degree that the sewage treatment plant
effluent cannot meet the requirements of other agencies having jurisdiction
over discharge to the receiving waters;
         (j)   Any waters or wastes having:
            1.   A five-day BOD greater than 300 parts per million by weight;
            2.   Containing more than 350 parts per million by weight of
suspended solids; or
            3.   Having an average daily flow greater than 2% of the average
sewage flow of the city, shall be subject to the review of the Superintendent.
      (2)   Where necessary, in the opinion of the Superintendent, the owner
shall provide, at his or her expense, such preliminary treatment as may be
necessary to:
         (a)   Reduce the biochemical oxygen demand to 300 parts per million by
weight;
         (b)   Reduce the suspended solids to 350 parts per million by weight;
or
         (c)   Control the quantities and rates of discharge of such waters or
wastes.
      (3)   Plans, specifications and other pertinent information relating to
proposed preliminary treatment facilities shall be submitted for the approval
of the Superintendent and no construction of such facilities shall be commenced
until said approvals are obtained in writing.
(1976 Code, § 3-218)
   (C)   (1)   If any waters or wastes are discharged, or are proposed to be
discharged to the public sewers, which waters contain the substances or possess
the characteristics enumerated in division (B) above, and which in the judgment
of the Superintendent, may have a deleterious effect upon the sewage works,
processes, equipment or receiving waters, or which otherwise create a hazard to
life to constitute a public nuisance, the Superintendent may:
         (a)   Reject the wastes;
         (b)   Require pretreatment to an acceptable condition for discharge to
the public sewers;
         (c)   Require control over the quantities and rates of discharge; and/
or
         (d)   Require payment to cover the added cost of handling and treating
the wastes not covered by existing taxes or sewer charges under the provisions
of division (H) below.
      (2)   If the Superintendent permits the pretreatment or equalization of
waste flows, the design and installation of the plants and equipment shall be
subject to the review and approval of the Superintendent, and subject to the
requirements of all applicable codes, ordinances and laws.
(1976 Code, § 3-219)
   (D)   Grease, oil, and sand interceptors shall be provided when, in the
opinion of the Superintendent, they are necessary for the proper handling of
liquid wastes containing grease in excessive amounts, or any flammable wastes,
sand, or other harmful ingredients; except that, such interceptors shall not be
required for private living quarters or dwelling units. All interceptors shall
be of a type and capacity approved by the Superintendent and shall be located
as to be readily and easily accessible for cleaning and inspection.
(1976 Code, § 3-220)
   (E)   Where preliminary treatment or flow-equalizing facilities are provided
for any waters or wastes, they shall be maintained continuously in satisfactory
and effective operation by the owner at his or her expense.
(1976 Code, § 3-221)
   (F)   (1)   When required by the Superintendent, the owner of any property
serviced by a building sewer carrying industrial wastes shall install a
suitable control manhole together with such necessary meters and other
appurtenances in the building sewer to facilitate observation, sampling and
measurement of the wastes.
      (2)   Such manhole, when required, shall be accessibly and safely located
and shall be constructed in accordance with plans approved by the
Superintendent. The manhole shall be installed by the owner at his or her
expense, and shall be maintained by him or her so as to be safe and accessible
at all times.
(1976 Code, § 3-222)
   (G)   All measurements, tests and analyses of the characteristics of waters
and wastes to which reference is made in this chapter, shall be determined in
accordance with the latest edition of Standard Methods for the Examination of
Water and Wastewater, published by the American Public Health Association, and
shall be determined at the control manhole provided, or upon suitable samples
taken at said control manhole. In the event no special manhole has been
required, the control manhole shall be considered to be the nearest downstream
manhole in the public sewer to the point at which the building sewer is
connected. Sampling shall be carried out by customarily accepted methods to
reflect the effect of constituents upon the sewage works and to determine the
existence of hazards to life, limb and property. (The particular analyses
involved will determine whether a 24-hour composite of all outfalls of a
premises is appropriate or whether a grab sample or samples should be taken.
Normally, but not always, BOD and suspended solids analyses are obtained from
24-hour composites of all outfalls whereas pHs are determined from periodic
grab samples.)
(1976 Code, § 3-223)
   (H)   No statement contained in this chapter shall be construed as
preventing any special agreement or arrangement between the city and any
industrial concern whereby an industrial waste of unusual strength or character
may be accepted by the city for treatment, subject to payment therefor, by the
industrial concern.
(1976 Code, § 3-224)
(Ord. 629, passed 5-8-1980) Penalty, see §
55.99
§ 55.15 DESTRUCTION OF PROPERTY.
   No unauthorized person or persons shall maliciously, willfully or
negligently break, damage, destroy, uncover, deface or tamper with any
structure, appurtenance or equipment which is part of the sewage works.
(1976 Code, § 3-225) (Ord. 629, passed 5-8-1980) Penalty, see §
55.99
§ 55.16 INSPECTIONS.
   (A)   The Superintendent and other duly authorized employees of the city
bearing proper credentials and identification shall be permitted to enter all
properties for the purposes of inspection, observation, measurement, sampling
and testing in accordance with the provisions of this chapter. The
Superintendent or his or her representatives shall have no authority to inquire
into any processes including metallurgical, chemical, oil, refining, ceramic,
paper or other industries beyond that point having a direct bearing on the kind
and source of discharge to the sewers or waterways or facilities for waste
treatment.
(1976 Code, § 3-226) (Ord. 629, passed 5-8-1980)
   (B)   While performing the necessary work on private properties referred to
in division (A) above, the Superintendent or duly authorized employees of the
city shall observe all safety rules applicable to the premises established by
the company and the company shall be held harmless for injury or death to the
city employees and the city shall indemnify the company against loss or damage
to its property by city employees and against liability claims and demands for
personal injury or property damage asserted against the company and growing out
of the gauging and sampling operation, except as such may be caused by
negligence or failure of the company to maintain safe conditions as required in
§
55.14(F) of this chapter.
(1976 Code, § 3-227)
   (C)   (1)   The Superintendent and other duly authorized employees of the
city bearing proper credentials and identification shall be permitted to enter
all private properties through which the city holds a duly negotiated easement
for the purposes of, but not limited to, inspection, observation, measurement,
sampling, repair and maintenance of any portion of the sewage works lying
within said easement.
      (2)   All entry and subsequent work, if any, on said easement, shall be
done in full accordance with the terms of the duly negotiated easement
pertaining to the private property involved.
(1976 Code, § 3-228)
(Ord. 629, passed 5-8-1980)
PRIVATE SEWAGE DISPOSAL
§ 55.30 WHEN APPLICABLE.
   Where a public sanitary or combined sewer is not available under the
provisions of §
55.04 of this chapter, the building sewer shall be connected to a private
sewage disposal system complying with the provisions of this subchapter.
(1976 Code, § 3-205) (Ord. 629, passed 5-8-1980)
§ 55.31 PERMIT REQUIRED; FEE.
   Before commencement of construction of a private sewage disposal system the
owner shall first obtain a written permit signed by the Sewer Commissioner. The
application for such permit shall be made on a form furnished by the Board of
Public Works, which the applicant shall supplement by any plans, specifications
and other information as are deemed necessary by the Sewer Commissioner. A
permit and inspection fee determined by the Board of Public Works shall be paid
at the time the application is filed.
(1976 Code, § 3-205.01) (Ord. 629, passed 5-8-1980; Ord. 1293, passed 6-25-
2001)
§ 55.32 PERMIT; WHEN EFFECTIVE; INSPECTIONS.
   (A)   A permit for a private sewage disposal system shall not become
effective until the installation is completed to the satisfaction of the
Superintendent.
   (B)   He or she shall be allowed to inspect the work at any stage of
construction and, in any event, the applicant for the permit shall notify the
Superintendent when the work is ready for final inspection, and before any
underground portions are covered.
   (C)   The inspection shall be made within 48 hours of the receipt of notice
by the Superintendent.
(1976 Code, § 3-205.02) (Ord. 629, passed 5-8-1980)
§ 55.33 SPECIFICATIONS.
   (A)   The type, capacities, location and layout of a private sewage disposal
system shall comply with all requirements of the state’s Department of
Environmental Control.
   (B)   No permit shall be issued for any private sewage disposal system
employing subsurface soil absorption facilities when the area of the lot is
less than 10,000 square feet.
   (C)   No septic tank or cesspool shall be permitted to discharge to any
natural outlet.
(1976 Code, § 3-205.03) (Ord. 629, passed 5-8-1980)
§ 55.34 WHEN NOT APPLICABLE.
   At such time as a public sewer becomes available to a property served by a
private wastewater disposal system, as provided in §
55.04 of this chapter, a direct connection shall be made to the public sewer in
compliance with this chapter, and any septic tanks, cesspools and similar
private wastewater disposal facilities shall be cleaned of sludge and filled
with suitable material.
(1976 Code, § 3-205.04) (Ord. 629, passed 5-8-1980)
§ 55.35 MAINTENANCE.
   The owner shall operate and maintain the private sewage disposal facilities
in a sanitary manner at all times, at no expense to the city.
(1976 Code, § 3-205.05) (Ord. 629, passed 5-8-1980)
§ 55.36 ADDITIONAL REQUIREMENTS.
   No statement contained in this chapter shall be construed to interfere with
any additional requirements that may be imposed by the Health Officer.
(1976 Code, § 3-205.06) (Ord. 629, passed 5-8-1980)
BUILDING SEWER INSTALLATION
§ 55.50 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   No unauthorized person shall uncover, make any connections with or opening
into, use, alter or disturb any public sewer or appurtenance thereof without
first obtaining a written permit from the Superintendent.
(1976 Code, § 3-208) (Ord. 629, passed 5-8-1980) Penalty, see §
55.99
§ 55.51 CLASSIFICATION; PERMIT APPLICATION FEE.
   (A)   There shall be two classes of building sewer permits: for residential
and commercial service; and for service to establishments producing industrial
wastes.
   (B)   In either case, the owner or his or her agent shall make application
on a special form furnished by the Board of Public Works.
   (C)   The permit application shall be supplemented by any plans,
specifications or other information considered pertinent in the judgment of the
Sewer Commissioner.
   (D)   A permit and inspection fee determined by the Board of Public Works
shall be paid at the time the application is filed.
   (E)   All sewer taps shall be made using a tapping machine to be furnished
by the Board of Public Works.
(1976 Code, § 3-208.01) (Ord. 629, passed 5-8-1980; Ord. 1293, passed 6-25-
2001)
§ 55.52 EXPENSE.
   All costs and expense incident to the installation and connection of the
building sewer shall be borne by the owner. The owner shall indemnify the city
from any loss or damage that may directly or indirectly be occasioned by the
installation of the building sewer.
(1976 Code, § 3-208.02) (Ord. 629, passed 5-8-1980)
§ 55.53 SINGLE PREMISES.
   A separate and independent building sewer shall be provided for every
building; except where one building stands at the rear of another on an
interior lot and no private sewer is available or can be constructed to the
rear building through an adjoining alley, court, yard or driveway, the building
sewer from the front building may be extended to the rear building and the
whole considered as one building sewer.
(1976 Code, § 3-208.03) (Ord. 629, passed 5-8-1980)
§ 55.54 USE OF EXISTING SEWERS.
   Old building sewers may be used in connection with new buildings only when
they are found, on examination and test by the Superintendent, to meet all
requirements of this subchapter.
(1976 Code, § 3-208.04) (Ord. 629, passed 5-8-1980)
§ 55.55 CONSTRUCTION CODES.
   (A)   The size, slope, alignment, materials of construction of a building
sewer and the methods to be used in excavating, placing of the pipe, jointing,
testing and backfilling the trench, shall all conform to the requirements of
the Building and Plumbing Code or other applicable rules and regulations of the
city. In the absence of code provisions or in amplification thereof, the
materials and procedures set forth in appropriate specifications of the
A.S.T.M. and W.P.C.F. Manual of Practice No. 9 shall apply.
   (B)   Whenever possible, the building sewer shall be brought to the building
at an elevation below the basement floor. In all buildings in which any
building drain is too low to permit gravity flow to the public sewer, sanitary
sewage carried by such building drain shall be lifted by an approved means and
discharged to the building sewer.
   (C)   The connection of the building sewer into the public sewer shall
conform to the requirements of the Building and Plumbing Code or other
applicable rules and regulations of the city, or the procedures set forth in
appropriate specifications of the A.S.T.M. and the W.P.C.F. Manual of Practice
No. 9. All such connections shall be made gas-tight and water-tight. Any
deviation from the prescribed procedures and materials must be approved by the
Superintendent before installation.
(1976 Code, § 3-208.05) (Ord. 629, passed 5-8-1980)
§ 55.56 UNLAWFUL CONNECTION.
   No person shall make connection of roof downspouts, interior and exterior
foundation drains, areaway drains, or other sources of surface runoff or ground
water to a building sewer or building drain which in turn is connected directly
or indirectly to a public sanitary sewer.
(1976 Code, § 3-208.06) (Ord. 629, passed 5-8-1980) Penalty, see §
55.99
§ 55.57 INSPECTIONS.
   (A)   The applicant for the building sewer permit shall notify the
Superintendent when the building sewer is ready for inspection and connection
to the public sewer.
   (B)   The connection and testing shall be made under the supervision of the
Superintendent or his or her representative.
(1976 Code, § 3-208.07) (Ord. 629, passed 5-8-1980)
§ 55.58 EXCAVATIONS.
   (A)   All excavations for building sewer installation shall be adequately
guarded with barricades and lights so as to protect the public from hazard.
Streets, sidewalks, parkways and other public property disturbed in the course
of the work shall be restored in a manner satisfactory to the city.
   (B)   In making excavations in streets, alleys or sidewalks for the purpose
of installing pipe or making repairs, the paving, stones and earth must be
removed and deposited in a manner that will occasion the least inconvenience to
the public and provide for adequate drainage. No person shall leave an
excavation made in the street, alley or sidewalk open at any time without a
barricade, and during the night, warning lights. After the house sewer is laid,
the public ways and property shall be restored to good condition. If the
excavation in the public ways and property is left open or unfinished for a
period of 24 hours or more, the Sewer Commissioner shall have the duty to
finish or correct the work, and all expenses so incurred shall be charged to
the owner, occupant or lessee of the property.
(1976 Code, § 3-209) (Ord. 629, passed 5-8-1980) Penalty, see §
55.99
§ 55.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person violating §
55.15 shall be subject to immediate arrest under charge of disorderly conduct.
(1976 Code, § 3-225)
   (C)   Any person found to be violating any provision of this chapter except
§
55.15 shall be served by the city with written notice stating the nature of the
violation and providing a reasonable time limit for the satisfactory correction
thereof. The offender shall, within the period of time stated in such notice,
permanently cease all violations.
(1976 Code, § 3-229)
   (D)   (1)   Any person who shall continue any violation beyond the time
limit provided in division (C) above, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor, and on
conviction thereof shall be fined in the amount not exceeding $100 for each
violation. Each 24-hour period in which any such violation shall continue shall
be deemed a separate offense.
      (2)   Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall
become liable to the city for any expense, loss or damage occasioned the city
by reason of such violation.
(1976 Code, § 3-230)
(Ord. 629, passed 5-8-1980)
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
   Chapter
      
70.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
71.   VEHICLE OPERATION
      
72.   PARKING RULES
      
73.   RECREATIONAL VEHICLES
      
74.   TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
      
75.   PARKING SCHEDULES
CHAPTER 70: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
70.01   Definitions
   
70.02   Littering from vehicles
   
70.03   Signs; defacing, unauthorized display
Administration and Enforcement
   
70.15   Accidents
   
70.16   Emergency regulations; authority
   
70.17   Refusal to obey police
   
70.18   Traffic officers
Registration, Equipment and Operation Requirements
   
70.30   Operator and vehicle license
   
70.31   Trailers
   
70.32   License plates
   
70.33   Equipment and maintenance
   
70.34   Unobstructed views
   
70.35   Loads
 
   
70.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 70.01 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   The words and phrases used in this traffic code, pertaining to motor
vehicles and traffic regulations, shall be construed as defined in Neb. RS Ch.
60, Art. 6, as now existing or hereafter amended. If not defined in the
designated statutes, the word or phrase shall have its common meaning.
   (B)   A MOTOR VEHICLE is every self-propelled land vehicle not operated upon
rails, except bicycles, mopeds, self-propelled chairs used by persons who are
disabled and electric personal assistive mobility devices.
(1976 Code, § 5-101) (Ord. 1125, passed 2-6-1995; Ord. 1461, passed 2-8-2016)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 60-606 through 60-676
§ 70.02 LITTERING FROM VEHICLES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to drop, or cause to be left, upon any
municipal highway, street or alley, except at places designated by the
governing body, any rubbish, debris or waste, and any person so doing shall be
guilty of littering.
(1976 Code, § 5-301) Penalty, see §
70.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 39-683
§ 70.03 SIGNS; DEFACING, UNAUTHORIZED DISPLAY.
   (A)   Defacing or interfering with. It shall be unlawful for any person to
willfully deface, injure, remove, obstruct or interfere with any official
traffic sign or signal.
(1976 Code, § 5-302)
   (B)   Unauthorized display. It shall be unlawful for any person to maintain
or display upon, or in view of any street, any unofficial sign, signal or
device which purports to be, is an imitation of, or resembles an official
traffic sign or signal which attempts to direct the movement of traffic, or
which hides from view, or interferes with the effectiveness of any official
sign or signal. Every such prohibited sign, signal or device is hereby declared
to be a public nuisance, and any police officer is hereby empowered to remove
the same, or cause it to be removed, without notice.
(1976 Code, § 5-303)
Penalty, see §
70.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 39-618, 39-619
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
§ 70.15 ACCIDENTS.
   (A)   The driver of any vehicle involved in an accident upon a public
highway, private road or private drive, resulting in injury or death to any
person shall:
      (1)   Immediately stop such vehicle at the scene of the accident;
      (2)   Give his or her name, address and the registration number of his or
her vehicle, and exhibit his or her operator’s, or chauffeur’s license, to the
person struck, or the driver, or occupants, of any vehicle collided with; and
      (3)   Render to any person injured in such accident reasonable
assistance, including the carrying of such person to a physician or surgeon for
medical or surgical treatment if it is apparent that such treatment is
necessary, or is requested by the injured person.
   (B)   The driver of any vehicle involved in an accident, whether upon the
public highway, private road or private drive, resulting in damage to property
shall immediately stop such vehicle at the scene of the accident and give his
or her name, address and the registration number of his or her vehicle, and
exhibit his or her operator’s or chauffeur’s license to the owner of the
property struck, or the driver, or occupants of any other vehicle involved in
the collision.
(1976 Code, § 5-323) Penalty, see §
70.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 39-6,104.01, 39-6,104.02
§ 70.16 EMERGENCY REGULATIONS; AUTHORITY.
   (A)   The Chief of Police is hereby empowered to make and enforce temporary
traffic regulations to cover emergencies.
(1976 Code, § 5-325)
   (B)   The municipal police are hereby authorized, empowered and ordered to
exercise all powers, and duties, with relation to the management of street
traffic and to direct, control, stop, restrict, regulate and, when necessary,
temporarily divert or exclude, in the interest of public safety, health and
convenience the movement of pedestrian, animal and vehicular traffic of every
kind in streets, parks and on bridges. The driver of any vehicle shall stop
upon the signal of any police officer.
(1976 Code, § 5-326)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 39-6,192
§ 70.17 REFUSAL TO OBEY POLICE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to refuse, or fail to comply with, any
lawful order, signal or direction of a police officer.
(1976 Code, § 5-327) Penalty, see §
70.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 39-697
§ 70.18 TRAFFIC OFFICERS.
   The governing body or the municipal police may at any time detail officers,
to be known as “traffic officers,” at street intersections. All traffic
officers shall be vested with the authority to regulate and control traffic at
the intersections to which they are assigned. It shall be their duty to direct
the movement of traffic and prevent congestion and accidents. It shall be
unlawful for any person to violate any order, or signal, of any such traffic
officer notwithstanding the directive of a stop sign, or signal device, which
may have been placed at any such intersection.
(1976 Code, § 5-328) Penalty, see §
70.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 39-669.21, 39-697, 39-6,192
REGISTRATION, EQUIPMENT AND OPERATION REQUIREMENTS
§ 70.30 OPERATOR AND VEHICLE LICENSE.
   (A)   No person shall operate or park a motor vehicle upon any street, alley
or public highway within the municipality without having first registered the
same in accordance with Neb. RS Ch. 60, Art. 3, and Neb. RS 60-321, except as
provided in this section. A person may operate a motor vehicle without
registration for a period not to exceed 30 days from the date of purchase. Upon
registration, such vehicle shall have the required number plates displayed upon
said vehicle in the manner and places provided for by Neb. RS 60-323. If a
citation is issued to an owner or operator of a vehicle for a violation of this
division (A) and the owner properly registers and licenses the vehicle not in
compliance and pays all taxes and fees due and the owner or operator provides
proof of such registration to the prosecuting attorney within ten days after
the issuance of the citation, no prosecution for the offense cited shall occur.
   (B)   No person shall operate a motor vehicle upon any street, alley or
public highway without having obtained a motor vehicle operator’s license in
accordance with Neb. RS Ch. 60, Art. 4. It shall be unlawful for any person to
operate a motor vehicle upon any street, alley or public highway during the
period that his or her operator’s license has been revoked or canceled.
(1976 Code, § 5-401) (Ord. 1051, passed 3-23-1992; Ord. 1128, passed 2-6-1995;
Ord. 1194, passed 1-22-1996) Penalty, see §
70.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 60-302, 60-320, 60-320.01, 60-321, 60-323,
60-4,186
§ 70.31 TRAILERS.
   No trailer, semi-trailer or cabin trailer shall be operated or parked on any
street, alley or public highway within the municipality without having first
registered the same in accordance with Neb. RS Ch. 60, Art. 3, and Neb. RS 60-
321, except as provided in this section. A person may pull such trailer, semi-
trailer or cabin trailer without registration for a period not to exceed 30
days from the date of purchase. Upon registration, such trailer, semi-trailer
or cabin trailer shall have the required number plate displayed upon said
trailer as provided for by Neb. RS 60-311. If a citation is issued to an owner
or operator of a vehicle for a violation of this section and the owner properly
registers and licenses the vehicle not in compliance and pays all taxes and
fees due and the owner or operator provides proof of such registration to the
prosecuting attorney within ten days after the issuance of the citation, no
prosecution for the offense cited shall occur.
(1976 Code, § 5-402) (Ord. 1129, passed 2-6-1995; Ord. 1195, passed 1-22-1996)
Penalty, see §
70.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 60-302, 60-320, 60-321
§ 70.32 LICENSE PLATES.
   The license plates, required on every motor vehicle by laws of the state, or
by laws of any other state while such vehicle is operated within the corporate
limits, shall be kept clear and free from grease, dust or other blurring matter
so they will be plainly visible at all times, and shall be attached in such
manner as to be clearly readable at a distance of 100 feet and under no
circumstances shall they be obstructed by any portion of the vehicle.
(1976 Code, § 5-403) Penalty, see §
70.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 60-324, 60-325
§ 70.33 EQUIPMENT AND MAINTENANCE.
   Every motor vehicle, while in use on the streets, alleys or highways of the
municipality shall be equipped with efficient brakes adequate to control the
movement of, to stop and to hold such vehicle, including two separate means of
applying the brakes, and shall be further equipped with a good and sufficient
horn in good working order or other efficient signal devices. From sunset to
sunrise, and any other time when there is not sufficient light to render
clearly discernible persons or vehicles upon the street, alley or highway at a
distance of 500 feet, every motor vehicle shall be equipped with lighted
headlights and every motor vehicle and trailer shall be equipped with one or
more taillights, at the rear of the motor vehicle or trailer, exhibiting a red
light visible from a distance of at least 500 feet to the rear of such vehicle.
No person shall operate any crosswalks within the municipality. Every motor
vehicle having a width of 80 inches or more shall display clearance lights as
required by state law. All vehicle brakes shall be maintained in good working
order; provided, motorcycles need only be equipped with one brake. All horns on
motor vehicles shall be capable of emitting sound audible under normal
conditions from a distance of not less than 200 feet; provided, no vehicle,
except as herein provided, shall be equipped with, nor shall any person use
upon a vehicle, any siren or horn otherwise than as reasonable warning; nor
shall any person use any horn or warning device upon a vehicle to make any
unnecessary, loud or harsh sound; and, provided further that, every Police and
Fire Department vehicle, ambulance or other authorized emergency vehicle used
for emergency calls shall be equipped with a bell, siren or whistle of the type
approved by the governing body.
(1976 Code, § 5-404) (Ord. 1130, passed 2-6-1995; Ord. 1196, passed 1-22-1996)
Penalty, see §
70.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 60-6,219, 60-6,220, 60-6,224, 60-6,235, 60-
6,244, 60-6,285
§ 70.34 UNOBSTRUCTED VIEWS.
   (A)   No person shall drive on a street any motor vehicle constructed or
loaded in such a way as to prevent the driver from obtaining a view of the
street to the rear unless such vehicle is equipped with a mirror so located as
to reflect to the driver a view of the street for a distance of at least 200
feet to the rear of such vehicle. It shall be unlawful for any person to drive
upon a street, any vehicle with a sign, poster or other non-transparent
material upon the front windshield, side windows or rear windows of such motor
vehicle other than a certificate, or paper required to be so displayed by law.
   (B)   Every windshield on a motor vehicle shall be equipped with a device
for removing rain, snow or other moisture from the windshield, which device
shall be so constructed as to be operated by the driver within the vehicle.
(1976 Code, § 5-405) Penalty, see §
70.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 39-6,124, 39-6,136, 39-6,170
§ 70.35 LOADS.
   (A)   Projecting. When any vehicle shall be loaded in such a manner that any
portion of the load extends more than four feet beyond the rear of the bed or
the body of such vehicle, a red flag of not less than 12 inches both in length
and width shall be carried by day, and red light after sunset at the extreme
rear end of such load.
(1976 Code, § 5-406)
   (B)   Spilling. All vehicles used for carrying coal, earth, cinders, sand,
gravel, rock, asphalt, tar or any similar substance shall be so constructed as
to prevent the sifting or spilling of any of the contents.
(1976 Code, § 5-407)
Penalty, see §
70.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 39-6,129, 39-6,130, 39-6,137
§ 70.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who shall violate or refuse to comply with the enforcement
of any of the provisions of this traffic code, set forth at full length herein
or incorporated by reference, shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon
conviction thereof, shall be fined not more than $500 for each offense. A new
violation shall be deemed to have been committed every 24 hours of such failure
to comply.
(1976 Code, § 5-701)
   (B)   Every person convicted of violating the provisions of §§
70.15 through
70.18 of this chapter, relative to the duty to stop in the event of certain
accidents, shall be punished by a fine of not more than $100. In addition
thereto the court may, in its discretion, revoke the operator’s or chauffeur’s
license of the person so convicted for a period not to exceed one year.
(1976 Code, § 5-324)
(Ord. 1449, passed 12-23-2013)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 39-6,104.02, 39-6,104.03
CHAPTER 71: VEHICLE OPERATION
Section
General Provisions
   
71.01   Automatic lights and signals; signal system
   
71.02   Right turn on red
   
71.03   Truck routes
   
71.04   Restrictions on direction of travel
   
71.05   Traffic lanes, arterial streets designated
   
71.06   Turning movements
   
71.07   Right-of-way
   
71.08   Position of vehicle on highway
   
71.09   Stops; crossing sidewalks
   
71.10   Crosswalks
   
71.11   Child passengers; restraint system
Prohibited Operation
   
71.25   Reckless driving
   
71.26   Careless driving
   
71.27   Negligent driving
   
71.28   Backing vehicles
   
71.29   Unnecessary stopping
   
71.30   Passing; intersections; hinderance
   
71.31   Driving abreast
   
71.32   Following vehicles
   
71.33   Crowding in front seat
   
71.34   Driving in sidewalk space
   
71.35   Unnecessary noise; mufflers
   
71.36   Wrongful taking
   
71.37   Radar devices
   
71.38   Driving on highway shoulders
   
71.39   Engine brakes
   
71.40   Snow emergency routes
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 71.01 AUTOMATIC LIGHTS AND SIGNALS; SIGNAL SYSTEM.
   (A)   Automatic lights and signals. No vehicle shall turn at any
intersection where an automatic signal system is in operation, except when such
signal system is displaying a green light; provided, vehicles may turn on a red
signal when in compliance with the provisions of this section governing such
turns. No vehicle shall be turned so as to proceed in the opposite direction at
any intersection where an automatic signal system is in operation.
(1976 Code, § 5-201)
   (B)   Automatic signal system. At each intersection where an automatic
signal system is in operation, all vehicular and pedestrian traffic crossing
such street intersection shall be governed by such automatic signal system. The
display of the red signal light shall be a signal for traffic to stop outside
of the street intersection. The display of the yellow signal light shall
announce that traffic be at attention to stop when the red light is displayed,
and the green signal light shall be a signal for traffic to promptly move
forward. It shall be unlawful for any person to violate any such signal.
(1976 Code, § 5-202)
   (C)   Signs and signals. The governing body may, by resolution, provide for
the placing of stop signs or other signs, signals, standards or mechanical
devices in any street or alley under the municipality’s jurisdiction for the
purpose of regulating or prohibiting traffic thereon. Such resolution shall
describe the portion of the street or alley wherein traffic is to be regulated
or prohibited; the regulation or prohibition; the location where such sign,
signal, standard or mechanical device shall be placed; and the hours when such
regulation or prohibition shall be effective. It shall be unlawful for any
person to fail, neglect or refuse to comply with such regulation or
prohibition.
(1976 Code, § 5-220)
   (D)   Stop signs. Every person operating any vehicle shall, upon approaching
any stop sign erected in accordance with the resolution prescribed heretofore,
cause such vehicle to come to a complete stop before entering or crossing any
street, highway or railroad crossing. The vehicle operator shall stop at a
marked stop line or, if there is no stop line, before entering the crosswalk;
but, if neither is indicated, then as near the right-of-way line of the
intersecting roadway as possible.
(1976 Code, § 5-221)
   (E)   Signs, traffic-control devices, traffic surveillance devices; defacing
or interfering with. It shall be unlawful for any person to willfully or
maliciously deface, injure, remove, obstruct, knock down or interfere with any
official traffic sign or signal, traffic-control device or traffic-control
surveillance device.
(1976 Code, § 5-222)
(Ord. 990, passed 12-18-1989) Penalty, see §
70.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 39-609 through 39-611, 39-614, 39-619, 39-
619.01, 39-697
§ 71.02 RIGHT TURN ON RED.
   Except where a traffic-control device is in place prohibiting a turn,
vehicles facing a steady red signal may cautiously enter the intersection to
make a right turn after stopping. Such turning vehicle shall yield the right-
of-way to pedestrians lawfully within the adjacent crosswalk and to other
vehicular traffic lawfully using the intersection. The governing body of the
municipality has the authority to prohibit turning right on red at any
intersection within the municipality where it deems such a prohibition
necessary; provided, those intersections where turning right on red is
prohibited shall bear signs to that effect placed and printed in such a manner
so as to be conspicuous from a vehicle about to enter the intersection.
(1976 Code, § 5-203) Penalty, see §
70.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 39-614, 39-697
§ 71.03 TRUCK ROUTES.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to operate on 8th Street between F Street and
Highway 30 in the city any semi-tractor truck with trailer attached or
unattached, trucks with beds or boxes that exceed nine feet in length or more,
including agricultural and industrial equipment exceeding 10,000 pounds in
gross weight.
   (B)   It shall not be unlawful for the following vehicles to operate upon
any street or alley in the city: emergency vehicles; vehicles being used for
the purpose of delivering or collecting goods, wares, merchandise; vehicles
being directly used for building, repair, service, moving operations; vehicles
being used to obtain materials or making repairs while dealing with regularly
established businesses or equipment related thereto.
   (C)   Signage designating such prohibition shall be erected upon or at the
entrance to said affected streets as may be most appropriate.
(1976 Code, § 5-204) (Ord. 1462, passed 5-23-2016) Penalty, see §
70.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 39-6,189
§ 71.04 RESTRICTIONS ON DIRECTION OF TRAVEL.
   (A)   The City Council with respect to highways under its jurisdiction may
designate any highway, roadway, part of a roadway, or specific lanes upon which
vehicular traffic shall proceed in one direction at all times or at such times
as shall be indicated by traffic control devices.
   (B)   Except for emergency vehicles, no vehicle shall be operated, backed,
pushed, or otherwise caused to move in a direction which is opposite to the
direction designated by competent authority on any deceleration lane,
acceleration lane, access ramp, shoulder, or roadway.
   (C)   A vehicle which passes around a roundabout shall be driven only to the
right of the central island while on the circulatory roadway in such
roundabout.
(1976 Code, § 5-205) (Ord. 1521, passed 5-2-2022)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb RS 39-697
§ 71.05 TRAFFIC LANES, ARTERIAL STREETS DESIGNATED.
   (A)   The governing body may, by resolution, mark lanes for traffic on
street pavements at such places as it may deem advisable.
(1976 Code, § 5-206)
   (B)   The governing body may, by resolution, designate any street or portion
thereof as an arterial street and shall provide for appropriate signs or
markings when such street has been so designated.
(1976 Code, § 5-207)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 39-697
§ 71.06 TURNING MOVEMENTS.
   (A)   “U” turns. No vehicle shall be turned so as to proceed in the opposite
direction, except at a street intersection. No vehicle shall be turned so as to
proceed in the opposite direction at any intersection where an automatic signal
is in operation or where a sign is posted indicating that U-turns are
prohibited.
(1976 Code, § 5-208)
   (B)   Hand signals. A signal of intention to turn right or left shall be
given continuously during not less than the last 100 feet traveled by the
vehicle before turning. The signals herein required shall be given either by
means of the hand and arm, or by a signal device of a type approved by the
Department of Roads. The hand and arm signals herein required shall be given
from the left side of the vehicle in the following manner:
      (1)   Stop or decreased speed: hand and arm extended downward;
      (2)   Left turn: hand and arm extended horizontally; and
      (3)   Right turn: hand and arm extended upward.
(1976 Code, § 5-209)
   (C)   Generally.
      (1)   Vehicles turning to the right into an intersecting street shall
approach such intersection in the lane of traffic nearest to the right hand
side of the highway and must turn the corner as near the right- hand curb as
possible to keep between the curb to the right and the center of the
intersection of the two streets. The driver of a vehicle intending to turn to
the left shall approach such centerline of the highway and, in turning, shall
pass as near as possible to the center of the intersection, passing as closely
as practicable to the right thereof before turning such vehicle to the left.
      (2)   For the purposes of this section, the CENTER OF THE INTERSECTION
shall mean the meeting point of the medial lines of the highways intersecting
one another.
(1976 Code, § 5-210)
Penalty, see §
70.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 39-650, 39-651, 39-652 through 39-654, 39-
697
§ 71.07 RIGHT-OF-WAY.
   (A)   (1)   When two vehicles approach or enter an intersection at
approximately the same time, the driver of the vehicle on the left shall yield
the right-of-way to the vehicle on the right when the paths of such vehicles
intersect and there is danger of a collision, unless otherwise directed by a
municipal police officer stationed at the intersection.
      (2)   The driver of a vehicle intending to turn left within an
intersection, or into an alley, private road or driveway shall yield the right-
of-way to any vehicle approaching from the opposite direction which is within
the intersection or so close thereto as to constitute an immediate hazard.
      (3)   The driver of a vehicle on any street shall yield the right-of-way
to a pedestrian crossing such street within any clearly marked crosswalk, or at
any regular pedestrian crossing at the end of a block where the movement of
traffic is being regulated by traffic officers or traffic direction devices.
Every pedestrian crossing a street at any point other than a pedestrian
crossing, crosswalk or intersection shall yield the right-of-way to vehicles
upon the street.
      (4)   The driver of a vehicle emerging from or entering an alley,
building, private road or driveway shall yield the right-of-way to any
pedestrian approaching on any sidewalk.
      (5)   The driver of a vehicle entering a municipal street from a private
road or drive shall yield the right-of-way to all vehicles approaching on such
streets.
      (6)   The driver of a vehicle upon a street shall yield the right-of-way
to authorized emergency vehicles when the latter are operated upon official
business and the drivers thereof make proper use of visual or audible signals.
(1976 Code, § 5-211)
   (B)   Overtaking vehicles. The driver of a vehicle about to be overtaken and
passed by another vehicle approaching from the rear shall give way to the right
in favor of the overtaking vehicle.
(1976 Code, § 5-212)
   (C)   Slow moving vehicles. Vehicles moving slowly shall keep as close as
possible to the curb on the right, allowing more swiftly moving vehicles free
passage to their left. Vehicles in motion shall be kept between the curb at the
right and the center of the street.
(1976 Code, § 5-213)
   (D)   Emergency vehicles. Upon the approach of any authorized emergency
vehicle, every vehicle within one block of the route of such emergency vehicle
shall immediately stop, except at the time they are on or crossing a street
intersection, in which event, such vehicle shall drive clear of the street
intersection and then stop. Every vehicle along the route of such emergency
vehicle shall immediately move to a position as near the right-hand curb as
possible and remain there until such authorized emergency vehicle or vehicles
have passed; provided, said vehicles are operated on official business and the
drivers thereof make use of proper visual or audible signals.
(1976 Code, § 5-214)
(Ord. 1126, passed 2-6-1995) Penalty, see §
70.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 39-622, 39-640, 39-697, 60-6,146 through 60-
6,154
§ 71.08 POSITION OF VEHICLE ON HIGHWAY.
   (A)   Generally. Upon all highways of sufficient width, one-way streets
excepted, the driver of a vehicle shall drive the same on the right half of the
roadway. In passing or meeting other vehicles, drivers shall give each other at
least one-half of the main traveled portion of the roadway.
(1976 Code, § 5-215)
   (B)   Passing. A vehicle shall not be driven to the left of the centerline
of the highway in overtaking or passing another vehicle proceeding in the same
direction, unless such left side is clearly visible and free from oncoming
traffic for a sufficient distance to permit such overtaking and passing to be
made in safety.
(1976 Code, § 5-216)
   (C)   Slow vehicles. Vehicles moving slowly shall keep as close as possible
to the curb on the right, allowing more swiftly moving vehicles free passage on
the left.
(1976 Code, § 5-217)
Penalty, see §
70.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 39-620, 39-622, 39-625, 39-697
§ 71.09 STOPS; CROSSING SIDEWALKS.
   All vehicles, before crossing a sidewalk, emerging from a garage, alley,
filling station or other place within the Business District shall come to a
complete stop and after giving sufficient warning shall proceed slowly and with
extreme caution while crossing such sidewalk, or leaving such garage, alley,
filling station or other place. The term SLOWLY shall be construed to mean such
rate of speed as is reasonable and proper under the circumstances and the
condition of the street and traffic thereon.
(1976 Code, § 5-218)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 39-638
§ 71.10 CROSSWALKS.
   The governing body may, by resolution, establish and maintain, by
appropriate devices, markers or lines upon the street, crosswalks, at
intersections where there is particular danger to pedestrians crossing the
street, and at such other places as it may deem necessary.
(1976 Code, § 5-219)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 39-697
§ 71.11 CHILD PASSENGERS; RESTRAINT SYSTEM.
   (A)   For purposes of this section, OCCUPANT PROTECTION SYSTEM has the
meaning provided in Neb. RS 60-6,265.
   (B)   (1)   Any person who drives any motor vehicle which has or is required
to have an occupant protection system shall ensure that:
         (a)   All children up to six years of age being transported by such
vehicle use a child passenger restraint system of a type which meets Federal
Motor Vehicle Safety Standard 213, as developed by the National Highway Traffic
Safety Administration, as such standard existed on 1-1-2004, and which is
correctly installed in such vehicle; and
         (b)   All children six years of age and less than 18 years of age
being transported by such vehicle use an occupant protection system.
      (2)   Division (B)(1) shall apply to every motor vehicle which is
equipped with an occupant protection system or is required to be equipped with
restraint systems pursuant to Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standard 208, as
such standard existed on 1-1-2004, except taxicabs, mopeds, motorcycles and any
motor vehicle designated by the manufacturer as a 1963 year model or earlier
which is not equipped with an occupant protection system.
   (C)   Whenever any licensed physician determines, through accepted medical
procedures, that use of a child passenger restraint system by a particular
child would be harmful by reason of the child’s weight, physical condition or
other medical reason, the provisions of division (B) above shall be waived. The
driver of any vehicle transporting such a child shall carry on his or her
person or in the vehicle a signed written statement of the physician
identifying the child and stating the grounds for such waiver.
   (D)   The drivers of authorized emergency vehicles shall not be subject to
the requirements of division (B) above when operating such authorized emergency
vehicles pursuant to their employment.
   (E)   A driver of a motor vehicle shall not be subject to the requirements
of division (B) above if the motor vehicle is being operated in a parade or
exhibition and the parade or exhibition is being conducted in accordance with
applicable state law and local ordinances and resolutions.
   (F)   (1)   A person violating any provision of division (B) above is guilty
of an offense. The failure to provide a child restraint system for more than
one child in the same vehicle at the same time, as required in division (B)
above, shall not be treated as a separate offense.
      (2)   Enforcement of division (B)(1)(b) above shall be accomplished only
as a secondary action when an operator of a motor vehicle has been cited or
charged with a violation of some other offense unless the violation involves a
person under the age of 18 years riding in or on any portion of the vehicle not
designed or intended for the use of passengers when the vehicle is in motion.
(1976 Code, § 5-332) (Ord. 1017, passed 1-21-1991; Ord. 1357, passed 11-8-2004)
Penalty, see §
70.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 60-6,267, 60-6,268
PROHIBITED OPERATION
§ 71.25 RECKLESS DRIVING.
   Any person who drives a motor vehicle in such a manner as to indicate an
indifferent or wanton disregard for the safety of persons or property shall be
deemed to be guilty of reckless driving and, as such, shall be punished as
provided by statute.
(1976 Code, § 5-308) Penalty, see §
70.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 39-669.01, 39-669.02, 39-669.26
§ 71.26 CARELESS DRIVING.
   Any person who drives any motor vehicle in the municipality carelessly or
without due caution so as to endanger a person or property shall be guilty of
careless driving.
(1976 Code, § 5-309) (Ord. 619, passed 8-23-1979) Penalty, see §
70.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 39-669
§ 71.27 NEGLIGENT DRIVING.
   Any person who operates a motor vehicle in such a manner as to indicate a
want of ordinary care and caution that a person of ordinary prudence would use
under like circumstances shall be deemed guilty of negligent driving.
(1976 Code, § 5-310) Penalty, see §
70.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 39-669.26
§ 71.28 BACKING VEHICLES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to back a motor vehicle on the municipal
streets except to park in or to remove the vehicle from a permitted parking
position, to move the vehicle from a driveway or to back to the curb for
unloading where such unloading is permitted; provided, a vehicle shall be
backed only when such movement can be made in safety and in no case shall the
distance of the backing exceed one and one-half lengths of the vehicle.
(1976 Code, § 5-311) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.29 UNNECESSARY STOPPING.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to stop any vehicle on any public street
or alley, other than in permitted parking areas, except when such a stop is
necessary for emergency situations, to comply with traffic-control devices and
regulations or to yield the right-of-way to pedestrians or to other vehicles.
(1976 Code, § 5-312) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.30 PASSING; INTERSECTIONS; HINDERANCE.
   (A)   The driver of a vehicle shall not overtake and pass another vehicle
proceeding in the same direction, while traversing a street intersection, if
such passing requires such overtaking vehicle to drive to the left of the
center of the street.
(1976 Code, § 5-313)
   (B)   The driver of a vehicle about to be overtaken and passed by another
vehicle shall not increase the speed of his or her vehicle until completely
passed by the overtaking vehicle.
(1976 Code, § 5-314)
Penalty, see §
70.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 39-622, 39-625
§ 71.31 DRIVING ABREAST.
   Two or more vehicles shall not be driven abreast, except when passing, or
when traversing a multi-lane or one-way street; provided, motorcycles may be
driven no more than two abreast in a single lane.
(1976 Code, § 5-315) Penalty, see §
70.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 39-628, 39-694
§ 71.32 FOLLOWING VEHICLES.
   (A)   Distance. The operator of a vehicle shall not follow another vehicle
more closely than is reasonable and prudent having due regard for the speed of
the vehicles, and the traffic and condition of the street.
(1976 Code, § 5-316)
   (B)   Fire apparatus. The driver of any vehicle shall not follow any fire
apparatus traveling in response to a fire alarm closer than 500 feet, or drive
into, or park such vehicle within the block where fire apparatus has stopped in
answer to a fire alarm.
(1976 Code, § 5-317)
Penalty, see §
70.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 39-629, 39-681
§ 71.33 CROWDING IN FRONT SEAT.
   No person shall drive a motor vehicle when it is so loaded, or when there is
in the front seat such a number of persons, exceeding three, as to obstruct the
view of the driver to the front or sides of the vehicle or to interfere with
the driver’s control over the driving mechanism of such vehicle.
(1976 Code, § 5-318) Penalty, see §
70.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 39-677
§ 71.34 DRIVING IN SIDEWALK SPACE.
   No motor vehicle or livestock shall be driven or ridden within any sidewalk
space, except a permanent or temporary driveway.
(1976 Code, § 5-319) Penalty, see §
70.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 39-676
§ 71.35 UNNECESSARY NOISE; MUFFLERS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to create any unreasonably loud,
disturbing and unnecessary noise of such character, intensity and duration as
to be detrimental to the health and welfare of the municipality.
(1976 Code, § 5-320)
   (B)   Every motor vehicle operated within the municipality shall be provided
with a muffler in good working order to prevent excessive or unusual noise as
provided in the previous section. It shall be unlawful to use a “muffler cut-
out” on any motor vehicle upon any streets; provided, the provisions of this
section shall not apply to authorized emergency vehicles.
(1976 Code, § 5-321)
Penalty, see §
70.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 39-6,137, 60-2,209
§ 71.36 WRONGFUL TAKING.
   Whoever wrongfully takes any automobile, or motorcycle from a garage, or any
other place where the same may have been lawfully placed, without the consent
of the owner, or who shall use any motor vehicle in bailment beyond that use
which was originally intended or agreed upon, with intent to wrongfully use the
automobile or motorcycle so taken, shall be guilty of wrongful taking of a
motor vehicle and shall be punished as provided by law.
(1976 Code, § 5-322) Penalty, see §
70.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 28-521
§ 71.37 RADAR DEVICES.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate or possess any radar
transmission device while operating a motor vehicle on any road, street,
highway or interstate highway in the municipality; except that, this section
shall not apply to any such device which has been lawfully licensed by the
Federal Communications Commission or is being used by law enforcement officials
in their official duties.
   (B)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      POSSESSION. To have a device defined above in a motor vehicle if such
device is not:
         (a)   Disconnected from all power sources; and
         (b)   In the rear trunk, which shall include the spare tire
compartment, or any other compartment which is not accessible to the driver or
any other person in the vehicle while such vehicle is in operation. If no such
compartment exists in a vehicle, then such device must be disconnected from all
power sources and be placed in a position not readily accessible to the driver
or any other person in the vehicle.
      RADAR TRANSMISSION DEVICE. Any mechanism designed to interfere with the
reception of radio microwaves in the electromagnetic spectrum, which
microwaves, commonly referred to as radar, are employed by law enforcement
officials to measure the speed of motor vehicles.
      TRANSCEIVER. An apparatus contained in a single housing, functioning
alternately as a radio transmitter and receiver.
(1976 Code, § 5-329) (Ord. 697, passed 8-5-1982)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 39-6,205 through 39-6,207
§ 71.38 DRIVING ON HIGHWAY SHOULDERS.
   No person shall drive on the shoulders of highways; except that:
   (A)   Vehicles may be driven onto the shoulders of roadways:
      (1)   By federal mail carriers while delivering the United States mail;
or
      (2)   To safely remove a vehicle from traffic lanes.
   (B)   Implements of husbandry may be driven onto the shoulders of roadways.
(1976 Code, § 5-331) (Ord. 955, passed 9-26-1988) Penalty, see §
70.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 39-631
§ 71.39 ENGINE BRAKES.
   (A)   Definition. For the purposes of this section, the term ENGINE BRAKE is
hereby defined as a specific braking mechanism which utilizes the release of
compressed air as part of an engine retarder or engine brake on any motor
vehicle as a means of slowing or stopping said vehicle.
   (B)   Prohibition of engine brakes. It shall be unlawful for anyone to
operate a motor vehicle and use engine retarders or engine brakes as a means of
slowing or stopping said vehicle within the city limits.
   (C)   Affirmative defense. The use of an engine retarder or brake in an
emergency situation to avoid an imminent accident which would otherwise result
in damage or injury to person(s) or property, or the fact that the motor
vehicle is equipped with a proper muffler system which eliminates noise emitted
or caused by the use of an engine retarder or brake system shall constitute
affirmative defenses to the application of the provisions of this section.
(1976 Code, § 5-334) (Ord. 1307, passed 9-16-2002) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.40 SNOW EMERGENCY ROUTES.
   (A)   Movement of snow from private property into city streets. Whenever a
snow emergency has been declared, no person shall move the snow from lots,
driveways or sidewalks owned or controlled by them onto the streets after snow
has been cleared from the streets by agents of the city. Once a street has been
cleared it shall be unlawful for persons to move snow into street traffic lanes
or street parking lanes.
(1976 Code, § 5-629)
   (B)   Operation of motor vehicles on snow emergency routes.
      (1)   Whenever an emergency has been declared pursuant to
Ch. 75, Schd. II of this code of ordinances, no person operating a motor
vehicle on a snow emergency route shall allow such vehicle to become stalled or
stuck so that it remains in such a position longer than momentarily.
      (2)   No person operating a motor vehicle on a snow emergency route
during the declaration of emergency snow conditions shall allow such vehicle to
become stalled because the motor fuel supply is exhausted, or the battery has
become inoperative.
      (3)   Whenever a motor vehicle becomes stalled for any reason, whether or
not in violation of this section, on any snow emergency route on which there is
a parking prohibition in effect, the person operating such vehicle shall take
immediate action to have the vehicle towed or pushed off the roadway of such
snow emergency route. No person shall abandon or leave his or her vehicle in
the roadway of a snow emergency route, except for the purpose of securing
assistance for removal.
(1976 Code, § 5-630)
   (C)   Emergency declarations of the Mayor or Street Commissioner.
      (1)   The Mayor and/or Street Commissioner shall cause each declaration
of a snow emergency which shall be made by him or her, pursuant to this
section, to be publicly announced by means of broadcasting or telecast from
broadcasting stations with a normal operating range covering the city, and he
or she may, in addition, cause such declaration to be announced in newspapers
of general circulation within the city when feasible. Each announcement shall
describe the action taken by the Mayor and/or Street Commissioner, including
the time the emergency became or will become effective. The announcement shall
specify the streets or areas affected. The Mayor and/or Street Commissioner
shall make or cause to be made a record of each time and date when an emergency
declaration is announced to the public by issuing an executive order as soon
after the declaration of any emergency as is feasible.
      (2)   Whenever the Mayor and/or Street Commissioner shall find that some
or all of the conditions which gave rise to a parking prohibition placed in
effect pursuant to the provisions of this section no longer exist, he or she
shall declare the prohibition terminated, in whole or in part, effective
immediately upon the announcement or at a later specified time.
(1976 Code, § 5-631)
   (D)   Provisions temporarily effective to take precedence. Any provision of
this section which becomes effective by declaration of the Mayor and/or Street
Commissioner upon the occurrence of a snow emergency, while temporarily in
effect, takes precedence over other conflicting provisions of law, except that
it shall not take precedence over provisions of law relating to traffic
accidents, emergency travel of authorized emergency vehicles, or emergency
traffic directions by a Police Officer.
(1976 Code, § 5-632)
(Ord. 1393, passed 2-5-2007; Ord. 1478, passed 2-19-2018; Ord. 1488, passed 9-
23-2019) Penalty, see §
70.99
CHAPTER 72: PARKING RULES
Section
General Provisions
   
72.01   Parking Bureau of Violations
   
72.02   Parking citations
   
72.03   Summons; destruction prohibited
   
72.04   Impoundment and removal
   
72.05   Owner responsible for violations
Regulations and Conditions
   
72.20   Unattended vehicles
   
72.21   Parking generally
   
72.22   Designated parking
   
72.23   Alleys; obstruction
   
72.24   Unlawful obstructions
   
72.25   Truck parking; non-motorized vehicle parking; equipment parking
   
72.26   Fire hydrants and stations
   
72.27   Street intersections
   
72.28   Curbs; curbside parking
   
72.29   Parking for display or repair
   
72.30   Time limit parking
   
72.31   Snow removal and maintenance
Parking for the Handicapped or Disabled
   
72.45   On-street parking spaces; display of permits
   
72.46   Off-street parking spaces
   
72.47   Definitions
   
72.48   Permit issuance
   
72.49   Permit contents; duplicates
   
72.50   Permit renewal; period valid
   
72.51   Permits non-transferable; violation or suspension
   
72.52   Removal of unauthorized vehicles
   
72.53   Citations; issuance; complaint and trial
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 72.01 PARKING BUREAU OF VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   There is hereby created the Bureau of Violations within the powers and
duties of the office of the Municipal Clerk.
   (B)   (1)   A copy of each citation issued for non-moving traffic violations
shall be deposited with the Municipal Clerk, whose duty it shall be to collect
all fines and to maintain appropriate and accurate records of all such fines
paid to him or her.
      (2)   Fines shall be payable at the office of the Clerk.
      (3)   Such fines shall be in the amount of $10 for each violation if paid
within 15 days from the date of issuance.
      (4)   The fine for any such violation after 15 days from date of issuance
shall be $20. Should any such fine not be paid within 30 days from the date of
issuance of the citation, the Clerk shall forward said citation to the
prosecuting attorney together with a request that a complaint be filed in the
appropriate court.
   (C)   All money collected by the Municipal Clerk under this section shall be
transferred to the school district in which the municipality lies.
(1976 Code, § 5-618) (Ord. 679, passed 1-21-1982; Ord. 1033, passed 5-7-1991)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 18-1729
§ 72.02 PARKING CITATIONS.
   All citations issued for violations of non-moving traffic regulations
contained in this subchapter shall, in addition to information normally stated
on such citations, carry the following information:
   (A)   The amount of the fine if paid within 15 days;
   (B)   The amount of the fine if not paid within 15 days;
   (C)   The location where payment may be made; and
   (D)   The fact that a complaint will be filed after 30 days if the fine is
not paid in that time.
(1976 Code, § 5-619) (Ord. 1033, passed 5-7-1991)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 29-423
§ 72.03 SUMMONS; DESTRUCTION PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to tear up, or destroy, a parking tag
placed upon any vehicle by the municipal police, or to disregard the summons
contained on such tag, and fail to appear in court as directed by said tag.
(1976 Code, § 5-620) Penalty, see §
70.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 39-697
§ 72.04 IMPOUNDMENT AND REMOVAL.
   (A)   Fees, release.
      (1)   There is hereby created in the city a pound for the impounding of
automobiles and other vehicles of any character, which is designated as an
“automobile pound”.
      (2)   The Mayor of the city is hereby empowered and directed to locate
the automobile pound for the placement of impounded vehicles where and as may
be appropriate for said purpose and as may be necessary to accommodate the
vehicles impounded. The Mayor of the city may change the location of the
automobile pound designated for the placement of impounded vehicles as may be
appropriate for said purpose and as may be necessary to accommodate the
vehicles impounded. The city may enter into a contract with private persons,
firms and corporations for the use of the impoundment area or for the towing of
such impounded vehicles found to be in violation of this municipal code.
      (3)   Whenever any vehicle is found by a police officer parked or left
standing in the streets, alleys, public ways or parking facilities or other
public places of the city which has previously been in violation of, or which
is at present in violation of this municipal code of the city, the police
officer may remove and convey the vehicle by means of towing it or otherwise to
the automobile pound, or such police officer may remove said vehicle or order
that said vehicle be towed to the location designated by the city for the
placement of impounded vehicles; and, thereupon, the vehicle shall not be
discharged or removed from the automobile pound, except upon payment by the
owner, driver or operator of such vehicle of a towing and storage fee as
established by resolution of the City Council. In such case when such vehicle
is towed or removed to the automobile pound said owner, driver or operator
shall pay such towing fees as may be established between the city and such
person, firm or corporation operating the towing service. When the owner,
driver or operator of such vehicle presents himself or herself to the Police
Department of the city to claim his or her vehicle, it shall be the duty of the
Police Department to inform the owner, driver or operator of the nature and the
circumstance of the violation for which the vehicle was impounded. If such
person is found not guilty by the court involved of the charges for which the
vehicle was impounded, the city shall refund to such person the towing and
impoundment fees paid by such person.
      (4)   It shall be the duty of the City Clerk to account for any fees
collected for the city under the provisions of this section. The Chief of
Police shall keep a record of the name of the owner of each vehicle impounded,
the number of the registration plates thereon, the nature and circumstances of
each violation involved and the disposition of each case.
      (5)   Nothing set forth in divisions (A)(1) through (A)(4) above shall be
construed as superseding any other provisions of the city code concerning the
proper parking or operation of vehicles and the collection of fees hereunder
shall not prevent or preclude the prosecution of the violation of any of the
provisions of the city code concerning the parking or operation of vehicles in
the city.
(1976 Code, § 5-622)
   (B)   Private lots.
      (1)   (a)   Any person parking a motor vehicle in a properly posted,
restricted parking lot without the consent of the owner or tenant authorized to
give permission shall be guilty of an infraction and the vehicle shall be
subject to being towed away at the request of such lot owner or tenant.
         (b)   Any person found guilty under this section shall be subject to
the penalties provided for infractions.
         (c)   If the identity of the operator of a motor vehicle in violation
of this section cannot be determined, the owner or person in whose name such
vehicle is registered shall be held prima facie responsible for such
infraction.
         (d)   When any law enforcement officer observes or is advised that a
motor vehicle may be in violation of this section, he or she shall make a
determination as to whether a violation has in fact occurred and, if so, shall
personally serve or attach to such motor vehicle a citation directed to the
owner or operator of such vehicle, which shall set forth the nature of the
violation.
         (e)   Any person who refuses to sign the citation or otherwise comply
with the command of the citation shall be punished as provided by Neb. RS 29-
426.
      (2)   Signs designating a restricted parking lot shall be readily visible
and shall state the purpose or purposes for parking on the restricted parking
lot, state the hours for restricted parking and state who to contact for
information regarding a towed vehicle.
(1976 Code, § 5-623)
   (C)   Removal of illegally parked vehicles.
      (1)   Whenever any police officer shall find a vehicle standing upon a
street or alley in violation of any of the provisions of this section, such
individual may remove or have such vehicle removed, or require the driver or
other person in charge of the vehicle to move such vehicle, to a position off
the roadway of such street or alley or from such street or alley.
      (2)   (a)   The owner or other person lawfully entitled to the possession
of any vehicle towed or stored shall be charged with the reasonable cost of
towing and storage fees.
         (b)   Any such towing or storage fee shall be a lien upon the vehicle
prior to all other claims.
         (c)   Any person towing or storing a vehicle shall be entitled to
retain possession of such vehicle until such charges are paid.
         (d)   The lien provided for in this section shall not apply to the
contents of any vehicles.
(1976 Code, § 5-624)
   (D)   Provisions temporarily effective to take precedence. Any provision of
this section which becomes effective by declaration of the Mayor and/or Street
Commissioner upon the occurrence of a snow emergency, while temporarily in
effect, takes precedence over other conflicting provisions of law; except that,
it shall not take precedence over provisions of law relating to traffic
accidents, emergency travel of authorized emergency vehicles or emergency
traffic directions by a police officer.
(1976 Code, § 5-632)
   (E)   Removal of stalled or parked vehicles; fees.
      (1)   Members of the Police Department are hereby authorized to remove or
cause to be removed a vehicle from a street to another place or location on a
street or to a lot, garage, storage yard, or other similar facility designated
by the Police Department when:
         (a)   The vehicle is parked on a snow emergency route on which a
parking prohibition is in effect;
         (b)   The vehicle is stalled on a snow emergency route on which a
parking prohibition is in effect and the person who is operating said vehicle
does not appear to be removing it in accordance with the provisions of this
section;
         (c)   The vehicle is parked on any street in violation of any parking
prohibition or provision of law contained in this section.
      (2)   (a)   Such vehicle removal may be made by towing to a private lot,
garage, storage yard, or other similar facility. Any stored vehicle shall not
be released from storage except upon payment by the owner of the vehicle to the
person or persons in charge of the lot, garage, storage yard, or other similar
facility of the cost of towing and storage.
         (b)   A receipt for such fees shall be issued to the owner of the
vehicle.
      (3)   It shall be the duty of the person or persons in charge of the lot,
garage, storage yard, or other similar facility designated by the Police
Department for storage to keep a record of the name of the owner of all
vehicles towed in under these provisions, together with the license plate
number or VIN number of each vehicle, and the nature of such, and the amount of
fees collected hereunder and to deliver a report of each day’s transactions to
the Chief of Police not later than one day following the day for which the
report is made.
(1976 Code, § 5-633)
(Ord. 650, passed 12-4-1980; Ord. 669, passed 9-17-1981; Ord. 956, passed 9-26-
1988; Ord. 1181, passed 11-20-1995; Ord. 1393, passed 2-5-2007; Ord. 1488,
passed 9-23-2019)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 39-671, 39-697, 60-2401, 60-2402
§ 72.05 OWNER RESPONSIBLE FOR VIOLATIONS.
   If the identity of the person who parked a vehicle in violation of any
provision of this chapter cannot be readily determined, the owner or person in
whose name the vehicle is registered shall be held prima facie responsible for
such violation and shall be guilty and subject to the penalties and procedures
described in this chapter and in §
70.99 of this code of ordinances.
(1976 Code, § 5-634) (Ord. 1086, passed 3-8-1993; Ord. 1089, passed 4-12-1993)
REGULATIONS AND CONDITIONS
§ 72.20 UNATTENDED VEHICLES.
   No person having control or charge of a motor vehicle shall allow such
vehicle to stand unattended on a highway without first doing the following:
   (A)   Stopping the motor of such vehicle;
   (B)   Except for vehicles equipped with motor starters that may be actuated
without a key, locking the ignition, removing the key from the ignition;
   (C)   Effectively setting the brakes thereon; and
   (D)   When standing upon any roadway, turning the front wheels of such
vehicles to the curb or side of such roadway.
(1976 Code, § 5-601) (Ord. 1479, passed 2-5-2018) Penalty, see §
70.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 39-674, 60-6,168
§ 72.21 PARKING GENERALLY.
   No person shall park any vehicles, or approach the curb with a vehicle,
except when headed in the direction of the traffic. Vehicles, when parked,
shall stand parallel with and adjacent to the curb or edge of the roadway, in
such manner as to have both right wheels within 12 inches of the curb or edge
of the roadway, and so as to leave at least four feet between the vehicle so
parked and any other parked vehicles, except where the governing body
designates that vehicles shall be parked at an angle so as to have the front
right wheel at the curb or edge of the roadway. Where stalls are designated
either on the curb or pavement, vehicles shall be parked within such stalls. No
vehicles shall be parked upon a roadway when there is a shoulder adjacent to
the roadway which is available for parking.
(1976 Code, § 5-602) (Ord. 1138, passed 2-6-1995) Penalty, see §
70.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 60-680, 60-6,167
§ 72.22 DESIGNATED PARKING.
   (A)   The governing body may, by resolution, designate any street, or
portion thereof, where vehicles shall be parked parallel with and adjacent to
the curb or at an angle so as to have the right front wheel at the curb.
(1976 Code, § 5-603)
   (B)   (1)   The governing body may, by resolution, set aside any street,
alley, public way, or portion thereof, where the parking of a particular kind
or class of vehicle shall be prohibited or where the parking of any vehicle
shall be prohibited.
      (2)   No vehicle prohibited from parking thereon shall stand or be parked
adjacent to the curb of said street, alley, public way or portion thereof,
longer than a period of time necessary to load and unload freight or
passengers.
(1976 Code, § 5-604)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 39-673, 39-697
§ 72.23 ALLEYS; OBSTRUCTION.
   (A)   No vehicle, while parked shall have any portion thereof projecting
into any alley entrance.
(1976 Code, § 5-605)
   (B)   (1)   No vehicle shall be parked in any alley, except for the purpose
of loading or unloading during the time necessary to load or unload, which
shall not exceed the maximum limit of one-half hour.
      (2)   Every vehicle while loading or unloading in any alley shall be
parked in such manner as will cause the least obstruction possible to traffic
in such alley.
(1976 Code, § 5-606)
Penalty, see §
70.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 39-697
§ 72.24 UNLAWFUL OBSTRUCTIONS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the operator of any vehicle to park said
vehicle within a street intersection, on a crosswalk, in front of a private
driveway or on a sidewalk.
(1976 Code, § 5-607)
   (B)   No person shall, except in case of an accident or emergency, stop any
vehicle in any location where such stopping will obstruct any street,
intersection or entrance to an alley or public or private drive.
(1976 Code, § 5-611)
Penalty, see §
70.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 39-697
§ 72.25 TRUCK PARKING; NON-MOTORIZED VEHICLE PARKING; EQUIPMENT PARKING.
   (A)   No semi-tractor, semi-trailer or combination of semi-trailer and pup-
trailer more than 30 feet in length, or truck having a gross vehicle weight
greater than 26,000 pounds shall remain on any public street or alley between
the hours of 9:00 p.m. and 6:00 a.m. in any residential zoned district.
   (B)   (1)   Vehicles may stop or stand for a period of time not to exceed
what is reasonably necessary to load or unload.
      (2)   It shall be unlawful for the owner or operator of any vehicle
referenced in this section to park said vehicle within a street intersection,
on a crosswalk, in front of a private driveway or on a sidewalk at any time.
      (3)   The governing body may, by resolution, provide truck parking areas
within the municipality and, when such parking areas are provided, it shall be
the duty of all truck operators and owners to use such parking areas for all
parking purposes.
   (C)   No motorized or non-motorized recreational vehicle, no non-motorized
vehicle, camper, trailer, boat trailer, or similar wheeled vehicle shall park
on any street within the City of Cozad from October 1 of each year through and
including March 31 of each year. A construction trailer or similar non-
motorized vehicle may be parked on a city street in conjunction with work on an
adjoining property, as long as a permit allowing such parking is issued in
conjunction with a building permit by the city building inspector, and only for
the period of time shown in said permit.
   (D)   No tractors, farm machinery or construction equipment, except those
being used on work in the immediate vicinity, shall be permitted to remain on
any street or alley in any residential zoned district.
(1976 Code, § 5-608) (Ord. 887, passed 11-25-1985; Ord. 1228, passed 3-24-1997;
Ord. 1487, passed 9-23-2019)Penalty, see §
70.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 60-680
§ 72.26 FIRE HYDRANTS AND STATIONS.
   No vehicle shall be parked within 15 feet in either direction of any fire
hydrant, nor within 20 feet of the driveway entrance to any fire station.
(1976 Code, § 5-609) Penalty, see §
70.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 39-672
§ 72.27 STREET INTERSECTIONS.
   Except in compliance with traffic-control devices, no vehicle shall be
parked or left standing for any purpose, except momentarily to load or
discharge passengers, within 25 feet of the intersection or curb lines or, if
none, then within 15 feet of the intersection of property lines.
(1976 Code, § 5-610) Penalty, see §
70.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 39-672
§ 72.28 CURBS; CURBSIDE PARKING.
   (A)   (1)   No vehicle shall park on any street with its left side to the
curb, unless said street has been designated to be a “one-way” street by the
governing body.
      (2)   Vehicles must not be parked at any curb in such a position as to
prevent another vehicle already parked at the curb from moving away.
(1976 Code, § 5-612)
   (B)   (1)   It shall be the duty of the Street Commissioner to cause the
curb space to be painted and keep the same painted as provided in this chapter.
      (2)   No person, firm or corporation shall paint the curb of any street,
or in any manner set aside, or attempt to prevent the parking of vehicles in
any street, or part thereof, except at such places where the parking of
vehicles is prohibited by the provisions of this chapter.
      (3)   The marking or designating of portions of streets or alleys where
the parking of vehicles is prohibited or limited shall be done only by the
municipality through its proper officers, at the direction of the City
Administrator.
(1976 Code, § 5-613)
Penalty, see §
70.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 39-673, 39-697
§ 72.29 PARKING FOR DISPLAY OR REPAIR.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to park upon any street, alley or public
place within the municipality any vehicle displayed for sale. No person shall
adjust or repair any automobile or motorcycle, or race the motor of same, while
standing on the public streets or alleys of the municipality, excepting in case
of breakdown or other emergency requiring same. No person or employee connected
with a garage or repair shop shall use sidewalks, streets or alleys in the
vicinity of such garage or shop for the purpose of working on automobiles or
vehicles of any description.
(1976 Code, § 5-614) Penalty, see §
70.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 39-697
§ 72.30 TIME LIMIT PARKING.
   (A)   The governing body may, by resolution, entirely prohibit, or fix a
time limit for, the parking and stopping of vehicles on any street, streets or
district designated by such resolution, and the parking, or stopping, of any
vehicle in any such street, streets or district, for a period of time longer
than fixed in such resolution shall constitute a violation of this chapter.
(1976 Code, § 5-615)
   (B)   The parking of any vehicle on a public street for over 72 consecutive
hours is unlawful, except where a different maximum time limit is posted.
(1976 Code, § 5-616)
(Ord. 983, passed 10-10-1989; Ord. 1298, passed 1-7-2002) Penalty, see §
70.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 39-697
§ 72.31 SNOW REMOVAL AND MAINTENANCE.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to park or stand any vehicle on any street in the
Business District between the hours of 1:30 a.m. and 4:30 a.m., except on
Saturday and Sunday morning.
   (B)   The municipal police may order any street or alley, or portion
thereof, vacated for weather emergencies or street maintenance. Notice shall be
given by personally notifying the owner or operator of a vehicle parked on such
street or alley, or by posting appropriate signs along such streets or alleys.
Such signs shall be posted not less than four hours prior to the time that the
vacation order is to be effective. Any person parking a vehicle in violation of
this section shall be subject to the penalties provided in §
70.99 of this code of ordinances, and such vehicle may be removed and parked,
under the supervision of the municipal police, to a suitable nearby location.
(1976 Code, § 5-617) (Ord. 708, passed 11-18-1982) Penalty, see §
70.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-557
PARKING FOR THE HANDICAPPED OR DISABLED
§ 72.45 ON-STREET PARKING SPACES; DISPLAY OF PERMITS.
   (A)   (1)   The governing body may designate parking spaces for the
exclusive use of:
         (a)   Handicapped or disabled persons whose motor vehicles display the
distinguishing license plates issued to handicapped or disabled persons
pursuant to Neb. RS 60-3,113;
         (b)   Handicapped or disabled persons whose motor vehicles display a
distinguishing license plate issued to a handicapped or disabled person by
another state;
         (c)   Such other handicapped or disabled persons or temporarily
handicapped or disabled persons, as certified by the municipality, whose motor
vehicles display the permit specified in §
72.49 of this chapter; and
         (d)   Such other motor vehicles, as certified by the municipality,
which display the permit specified in §
72.49 of this chapter.
      (2)   All such permits shall be displayed by attaching the permit to the
motor vehicle’s rearview mirror so as to be clearly visible through the front
windshield. When there is no rearview mirror, the permit shall be displayed on
the dashboard.
   (B)   If the governing body so designates a parking space, it shall be
indicated by a sign which is in conformance with the Manual on Uniform Traffic-
Control Devices. In addition to such sign, the space may also be indicated by
blue paint on the curb or edge of the paved portion of the street adjacent to
the space.
(1976 Code, § 5-621) (Ord. 1139, passed 2-6-1995; Ord. 1197, passed 1-22-1996)
Penalty, see §
70.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 18-1736, 18-1737
§ 72.46 OFF-STREET PARKING SPACES.
   (A)   The governing body and any person in lawful possession of any off-
street parking facility may designate stalls or spaces in such facility for the
exclusive use of:
      (1)   Handicapped or disabled persons whose vehicles display the
distinguishing license plates issued to such individuals pursuant to Neb. RS
60-3,113;
      (2)   Such other handicapped or disabled persons or temporarily
handicapped or disabled persons, as certified by the governing body, whose
vehicles display the identification specified in §
72.49 of this chapter; and
      (3)   Such other motor vehicles, as certified by the governing body,
which display such identification.
   (B)   Such designation shall be made by posting immediately adjacent to and
visible from each stall or space a sign which is in conformance with the Manual
on Uniform Traffic-Control Devices, adopted pursuant to Neb. RS 60-6,118, as
the Federal Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990, being 42 USC §§ 12101 et
seq. and the federal rules and regulations adopted and promulgated in response
to the Act, as the Act and the rules and regulations existed on 5-31-2001.
(1976 Code, § 5-621.01) (Ord. 1140, passed 2-6-1995)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 18-1737
§ 72.47 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   HANDICAPPED OR DISABLED PERSON. Any individual with a severe visual or
physical impairment which limits personal mobility and results in an inability
to travel unassisted more than 200 feet without the use of a wheelchair,
crutch, walker or prosthetic, orthotic or other assistant device, any
individual whose mobility is limited as a result of respiratory problems and
any individual who has lost all or substantially all the use of one or more
limbs.
   HANDICAPPED PARKING INFRACTION. The violation of any section of this
subchapter regulating:
      (1)   The use of parking spaces designated for use by handicapped or
disabled persons; or
      (2)   The obstruction of any wheelchair ramps constructed or created in
accordance and in conformity with the Federal Americans with Disabilities Act
of 1990, being 42 USC §§ 12101 et seq.
   TEMPORARILY HANDICAPPED OR DISABLED PERSON. Any handicapped or disabled
person whose personal mobility is expected to be limited in such a manner for
no longer than one year.
(1976 Code, § 5-621.02) (Ord. 1141, passed 2-6-1995; Ord. 1198, passed 1-22-
1996)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 18-1738, 18-1741.01
§ 72.48 PERMIT ISSUANCE.
   (A)   (1)   The Municipal Clerk may take an application from a handicapped
or disabled person or temporarily handicapped or disabled person or his or her
parent, legal guardian or foster parent for a permit which will entitle the
holder thereof or a person driving a motor vehicle for the purpose of
transporting such holder to park in those spaces provided for by this
subchapter when the holder of the permit will enter or exit the motor vehicle
while it is parked in such areas. For purposes of this section, the handicapped
or disabled person or temporarily handicapped or disabled person shall be
considered the holder of the permit.
      (2)   A person applying for a permit or for the renewal of a permit shall
complete an application, shall provide proof of identity and shall submit a
completed medical form signed by a physician, physician assistant or nurse
practitioner certifying that the person who will be the holder meets the
definition of handicapped or disabled person. In the case of a temporarily
handicapped or disabled person, the certifying physician, physician assistant
or nurse practitioner shall indicate the estimated date of recovery or that the
temporary handicap or disability will continue for a period of six months,
whichever is less. A person may hold only one permit under this section or a
permit under division (B) below, but not both.
      (3)   Before issuing a permit, the Municipal Clerk shall enter all
information required in the manner prescribed in Neb. RS 18-1739. The Municipal
Clerk shall submit to the Department of Motor Vehicles the name, address and
license number of all persons receiving a permit pursuant to this section.
(1976 Code, § 5-621.03)
   (B)   (1)   The Municipal Clerk shall take an application from any person
for a motor vehicle permit which will entitle the holder thereof or a person
driving the motor vehicle for the purpose of transporting handicapped or
disabled persons or temporarily handicapped or disabled persons to park in
those spaces provided by this subchapter, if the motor vehicle is used
primarily for the transportation of handicapped or disabled persons or
temporarily handicapped or disabled persons and such person will enter or exit
the motor vehicle while it is parked in such designated spaces.
      (2)   A person applying for a permit or for the renewal of a permit
pursuant to this section shall apply for a permit for each motor vehicle used
for the transportation of handicapped or disabled persons or temporarily
handicapped or disabled persons, shall complete such forms as are provided by
the Department of Motor Vehicles and shall demonstrate to the Municipal Clerk
that each such motor vehicle is used primarily for the transportation of
handicapped or disabled persons or temporarily handicapped or disabled persons.
A person may hold either a permit under this section or a permit under division
(A) above, but not both.
      (3)   The Municipal Clerk shall issue a permit to an approved applicant,
and before issuing such permit, shall enter all information required in the
manner prescribed by Neb. RS 18-1739. The Municipal Clerk shall submit to the
Department of Motor Vehicles the name, address and license number of all
persons receiving a permit pursuant to this section.
(1976 Code, § 5-621.04)
(Ord. 1199, passed 1-22-1996; Ord. 1200, passed 1-22-1996)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 18-1738, 18-1738.01
§ 72.49 PERMIT CONTENTS; DUPLICATES.
   (A)   The permit issued by the Municipal Clerk shall be constructed of a
durable plastic designed to resist normal wear or fading for the term of the
permit’s issuance and printed so as to minimize the possibility of alteration
following issuance. The permit shall be of a design, size, configuration, color
and construction and contain such information as specified in the rules and
regulations adopted and promulgated by the United States Department of
Transportation in the Uniform System for Handicapped Parking, 23 C.F.R. part
1235.
   (B)   In addition to the requirements of division (A) above, the permit
shall show such identifying information with regard to the handicapped or
disabled person or temporarily handicapped or disabled person to whom it is
issued as is necessary to the enforcement of this subchapter.
   (C)   (1)   No permit shall be issued to any person or for any motor vehicle
if any parking permit has been issued to such person or for such motor vehicle
and such permit has been suspended pursuant to §
72.51 of this chapter.
      (2)   At the expiration of such suspension, a permit may be renewed upon
the payment of the permit fee.
   (D)   (1)   A duplicate permit may be provided by the Municipal Clerk
without cost if the original permit is destroyed, lost or stolen.
      (2)   Such duplicate permit shall be issued in the same manner as the
original permit and shall be valid for the remainder of the period for which
the original permit was issued.
(1976 Code, § 5-621.05) (Ord. 1079, passed 3-8-1993; Ord. 1201, passed 1-22-
1996)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 18-1739
§ 72.50 PERMIT RENEWAL; PERIOD VALID.
   (A)   Permanently issued permits for handicapped or disabled parking
authorized by Neb. RS 18-1736 to 18-1741.07 issued prior to 8-1-2005, shall be
valid for a period ending on September 30 of the third year after the date of
issuance and shall expire on that date. Permanently issued permits issued on or
after 8-1-2005, shall be valid for a period ending on the last day of the month
of the applicant’s birthday in the third year after issuance and shall expire
on that day.
   (B)   All permits authorized under Neb. RS 18-1736 to 18-1741.07 for
temporarily handicapped or disabled parking shall be issued for a period ending
not more than six months after the date of issuance but may be renewed one time
for a period not to exceed six months. For the renewal period, there shall be
submitted an additional application with proof of a handicap or disability.
(1976 Code, § 5-621.06) (Ord. 1142, passed 2-6-1995; Ord. 1202, passed 1-22-
1996)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 18-1740
§ 72.51 PERMITS NON-TRANSFERABLE; VIOLATION OR SUSPENSION.
   Permits issued under this subchapter shall not be transferable, and shall be
used only by the party to whom issued or for the motor vehicle for which issued
and only for the purposes for which it is issued. No person shall alter or
reproduce in any manner a permit issued pursuant to this subchapter. Any
violation of this section shall be cause for suspension of such permit for a
period of six months. At the expiration of such period, a suspended permit may
be renewed upon payment of the permit fee.
(1976 Code, § 5-621.07) (Ord. 1203, passed 1-22-1996)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 18-1741
§ 72.52 REMOVAL OF UNAUTHORIZED VEHICLES.
   (A)   The owner or person in lawful possession of an off-street parking
facility, after notifying the Police or Sheriff’s Department, and the
municipality providing on-street parking or owning, operating or providing an
off-street parking facility, may cause the removal, from a stall or space
designated exclusively for handicapped or disabled persons or temporarily
handicapped or disabled persons, of any vehicle not displaying the proper
permit or the distinguishing license plates specified in this subchapter if
there is posted immediately adjacent to and visible from such stall or space a
sign which clearly and conspicuously states the area so designated as a tow-in
zone.
   (B)   Anyone parking in any on-street parking space which has been
designated exclusively for handicapped or disabled persons or temporarily
handicapped or disabled persons or motor vehicles for the transportation of
such persons, or in any so exclusively designated parking space in any off-
street parking facility, without properly displaying the proper permit or when
the handicapped or disabled person to whom or for whom the license plate or
permit is issued will not enter or exit the vehicle while it is parked in the
designated space shall be guilty of a handicapped parking infraction, as
defined in §
72.47 of this chapter, and shall be subject to the procedures as set forth in §
72.51 of this chapter and the penalty provided for in §
70.99 of this code of ordinances. The display on a motor vehicle of a
distinguishing license plate or permit issued to a handicapped or disabled
person by and under the duly constituted authority of another state shall
constitute a full and complete defense in any action for a handicapped parking
infraction. If the identity of the person who parked the vehicle in violation
of this section cannot be readily determined, the owner or person in whose name
the vehicle is registered shall be held prima facie responsible for such
violation and shall be guilty and subject to the penalty provided for in §
70.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (C)   In the case of a privately owned off-street parking facility, the
owner or person in lawful possession of such facility shall not be required to
inform the municipality of a violation of this section prior to the
municipality issuing the violator a handicapped parking infraction citation.
(1976 Code, § 5-621.08) (Ord. 1080, passed 3-8-1993; Ord. 1143, passed 2-6-
1995; Ord. 1204, passed 1-22-1996)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 18-1737
§ 72.53 CITATIONS; ISSUANCE; COMPLAINT AND TRIAL.
   (A)   For any offense classified as a handicapped parking infraction, a
handicapped parking citation may be issued by any peace officer or by any
person designated by ordinance by the governing body to exercise the authority
to issue a citation for any handicapped parking infraction.
   (B)   (1)   When a handicapped parking citation is issued for a handicapped
parking infraction, the person issuing the handicapped parking citation shall
enter thereon all required information, including the name and address of the
cited person or, if not known, the license number and description of the
offending motor vehicle, the offense charged and the time and place the person
cited is to appear in court.
      (2)   Unless the person cited requests an earlier date, the time of
appearance shall be at least three days after the issuance of the handicapped
parking citation.
      (3)   One copy of the handicapped parking citation shall be delivered to
the person cited or attached to the offending motor vehicle.
   (C)   At least 24 hours before the time set for the appearance of the cited
person, either the Municipal Attorney or other person authorized by law to
issue a complaint for the particular offense shall issue and file a complaint
charging such person with a handicapped parking infraction or such person shall
be released from the obligation to appear as specified.
   (D)   The trial of any person for a handicapped parking infraction shall be
by the court without a jury. A person cited for a handicapped parking violation
may waive his or her right to trial.
(1976 Code, § 5-621.09) (Ord. 1144, passed 2-6-1995)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 18-1741.01, 18-1741.04, 18-1741.06
CHAPTER 73: RECREATIONAL VEHICLES
Section
Motorcycles
   
73.01   Motorcycle helmet required
   
73.02   Motorcycle lights
Bicycles and Toy Vehicles
   
73.15   Bicycle operation
   
73.16   Clinging to motor vehicle
   
73.17   Mopeds
   
73.18   Skateboards
   
73.19   Utility vehicles
MOTORCYCLES
§ 73.01 MOTORCYCLE HELMET REQUIRED.
   A person shall not operate or be a passenger on a motorcycle or moped on any
highway unless such person is wearing a protective helmet of the type and
design manufactured for use by operators of such vehicles and unless such
helmet is secured properly on his or her head with a chin strap while the
vehicle is in motion. All such protective helmets shall be designed to reduce
injuries to the user resulting from head impacts and shall be designed to
protect the user by remaining on the user’s head, deflecting blows, resisting
penetration and spreading the force of impact. Each such helmet shall consist
of lining, padding and chin strap and shall meet or exceed the standards
established in the United States Department of Transportation’s Federal Motor
Vehicle Safety Standard No. 218, 49 C.F.R. § 571.218, for motorcycle helmets.
(1976 Code, § 5-330) (Ord. 1133, passed 2-6-1995) Penalty, see §
70.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 60-6,278 through 60-6,282
§ 73.02 MOTORCYCLE LIGHTS.
   No person shall operate a motorcycle upon the streets, alleys or highways
within the municipality from sunset to sunrise unless the same is equipped with
at least one and not more than two headlights and a taillight exhibiting a red
light visible from a distance of at least 500 feet to the rear of such
motorcycle. The headlights shall comply with the requirements and limitations
set forth in the state’s Rules of the Road.
(1976 Code, § 5-333) (Ord. 1132, passed 2-6-1995) Penalty, see §
70.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 60-6, 219
BICYCLES AND TOY VEHICLES
§ 73.15 BICYCLE OPERATION.
   (A)   No person shall operate a bicycle on a street or highway within the
municipality with another person on the handlebars or in any position in front
of the operator.
   (B)   No bicycle shall be operated faster than is reasonable and proper, but
every bicycle shall be operated with reasonable regard to the safety of the
operator and any other persons upon the streets and highways.
   (C)   Persons operating bicycles shall observe all traffic signs and stop at
all stop signs.
   (D)   No bicycle shall be operated on any street or highway from sunset to
sunrise without a headlight visible from the front thereof for not less than
500 feet on a clear night and a red reflector on the rear of a type which shall
be visible on a clear night from all distances between 100 feet and 600 feet to
the rear when directly in front of lawful lower beams of headlights on a motor
vehicle. A red light visible from a distance of 500 feet to the rear may be
used in addition to such red reflector.
   (E)   Any person who operates a bicycle upon a street or highway shall not
ride more than single file, except on parts of streets or highways set aside
for the exclusive use of bicycles.
   (F)   (1)   Any person who operates a bicycle upon a roadway at less than
the normal speed of traffic at the time and place and under conditions then
existing shall ride as near to the right-hand curb or right-hand edge of the
roadway as practicable, except when:
         (a)   Overtaking and passing another bicycle or vehicle proceeding in
the same direction;
         (b)   Preparing for a left turn onto a private road or driveway or at
an intersection;
         (c)   Reasonably necessary to avoid conditions that make it unsafe to
continue along the right-hand curb or right-hand edge of the roadway, including
fixed or moving objects, stopped or moving vehicles, bicycles, pedestrians,
animals or surface hazards;
         (d)   Riding upon a lane of substandard width which is too narrow for
a bicycle and a vehicle to travel safely side by side within the lane; or
         (e)   Lawfully operating a bicycle on the paved shoulders of a highway
included in the state highway system as provided in Neb. RS 60-6,142.
      (2)   Any person who operates a bicycle upon a roadway with a posted
speed limit of 35 mph or less on which traffic is restricted to one direction
of movement and which has two or more marked traffic lanes may ride as near to
the left-hand curb or left-hand edge of the roadway as practicable. Whenever a
person operating a bicycle leaves the roadway to ride on the paved shoulder or
leaves the paved shoulder to enter the roadway, the person shall clearly signal
his or her intention and yield the right-of-way to all other vehicles.
   (G)   No person shall park a bicycle on any sidewalk unless a bicycle stand
is located on said sidewalk.
   (H)   No person shall operate a bicycle on the sidewalks within the Business
District.
(1976 Code, § 5-501) (Ord. 1131, passed 2-6-1995) Penalty, see §
70.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 60-6,315, 60-6,318
§ 73.16 CLINGING TO MOTOR VEHICLE.
   No person riding upon any bicycle, coaster, roller skates, sled, skis or toy
vehicle shall attach himself or herself or the bicycle, coaster, roller skates,
sled, skis or toy vehicle upon a roadway, and it shall be unlawful for the
driver of any vehicle to suffer or permit any person riding upon any bicycle,
coaster, roller skates, sled, skis or toy vehicle to cling to or attach himself
or herself or the bicycle to such vehicle driven and operated by him or her.
(1976 Code, § 5-502) (Ord. 1127, passed 2-6-1995) Penalty, see §
70.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 60-6,316, 60-6,354
§ 73.17 MOPEDS.
   (A)   Defined. For the purposes of this section, MOPED shall mean a bicycle
with fully operative pedals for propulsion by human power, an automatic
transmission and a motor with a cylinder capacity not exceeding 50 cubic
centimeters, which produces no more than two brake horsepower and is capable of
propelling the bicycle at a maximum design speed of no more than 30 mph on
level ground. Mopeds, their owners and their operators shall be subject to Neb.
RS Ch. 60, Art. 4, and amendments thereto, but shall be exempt from the
requirements of Neb. RS Ch. 60, Art. 1, 3, 5 and 17, and amendments thereto.
(1976 Code, § 5-503)
   (B)   Operator’s license required. No person shall operate a moped upon the
streets, alleys or highways within the municipality unless such person has:
      (1)   A valid Class O operator’s license; or
      (2)   A valid school or learner’s permit.
(1976 Code, § 5-504)
   (C)   Traffic regulations applicable. Any person who rides a moped upon a
roadway shall have all the rights and shall be subject to all of the duties
applicable to the driver of a motor vehicle under the state’s Rules of the
Road, except for special moped regulations in the rules and except for those
provisions of the rules which, by their nature, can have no application. Such
regulations applicable to mopeds shall apply whenever a moped is operated upon
any street, alley or highway within the municipality or upon any path set aside
by the Department of Roads or the municipality for the use of mopeds.
Notwithstanding any established maximum speed limits in excess of 25 mph, no
person shall operate any moped at a speed in excess of 30 mph.
(1976 Code, § 5-505)
   (D)   Operation.
      (1)   Any person who operates a moped shall ride only upon a permanent
and regular seat attached to the moped. A person operating a moped shall not
carry any other person, nor shall any other person ride on a moped unless such
moped is designed by the manufacturer to carry more than one person.
      (2)   A person shall ride upon a moped only while sitting astride the
seat, facing forward.
      (3)   No person shall operate a moped while carrying any package, bundle
or other article which prevents him or her from keeping both hands on the
handlebars.
      (4)   No operator shall carry any person, nor shall any person ride, in a
position that interferes with the operation or control of the moped or the view
of the operator.
      (5)   Any moped which carries a passenger shall be equipped with
footrests for such passenger.
(1976 Code, § 5-506)
   (E)   Use of traffic lanes.
      (1)   A moped shall be entitled to full use of a traffic lane or any of
any highway with an authorized speed limit of 45 mph or less and no vehicle
shall be operated in such a manner as to deprive any moped of the full use of
such lane; except that, mopeds and motorcycles may be operated two abreast in a
single lane.
      (2)   No person shall operate a moped between lanes of traffic or between
adjacent lines or rows of vehicles.
      (3)   Mopeds shall not be operated more than two abreast in a single
lane.
      (4)   Any person who operates a moped on a roadway with an authorized
speed limit of more than 45 mph shall ride as near to the right side of the
roadway as practicable and shall not ride more than single file.
      (5)   No person who rides upon a moped shall attach himself, herself or
the moped to any other vehicle on a roadway.
      (6)   Mopeds shall not be operated on the sidewalks.
(1976 Code, § 5-507)
   (F)   Equipment. Any moped which carries a passenger shall be equipped with
footrests for such passenger. No person shall operate any moped with handlebars
more than 15 inches above the mounting point of the handlebars.
(1976 Code, § 5-508)
(Ord. 620, passed 8-23-1979; Ord. 1135, passed 2-6-1995; Ord. 1136, passed 2-6-
1995; Ord. 1137, passed 2-6-1995) Penalty, see §
70.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 39-6,196, 39-6,203, 60-6,310, 60-6,311, 60-
6,312, 60-6,313
§ 73.18 SKATEBOARDS.
   No person shall ride or operate a skateboard on sidewalks within the
Business District of the municipality between the hours of 7:00 a.m. and 7:00
p.m. No person shall ride or operate a skateboard on the viaduct located within
the municipality at any time. For the purposes of this section, the BUSINESS
DISTRICT OF THE MUNICIPALITY shall be considered to include Meridian Avenue,
between 6th Street and 10th Street, and 8th Street, between E Street and J
Street.
(1976 Code, § 5-509) (Ord. 1009, passed 9-10-1990) Penalty, see §
70.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 39-668, 39-690, 39-691
§ 73.19 UTILITY VEHICLES.
   (A)   For purposes of this section, the term UTILITY VEHICLE shall have the
definition set forth in Neb. RS 60-6,355.
   (B)   Any person having a valid Class O operator’s license may operate a
utility vehicle on the streets and alleys of the city, between sunrise and
sunset.
   (C)   Any person operating a utility vehicle in the city shall provide proof
of insurance with coverage equal to that required by the state for licensed
motor vehicles to any peace officer within five days of a request by such
officer.
   (D)   All utility vehicles operated on the streets and alleys of the city
shall be equipped with a headlight and taillight. The headlight and taillight
of the vehicle shall be on and the vehicle shall be equipped with a bicycle
safety flag which extends not less than five feet above ground attached to the
rear of such vehicle. The bicycle safety flag shall be triangular in shape with
an area of not less than 30 square inches and shall be day-glow in color.
(1976 Code, § 5-510) (Ord. 1456, passed 3-9-2015) Penalty, see §
70.99
CHAPTER 74: TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
Schedule
      
I.   Speed limits
      
II.   Snow emergency routes
SCHEDULE I. SPEED LIMITS.
   (A)   (1)   Except when a special hazard exists that requires lower speed
for compliance with Neb. RS 60-6,185, the limits set forth in this section and
Neb. RS 60-6,187, 60-6,188, 60-6,305, and 60-6,313 shall be the maximum lawful
speeds unless reduced pursuant to division (B), and no person shall drive a
vehicle on a highway at a speed in excess of such maximum limits:
         (a)   Twenty-five miles per hour in any residential district;
         (b)   Twenty miles per hour in any business district;
         (c)   Fifty miles per hour upon any highway that is gravel or not
dustless surfaced;
         (d)   Fifty-five miles per hour upon any dustless surfaced highway not
a part of the state highway system;
         (e)   Sixty-five miles per hour upon any four-lane divided highway not
a part of the state highway system;
         (f)   Sixty-five miles per hour upon any part of the state highway
system other than an expressway, a super-two highway, or a freeway.
      (2)   The maximum speed limit established in division (A) may be reduced
by the Department of Transportation or the City Council pursuant to Neb. RS 60-
6,188.
      (3)   The City Council may erect and maintain suitable signs along
highways under its jurisdiction in such number and at such locations as it
deems necessary to give adequate notice of the speed limits established
pursuant to division (A) or (B) upon such highways.
   (B)   Posted limits. Speed limits for the following streets shall be
established as follows and said speed limits shall be appropriately posted. No
person shall operate a motor vehicle on these streets at a speed greater than
the following speed limits:
Street Location Speed Limit
Street                 Location                    Speed Limit
24th Street            Newell Street to O Street   40 mph
Alleys                                            15 mph
                       From E Street to Locust     25 mph
East 8th Street        Street
                       From Locust Street to the   35 mph
                       east city limits
                       From Meridian Avenue/State
East Monroe Street     Highway 21 to U.S. Highway  35 mph
                       30
                       From 8th Street to 10th     25 mph
                       Street
                       From 10th Street to 18th    35 mph
Newell Street          Street
                       From 18th Street north to
                       the intersection of the     45 mph
                       first country road
O Street               19th Street north to city   35 mph
                       limits
                       16th Street from Meridian
                       Avenue to C Street
                       16th Street from Papio Lane 20 mph while flashing lights
                       to M Street                 are operating between 8:00
                       Meridian Avenue from 16th   a.m. and 4:00 p.m. on days
                       Street to 19th Street       city schools are in session;
School crossings       C Street from 14th Street   all school crossings shall
                       to 16th Street              have advance warning
                       14th Street from C Street   crossing signs and all
                       to D Street                 crosswalks shall have
                       14th Street from K Street   crossing signs
                       to M Street
                       M Street from 14th Street
                       to 16th Street
                       From south corporate limits
                       of the city to 250 feet     45 mph
                       south of Monroe Street
                       From 250 feet south of      35 mph
State Highway 21       Monroe Street to 7th Street
                       From 7th Street to 8th      25 mph
                       Street
                       From E Street to F Street   25 mph
                       From 8th Street to U.S.     25 mph
                       Highway 30
                                                   20 mph while flashing lights
                                                   are operated between 9:00
                                                   a.m. and 9:00 p.m. on days
                                                   when the swimming pool is
Swimming pool crossing 14th and O Streets          open or youth recreation is
                                                   scheduled; the swimming pool
                                                   crossing shall have advance
                                                   warning crossing signs and
                                                   the crosswalk shall have a
                                                   crossing sign
                       From O Street (west city    40 mph
                       limits) to K Street
                       From K Street to D Street   35 mph
U.S. Highway 30        From D Street to 350 feet   40 mph
                       east of A Street
                       From 350 feet east of A
                       Street to the east city     55 mph
                       limits
West 2nd Street        State Highway 21 to west    35 mph
                       city limits
 
(1976 Code, § 5-305)
   (C)   Electronic detection.
      (1)   Determinations made regarding the speed of any motor vehicle based
upon the visual observation of any law enforcement officer may be corroborated
by the use of radio microwaves or other electronic device. The results of such
radio microwave or other electronic speed measurement may be accepted as
competent evidence of the speed of such motor vehicle in any court or legal
proceeding when the speed of the vehicle is at issue. Before the municipality
may offer in evidence the results of such radio microwave or other electronic
speed measurement for the purpose of establishing the speed of any motor
vehicle, the municipality shall prove the following:
         (a)   The measuring device was in proper working order at the time of
conducting the measurement;
         (b)   The measuring device was being operated in such a manner and
under such conditions so as to allow a minimum possibility of distortion or
outside interference;
         (c)   The person operating such device and interpreting such
measurement was qualified by training and experience to properly test and
operate the device; and
         (d)   The operator conducted external tests of accuracy upon the
measuring device, within a reasonable time both prior to and subsequent to an
arrest being made, and the measuring device was found to be in proper working
order.
      (2)   The driver of any such motor vehicle may be arrested without a
warrant under the authority herein granted if the arresting officer is in
uniform or displays his or her badge of authority; provided that, such officer
shall have observed the recording of the speed of such motor vehicle by the
radio microwaves, or other electronic device or had received a radio message
from the officer who observed the speed of the motor vehicle recorded by the
radio microwaves or other electronic device. In the event of an arrest based on
such a message, such radio message must have been dispatched immediately after
the speed of the motor vehicle had been recorded, and must include a
description of the vehicle and the recorded speed.
(1976 Code, § 5-306)
(Ord. 733, passed 9-15-1983; Ord. 892, passed 3-10-1986; Ord. 904, passed 6-9-
1986; Ord. 1028, passed 3-18-1991; Ord. 1289, passed 4-9-2001; Ord. 1314,
passed 3-10-2003; Ord. 1390, passed 7-10-2006; Ord. 1483, passed 2-4-2019)
Penalty, see §
70.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 39-662, 39-663, 39-664, 60-6,186
SCHEDULE II. SNOW EMERGENCY ROUTES.
   (A)   Establishment of snow emergency routes. The following streets are
declared to be snow emergency routes within the city. The Mayor (or someone
designated by the Mayor, but always referred to herein as the Mayor) shall, at
the Mayor’s discretion, place the appropriate signs or other traffic control
devices indicating the existence of snow emergency routes. A designation of any
street, avenue, road, or highway, or portion thereof as a snow emergency route
shall in no way affect any previous designation of that street, avenue, road,
or highway for any other purposes but shall be in addition thereto. The
following streets or highways are designated as emergency snow arterial
streets:
Street Location
Street          Location
Highway 30       
8th Street      Highway 30 to H Street and F Street to the East City Limit
Highway 21      South City Limits to 8th Street
D Street        16th Street to 22nd Street
F Street        Highway 30 to 7th Street
Meridian Avenue 9th Street to 24th Street
2nd Street      O Street to Meridian Avenue
O Street        2nd Street to North City Limit
K Street        8th Street to 16th Street
E Street        8th Street to 16th Street
Newell Street   8th Street to North City Limit
A Street        Highway 30 to 8th Street
13th Street     E Street to Newell Street
14th Street     K Street to O Street and E Street to Newell Street
12th Street     O Street to Newell Street
19th Street     O Street to Newell Street
16th Street     O Street to Newell Street
Papio Lane      16th Street to 19th Street
18th Street     Meridian Avenue to Little Sioux Lane
9th Street      Meridian Avenue to L Street.
 
(1976 Code, § 5-626)
   (B)   Declaration of emergency; prohibition of parking on snow emergency
routes. Whenever the Mayor and/or Street Commissioner shall determine, on the
basis of the falling snow, sleet, or freezing rain, or on the basis of an
official forecast by the U.S. Weather Bureau, of snow, sleet, or freezing rain,
that imminent weather conditions will make it necessary that parking on snow
emergency routes as designated by division (A) above be prohibited or
restricted from snow plowing and other purposes, the Mayor and/or Street
Commissioner may place into effect a parking prohibition on all snow emergency
routes by declaring that such emergency conditions exist. In such declaration
of emergency conditions, the Mayor and/or Street Commissioner may place into
effect a parking prohibition on all snow emergency routes by declaring that
such emergency conditions exist. In such declaration of emergency conditions,
the Mayor and/or Street Commissioner shall state the time that the emergency
shall become effective. From the time so designated, all parking of vehicles on
snow emergency routes, shall be, and the same hereby is prohibited. While the
prohibition is in effect, no person shall park, or allow to remain parked any
vehicle on any portion of a snow emergency route. Once the emergency is in
effect, the parking prohibition imposed by this section shall remain in effect
until terminated by declaration of the Mayor and/or Street Commissioner.
However, nothing in this section shall be construed to permit parking at any
time or place where it is forbidden by any other provision of law.
(1976 Code, § 5-627)
(Ord. 1073, passed 1-11-1993; Ord. 1393, passed 2-5-2007; Ord. 1488, passed 9-
23-2019) Penalty, see §
70.99
CHAPTER 75: PARKING SCHEDULES
Schedule
      
I.   Robert Henri Museum parking
      
II.   Parking during snow emergency
SCHEDULE I. ROBERT HENRI MUSEUM PARKING.
   (A)    The governing body of the city authorizes the installation of
“Visitor Parking” signs on the north side of Eighth Street, between E Street
and F Street adjacent to and south of land belonging to the Robert Henri
Museum, said land described as east 107 feet of the west 204 feet of the south
150 feet of Block Four, Gatewood’s Addition to the city, said signs to be
installed with the following requirements and stipulations.
      (1)   The said “Visitor Parking” signs shall conform to all traffic codes
and regulations.
      (2)   The said “Visitor Parking” signs shall include the wording:
“Visitor Parking Only from 9:00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m.”.
      (3)   The “Visitor Parking” signs shall remain in place only during the
months of May, June, July, August and September of each year during what is
considered to be the tourist season. Payment of expenses involved for obtaining
the signs and for the annual installation and removal thereof will be the
obligation of the Robert Henri Foundation.
   (B)   Any individual parking in the area marked for “Visitor Parking” during
such times as parking is prohibited who is not a visitor of the Robert Henri
Museum shall be subject to penalties provided in §
70.99 of this code of ordinances.
(1976 Code, § 5-625) (Ord. 1001, passed 6-4-1990; Ord. 1073, passed 1-11-1993)
Penalty, see §
70.99
SCHEDULE II. PARKING DURING SNOW EMERGENCY.
   (A)   Declaration of emergency; prohibition of parking on snow emergency
routes. Whenever the Mayor and/or Street Commissioner shall determine, on the
basis of the falling snow, sleet or freezing rain, or on the basis of an
official forecast by the U.S. Weather Bureau, of snow, sleet or freezing rain,
that eminent weather conditions will make it necessary that parking on snow
emergency routes as designated by Ch. 74, Schd. II, of this code of ordinances
be prohibited or restricted from snow plowing and other purposes, the Mayor
and/or Street Commissioner may place into effect a parking prohibition on all
snow emergency routes by declaring that such emergency conditions exist. In
such declaration of emergency conditions, the Mayor and/or Street Commissioner
shall state the time that the emergency shall become effective. From the time
so designated, all parking of vehicles on snow emergency routes, shall be, and
the same hereby is prohibited. While the prohibition is in effect, no person
shall park or allow to remain parked any vehicle on any portion of a snow
emergency route. Once the emergency is in effect, the parking prohibition
imposed by this schedule shall remain in effect until terminated by declaration
of the Mayor and/or Street Commissioner. However, nothing in this section shall
be construed to permit parking at any time or place where it is forbidden by
any other provision of law.
(1976 Code, § 5-627)
   (B)   Prohibition of parking on downtown commercial areas during snow
emergency. Upon declaration of snow emergency, such declaration may include or
may later be expanded to include a prohibition of parking on downtown
commercial areas. The declaration shall include a statement of the hours during
which parking shall be prohibited for the purpose of snow removal from said
downtown commercial area. Such prohibition shall not extend beyond the time
reasonably required for such snow removal. There shall be no parking in the
designated downtown areas from 1:00 to 4:00 a.m. The areas included are:
 
Street          Location
8th Street      F Street to H Street
Meridian Avenue Highway 30 to 9th Street
7th Street      F Street to Highway 30
9th Street      E Street to Meridian Avenue
F Street        7th Street to 9th Street
H Street        Highway 30 to 9th Street
 
(1976 Code, § 5-628)
(Ord. 1073, passed 1-11-1993; Ord. 1393, passed 2-5-2007; Ord. 1488, passed 9-
23-2019) Penalty, see §
70.99
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
90.   ANIMALS
      
91.   HEALTH AND SANITATION; NUISANCES
      
92.   FIRE PREVENTION AND PROTECTION
      
93.   FIREWORKS
      
94.   RECREATION AND LEISURE
      
95.   CEMETERY
CHAPTER 90: ANIMALS
Section
General Provisions
   
90.01   Definitions
   
90.02   Rabies vaccination
   
90.03   License and tax required; exemptions; tags
   
90.04   Animals running at large
   
90.05   Impounding; authority to kill
   
90.06   Vicious animals
   
90.07   Proclamation of dangerous animal
   
90.08   Barking and offensive animals
   
90.09   Fighting animals; pitting
   
90.10   Liability of owner
   
90.11   Animals banned from municipality
   
90.12   Cruelty; killing and injuring
   
90.13   Animal enclosures
   
90.14   Abandonment, neglect and mistreatment
   
90.15   Equines and bovines
   
90.16   Restrictions on owning, keeping or harboring
Dangerous Dogs
   
90.30   Definitions
   
90.31   Restraint required
   
90.32   Confinement required
   
90.33   Failure to comply
   
90.34   Additional regulations
 
   
90.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Criminal mischief, see §
130.16
   Fences, see §
130.29
   Nuisances, see §§
91.15 through
91.18
   Planning and Zoning, see
Ch. 154
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 90.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CAT. A cat which is a household pet.
   DEPARTMENT. The State Department of Health and Human Services.
   DOMESTIC ANIMAL. Any dog of the species Canis familiaris, cat of the species
Felis domesticus, or ferret of the species Mustela putorius furo.
   HYBRID ANIMAL. Any animal which is the product of the breeding of a domestic
dog with a nondomestic canine species.
   OWN. To possess, keep, harbor, or have control of, charge of, or custody of
a domestic or hybrid animal. This term does not apply to domestic or hybrid
animals owned by other persons which are temporarily maintained on the premises
of a veterinarian or kennel operator for a period of not more than 30 days.
   OWNER. Any person possessing, keeping, harboring, or having, charge or
control of any domestic or hybrid animal or permitting any domestic or hybrid
animal to habitually be or remain on or be lodged or fed within the person’s
house, yard, or premises. This term does not apply to veterinarians or kennel
operators temporarily maintaining on their premises domestic or hybrid animals
owned by other persons for a period of not more than 30 days.
   RABIES CONTROL AUTHORITY. City health and law enforcement officials who
shall enforce the provisions of this subchapter relating to the vaccination and
impoundment of domestic or hybrid animals. Such public officials shall not be
responsible for any accident or disease of a domestic or hybrid animal
resulting from the enforcement of such sections.
   VACCINATION AGAINST RABIES. The inoculation of a domestic or hybrid animal
with a United States Department of Agriculture-licensed rabies vaccine
administered consistent with its labeling. The vaccination shall be performed
by a veterinarian duly licensed to practice veterinary medicine in the State of
Nebraska or licensed in the state where the vaccination was administered.
(1976 Code, § 6-101) (Ord. 1114, passed 8-8-1994; Ord. 1230, passed 3-24-1997;
Ord. 1240, passed 10-6-1997; Ord. 1401, passed 1-7-2008; Ord. 1483A, passed 12-
23-2019)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 71-4401
§ 90.02 RABIES VACCINATION.
   (A)   Vaccination required; cost; exemptions.
      (1)   Every domestic animal in the city shall be vaccinated against
rabies with a licensed vaccine and revaccinated at intervals specified by rules
and regulations adopted and promulgated by the Department. Young domestic
animals shall be initially vaccinated at the age specified in the rules and
regulations. Unvaccinated domestic animals acquired or moved into the city
shall be vaccinated within 30 days after purchase or arrival unless under the
age for initial vaccination.
      (2)   (a)   Except as provided in division (A)(2)(c) below, every hybrid
animal in the city shall be vaccinated against rabies and shall be revaccinated
at intervals specified by rules and regulations adopted and promulgated by the
Department. A young hybrid animal shall be initially vaccinated at the age
specified in such rules and regulations. An unvaccinated hybrid animal acquired
or moved into the city shall be vaccinated within 30 after purchase or arrival
unless under the age for initial vaccination.
         (b)   The rabies vaccine used to vaccinate a hybrid animal pursuant to
this division (A) shall be sold only to licensed veterinarians.
         (c)   An owner of a hybrid animal in the city prior to the date of
development of a licensed vaccine determined scientifically to be reliable in
preventing rabies in a hybrid animal shall have one year after such date to
comply with this section.
      (3)   The cost of rabies vaccination shall be borne by the owner of the
domestic or hybrid animal.
      (4)   (a)   The provisions of this subchapter with respect to vaccination
shall not apply to any domestic or hybrid animal owned by a person temporarily
remaining within the city for less than 30 days, to any domestic or hybrid
animal brought into the city for field trial or show purposes, or to any
domestic or hybrid animal brought into the city for hunting purposes for a
period of less than 30 days. Such domestic or hybrid animals shall be kept
under strict supervision of the owner. It shall be unlawful to bring any
domestic or hybrid animal into the city which does not comply with the animal
health laws and import rules and regulations of the state which are applicable
to domestic or hybrid animals.
         (b)   Domestic or hybrid animals assigned to a research institution or
a similar facility shall be exempt from this subchapter.
(1976 Code, § 6-103)
   (B)   Rabies vaccination certificates and tags.
      (1)   It shall be the duty of each veterinarian, at the time of
vaccinating any animal, to complete a certificate of rabies vaccination which
shall include, but not be limited to, the following information:
         (a)   The owner’s name and address;
         (b)   An adequate description of the animal including, but not limited
to, such items as the animal’s breed, sex, age, name and distinctive markings;
         (c)   The date of vaccination;
         (d)   The rabies vaccination tag number;
         (e)   The type of rabies vaccine administered; and
         (f)   The manufacturer’s serial number of the vaccine used.
      (2)   Such veterinarian shall issue a tag with the certificate of
vaccination.
      (3)   The cost of the rabies vaccination shall be borne by the owner of
the animal.
(1976 Code, § 6-104)
   (C)   Rabies suspected.
      (1)   (a)   Any dog suspected of being afflicted with rabies, or any dog
not vaccinated in accordance with the provisions of this subchapter, which has
bitten any person and caused an abrasion of the skin, shall be seized and
impounded under the supervision of the Police Department for a period of not
less than ten days.
         (b)   If, upon examination by a veterinarian, the dog has no clinical
signs of rabies at the end of such impoundment, it may be released to the
owner, or, in the case of an unlicensed dog, it shall be disposed of in
accordance with the provisions herein. If the owner of the said dog has proof
of vaccination, it shall be confined by the owner or some other responsible
person for a period of at least ten days, at which time the dog shall be
examined by a licensed veterinarian. If no signs of rabies are observed, the
dog may be released from confinement.
      (2)   If the ownership of any animal which has bitten a person can be
established, the owner shall be liable for the cost of confining for such
length of time as is necessary to establish whether the animal is rabid. If the
ownership of such animal cannot be determined, the person bitten shall be
liable for the cost of so confining it. The cost of confining an animal whose
ownership cannot be determined and is only suspected of having rabies, shall be
paid by the municipality.
      (3)   All costs incurred in the collection, submission and sending to the
Department of Health, of heads of animals that have or are suspected of dying
from rabies, shall be borne by the owner of such animal if the ownership
thereof can be established. If ownership of such animal cannot be determined,
then the person bitten by the animal shall be liable for the cost of
collection, submission and sending the head to the Department of Health. The
cost of sending the head of an animal whose ownership cannot be determined,
which has not bitten any persons and is only suspected of having rabies, shall
be paid by the municipality.
   (D)   Domestic or hybrid animal or livestock; post-exposure management.
Domestic or hybrid animals or livestock known to have been exposed to a
confirmed or suspected rabid animal shall be subjected to post-exposure
management as provided in rules and regulations adopted and promulgated by the
department.
(1976 Code, § 6-113) (Ord. 1230, passed 3-24-1997; Ord. 1395, passed 6-4-2007;
Ord. 1401, passed 1-7-2008; Ord. 1483A, passed 12-23-2019) Penalty, see §
90.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 71-4402, 71-4404, 71-4405, 71-4406
§ 90.03 LICENSE AND TAX REQUIRED; EXEMPTIONS; TAGS.
   (A)   (1)   Any owner of a dog over the age of six months within the
municipality shall, within 30 days after acquisition of the dog, acquire a
license for the dog. annually by or before the January 1 of each year. Licenses
shall be issued by the City Clerk upon payment of a license tax in the amount
established by the governing body, plus the $1.25 fee required under Neb. RS
54-603(3). It shall be unlawful for the owner of a dog to wrongfully and
knowingly license an unsprayed female dog as a male or spayed female dog if the
governing body has established different license taxes for such dogs.
      (2)   The tax shall be delinquent from and after May 10. The owner of any
dog brought into or harbored within the corporate limits subsequent to May 1 of
any year shall be liable for payment of the dog tax, and such tax shall be
delinquent if not paid within ten days thereafter. The license shall not be
transferable and no refund will be allowed in case of death, sale or other
disposition of the licensed dog.
      (3)   The owner shall state, at the time the application is made and upon
printed forms provided for such purpose, his or her name and address and the
name, breed, color and sex of each dog owned by him or her. A certificate of
rabies vaccination, effective for the ensuing year of the license, shall be
presented when application for a license is made, and no license or tag shall
be issued until the certificate is shown.
      (4)   Every service animal shall be licensed as required by this section,
but no license tax shall be charged. Upon the retirement or discontinuance of
the animal as a service animal, the owner of the animal shall be liable for the
payment of the required license tax.
      (5)   (a)   Upon the payment of the license tax, the Clerk shall issue to
the owner of the dog a license certificate and a metallic tag, which shall be
valid until April 30 following such licensing. The Clerk shall issue tags of a
suitable design that rare different in appearance each year.
         (b)   The metallic tag and the rabies tag shall be properly attached
to the collar or harness of the dog. It shall be unlawful for the owner of any
dog to permit or allow such dog to wear any licensing identification other than
the metallic tag issued by the Clerk.
         (c)   If a license tag is lost, upon satisfactory evidence that the
original tag was issued in accordance with the provisions of this section, the
Clerk shall issue a duplicate or new tag for the balance of the year for which
the license tax has been paid and shall charge and collect a fee established by
the governing body for each duplicate or new tag so issued.
      (6)   All license taxes, fees and other collections shall be credited to
the General Fund of the city, except as otherwise provided by Neb. RS 54-603.
(1976 Code, § 6-105)
   (B)   No owner, keeper or harborer of any dog shall permit or allow such dog
to wear any other license metallic tag than the original tag or duplicate tag
issued by the City Clerk for such dog and for the period of the licensing year
hereinbefore mentioned, nor shall the owner, keeper or harborer wrongfully and
knowingly license a male dog or barren female and use a tag received therefor
for an unspayed or intact female dog.
(1976 Code, § 6-106)
(Ord. 1114, passed 8-8-1994; Ord. 1116, passed 12-5-1994; Ord. 1418, passed 12-
20-2010; Ord. 1461, passed 2-8-2016) Penalty, see §
90.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 54-603
§ 90.04 ANIMALS RUNNING AT LARGE.
   Any licensed or unlicensed animal found running at large within the
municipality shall be seized by any police officer or other officer designated
by the Mayor and Council and said animal shall be held in the municipal animal
shelter until claimed by the owner or destroyed as provided in §
90.05(A) of this chapter. It shall be unlawful for the owner, keeper or
harborer of any animal regardless of age or sex to permit such animal to run at
large within the corporate limits of the municipality.
(1976 Code, § 6-107) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.05 IMPOUNDING; AUTHORITY TO KILL.
   (A)   General. It shall be the duty of the municipal police to capture,
secure and remove in a humane manner to the municipal animal shelter any dog
violating any of the provisions of this subchapter. The dogs so impounded shall
be treated in a humane manner and shall be provided with a sufficient supply of
food and fresh water each day. Each impounded dog shall be kept and maintained
at the pound for a period of not less than five days after public notice has
been given unless reclaimed earlier by the owner. Notice of impoundment of all
animals, including any significant marks or identifications, shall be posted at
the office of the Municipal Clerk within 24 hours after impoundment as public
notification of such impoundment. Any dog may be reclaimed by its owner during
the period of impoundment by payment of a general impoundment fee and daily
board fee as set by resolution of the governing body and on file in the office
of the Municipal Clerk. The owner shall then be required to comply with the
licensing and rabies vaccination requirements within 72 hours after release. If
the dog is not claimed at the end of required waiting period after public
notice has been given, the municipal police may dispose of the dog in
accordance with the applicable rules and regulations pertaining to the same;
provided that, if, in the judgment of the municipal police, a suitable home can
be found for any such dog within the municipality, the said dog shall be turned
over to that person and the new owner shall then be required to pay all fees
and meet all licensing and vaccinating requirements provided in this
subchapter. The municipality shall acquire legal title to any unlicensed dog
impounded in the animal shelter for a period longer than the required waiting
period after giving notice. All dogs shall be destroyed and buried in the
summary and humane manner as prescribed by the Board of Health unless a
suitable home can be found for such dog.
(1976 Code, § 6-108)
   (B)   Interference with pound authorities. It shall be unlawful for any
person to hinder, delay, interfere with or obstruct the police or any
assistants while performing said duty enjoined upon him, her or them by the
provisions of this subchapter or while engaged in the capturing, securing or
taking to the animal shelter, any animal subject to be impounded. In such a
case, none of these officials shall be responsible for any accident or disease
of any animal resulting from the enforcement of the provisions of this
subchapter.
(1976 Code, § 6-109)
   (C)   Destruction; abandonment. Any person who owns, harbors or in any way
sustains an animal that he or she wishes to be destroyed may place the same in
the animal shelter to be destroyed and disposed of according to the provisions
contained in this subchapter. Any animal which is abandoned shall be placed in
the municipal animal shelter for a period of not less than five days after
public notice has been given, unless reclaimed earlier by the owner. Notice of
impoundment of all abandoned animals shall be given in a manner as prescribed
in division (A) above and said abandoned animals shall be destroyed and buried
as provided in said section.
(1976 Code, § 6-110)
   (D)   Unlawful tampering with pound.
      (1)   No person, except authorized personnel, shall open or attempt to
open or in any manner tamper with any padlock or other device securing any
enclosure owned or operated by the municipality; nor shall any unauthorized
person be allowed to break open or in any manner directly or indirectly to aid,
counsel or advise the breaking open of any animal shelter, or any other vehicle
used for collecting, or conveying of animals to the shelter.
      (2)   It shall be unlawful for any unauthorized person to cut, saw,
break, bend or in any manner damage or destroy any enclosure for animals owned
or operated by the municipality.
      (3)   No person, except authorized personnel, shall remove or attempt to
remove any animal kept or harbored in any enclosure for animals owned or
operated by the municipality.
(1976 Code, § 6-114)
   (E)   Capture impossible. The municipal police shall have the authority to
kill any animals showing vicious tendencies or characteristics of rabies which
make capture impossible because of the danger involved.
(1976 Code, § 6-122)
(Ord. 641, passed 5-10-1980; Ord. 670, passed 9-17-1981; Ord. 1373, passed 1-
24-2005; Ord. 1395, passed 2-4-2007) Penalty, see §
90.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-548, 54-605, 71-4408
§ 90.06 VICIOUS ANIMALS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to own, keep or harbor, within the
corporate limits of the municipality, or within territory adjacent to the
corporate limits within one mile thereof, any dangerous or ferocious animal
which habitually snaps or manifests a disposition to bite, or commits injury to
persons or property, or is offensive or unhealthy. If any vicious or dangerous
animal is allowed to run at large within said area, the municipal police shall
have the authority to put the said animal to death. If any animal bites or
injures any person, or kills a domesticated animal, while said animal is
outside the boundaries of the property occupied by its owner, the court shall
as part of any judgment of conviction for either animal running at large or
vicious animal order that said animal shall be destroyed. The cost of
destroying said animal shall be the obligation of the owner. At the direction
of the police, said animal can be placed in the municipal animal shelter
pending determination of the court proceeding instituted pursuant to this
provision and the costs of any placement shall be borne by the owner.
(1976 Code, § 6-111) (Ord. 896, passed 5-5-1986; Ord. 1395, passed 6-4-2007;
Ord. 1400, passed 12-17-2007) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.07 PROCLAMATION OF DANGEROUS ANIMAL.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of the Police Department whenever, in its
opinion, the danger to the public safety from rabid dogs is great or imminent,
to issue a proclamation ordering all persons owning, keeping or harboring any
dog to muzzle the same, or to confine it for a period of not less than 30 days
or more than 90 days from the date of such proclamation, or until such danger
is passed.
   (B)   The dogs may be harbored by any good and sufficient means in a house,
garage or yard on the premise wherein the said owner may reside.
   (C)   Upon issuing the proclamation, it shall be the duty of all persons
owning, keeping or harboring any dog to confine the same, as herein provided.
(1976 Code, § 6-112) (Ord. 1395, passed 6-4-2007) Penalty, see §
90.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-526
§ 90.08 BARKING AND OFFENSIVE ANIMALS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful and shall constitute a nuisance for any person to
own, keep or harbor any animal which, by loud, continued or frequent barking,
howling or yelping, shall annoy or disturb any person or neighborhood, or which
habitually barks at or chases persons or vehicles while they are on any public
sidewalks, streets or alleys in the municipality.
   (B)   The provisions of this section shall not be construed to apply to the
municipal animal shelter.
(1976 Code, § 6-115) (Ord. 1026, passed 1-21-1991; Ord. 1101, passed 11-8-1993)
Penalty, see §
90.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-526
§ 90.09 FIGHTING ANIMALS; PITTING.
   (A)   Fighting. It shall be unlawful for any person, by agreement or
otherwise, to set animals to fighting or by any gesture or word to encourage
the same to fight.
(1976 Code, § 6-116)
   (B)   Pitting; definitions.
      (1)   For the purpose of this division (B), the following definitions
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
         BEARBAITING. The pitting of any animal against a bear.
         COCKFIGHTING. The pitting of a fowl against another fowl.
         DOGFIGHTING. The pitting of a dog against another dog.
         PITTING. Bringing animals together in combat.
(1976 Code, § 6-123)
      (2)   (a)   No person shall knowingly:
            1.   Promote, engage in or be employed at dogfighting,
cockfighting, bearbaiting or pitting an animal against another;
            2.   Receive money for the admission of another person to a place
kept for such purpose;
            3.   Own, use, train, sell or possess an animal for such purposes;
and
            4.   Permit any act as described in this division (B) to occur on
any premises owned or controlled by him or her.
         (b)   No person shall knowingly and willingly be present at and
witness as a spectator dogfighting, cockfighting, bearbaiting or the pitting of
an animal against another as prohibited in this division (B).
         (c)   No person shall knowingly or intentionally own or possess animal
fighting paraphernalia with the intent to commit a violation of this division
(B).
            1.   For purposes of this section, ANIMAL FIGHTING PARAPHERNALIA
means equipment, products and materials of any kind that are used, intended for
use or designed for use in the training, preparation, conditioning or
furtherance of the pitting of an animal against another, as defined in this
division (B). ANIMAL FIGHTING PARAPHERNALIA includes, but is not limited to,
the following:
               a.   A breaking stick, which means a device designed for
insertion behind the molars of a dog for the purpose of breaking the dog’s grip
on another animal or object;
               b.   A cat mill, which means a device that rotates around a
central support with one arm designed to secure a dog and one arm designed to
secure a cat, rabbit or other small animal beyond the grasp of the dog;
               c.   A treadmill, which means an exercise device consisting of
an endless belt on which the animal walks or runs without changing place;
               d.   A fighting pit, which means a walled area designed to
contain an animal fight;
               e.   A springpole, which means a biting surface attached to a
stretchable device, suspended at a height sufficient to prevent a dog from
reaching the biting surface while touching the ground;
               f.   A heel, which means any edged or pointed instrument
designed to be attached to the leg of a fowl;
               g.   A boxing glove or muff, which means a fitted protective
covering for the spurs of a fowl; and
               h.   Any other instrument commonly used in the furtherance of
pitting an animal against another.
            2.   ANIMAL FIGHTING PARAPHERNALIA does not include equipment,
products or materials of any kind used by a veterinarian licensed to practice
veterinary medicine and surgery in the state.
(1976 Code, § 6-124)
(Ord. 957, passed 9-26-1988; Ord. 1019, passed 1-21-1991; Ord. 1418, passed 12-
20-2010) Penalty, see §
90.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 28-1004, 28-1005
§ 90.10 LIABILITY OF OWNER.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to allow a animal owned, kept or
harbored by him or her, or under his or her charge or control, to injure or
destroy any real or personal property of any description belonging to another
person. The owner or possessor of any such animal, in addition to the usual
judgment upon conviction, may be made to be liable to the persons so injured in
an amount equal to the value of the damage so sustained.
(1976 Code, § 6-117) Penalty, see §
90.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 54-601, 54-602
§ 90.11 ANIMALS BANNED FROM MUNICIPALITY.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to keep or maintain within the corporate
limits any horse, mule, sheep, cow, goat, swine, llama, ostrich, alpaca, emu or
other livestock, any chicken, turkey, peacock, guinea, duck, goose, pigeon or
other fowl, any snake, lizard or other large reptile.
(1976 Code, § 6-118) (Ord. 1413, passed 4-19-2010) Penalty, see §
90.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-547
§ 90.12 CRUELTY; KILLING AND INJURING.
   (A)   No person shall cruelly or unnecessarily beat, abuse, overwork or
insufficiently shelter, feed or water any animal within the municipality. If
there has been a previous conviction pursuant to this section, the person so
convicted shall be prohibited from owning, possessing, keeping, harboring or
having control of, charge of or custody of any animal from and after the date
of that conviction. If said person violates said prohibition, law enforcement
shall be permitted to enter upon the real estate of the person so violating and
deliver the animal or animals in question to the municipal animal shelter. All
costs for boarding the animal or animals and for the placement or destruction
of the animal or animals shall be borne by and shall be the responsibility of
the person in violation of this section.
(1976 Code, § 6-119)
   (B)   No person shall kill or injure any animal by the use of firearms,
stones, clubs, poisons or any other manner unless the animal is vicious or
dangerous and cannot be captured without danger to the persons attempting to
effect a capture of the said animal.
(1976 Code, § 6-120)
(Ord. 1389, passed 6-19-2006; Ord. 1411, passed 11-23-2009) Penalty, see §
90.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 28-552, 28-553
§ 90.13 ANIMAL ENCLOSURES.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person owning, keeping or harboring any
animal to fail, refuse or neglect to provide such animal with adequate food,
water, shade, shelter, living environment or veterinarian care as may be
necessary for diseased or injured animals. Any animal habitually kept outside
or repeatedly left unattended outside shall be provided with a structurally
sound, moisture-proof and wind-proof shelter large enough to accommodate and
keep the animal reasonably clean, dry and comfortable.
   (B)   ADEQUATE FOOD, WATER, SHADE, SHELTER, LIVING ENVIRONMENT AND CARE
shall mean:
      (1)   Each animal at suitable intervals, at least every 24 hours, receive
a quantity of wholesome food sufficient to maintain an adequate level of
nutrition for the animal;
      (2)   Each animal shall at all times have access to an adequate supply of
clean, fresh water and such water shall be provided either free flowing or in a
receptacle. Snow or ice shall not be considered an acceptable water source. If
water pans or dishes are used, such pans or dishes shall have weighted bottoms
or be mounted or secured in a manner that prevents tipping; and
      (3)   Each animal shall have convenient access to adequate shelter
throughout the year. Any artificial shelter shall be structurally sound and
maintained in good repair to protect the animal from injury and from the
elements, and shall be of sufficient size to permit the animal to enter, stand,
turn around and lie down in a natural manner. Any shelter which is not
protecting the animal from temperature extremes, or precipitation, or which
does not provide adequate ventilation or drainage does not comply with this
section. The shelter and any other spaces accessible to the animal and all
bedding for the animal shall be maintained in a manner which minimizes the risk
to the animal of contracting disease, being injured or becoming infested with
parasites.
(1976 Code, § 6-121) (Ord. 1413, passed 4-19-2010) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.14 ABANDONMENT, NEGLECT AND MISTREATMENT.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this chapter, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      ABANDON. To leave any animal in one's care, whether as owner or
custodian, for any length of time without making effective provision for its
food, water, or other care as is reasonably necessary for the animal's health.
      ANIMAL. Any vertebrate member of the animal kingdom. ANIMAL does not
include an uncaptured wild creature or a livestock animal as defined in this
section.
      BOVINE. A cow, an ox, or a bison.
      CRUELLY MISTREAT. To knowingly and intentionally kill, maim, disfigure,
torture, beat, mutilate, burn, scald, or otherwise inflict harm upon any
animal.
      CRUELLY NEGLECT. To fail to provide any animal in one's care, whether as
owner or custodian, with food, water, or other care as is reasonably necessary
for the animal's health.
      HUMANE KILLING. The destruction of an animal by a method which causes the
animal a minimum of pain and suffering.
      LAW ENFORCEMENT OFFICER. Any member of the Nebraska State Patrol, any
county or deputy sheriff, any member of the police force of the city or any
other public official authorized by the city to enforce state or local animal
control laws, rules, regulations, or ordinances. LAW ENFORCEMENT OFFICER also
includes a special investigator appointed as a deputy state sheriff as
authorized pursuant to Neb. RS 81-201 while acting within the authority of the
Director of Agriculture.
      LIVESTOCK ANIMAL. Any bovine, equine, swine, sheep, goats, domesticated
cervine animals, ratite birds, or poultry.
      OWNER OR CUSTODIAN. Any person owning, keeping, possessing, harboring, or
knowingly permitting an animal to remain on or about any premises owned or
occupied by such person.
      POLICE ANIMAL. A horse or dog owned or controlled by the state or any
county, city, for the purpose of assisting a law enforcement officer in the
performance of his or her official enforcement duties.
   (B)   Enforcement powers; immunity.
      (1)   A law enforcement officer who has reason to believe that an animal
has been abandoned or is being cruelly neglected or cruelly mistreated may seek
a warrant authorizing entry upon private property to inspect, care for, or
impound the animal.
      (2)   It shall be the duty of a law enforcement officer who has reason to
believe that an animal has been abandoned or is being cruelly neglected or
cruelly mistreated to make prompt investigation of such violation. A law
enforcement officer may, in lieu of making an arrest, issue a citation to the
owner or custodian as prescribed in Neb. RS 29-422 through 29-429.
      (3)   Any law enforcement officer acting under this section shall not be
liable for damage to property if such damage is not the result of the officer's
negligence.
   (C)   Violation.
      (1)   A person who intentionally, knowingly, or recklessly abandons,
cruelly neglects, or cruelly mistreats an animal is guilty of an offense.
      (2)   A person commits harassment of a police animal if he or she
knowingly and intentionally teases or harasses a police animal in order to
distract, agitate, or harm the police animal for the purpose of preventing such
animal from performing its legitimate official duties.
(1976 Code, § 6-133)
(Ord. 1018, passed 1-21-1991; Ord. 1418, passed 12-20-2010; Ord. 1433A, passed
1-7-2013; Ord. 1461, passed 2-8-2016; Ord. 1468, passed 2-16-2017; Ord. 1538,
passed 1-9-2023) Penalty, see §
90.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 28-1008, 28-1009, 28-1012
§ 90.15 EQUINES AND BOVINES.
   (A)   (1)   No person shall intentionally trip or cause to fall, or lasso or
rope the legs of, any equine by any means for the purpose of entertainment,
sport, practice or contest.
      (2)   The intentional tripping or causing to fall, or lassoing or roping
the legs of, any equine by any means for the purpose of entertainment, sport,
practice or contest shall not be considered a commonly accepted practice
occurring in conjunction with sanctioned rodeos, animal racing or pulling
contests.
   (B)   (1)   No person shall intentionally trip, cause to fall or drag any
bovine by its tail by any means for the purpose of entertainment, sport,
practice or contest.
      (2)   The intentional tripping, causing to fall or dragging of any bovine
by its tail by any means for the purpose of entertainment, sport, practice or
contest shall not be considered a commonly accepted practice occurring in
conjunction with sanctioned rodeos, animal racing or pulling contests.
(1976 Code, § 6-134) Penalty, see §
90.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 28-1009.02, 28-1009.03, 28-1013.01, 28-
1013.02
§ 90.16 RESTRICTIONS ON OWNING, KEEPING OR HARBORING.
   (A)   No person, who shall have been convicted at anytime of a violation of
§§
90.09(A) and (C) and
90.12 of this chapter, shall be allowed to own, keep or harbor any animal
within the city limits.
   (B)   Any person violating this section shall be guilty of a new violation
hereof every 24 hours.
(1976 Code, § 6-135) (Ord. 1433B, passed 2-18-2013) Penalty, see §
90.99
DANGEROUS DOGS
§ 90.30 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ANIMAL CONTROL AUTHORITY. An entity authorized to enforce the animal control
laws of the city and includes any local law enforcement agency or other agency
designated by the city to enforce the animal control laws of the city.
   ANIMAL CONTROL OFFICER. Any individual employed, appointed, or authorized by
an animal control authority for the purpose of aiding in the enforcement of
this act or any other law or ordinance relating to the licensing of animals,
control of animals or seizure and impoundment of animals and shall include any
state or local law enforcement or other employee whose duties in whole or in
part include assignments that involve the seizure and impoundment of any
animal.
   DANGEROUS DOG. Any dog that, according to the records of an animal control
authority of the city, which:
      (1)   Has killed a human being;
      (2)   Has inflicted injury on a human being that requires medical
treatment;
      (3)   Has killed a domestic animal without provocation;
      (4)   Has been previously determined to be a potentially dangerous dog by
an animal control authority, the owner has received notice of such
determination from an animal control authority or an animal control officer and
such dog inflicts an injury on a human being that does not require medical
treatment, injures a domestic animal, or threatens the safety of humans or
domestic animals;
      (5)   The dog shall not be defined as a DANGEROUS DOG if the individual
was tormenting, abusing or assaulting the dog at the time of the injury or has,
in the past, been observed or reported to have tormented, abused or assaulted
the dog;
      (6)   A dog shall not be defined as a DANGEROUS DOG if the injury, damage
or threat was sustained by an individual who, at the time, was committing a
willful trespass as defined in Neb. RS 20-203, 28-520 or 28-521 RS Neb. was
committing any other tort upon the property of the owner of the dog, was
tormenting, abusing or assaulting the dog, or has, in the past, been observed
or reported to have tormented, abused or assaulted the dog, or was committing
or attempting to commit a crime; and
      (7)   A dog shall not be defined as a DANGEROUS DOG if the dog is a
police animal, as defined in Neb. RS 28-1008.
   DOMESTIC ANIMAL.
      (1)   A cat, a dog or livestock.
      (2)   Livestock includes buffalo, deer, antelope, fowl and any other
animal in any zoo, wildlife park, refuge, wildlife area or nature center
intended to be on exhibit.
   MEDICAL TREATMENT. Treatment administered by a physician or other licensed
health care professional that results in sutures or surgery or treatment for
one or more broken bones.
   OWNER. Any person, firm, corporation, organization, political subdivision or
department possessing, harboring, keeping or having control or custody of a
dog.
   POTENTIALLY DANGEROUS DOG.
      (1)   Any dog that when unprovoked;
         (a)   Inflicts an injury on a human being that does not require
medical treatment;
         (b)   Injures a domestic animal; or
         (c)   Chases or approaches a person upon streets, sidewalks or any
public grounds in a menacing fashion or apparent attitude of attack.
      (2)   Any specific dog with a known propensity, tendency or disposition
to attack when unprovoked, to cause injury or to threaten the safety of humans
or domestic animals.
(1976 Code, § 6-126) (Ord. 992, passed 12-18-1989)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 54-617
§ 90.31 RESTRAINT REQUIRED.
   (A)   (1)   A dangerous dog that has been declared as such shall be spayed
or neutered and implanted with a microchip identification number by a licensed
veterinarian within 30 days after such declaration.
      (2)   The cost of both procedures is the responsibility of the owner of
the dangerous dog.
      (3)   Written proof of both procedures and the microchip identification
number shall be provided to the animal control authority after the procedures
are completed.
   (B)   No owner of a dangerous dog shall permit the dog to be outside of the
required secured enclosure or fencing unless the dog is restrained by a chain
or leash of sufficient strength to control the dog and the dog is muzzled in
such a manner as to prevent it from biting or injuring any person or animal.
   (C)   Except as provided in division (D) below or for a reasonable
veterinary purpose, no owner of a dangerous dog shall transport such dog or
permit such dog to be transported to another county, city or village in the
state.
   (D)   (1)   An owner of a dangerous dog may transport such dog or permit
such dog to be transported to another county, city or village in the state for
the purpose of permanent relocation of the owner if the owner has obtained
written permission prior to such relocation from the animal control authority
of the county, city or village in which the owner resides and from the county,
city or village in which the owner will reside. Each animal control authority
may grant such permission based upon a reasonable evaluation of both the owner
and the dog, including if the owner has complied with the laws of the state and
of the county, city or village in which he or she resides with regard to
dangerous dogs after the dog was declared dangerous.
      (2)   An animal control authority shall not grant permission under this
section if the county, city or village has an ordinance or resolution
prohibiting the relocation of dangerous dogs. After the permanent relocation,
the animal control authority of the county, city or village in which the owner
resides shall monitor the owner and such dog for a period of at least 30 days,
but not to exceed 90 days, to ensure the owner’s compliance with the laws of
the state and of such county, city or village with regard to dangerous dogs.
      (3)   Nothing in this division (D) shall permit the rescindment of the
declaration of dangerous dog.
(1976 Code, § 6-127) (Ord. 992, passed 12-18-1989; Ord. 1491, passed 8-24-2020)
Penalty, see §
90.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 54-618
§ 90.32 CONFINEMENT REQUIRED.
   (A)   No person, firm, partnership, limited liability company or corporation
shall own, keep or harbor or allow to be in or on any premises occupied by him,
her or it or under his, her or its charge or control any dangerous dog without
such dog being confined so as to protect the public from injury.
   (B)   (1)   While unattended on the owner’s property, a dangerous dog shall
be securely confined, in a humane manner, indoors, outdoors in an area bounded
by a secure fence at least six feet high with an impenetrable base embedded
into the ground at a depth of at least one foot and all gates locked, or
outdoors in a securely enclosed and locked pen or structure suitably designed
to prevent the entry of young children and to prevent the dog from escaping.
The pen or structure shall have secure sides and a secure top. If the pen or
structure has no bottom secured to the sides, the sides shall be embedded into
the ground at a depth of at least one foot. The pen or structure shall be at
least ten feet from any property line of the owner. The pen or structure shall
also protect the dog from the elements, including a roof which protects the
animal from sun and inclement weather. As an alternative to this protective
roof, a shelter or dog house may be placed within the confinement area.
      (2)   The owner of a dangerous dog shall post warning signs on the
property where the dog is kept that are clearly visible from all areas of
public access and that inform persons that a dangerous dog is on the property.
Each warning sign shall be no less than ten inches by 12 inches and shall
contain the words warning and dangerous animal in high-contrast lettering at
least three inches high on a black background.
(1976 Code, § 6-128) (Ord. 992, passed 12-18-1989; Ord. 1491, passed 8-24-2020)
Penalty, see §
90.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 54-619
§ 90.33 FAILURE TO COMPLY.
   (A)   (1)   Any dangerous dog may be immediately confiscated by an animal
control officer if the owner is in violation of this section.
      (2)   The owner shall be responsible for the reasonable costs incurred by
the animal control authority for the care of a dangerous dog confiscated by an
animal control officer or for the destruction of any dangerous dog if the
action by the animal control authority is pursuant to law and if the owner
violated this section.
   (B)   In addition to any other penalty, a court may order the animal control
authority to dispose of a dangerous dog in an expeditious and humane manner.
   (C)   (1)   Any owner whose dangerous dog inflicts on a human being a
serious bodily injury, as defined in Neb. RS 28-109, is guilty of a Class I
misdemeanor for the first offense, whether or not the same dangerous dog is
involved.
      (2)   It is a defense to a violation of division (C)(1) above that the
dangerous dog was, at the time of the infliction of the serious bodily injury,
in the custody of or under the direct control of a person other than the owner
or the owner’s immediate family.
   (D)   If a dangerous dog of an owner with a prior conviction under this
section attacks or bites a human being or domestic animal, in addition to any
other penalty, the dangerous dog shall be immediately confiscated by an animal
control authority, placed in quarantine for the proper length of time and
thereafter destroyed in an expeditious and humane manner.
(1976 Code, § 6-129) (Ord. 992, passed 12-18-1989) Penalty, see §
90.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 54-620, 54-621, 54-622.01, 54-623
§ 90.34 ADDITIONAL REGULATIONS.
   Nothing in this subchapter shall be construed to restrict or prohibit any
governing body of the city from establishing and enforcing laws or ordinances
at least as stringent as the provisions of this subchapter.
(1976 Code, § 6-130) (Ord. 992, passed 12-18-1989)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 54-624
§ 90.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Violation; penalty.
      (1)   Any person who shall violate or refuse to comply with the
enforcement of any of the provisions of this chapter, set forth at full length
herein or incorporated by reference shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor
and, upon conviction thereof, shall be fined not more than $500 for each
offense.
      (2)   A new violation shall be deemed to have been committed every 24
hours of such failure to comply.
(1976 Code, § 6-401)
   (B)   Abatement of nuisance.
      (1)   Whenever a nuisance exists, as defined in this chapter, the
municipality may proceed by a suit in equity to enjoin and abate the same, in
the manner provided by law.
      (2)   Whenever, in any action, it is established that a nuisance exists,
the court may, together with the fine or penalty imposed, enter an order of
abatement as a part of the judgment in the case.
(1976 Code, § 6-402)
   (C)   Violation of specific ordinances; penalty.
      (1)   Any person who shall violate §
90.14(C) of this chapter shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon
conviction thereof, shall be fined as follows:
         (a)   First violation: $100;
         (b)   Second violation: $250; and
         (c)   Third and all subsequent violations: $500.
      (2)   A new violation shall deem to have been committed every 24 hours of
such failure to comply.
(1976 Code, § 6-403)
(Ord. 1372, passed 1-24-2005; Ord. 1449, passed 12-23-2013)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 18-1720, 18-1722
CHAPTER 91: HEALTH AND SANITATION; NUISANCES
Section
General Provisions
   
91.01   General health and safety regulations
   
91.02   Enforcement official; County Health Board
   
91.03   State rules
Nuisances
   
91.15   General provisions
   
91.16   Abatement services and notice procedure
   
91.17   Enforcement
   
91.18   Expenses
Cross-reference:
   Animals, see
Ch. 90
   Planning and Zoning, see
Ch. 154
   Streets, Sidewalks and Public Property, see
Ch. 151
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 91.01 GENERAL HEALTH AND SAFETY REGULATIONS.
   For the purpose of promoting the health and safety of the residents of the
municipality, the Board of Health shall, from time to time, adopt such rules
and regulations relative thereto and shall make such inspections, prescribe
such penalties and make such reports as may be necessary toward that purpose.
(1976 Code, § 4-101)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-121
§ 91.02 ENFORCEMENT OFFICIAL; COUNTY HEALTH BOARD.
   (A)   The Police Chief, as the Quarantine Officer, shall be the Chief Health
Enforcement Officer of the municipality. It shall be his or her duty to notify
the governing body and the Board of Health of health nuisances within the
municipality and its zoning jurisdiction.
(1976 Code, § 4-102)
   (B)   It shall be the duty of the Board of Health to work closely with the
county’s Health Board in protecting the health and welfare of the residents of
the municipality.
(1976 Code, § 4-104) (Ord. 1024, passed 1-21-1991)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-121
§ 91.03 STATE RULES.
   The “Rules and Regulations Relating to Public Health”, Department of Health
of the state are hereby incorporated by reference when the same are applicable
to the municipality, in their present form and as they may hereafter be
amended. Three copies of the said pamphlet are filed at the office of the
Municipal Clerk and shall be available for public inspection at any reasonable
time.
(1976 Code, § 4-103)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 18-132, 19-902
NUISANCES
§ 91.15 GENERAL PROVISIONS.
   (A)   Purpose. The City of Cozad, by this section, defines its authority to
define, regulate, suppress and prevent nuisances, and to declare what shall be
a nuisance for its jurisdiction and to provide services to abate same for the
health and sanitation of the city.
   (B)   Nuisance defined. 
      (1)   A NUISANCE consists in doing any unlawful act, or omitting to
perform a duty, or suffering or permitting any condition or thing to be or
exist, which act, omission, condition or thing:
         (a)   Injures or endangers the comfort, repose, health, or safety of
others;
         (b)   Offends decency;
         (c)   Is offensive to the senses;
         (d)   Unlawfully interferes with, obstructs, tends to obstruct, or
renders dangerous for passage any stream, public park, parkway, square, street,
or highway in the municipality;
         (e)   In any way renders other persons insecure in life or the use of
property;
         (f)   Essentially interferes with the comfortable enjoyment of life
and property; or
         (g)   Tends to depreciate the value of the property of others.
      (2)   NUISANCE includes, but is not limited to, the maintaining, using,
placing, depositing, leaving, or permitting of any of the following specific
acts, omissions, places, conditions, and things:
         (a)   Any odorous, putrid, unsound, or unwholesome grain, meat, hides,
skins, feathers, vegetable matter, or the whole or any part of any dead animal,
fish, or fowl;
         (b)   The emission of smoke, dust, fumes, gases, mists, odors, or
polluted air from any source that is injurious or dangerous to human health and
safety;
         (c)   Privies, vaults, cesspools, dumps, pits, or like places which
are not securely protected from flies or rats or other insects and rodents, or
which are foul or malodorous;
         (d)   Filthy, littered, or trash-covered cellars, house yards,
barnyards, stable-yards, factory-yards, mill yards, vacant areas in rear of
stores, granaries, vacant lots, houses, buildings, or premises;
         (e)   Dead animals or dead animals buried within the corporate limits;
         (f)   Animal manure in any quantity which is not securely protected
from flies and the elements, or which is kept or handled in violation of any
ordinance of the municipality;
         (g)   Hauling any garbage, waste, or refuse matter through the.
streets, alleys, and public ways except when the same is loaded and conveyed in
such a way that none of the contents shall be spilled;
         (h)   Liquid household waste, human excreta, garbage, butcher’s
trimmings and offal, parts of fish, or any waste vegetable, or animal matter in
any quantity. Nothing herein contained shall prevent the temporary retention of
waste in receptacles nor the dumping of non-putrefying waste in a place and
manner approved by the municipality;
         (i)   Tin cans, bottles, glass, cans, ashes, small pieces of scrap
iron, wire metal articles, bric-a-brac, broken stone or cement, broken
crockery, broken glass, broken plaster, and all trash or abandoned material,
unless the same be kept in covered bins or galvanized iron receptacles;
         (j)   Trash, litter, rags, accumulations of barrels, boxes, crates,
packing crates, mattresses, bedding, excelsior, packing hay, straw or other
packing material, lumber not neatly piled, scrap iron, tin or other metal not
neatly piled, old automobiles or parts thereof, or any other waste materials
when any of the articles or materials create a condition in which flies or rats
or other insects or rodents may breed or multiply, or which may be a fire
danger, or which are so unsightly as to depreciate property values in the
vicinity;
         (k)   Any unsafe building, unsightly building, billboard, or other
structure, or any old, abandoned or partially destroyed building or structure
or any building or structure commenced and left unfinished, which buildings,
billboards, or other structures are a fire hazard, or a menace to the public
health or safety, or are so unsightly as to depreciate the value of property in
the vicinity;
         (l)   All places used or maintained as junk yards, or dumping grounds,
or for the wrecking and disassembling of automobiles, trucks, tractors, or
machinery of any kind, or for the storing or leaving of worn out, wrecked or
abandoned automobiles, trucks, tractors, or machinery of any kind, or of any of
the parts thereof, or for the storing or leaving of any machinery or equipment
used by contractors or builders or by other persons, which places are kept or
maintained so as to essentially interfere with the comfortable enjoyment of
life or property by others, or which are so unsightly as to tend to depreciate
property values in the vicinity thereof;
         (m)   Stockyards, granaries, mills, pig pens, cattle pens, chicken
pens or any other place, building or enclosure, in which animals or fowls of
any kind are confined or on which are stored tankage or any other animal or
vegetable matter, or on which any animal or vegetable matter including grain is
being processed, when the places in which the animals are confined, or the
premises on which the vegetable or animal matter is located are maintained and
kept in such a manner that foul and noxious odors are permitted to emanate
therefrom to the annoyance of inhabitants of the municipality or are maintained
and kept in such a manner as to be injurious to the public health;
         (n)   Dead or diseased trees within the right-of-way of streets within
the corporate limits of the city, or on private property within the one mile
zoning jurisdiction beyond the corporate limits;
         (o)   Undrained lots which hold or may hold stagnant water or any
other nuisance;
         (p)   Any condition which allows the perpetuating of insects and
rodents;
         (q)   Storage, accumulation, keeping, placing, or allowing to remain
trash, garbage, scrap and wrecked, worn out, broken or inoperative, or
partially destroyed or disassembled personal or real property of any kind,
including any junk or abandoned motor vehicles, tractors, trailers, machinery,
and equipment;
         (r)   Any vehicle which is not properly registered, or is inoperable,
wrecked, junked, or partially dismantled and remaining longer than 30 days on
private property. This does not apply to a vehicle in an enclosed building, a
vehicle on the premises of a business enterprise operated in a lawful place and
manner, when necessary to the lawful operation of such business enterprise
(such as a licensed salvage dealer, motor vehicle dealer or farm implement
dealer), or a vehicle in an appropriate storage place or depository maintained
in a lawful place and manner, and so long as the premises in which said vehicle
is located is not a nuisance and is maintained in a healthful and safe
condition, or one vehicle stored under a manufactured car cover. VEHICLE means
the same as defined by Neb. RS 60-136: a motor vehicle, all- terrain vehicle,
minibike, trailer, or semi-trailer. PROPERLY REGISTERED means as required by
Nebraska statutes;
         (s)   Lots, pieces of ground, and the adjoining streets and alleys
with growth of weeds or noxious growth;
         (t)   All other things specifically designated as nuisances elsewhere
in this code of ordinances.
(Ord. 1485, passed 3-18-2019)
Statutory reference: 
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-555, 18-1720
§ 91.16 ABATEMENT SERVICES AND NOTICE PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Nuisance Officer. The city shall appoint an individual or organization
to identify and enforce abatement of nuisances within the city. Said individual
or organization shall be identified as the Nuisance Officer and said
appointment shall be identified by resolution of the city.
   (B)   Identifying nuisances.
      (1)   The city may identify suspected nuisances, in which case the City
Clerk shall, upon direction of the City Council, notify the Nuisance Officer of
the suspected location, person or persons in violation of any provision of this
subchapter and provide the address of such alleged nuisance.
      (2)   The city may request that the Nuisance Officer audit the city for
nuisances in the city as defined by this code of ordinances. The Nuisance
Officer shall then view the property or area for any violations of the
nuisances of the city. The Nuisance Officer shall not go upon private property
for said audit unless granted permission by the resident/owner of suspected
property.
   (C)   Confirming, documenting and presenting nuisances. The Nuisance Officer
shall identify and confirm that in his or her opinion a nuisance exists as
defined by federal, state or city law.
      (1)   Upon confirming that a nuisance appears to exist, the Nuisance
Officer shall document said nuisance with photographs and other evidence
pertinent to the situation. The Nuisance Officer will also obtain the legal
description of the property and identify the current owners and, if possible,
the occupants of the property upon which the nuisance exists.
      (2)   Nuisance Officer shall then present this information to the city
governing board at a regular or special meeting for its confirmation that a
nuisance exists as stated in §
91.17.
(Ord. 1485, passed 3-18-2019)
§ 91.17 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Enforcement procedures. The nuisance, health and/or sanitation
violation is brought to the governing body by the City Nuisance Officer, or the
Board of Health or upon the governing body’s own action. The governing body
then may declare by resolution a nuisance, health and/or sanitation violation.
The nuisance, health, and/or sanitation ordinances may be enforced by: (1) city
administrative procedures; (2) penal prosecutions through the courts; and/or
(3) by civil procedures in the courts. Any of these procedures, or any
combination of these procedures, may be used to enforce the nuisance, health
and/or sanitation ordinances of the city.
   (B)   Administrative procedure. The city may proceed with abatement of the
nuisance, sanitation, and/or health violation with or without court involvement
after the following procedure is followed:
      (1)   After a nuisance is declared the City Clerk notifies the Nuisance
Officer to serve notice upon the violators.
      (2)   The Nuisance Officer shall prepare and serve notice which shall
describe the found nuisance and state the required date of abatement and
removal of the nuisance shall be accomplished. The notice shall also provide
information as to how the interested parties may request a hearing before the
governing body described in division (B)(4) below.
      (3)   The notice shall be given to each owner or owner’s duly authorized
agent and to the occupant, if any, by personal service or certified mail. If
notice by personal service or certified mail is unsuccessful, said notice shall
be given by a single publication in a newspaper of general circulation in the
city or county of the city, and by conspicuously posting the notice on the lot
or ground upon which the nuisance is to be abated and removed. The date of
service is determined by the later of certified mail receipt, personal service
or publication date.
      (4)   The accused violator (owner/agent/occupant) may request in writing
a hearing before the governing body of the city within five days after notice
of violation is served or published. For tree nuisance violations the period
for requesting a hearing is extended to 30 days after service.
      (5)   If no request for a hearing is received in the required time
period, the governing body may cause a hearing to be held. This option is at
the sole discretion of the governing body to be used in exceptional cases.
      (6)   If a hearing is requested, the City Clerk shall fix the date of
said hearing to be no later than 15 days from receipt of the request for the
hearing. Notice of said hearing and with the date and time shall be served upon
the agent, owner, and of the nuisance property by certified and regular mail.
      (7)   The hearing shall be a “show cause” hearing in which the agent,
owner, occupant of the nuisance property (objecting property) shall provide
evidence why the alleged condition should not be found to be a public nuisance
and remedied. This hearing shall be heard before a quorum of the governing
body. The presiding official of the governing body may conduct the hearing or
said presiding official may appoint another person as the hearing officer to
conduct the hearing (said hearing officer may be the City Attorney or the
Enforcement Officer). At the hearing the hearing officer shall mark and receive
evidence which was presented when the finding of a nuisance was made, relevant
evidence of the nuisance since that time, and evidence that the notices were
properly given. The objecting party shall then provide its evidence. The rules
of evidence is not required at said hearing, but all evidence must be relevant
to the particular nuisance being heard. Testimony shall be under oath as
administered by the Hearing Officer or any person so designated by the Hearing
Officer, and the person providing the testimony is subject to the laws of
perjury. Evidence may be submitted in writing by affidavit.
      (8)   No later than 14 days after the hearing and consideration of the
evidence, the governing board may by majority vote rescind the resolution of
violation. If the resolution of violation is not rescinded, it shall stand.
Furthermore, if the objector or its designated agent fails to appear at the
hearing or does not provide evidence, the nuisance shall stand. If the
resolution is not rescinded, the governing board may, by resolution, extend the
date that owner, occupant, lessee, or mortgagee shall abate and remedy the said
public nuisance, but in no case shall this time exceed 60 days. The findings of
the governing board shall be made no later than 14 days after the hearing and
notice of its finding shall be served upon the objecting party by regular U.S.
Mail within five days of the finding. The finding of this hearing is final,
provided that an interested party or parties may appeal such decision to the
appropriate court for adjudication
      (9)   If the Nuisance Officer determines the nuisance is not remedied and
abated within the time period designated, the city shall cause the abatement of
the nuisance.
      (10)   If an interested party properly appeals to an appropriate court
the findings and orders of the city, the city actions shall be stayed until
such time that the legal proceedings are completed or dismissed. In cases of
appeal from an action of the city condemning real property as a nuisance or as
dangerous under the police powers of the municipality, the owners of the
adjoining property may intervene in the action at any time before trial.
   (C)   Penal court enforcement procedure. If the declared nuisance, health,
and/or sanitation are not abated within 15 days that the notice is served upon
the owner and/or occupant, and the City Clerk has not received a request for
hearing, the Nuisance Officer may cause issue of a citation for the code
violation.
      (1)   The citation shall be prosecuted to the appropriate court by the
City Attorney or other designated prosecutor for the city.
      (2)   A person or persons found guilty of these violations shall be
guilty of a misdemeanor and fined up to $500 per each offense.
      (3)   Each day that the nuisance as identified in the nuisance resolution
and notice, is not abated shall be a separate offense and subject to a separate
fine.
   (D)   Civil court procedure. The governing board may instruct by resolution
the City Attorney to file a civil action for the abatement of a nuisance. Said
civil suit may commence after 15 days notice has been served, and may be filed
and prosecuted at the same time any other enforcement procedure has commenced,
terminated or in progress.
(Ord. 1485, passed 3-18-2019)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 19-710
§ 91.18 EXPENSES.
   (A)   When the city has effected the abatement of the nuisance, health and/
or sanitation violation through either city employees or through contract with
a third party and has incurred expenses and costs thereof, the actual cost
thereof shall be charged to the owner, agent, occupant or person in possession,
charge or control of such property. The billing shall be calculated at the
actual cost of abating the nuisance plus a $200 administrative fee.
   (B)   This billing shall be submitted to the last known address of the owner
of the nuisance property as found in the County Treasurer’s office by regular
U.S. Mail.
   (C)   If said costs are not paid within two months after the work is done
and one month after the expenses and costs are submitted to the owner and/or
occupant, the city may levy and assess the expenses and costs upon the real
estate benefitted by the actions in the same manner as other special
assessments are levied and assessed, and the city may collect said assessments
in the same procedure as other special assessments are collected. The city may
also recover said expenses and costs of abating the nuisance, health and/or
sanitation violation(s) in a civil action in the courts of the appropriate
county in Nebraska.
(Ord. 1485, passed 3-18-2019)
CHAPTER 92: FIRE PREVENTION AND PROTECTION
Section
General Provisions
   
92.01   Preservation of property
   
92.02   Disorderly spectator
   
92.03   Equipment
   
92.04   Interference
   
92.05   Obstruction
   
92.06   Assistance
   
92.07   Driving over fire hose
   
92.08   Traffic
   
92.09   False alarms
Fire Prevention
   
92.20   Fire Code enforcement
   
92.21   Lawful entry
   
92.22   Violation notice
   
92.23   Fire limits
   
92.24   Fires regulated
   
92.25   Flammable gases
   
92.26   Rural Fire District; merger
   
92.27   Open burning ban; waiver
   
92.28   Explosives
   
92.29   Building removal or repair required
 
   
92.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 92.01 PRESERVATION OF PROPERTY.
   The Fire Chief, or any officer in charge of the Fire Department, shall have
the authority and power to cause the removal of property whenever it shall
become necessary for the preservation of more valuable property, the protection
of human life or to prevent the spreading of fire to adjoining property. The
Fire Chief may direct the municipal firefighters to remove any building,
structure or fence for the purpose of checking the progress of any fire. The
Fire Chief shall have the authority to blow up, or cause to be blown up, with
explosives any building or structure during the progress of a fire for the
purpose of checking the progress of the same.
(1976 Code, § 7-101)
§ 92.02 DISORDERLY SPECTATOR.
   It shall be unlawful for any person during the time of a fire and for a
period of 36 hours after its extinguishment to hinder, resist or refuse to obey
the Municipal Fire Chief, or to act in a noisy or disorderly manner. The Fire
Chief and Assistant Fire Chief shall have the power and authority during such
time to arrest or command any such person to assist them in the performance of
their official duties.
(1976 Code, § 7-102) Penalty, see §
92.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 28-908
§ 92.03 EQUIPMENT.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, except the Fire Chief and the members
of the Municipal Fire Department, to molest, destroy, handle or in any other
way to interfere with the use and storage of any of the fire trucks and other
apparatus belonging to the municipality.
(1976 Code, § 7-103) Penalty, see §
92.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 28-519
§ 92.04 INTERFERENCE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person or persons to hinder or obstruct the
Municipal Fire Chief or the members of the Fire Department in the performance
of their duty.
(1976 Code, § 7-104) Penalty, see §
92.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 28-908
§ 92.05 OBSTRUCTION.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to obstruct the use of a fire hydrant,
or have or place any material within three feet of a hydrant, or within an area
extending 15 feet from any outlet of a hydrant. Any vehicle or material found
as an obstruction may be immediately removed by the Fire Chief or any member of
the Fire Department, at the risk, cost and expense of the owner or claimant.
(1976 Code, § 7-105) (Ord. 1177, passed 10-9-1995) Penalty, see §
92.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 60-6,166
§ 92.06 ASSISTANCE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to refuse, after the command of the Fire
Chief or Assistant Fire Chief, to aid in extinguishing a fire or to assist in
the removal and protection of property.
(1976 Code, § 7-106) Penalty, see §
92.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 28-908
§ 92.07 DRIVING OVER FIRE HOSE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, without the consent of the Fire Chief
or Assistant Fire Chief, to drive any vehicle over unprotected hose of the Fire
Department.
(1976 Code, § 7-107) Penalty, see §
92.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 39-682
§ 92.08 TRAFFIC.
   No vehicle shall follow, approach or park closer than 500 feet to any fire
vehicle, or to any fire hydrant to which a hose is connected. Nothing herein
shall be construed to apply to vehicles carrying doctors, members of the Fire
Department, or emergency vehicles.
(1976 Code, § 7-108) Penalty, see §
92.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 39-681
§ 92.09 FALSE ALARMS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to intentionally and without good and
reasonable cause raise any false alarm of fire.
(1976 Code, § 7-109) Penalty, see §
92.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 28-907, 35-520
FIRE PREVENTION
§ 92.20 FIRE CODE ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Incorporated by reference into this code or ordinances are the
standards recommended by the 2012 International Fire Code and all subsequent
amendments. This code shall have the same force and effect as if set out
verbatim herein. One copy of the International Fire Code is on file with the
Municipal Clerk and shall be available for public inspection at any reasonable
time.
(1976 Code, § 7-201)
   (B)   It shall be the duty of all municipal officials to enforce the
incorporated Fire Code provisions and all infractions shall be immediately
brought to the attention of the Fire Chief.
(1976 Code, § 7-202)
(Ord. 573, passed 4-20-1978)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 18-132, 19-902, 81-502
§ 92.21 LAWFUL ENTRY.
   It shall be the duty of the owner, lessee or occupant of any building or
structure, except the interiors of private dwellings, to allow the Fire Chief
to inspect, or cause to be inspected, as often as necessary the said structure
for the purpose of ascertaining and enumerating all conditions therein that are
likely to cause fire, or any other violations of the provisions of the
municipal ordinances affecting the hazard of fire.
(1976 Code, § 7-203)
§ 92.22 VIOLATION NOTICE.
   It shall be the duty of the owner, lessee or occupant of any building or
structure that was lawfully inspected as hereinbefore prescribed, and who
receives written or verbal notice of a violation of any of the provisions of
the municipal ordinances to correct the condition that violates the said
ordinance or ordinances within five days from the date of receipt of such
notice.
(1976 Code, § 7-204)
§ 92.23 FIRE LIMITS.
   The following described territory in the municipality shall be and
constitute the fire limits: beginning at a point of the intersection of Highway
30 and A Street; thence north one block to Third Street; thence west one block
to B Street; thence north one half block to the alley in Block 53 of the
original townsite of the city; thence west one block to C Street; thence north
one block to the alley in Block 47 of the original townsite of the city; thence
west one block to D Street; thence north one and one-half blocks to Sixth
Street; thence west two blocks to F Street; thence north one block to Seventh
Street; thence east one block to E Street; thence north two blocks to Ninth
Street; thence west five blocks to K Street; thence north one block to Tenth
Street; thence west on the extended line of Tenth Street to O Street; thence
south along the line of the corporate limits of the municipality to the south
boundary of the main right-of-way of the Union Pacific Railroad; thence
southeasterly following the line of the corporate limits of the municipality
and the south boundary of the main right-of-way of the Union Pacific Railroad
to the western boundary of the corporate limits of the municipality; thence
south following the line of the corporate limits of the municipality to the
southern boundary of the corporate limits of the municipality; thence east
following the line of the corporate limits of the municipality to G Street;
thence north to the south boundary of the main right-of-way of the Union
Pacific Railroad; thence southeasterly following the south boundary of the main
right-of-way of the Union Pacific Railroad to an extension of the line of A
Street; thence north to the place of beginning.
(1976 Code, § 7-205)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-550
§ 92.24 FIRES REGULATED.
   (A)   It shall be lawful to build or set out certain fires; provided that,
the person building such fires shall have the substance to be burned in a fire-
proof trash burner or incinerator with a metal fire-proof screen of not more
than one-inch mesh and located at least 20 feet from any building. The
incinerator shall be built in such a way as to not permit the escape of burning
paper or other substance. If any person shall require a fire in the course of
his or her trade as a blacksmith or mechanic, such fire shall be built and
maintained in the manner prescribed by the Fire Chief. All fires shall be built
after 7:00 a.m. and completely extinguished by 8:00 p.m., except the aforesaid
fires used in the course of a trade which shall be allowed during such hours as
the Fire Chief shall prescribe. It shall be unlawful for any person to set fire
to, burn or cause to be burned any garbage, animal matter or vegetable matter.
   (B)   The burning of straw, hay, leaves or brush in the open air is hereby
permitted and allowed; provided that, the person setting out the same request
permission and receive an open burning permit in writing, signed by the local
Fire Chief, on a form provided by the state’s Fire Marshal; and, provided
further that, any such burning shall be done while the said fire is attended by
the person setting out the same at all times; and, further provided that, the
said fire shall be located at least 20 feet from any building.
(1976 Code, § 7-201) (Ord. 675, passed 9-21-1981; Ord. 683, passed 6-24-1982;
Ord. 701, passed 8-5-1982) Penalty, see §
92.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provision, see Neb. RS 17-549, 17-556, 81-520.01
§ 92.25 FLAMMABLE GASES.
   Any person, firm or corporation desiring to store or keep above ground in
the residential district of the municipality for any period of time any form of
flammable gas or liquefied petroleum gas in excess of five gallons, or add to,
enlarge or replace any facility used for the storage of such gases, must first
obtain a permit from the governing body. The governing body shall require the
name of the gas, the place of storage and the amount of gas stored. If the
permit is granted, the governing body shall prescribe such rules, regulations
and precautionary actions as it may deem necessary. Permit requirements for the
initial construction or location of storage facilities shall not apply to those
facilities in existence on the effective date of this subchapter; provided, any
such present use that is discontinued for a period of 60 days shall not be
revived without a permit.
(1976 Code, § 7-207) Penalty, see §
92.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-549
§ 92.26 RURAL FIRE DISTRICT; MERGER.
   (A)   The Municipal Fire Department may be merged with the Rural Fire
Protection District. The proceedings for the merger may be initiated by the
presentation to the County Clerk of a petition, signed by 60% or more of the
electors who are owners of any interest in real or personal property assessed
for taxation in the territory to be merged and who are residing within the
boundaries of such territory, stating the desires and purposes of such
petitioners. The petition shall contain a description of the boundaries of the
territory proposed to be merged and it shall be accompanied by a map or plat
and a deposit for publication costs.
   (B)   (1)   The County Clerk shall examine the tax schedules in the office
of the County Assessor and determine and certify whether or not such petition
complies with the requirements of this section and that the persons signing the
petition appear to reside within the boundaries described by such petition.
Thereafter, the County Clerk shall forward such petition, map or plat, and
certificate to the Board of Directors of the District and the governing body
affected by such merger.
      (2)   Within 30 days after receiving the petition, map or plat, and
certificate of the County Clerk, in accordance with this section, the Board of
Directors and governing body shall transmit the petition, map or plat, and
certificate to the proper County Board, accompanied by a report in writing
approving or disapproving the proposal contained in the petition, or approving
such proposal in part and disapproving it in part.
      (3)   The County Clerk shall designate a time and place for a hearing
before a joint meeting of the county boards of all counties in which the
proposed district is to be situated and shall give notice of such hearing by
publication two weeks in a newspaper of general circulation within the county,
the last publication appearing at least seven days prior to said hearing. At
the time and place so fixed, the county board or boards shall meet and said
hearing shall be held respecting the merger or location of the boundaries of
the district. Thereupon, the county board shall determine the boundaries of the
proposed District, whether as suggested in the petition or otherwise, and make
a written order of such determination which shall describe the boundaries of
the District and be filed in the office of the County Clerk.
      (4)   If the report of the Board of Directors and the governing body
require under this section disapproves the proposal, the petition shall be
rejected. If the report is favorable to such proposal, either in whole or in
part, the County Board shall promptly designate a time and place for a hearing
upon the petition and shall give notice of the hearing by publication two weeks
in a newspaper of general circulation within the county, the last publication
appearing at least seven days prior to said hearing.
      (5)   The County Board shall, at or shortly after the hearing, determine
whether such territory shall be merged and shall fix the boundaries of the
territory to be merged. The determination of the County Board shall be set
forth in a written order which shall describe the boundaries determined upon
and shall be filed in the office of the County Clerk. The County Clerk shall
then fix a time and place for a public meeting of all electors who are owners
of any interest in real or personal property assessed for taxation in the
District who are residing within the boundaries. A Board of Directors shall be
elected consisting of five residents of the District.
      (6)   Such merged District shall operate under the same mill levy limit
as the Rural Fire Protection District.
(1976 Code, § 7-208) (Ord. 580, passed 9-21-1978)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 35-504, 35-506, 35-508, 35-509, 35-511, 35-
530 through 35-536
§ 92.27 OPEN BURNING BAN; WAIVER.
   (A)   There shall be an open burning ban on all bonfires, outdoor rubbish
fires and fires for the purpose of clearing land.
   (B)   The Fire Chief may waive an open burning ban under division (A) above
for an area under the Municipal Fire Department’s jurisdiction by issuing an
open burning permit to a person requesting permission to conduct open burning.
The permit issued by the Fire Chief to a person desiring to conduct open
burning shall be in writing, signed by the Fire Chief and on a form provided by
the state’s Fire Marshal.
   (C)   The Fire Chief may waive the open burning ban in the Municipal Fire
Department’s jurisdiction when conditions are acceptable to the Chief. Anyone
intending to burn in that jurisdiction when the open burning ban has been
waived shall notify the Fire Chief of his or her intention to burn prior to
starting the burn.
   (D)   The Fire Chief may adopt standards listing the conditions acceptable
for issuing a permit to conduct open burning under division (B) above.
   (E)   The Fire Department may charge a fee not to exceed $10 for each such
permit issued. This fee shall be remitted to the governing body for inclusion
in the general funds allocated to the Fire Department. These funds shall not
reduce the tax requirements for the Fire Department. No such fee shall be
collected from any state or political subdivision to which such a permit is
issued to conduct open burning under division (B) above in the course of that
state’s or political subdivision’s official duties.
(1976 Code, § 7-209) (Ord. 1156, passed 2-6-1995; Ord. 1426B, passed 12-5-2011)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 81-520.01
§ 92.28 EXPLOSIVES.
   In addition to notifying the Municipal Fire Department pursuant to Neb. RS
28-1233(3), any person desiring to discharge explosive materials, as defined in
Neb. RS 28-1213, within the municipality, shall apply for and secure a permit
from the governing body 24 hours prior to such discharge, and shall discharge
such explosive materials in conformance with the conditions specified in the
permit. In no case shall any person perform blasting operations unless
operating under the direct supervision of a person in possession of a valid
user’s permit issued by the State Patrol.
(1976 Code, § 7-301) (Ord. 993,passed 12-18-1989; Ord. 1146, passed 2-6-1995)
Penalty, see §
92.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-549, 17-556, 28-1229, 28-1233
§ 92.29 BUILDING REMOVAL OR REPAIR REQUIRED.
   In the event that a building within the city’s jurisdiction becomes damaged
by fire, wind, flood, vandalism or any other cause to the extent that less than
50% of its value remains, exclusive of the foundation, it shall be the duty of
the owner, lessee or occupant to remove or repair the said building. It shall
be unlawful for any person to allow a building to stand in such damage or
decayed condition. Any such building shall be removed or repaired within 30
days after receiving notice to do so by the City Council.
(Ord. 1494, passed 9-21-2020)
§ 92.99 PENALTY.
   Any person who shall violate or refuse to comply with the enforcement of any
of the provisions of this chapter, set forth at full length herein or
incorporated by reference shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon
conviction thereof, shall be fined not more than $500 for each offense. A new
violation shall be deemed to have been committed every 24 hours of such failure
to comply.
(1976 Code, § 7.401) (Ord. 1449, passed 12-23-2013)
CHAPTER 93: FIREWORKS
Section
   
93.01   Definition
   
93.02   Permitted fireworks
   
93.03   Permitted uses
   
93.04   Sale; vendor license
 
   
93.99   Penalty
§ 93.01 DEFINITION.
   FIREWORKS are hereby defined as “consumer fireworks”, as defined by Neb. RS
28-1241(6) and DISPLAY FIREWORKS, as defined by Neb. RS 28-1241(7).
(1976 Code, § 10-701) (Ord. 959, passed 9-26-1988; Ord. 1417, passed 11-22-
2010)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 28-1241
§ 93.02 PERMITTED FIREWORKS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to utilize ignite or cause to be
exploded fireworks of any description whatsoever, except those defined as
consumer fireworks in §
93.01 of this chapter. Display fireworks, as defined in §
93.01 of this chapter, may be utilized only for the purpose of public
exhibitions or displays under the authorization of the governing body and the
state.
(1976 Code, § 10-701) (Ord. 985, passed 9-26-1988; Ord. 1417, passed 11-22-
2010) Penalty, see §
93.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-556, 28-1241, 28-1244, 28-1245
§ 93.03 PERMITTED USES.
   Permitted fireworks shall be defined as consumer fireworks, as defined in §
93.01 of this chapter; consumer fireworks may be utilized beginning on June 25
of each year and ending on July 4 of each year to be ignited or caused to be
exploded between the hours of 10:00 a.m. and 11:00 p.m. of each day with the
exception of July 4 of each year when fireworks may be ignited or caused to be
exploded between the hours of 10:00 a.m. and midnight, and beginning on
December 29 of each year and ending on January 1 of each year, and to be
ignited or caused to be exploded between the hours of 12:00 noon and 9:00 p.m.
of each day with the exception of December 31 and January 1 of each year when
fireworks may be ignited or caused to be exploded between the hours of 12:00
noon and 12:30 a.m.
(1976 Code, § 10-703) (Ord. 1273, passed 11-22-1999; Ord. 1417, passed 11-22-
2010)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-134
§ 93.04 SALE; VENDOR LICENSE.
   (A)   (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person to sell, hold for sale or
offer for sale as distributor, jobber or retailer any fireworks unless such
person has first obtained a license as a distributor, jobber or retailer.
Application for each such license shall be made to the state’s Fire Marshal on
forms prescribed by him or her. If the applicant is an individual, each
application shall include the applicant’s Social Security number. Each
application shall be accompanied by the required fee, which shall be $500 for a
distributor’s license, $200 for a jobber’s license and $100 for a retailer’s
license. All licenses shall be good only for the calendar year in which issued
and shall at all times be displayed at the place of business of the holder
thereof.
      (2)   Before any permissible fireworks may be sold, held for sale or
offered for sale in the state, they shall first be submitted to the state’s
Fire Marshal for examination to determine their compliance with Neb. RS 28-1241
(7) and their safety for general use. Fireworks not specifically listed therein
may be added to the list of permissible fireworks by the state’s Fire Marshal,
by rule or regulation, after having been submitted to him or her and tested to
determine their safety for general use.
         (3)   Consumer fireworks, as defined in §
93.01 of this chapter, may be sold at retail only on those dates of each year
when the sale of such fireworks is permitted by Neb. RS 28-1249 and by
regulations of the state’s Fire Marshal.
(1976 Code, § 10-704)
   (B)   (1)   It shall be unlawful to sell any fireworks within the city
unless a license is first obtained from the governing body. Application shall
be filed with the Municipal Clerk upon forms supplied by the municipality,
which forms may request such information and documents as the governing body
may deem necessary to consider said application. No license shall be granted
without the following provisions.
         (a)   No fireworks vendor’s stands, tables, displays or signs shall be
permitted in any residentially zoned district.
         (b)   No fireworks vendor’s stands, tables, displays or signs shall
protrude past the lot line of the property upon which the display is primarily
located, nor shall any fireworks vendor’s stands, tables, displays or signs
protrude into any public way, including, but not limited to, sidewalks.
         (c)   All structures, vehicles, stands, tables, displays or signs used
for or relating to the sale of fireworks shall be completely removed from
public view on any property within the city, prior to July 10 of each year.
         (d)   The license fee for engaging in the sale of display of fireworks
within the city shall be $100 annually for each location wherein such activity
is conducted.
      (2)   Upon the determination to grant the license, the governing body
shall direct the Municipal Clerk to collect the appropriate fee and issue said
license. Any license so issued may be revoked at any time by the governing body
upon proper notice and hearing if one is requested by the licensee.
(1976 Code, § 10-705)
(Ord. 1273, passed 11-22-1999; Ord. 1294, passed 8-20-2001) Penalty, see §
93.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-137
§ 93.99 PENALTY.
   Any person who shall violate or refuse to comply with the enforcement of any
of the provisions of this chapter, set forth at full length herein or
incorporated by reference shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon
conviction thereof, shall be fined not more than $500 for each offense. A new
violation shall be deemed to have been committed every 24 hours of such failure
to comply.
(1976 Code, § 10-1201) (Ord. 1449, passed 12-23-2013)
CHAPTER 94: RECREATION AND LEISURE
Section
   
94.01   Municipal swimming pool
   
94.02   Municipal library
   
94.03   Municipal parks
§ 94.01 MUNICIPAL SWIMMING POOL.
   (A)   Operation and funding. The municipality owns and manages the municipal
swimming pool. The governing body, for the purpose of defraying the cost of the
management, maintenance and improvements of the swimming pool may, each year,
levy a tax not exceeding the maximum limit prescribed by state law, on the
actual valuation of all real estate and personal property within the
municipality that is subject to taxation. The revenue from the said tax shall
be known as the “Swimming Pool Fund” and shall include all gifts, grants, deeds
of conveyance, bequests or other valuable income-producing personal property
and real estate from any source for the purpose of endowing the swimming pool.
The Swimming Pool Fund shall at all times be in the custody of the Municipal
Treasurer. The Board of Park Commissioners shall manage the swimming pool. The
Board shall have the power and authority to hire and supervise the Swimming
Pool Manager and such employees as it may deem necessary and shall pass such
rules and regulations for the operation of the swimming pool as may be proper
for its efficient operation. All actions by the Board shall be under the
supervision and control of the governing body.
(1976 Code, § 3-601)
   (B)   Admission charge. The Board of Park Commissioners may, for the purpose
of defraying the expenses involved in maintaining, improving, managing and
beautifying the swimming pool, make a reasonable admission charge for the use
by any person of the municipal swimming pool. The said charges shall be on file
at the office of the Municipal Clerk and shall also be posted in a conspicuous
place at the municipal swimming pool for public inspection. Such rates may be
structured for classes of persons in a reasonable manner; provided that,
nothing herein shall be construed to permit or allow discrimination on the
basis of race, creed, color or national origin in the classification of persons
for admission charges.
(1976 Code, § 3-602)
   (C)   Rentals. The Board of Park Commissioners shall have the authority to
rent the municipal swimming pool to such organizations and other persons as it
may, in their discretion, see fit, subject to the review of the governing body.
The Board shall prescribe rules and regulations for such rentals and shall
require an appropriate number of qualified lifeguards to be in attendance
during the rental period. Such fees and other costs shall be on file at the
office of the Municipal Clerk and posted in a conspicuous place at the
municipal swimming pool.
(1976 Code, § 3-603)
   (D)   Rules and regulations. The Board of Park Commissioners shall have the
power and authority to enact bylaws, rules and regulations for the protection
of those using the swimming pool and for the efficient management thereof. They
may provide suitable penalties for the violation of such bylaws, rules and
regulations subject to the review and supervision of the governing body.
(1976 Code, § 3-604)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-948, 17-949, 17-951, 17-952
§ 94.02 MUNICIPAL LIBRARY.
   (A)   Operation and funding. The municipality owns and manages the municipal
library through the Library Board. The governing body, for the purpose of
defraying the cost of the management, purchases, improvements and maintenance
of the library may, each year, levy a tax not exceeding the maximum limit
prescribed by state law, on the actual valuation of all real estate and
personal property within the municipality that is subject to taxation. The
revenue from the said tax shall be known as the “Library Fund” and shall
include all gifts, grants, deeds of conveyance, bequests or other valuable
income-producing personal property and real estate from any source for the
purpose of endowing the municipal library. The Library Fund shall at all times
be in the custody of the Municipal Treasurer. The Board shall have the power
and authority to appoint the librarian and to hire such other employees as it
may deem necessary and may pass such other rules and regulations for the
operation of the Library as may be proper for its efficient operation. All
actions by the Board shall be under the supervision and control of the
governing body.
(1976 Code, § 3-701)
   (B)   Books. The Library Board may authorize the sale, exchange or disposal
of any surplus, damaged, defective, obsolete or duplicate books in the library.
Records shall be kept of any such surplus, damaged, defective, obsolete or
duplicate books so disposed of.
(1976 Code, § 3-702)
   (C)   Rules and regulations. The Library Board shall establish rules and
regulations for the governing of the municipal library for the preservation and
efficient management thereof. It shall fix and impose by general rules,
penalties and forfeitures for injury to the library grounds, rooms, books or
other property or for failure to return a book. All fees, penalties and
forfeitures may be collected in civil action in the event of failure, neglect
or refusal to pay the said assessments.
(1976 Code, § 3-703)
   (D)   Damaged and lost books. Any person who injures or fails to return any
book taken from the library shall forfeit and pay to the library not less than
the value of the book in addition to any replacement costs and penalty which
the Library Board may assess.
(1976 Code, § 3-704)
   (E)   Book removal. It shall be unlawful for any person not authorized by
the regulations made by the Library Board to take a book from the library,
without the consent of the librarian, or an authorized employee of the library.
Any person removing a book from the library without properly checking it out
shall be deemed to be guilty of a misdemeanor.
(1976 Code, § 3-705)
   (F)   Cost of use. The municipal library shall be free for the use of the
inhabitants of the municipality. The librarian may exclude from the use of the
library and reading rooms any person who shall willfully violate or refuse to
comply with the rules and regulations established for the government thereof.
(1976 Code, § 3-706)
   (G)   Money collected. Any money collected by the library shall be turned
over monthly by the librarian to the Municipal Treasurer along with a report of
the sources of the revenue.
(1976 Code, § 3-707)
   (H)   Annual report. The Library Board shall, on or before the second Monday
in February in each year, make a report to the City Council of the condition of
its trust on the last day of the prior fiscal year. The report shall show all
money received and credited or expended; the number of materials held,
including books, video and audio materials, software programs and materials in
other formats; the number of periodical subscriptions on record, including
newspapers; the number of materials added and the number withdrawn from the
collection during the year; the number of materials circulated during the year;
and other statistics, information and suggestions as the Library Board may deem
of general interest or as the City Council may require. The report shall be
verified by affidavit of the President and Secretary of the Library Board.
(1976 Code, § 3-708)
(Ord. 1358, passed 11-8-2004)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 51-201, 51-202, 51-205, 51-207, 51-209, 51-
211, 51-212, 51-213, 51-214
§ 94.03 MUNICIPAL PARKS.
   (A)   Operation and funding. The municipality owns and operates the
municipal parks and other recreational areas through the Board of Park
Commissioners. The governing body, for the purpose of defraying the cost of the
care, management and maintenance of the municipal park may, each year, levy a
tax not exceeding the maximum limit prescribed by state law, on the actual
valuation of all real estate and personal property within the corporate limits
that is subject to taxation. The revenue from the said tax shall be known as
the “Park Fund” and shall remain in the custody of the Municipal Treasurer. The
Board shall have the authority to adopt rules and regulations for the efficient
management of the Municipal Parks and other recreational areas of the
municipality. The Board shall not enter into a contract of any nature which
involves an expenditure of funds, except for ordinary operating expenses,
unless the contract has been approved by resolution of the majority of the
members of the governing body prior to the contractual agreement.
(1976 Code, § 3-501)
   (B)   Injury to property. It shall be unlawful for any person to maliciously
or willfully cut down, injure or destroy any tree, plant, or shrub. It shall be
unlawful for any person to injure or destroy any sodded or planted area, or
injure or destroy any building, structure, equipment, fence, bench, table or
any other property of the municipal parks and recreational areas. No person
shall commit any waste on or litter the municipal parks or other public
grounds.
(1976 Code, § 3-502)
   (C)   Exercise trail; restricted use. No person shall ride or propel any
wheeled vehicle, whether licensed or unlicensed, including motorcycles,
bicycles, roller skates or skateboards, upon the exercise trail or exercise
track located in Muny Park in the city.
(1976 Code, § 3-503)
(Ord. 745, passed 6-7-1984) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-948 through 17-952, 60-2106
CHAPTER 95: CEMETERY
Section
   
95.01   Operation and funding
   
95.02   Sexton
   
95.03   Conveyance of lots
   
95.04   Forfeiture of lots
   
95.05   Lot transfers
   
95.06   Destruction of property
   
95.07   Reclamation
§ 95.01 OPERATION AND FUNDING.
   (A)   The municipality owns and manages the municipal cemetery through the
Cemetery Board. The governing body, for the purpose of defraying the cost of
the care, management, maintenance and beautification of the cemetery may, each
year, levy a tax not exceeding the maximum limit prescribed by state law, on
the actual valuation of all real estate and personal property within the
municipality that is subject to taxation. The revenue from the said tax shall
be known as the “Cemetery Fund” and shall include all gifts, grants, deeds of
conveyance, bequests, money, stocks, bonds or other valuable income-producing
personal property and real estate from any source for the purpose of endowing
the cemetery. The Cemetery Fund shall at all times be in the custody of the
Municipal Treasurer.
   (B)   The Board shall have the power and authority to hire and supervise
such employees as it may deem necessary and to pass such rules and regulations
for the operation of the cemetery as may be proper for its efficient operation.
All actions by the Board shall be under the supervision and control of the
governing body.
(1976 Code, § 3-801)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 12-301 through 12-403
§ 95.02 SEXTON.
   (A)   The Cemetery Board, subject to the approval of the governing body,
shall have the authority to appoint a Sexton, who shall perform such duties and
make such reports as the Cemetery Board shall direct.
   (B)   It shall be the duty of the Sexton, upon receiving a burial permit to
locate and direct the party named in the permit to the lot mentioned therein
and to dig and excavate, or cause the same to be dug or excavated, in
compliance with the rules and regulations of the Cemetery Board.
(1976 Code, § 3-802)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 12-403
§ 95.03 CONVEYANCE OF LOTS.
   (A)   The governing body may convey cemetery lots by certificate signed by
the Mayor and countersigned by the Municipal Clerk under the municipal seal
specifying that the person to whom the same is issued is the owner of the lot
described therein by number for the purpose of interment.
   (B)   The said certificate shall give a right in fee simple to the
proprietor, his or her heirs and assigns.
   (C)   The certificate shall then be recorded in the office of the County
Clerk.
(1976 Code, § 3-803)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-941
§ 95.04 FORFEITURE OF LOTS.
   (A)   If, for three consecutive years, all charges and liens are not paid by
the holders of the lot certificates, the said certificates shall be declared
forfeited and subject to resale.
   (B)   All certificates sold shall contain a forfeiture clause to the effect
that, if no interment is made on the said lot and all liens paid, the
certificate and the rights under the same may, at the option of the Cemetery
Board, with the sanction of the governing body, be declared null and void and
the lot shall be subject to resale.
(1976 Code, § 3-804)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-938
§ 95.05 LOT TRANSFERS.
   Any person who wishes to transfer a certificate may do so by surrendering
the original certificate to the Municipal Clerk, who shall issue a new
certificate upon the receipt of the recording fee set by resolution of the
governing body.
(1976 Code, § 3-805)
§ 95.06 DESTRUCTION OF PROPERTY.
   Any person who shall willfully destroy, mutilate, deface, injure or remove
any tomb, monument or gravestone placed in the cemetery, or any fence, railing
or other work for the protection or ornamentation of the cemetery, or who shall
willfully destroy, cut, break or injure any tree, shrub or plant shall be
deemed to be guilty of a misdemeanor.
(1976 Code, § 3-806) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 28-519
§ 95.07 RECLAMATION.
   When any lot has been transferred by warranty deed or by a deed conveying a
fee simple title, but there has been no burial in any such lot or subdivision
thereof and no payment of annual assessments for a period of three years, the
Cemetery Board with the sanction of the governing body, may reclaim the unused
portion of such lot or subdivision after notifying the record owner or his or
her heirs or assigns, if known, by certified mail and publishing notice of its
intention to do so. Such notice shall be published once each week for four
weeks in a newspaper of general circulation throughout the county in which the
cemetery is located, shall describe the lot or subdivision proposed to be
reclaimed and shall be addressed to the person in whose name such portion
stands of record or, if there is no owner of record, to all persons claiming
any interest in such lot or subdivision. If no person appears to claim such lot
or subdivision and pay all delinquent assessments with interest within 15 days
after the last date of such publication, the Cemetery Board may by resolution
reclaim such lot or subdivision. Such reclamation shall be complete upon a
filing of a verified copy of such resolution, together with proof of
publication, in the office of the Register of Deeds.
(1976 Code, § 3-807) (Ord. 914, passed 10-20-1986)
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
110.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
111.   AMUSEMENTS
      
112.   ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
      
113.   ITINERANT MERCHANTS
CHAPTER 110: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
Occupation Taxes
   
110.01   Tax and levies authorized; amounts
   
110.02   Collection date
   
110.03   Certificates
   
110.04   Failure to pay
Specific Businesses
   
110.15   Tobacco and cigarettes
   
110.16   Fire insurance companies
   
110.17   Games of chance and/or lotteries
   
110.18   Cable television
   
110.19   Hotels
 
   
110.99   Penalty
OCCUPATION TAXES
§ 110.01 TAX AND LEVIES AUTHORIZED; AMOUNTS.
   (A)   The city shall have power to raise revenue by levying and collecting a
license tax on any occupation or business within the limits of the city and
regulate such occupation or business by ordinance. Any occupation tax imposed
pursuant to this section shall make a reasonable classification of businesses,
users of space or kinds of transactions for purposes of imposing such tax;
except that, no occupation tax shall be imposed on any transaction which is
subject to tax under Neb. RS 53-160, 66-489, 66-489.02, 66-4,140, 66-4,145, 66-
4,146,77-2602 or 77-4008 or which is exempt from tax under Neb. RS 77-2704-24.
The occupation tax shall be imposed in the manner provided in Neb. RS 18-1208;
except that, Neb. RS 18-1208 does not apply to an occupation tax subject to
Neb. RS 86-704. All such taxes shall be uniform in respect to the classes upon
which they are imposed. All scientific and literary lectures and entertainments
shall be exempt from such taxation, as well as concerts and other musical
entertainments given exclusively by the citizens of the city.
   (B)   The City Council shall have authority, by ordinance, to impose an
occupation tax of not more than $5 per annum on each fire insurance
corporation, company or association, doing business in the city, for the use,
support and benefit of volunteer fire departments, regularly organized under
the laws of the state regulating the same. The City Clerk shall collect with
diligence the occupation tax so imposed. Upon the receipt of the tax, the Clerk
shall pay over the proceeds thereof to the City Treasurer who shall credit the
same to a fund to be known as the “Special Occupation Tax Fund” for benefit of
the Volunteer Fire Department. Upon proper claim filed by the Chief of the Fire
Department and allowed by the City Council, the Treasurer shall pay over the
proceeds of the tax in the fund from time to time for the use of the Fire
Department, as hereinbefore provided.
   (C)   Notwithstanding any ordinance or charter power to the contrary, the
city shall not impose an occupation tax on the business of any person, firm or
corporation licensed under the state’s Liquor Control Act, being Neb. RS 53-101
through 53-1,122 and doing business within the corporate limits of the city in
any sum which exceeds two times the amount of the license fee required to be
paid under the Act to obtain such license.
   (D)   For the purpose of raising revenue, occupation tax is hereby levied on
the following licensee holders and business operations in the following
amounts:
Alcoholic beverages
   Class A beer on sale      $200
   Class B beer off sale     $200
   Class D liquor/beer off sa$400
   Class I bottle club       $500
   Class K catering          $200
   Designated permit         $40
Fire insurance companies        $5
 
(1976 Code, § 10-801) (Ord. 906, passed 8-4-1986; Ord. 1294, passed 8-20-2001;
Ord. 1385, passed 4-24-2006; Ord. 1433A, passed 1-7-2013; Ord. 1455B, passed 2-
9-2015)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-525, 35-106, 53-132
§ 110.02 COLLECTION DATE.
   All occupation taxes shall be due, and payable on May 1 of each year;
except, in the event that said tax is levied daily, and upon the payment
thereof by any person or persons to the Municipal Clerk, said Clerk shall give
a receipt, properly dated and specifying the person paying the said tax and the
amount paid; provided, occupation taxes collected from Class C liquor licensees
shall be due and payable on November 1. The revenue collected shall then be
immediately deposited into the General Fund by the Municipal Treasurer. The
Municipal Treasurer shall keep an accurate account of all revenue turned over
to him or her. All forms and receipts herein mentioned shall be issued in
duplicate. One copy shall then be kept by each party in the transaction.
(1976 Code, § 10-803) (Ord. 562, passed 9-22-1977)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-525
§ 110.03 CERTIFICATES.
   The receipt issued after the payment of any occupation tax shall be the
occupation tax certificate. The said certificate shall specify the amount of
the tax and the name of the person and business that paid the said tax. The
occupation tax certificate shall then be displayed in a prominent place, or
carried in such a way as to be easily accessible, while business is being
conducted.
(1976 Code, § 10-804)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-525
§ 110.04 FAILURE TO PAY.
   If any person, company or corporation fails or neglects to pay the
occupation taxes as provided herein on the day it becomes due and payable, the
municipality shall then proceed by civil suit to collect the amount due. All
delinquent taxes shall bear interest at the rate of 1% per month until paid.
(1976 Code, § 10-805)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-525
SPECIFIC BUSINESSES
§ 110.15 TOBACCO AND CIGARETTES.
   (A)   License to sell; issuance. Licenses for the sale of cigars, tobacco,
electronic nicotine delivery systems, cigarettes, and cigarette material to
persons 21 years of age or over shall be issued to individuals, partnerships,
limited liability companies, and corporations by the City Clerk upon
application duly made as provided in §
112.02.
   (B)   License application. Every person, partnership, limited liability
company or corporation desiring a license under Neb. RS 28-1420 to 28-1429
shall file with the City Clerk a written application stating the name of the
person, partnership, limited liability company or corporation for whom the
license is desired and the exact location of the place of business and shall
deposit with the application the amount of the license fee provided in this
section. If the applicant is an individual, the application shall include the
applicant’s Social Security number.
   (C)   License term; fees.
      (1)   The term for which a license shall run shall be from the date of
filing the application and paying the license fee to and including December 31
of the calendar year in which application for the license is made.
      (2)   The license fee for any person, partnership, limited liability
company, or corporation selling at retail shall be $10.
      (3)   Any person, partnership, limited liability company, or corporation
selling annually in the aggregate more than 150,000 cigars, packages of
cigarettes, electronic nicotine delivery systems, and packages of tobacco in
any form, at wholesale, shall pay a license fee of $100, and if such combined
annual sales amount to less than 150,000 cigars, packages of cigarettes,
electronic nicotine delivery systems, and packages of tobacco, the annual
license fee shall be $15. No wholesaler’s license shall be issued in any year
on a less basis than $100 per annum unless the applicant shall file with the
application a statement duly sworn to by himself or herself, or if applicant is
a partnership, by a member of the firm, or if a limited liability company, by a
member or manager of the company, or if a corporation, by an officer or manager
thereof, that in the past such wholesaler’s combined sales of cigars, packages
of cigarettes, electronic nicotine delivery systems, and packages of tobacco in
every form have not exceeded in the aggregate 150,000 annually and that such
sales will not exceed such aggregate amount for the current year for which the
license is to issue. Any person swearing falsely in such affidavit shall be
guilty of an offense, and such wholesaler’s license shall be revoked until the
full license fee is paid.
      (4)   If application for license is made after July 1 of any calendar
year, the fee shall be one half of the fee provided in this section.
   (D)   Rights of licensee.
      (1)   The license provided for in Neb. RS 28-1421 and 28-1422 shall, when
issued, authorize the sale of cigars, tobacco, electronic nicotine delivery
systems, cigarettes, and cigarette material by the licensee and employees, to
persons 19 years of age or over, at the place of business described in the
license for the term therein authorized, unless the license is forfeited as a
result of court action as provided in Neb. RS 28-1425.
      (2)   If the license is revoked and forfeited pursuant to Neb. RS 28-
1425, all rights under the license shall at once cease and terminate.
   (E)   Disposition of fees. Ten dollars of the funds collected as license
fees under the provisions of this section shall be paid over by the City Clerk
to the Treasurer of the School Fund for the city.
   (F)   Transfer of license. In case of the sale of a business where the owner
has a licensee hereunder, the City Clerk may authorize such license to be
transferred to the purchaser. In case of a change of location by any licensee
hereunder, the Clerk may transfer such license to the new location.
   (G)   Reissuance of revoked or forfeited license. In the event that the
license of a licensee hereunder shall be revoked and forfeited as provided in
Neb. RS 28-1425, no new license shall be issued to such licensee until the
expiration of one year from the date of such revocation and forfeiture.
(1976 Code, § 10-801.01) (Ord. 1455B, passed 2-9-2015; Ord. 1483A, passed 12-
23-2019; Ord. 1501, passed 6-7-2021)
Statutory reference:
   Licenses required, see Neb. RS 28-1420
   Prohibited sales, see Neb. RS 28-1421
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 28-1422, 28-1423, 28-1426, 28-1428, 28-1429
   Sale to person under 19, see Neb. RS 28-1425
§ 110.16 FIRE INSURANCE COMPANIES.
   For the use, support and maintenance of the Municipal Fire Department all
revenue realized from the occupation tax on fire insurance companies shall be
appropriated to the Fire Department Fund.
(1976 Code, § 10-802)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 35-106
§ 110.17 GAMES OF CHANCE AND/OR LOTTERIES.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      DISTRIBUTOR. Any person or organization which engages in the business of
selling, leasing or delivering possession or custody of gambling devices for
consideration to a person or organization which engages in the occupation of
conducting games of chance and/or lotteries.
      GAMBLING DEVICE. Any and all machines or devices used in the occupation
of conducting games of chance and/or lotteries.
      GAMES OF CHANCE and/or LOTTERIES. Those forms of gambling authorized by
the state, pursuant to Art. III, § 24, of the Constitution of the state.
      PERSON ENGAGED IN THE OCCUPATION OF CONDUCTING GAMES OF CHANCE AND/OR
LOTTERIES. Any person or organization which operates, owns or is the lessee of
a place of business where any game of chance and/or lottery activity is
conducted, whether or not any other type of business is conducted on the
premises; or, any person or organization which either directly controls or
manages the games of chance and/or lotteries, or owns any machine or device
used to engage in the occupation of games of chance and/or lotteries, but does
not sell, lease or deliver possession or custody of such a device to other
persons.
(1976 Code, § 10-806)
   (B)   License required; occupation fee.
      (1)   Every person or organization to engage in the occupation of
conducting games of chance or lottery activities without first obtaining a
license to do so.
      (2)   Every person or organization desiring a license required by the
provisions of this section shall make application to the Municipal Clerk.
Accompanying each application shall be:
         (a)   A sworn statement by each designated supervising member that
such member will be responsible for compliance with rules and regulations for
each occasion of games of chance and/or lotteries which he or she supervises;
and
         (b)   A sworn statement by the member designated as responsible for
the proper utilization of gross receipts that no commission, rent, seller
profits, compensation, reward or recompense will be paid to any person or
organization not sanctioned by the laws of the state and the city and that all
profits will be spent for a lawful purpose.
      (3)   Every license under the provisions of this division (B) shall be
conspicuously displayed at the place where the game of chance and/or lottery
activity is conducted at all times during the conduct thereof.
      (4)   The license fee for engaging in the occupation of conducting games
of chance and lotteries with the city shall be $10 for each location wherein
such activity is conducted.
      (5)   Non-profit organizations that desire to participate in games of
chance and/or lotteries which comply with the Small Lotteries and Raffles Act,
being Neb. RS 9-501 through 9-513 of the state are exempt from the provisions
hereof.
(1976 Code, § 10-807)
(Ord. 1011, passed 10-22-1990; Ord. 1178, passed 10-24-1995)
§ 110.18 CABLE TELEVISION.
   The city granted a cable television franchise to Cable USA, Inc., formerly
known as Metro Enterprises, Inc. The franchise provisions are hereby adopted by
reference and incorporated herein as if set out in full.
(1976 Code, Ch. 10, Art. 11) (Ord. 963, passed 11-7-1988; Ord. 1475, passed 12-
4-2017)
§ 110.19 HOTELS.
   (A)   Hotel accommodation. Each person engaged in the business of operating
a hotel in the city shall pay an occupancy tax in the amount of the 2% of the
basic rental rates charged per occupied room per night.
   (B)   Hotel defined. HOTEL shall mean any facility in which the public may,
for a consideration, obtain sleeping accommodations in any space ordinarily
used for accommodations. The term shall include hotels, motels, tourist hotels,
campgrounds, courts, lodging houses, inns and nonprofit hotels; but HOTEL shall
not be defined so as to include hospitals, sanitariums, nursing homes, chronic
care centers, or dormitories or facilities operated by an educational
institution and regularly used to house students.
   (C)   Occupied room defined; exceptions.
      (1)   OCCUPIED ROOM shall mean any space ordinarily used for sleeping
accommodations and for which any occupant has, for consideration, obtained the
use or possession, or the right to use or possess, for a period not to exceed
30 contiguous days. The term shall include camping space, trailer space or
recreational vehicle space. The term does not include function room such as a
ballroom, banquet room, reception room, or meeting room provided it is not used
as temporary sleeping accommodations.
      (2)   The term OCCUPIED ROOM shall not mean, and no tax imposed by this
section shall be measured by or collected for:
         (a)   Complimentary or other sleeping accommodations for which no
consideration is charged;
         (b)   Sleeping accommodations for which the consideration is paid by a
person not subject to the sales and use tax imposed by the Nebraska Revenue Act
of 1967, as it is amended from time to time; or
         (c)   Sleeping accommodations leased by an employer for use by its
employees when a specific room is the subject of the lease, the lease extends
for more than 30 consecutive days, and consideration is actually paid for use
during at least 30 consecutive days.
   (D)   Collection. The tax imposed by this section shall be collected by the
hotel operator from the occupant of each room to which the tax applies. The tax
may be shown as an add-on to the charge for the occupancy of the rooms and
shall be collectible at the time the lodging is furnished, regardless of when
the charge for the occupancy is paid. The operator shall remain responsible for
payment of all taxes imposed whether the taxes are collected from the guests.
   (E)   Records. It shall be unlawful for any hotel operator subject to this
section to fail to maintain or fail to make available to the city, upon 72
hours notice, written records accurately and completely evidencing the number
of rooms occupied, the dates the rooms are occupied, the amount of occupations
tax due to or paid under this section, and such other information as is
required by the City Treasurer. Such records shall be maintained for a period
of three years after the occupation tax is due.
   (F)   Due date. Notwithstanding any contrary provisions of this chapter, the
tax imposed by this section shall be due and payable on the first day of each
calendar month next succeeding the month during which the room was occupied.
All taxes not paid by the 25th day of the month in which they are due and
payable shall be deemed to be delinquent. The operator shall be assessed a
penalty of 10% on all delinquent amounts as well as interest of 1% per month of
fraction thereof from the first of the month in which such tax becomes due and
payable until the date of payment.
   (G)   Penalty. Any person, partnership, firm, or corporation violating any
of the provisions of this section shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and,
upon convictions, shall be punished in accordance with this code. Each distinct
act or violation of the terms of this section shall constitute a separate
offense.
(Ord. 1495, passed 10-5-2020)
§ 110.99 PENALTY.
   Any person who shall violate or refuse to comply with the enforcement of any
of the provisions of this title, set forth at full length herein or
incorporated by reference shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon
conviction thereof, shall be fined not more than $500 for each offense. A new
violation shall be deemed to have been committed every 24 hours of such failure
to comply.
(1976 Code, § 10-1201) (Ord. 1449, passed 12-23-2013)
CHAPTER 111: AMUSEMENTS
Section
   
111.01   Bowling
   
111.02   Pool and billiards
§ 111.01 BOWLING.
   It shall be unlawful for any person or persons to own, maintain or operate
any bowling alley for profit without having first obtained a license from the
municipality. Any person desiring a license to operate, maintain or own a
bowling alley shall file a written application with the Municipal Clerk. Said
application form shall contain such information and documents or copies
thereof, as the governing body deems necessary to determine whether to grant or
reject the application. Upon determination that the granting of the license
would be beneficial to the municipality, the governing body shall immediately
direct the Municipal Clerk to issue the said license to the applicant upon the
payment of a $10 license fee per bowling lane set by ordinance of the governing
body. Said license shall be subject to revocation at any time for good and
sufficient cause by the governing body upon the issuance of proper notice and a
hearing if the licensee should make such a request. Any person or persons so
licensed shall be subject to any bond, fees or other rules and regulations as
may be set by resolution of the governing body for the benefit of the
municipality.
(1976 Code, § 10-301) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 111.02 POOL AND BILLIARDS.
   (A)   The term POOL AND BILLIARDS shall mean a game played on a table in
which the object is to drive balls into the pockets, and which is conducted for
profit or gain. All ordinances relating to pool and billiards shall apply to
the municipality, stating his or her willingness to be governed by the rules
and regulations now or to be hereafter adopted by the City Council concerning
his or her business. Before receiving a license, he or she shall also file in
the office of the City Clerk a bond with two or more sureties, to be approved
by the City Council in the sum of $1,000, which bond shall be renewed annually,
conditioned that he or she will indemnify and keep harmless the city and the
City Clerk from all liability from accidents and damages arising from any
negligence or unskillfulness in doing or protecting his or her work, or from
any unfaithful or inadequate work done in pursuance of his or her license; and
that he or she will pay all fines imposed upon him or her for the violation of
any rules and regulations in force during the term of his or her license. The
license herein mentioned shall be issued by the Clerk, on a calendar year
basis, under the seal of the city, when ordered by the Council. The annual fee
for obtaining said license shall be $10. The obligee in said bond shall be the
city and an action may be maintained on said bond by anyone injured by a breach
of its conditions.
(1976 Code, § 10-306)
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person or persons to own, maintain or
operate any game of pool or billiards for profit or gain without having first
obtained a license from the municipality. Any person desiring a license to
operate, maintain or own a pool or billiard game or hall shall file a written
application with the Municipal Clerk. Said application form shall contain such
information and documents, or copies thereof, as the governing body deems
necessary to determine whether to grant or reject the application. Upon the
determination that the granting of the license would be beneficial to the
municipality, the governing body shall immediately direct the Municipal Clerk
to issue the license to the applicant upon the payment of a $10 license fee,
per table, set by ordinance of the governing body. Said license shall be
subject to revocation at any time for good and sufficient cause by the
governing body upon the issuance of proper notice, and a hearing if the
licensee should make such a request. Any person or persons so licensed shall be
subject to any bond, fees or other rules and regulations as may be set by
resolution of the governing body for the benefit of the municipality.
(1976 Code, § 10-307)
Penalty, see §
110.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-120
CHAPTER 112: ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
Section
   
112.01   Definitions
   
112.02   Licenses; city powers and duties
   
112.03   Location restrictions
   
112.04   Dwellings; access
   
112.05   License displayed
   
112.06   Licensee requirements
   
112.07   Examinations; municipal powers and duties
   
112.08   Owner of premises; employer
   
112.09   Clear view
   
112.10   Sales
   
112.11   Sanitary conditions
   
112.12   Hiring minors
   
112.13   Consumption in public places or places open to the public;
restrictions
   
112.14   Acquisition, possession and manufacture
   
112.15   Intoxicated persons
   
112.16   Retail licensing standards; binding recommendations
   
112.17   Liquor application; hearing
   
112.18   Catering licenses
   
112.19   Keg sales
   
112.20   License premises; inspections
   
112.21   Citizen complaints
   
112.22   Rights of licensee
§ 112.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For purposes of this chapter, words shall be defined as in Neb. RS 53-103.01
through 53-103.42.
(1976 Code, § 10-101) (Ord. 1418, passed 12-20-2010)
§ 112.02 LICENSES; CITY POWERS AND DUTIES.
   (A)   The City Council is authorized to regulate by ordinance, not
inconsistent with the Nebraska Liquor Control Act, the business of all retail,
bottle club, craft brewery, and microdistillery licensees carried on within the
corporate limits of the city.
   (B)   During the period of 45 days after the date of receipt by mail or
electronic delivery from the Nebraska Liquor Control Commission notice and a
copy of an application for a new license to sell alcoholic liquor at retail, a
craft brewery license, or a microdistillery license, the City Council may make
and submit to the Commission recommendations relative to the granting or
refusal to grant the license to the applicant.
   (C)   The City Council, with respect to licenses within the corporate limits
of the city, has the following powers, functions, and duties with respect to
retail, bottle club, craft brewery, and microdistillery licenses:
      (1)   To cancel or revoke for cause retail, craft brewery, or
microdistillery licenses to sell or dispense alcoholic liquor or bottle club
licenses issued to persons for premises within its jurisdiction, subject to the
right of appeal to the Nebraska Liquor Control Commission;
      (2)   To enter or to authorize any law enforcement officer to enter at
any time upon any premises licensed under the Nebraska Liquor Control Act to
determine whether any provision of the Act, any rule or regulation adopted and
promulgated pursuant to the Act, or any ordinance, resolution, rule, or
regulation adopted by the City Council has been or is being violated, and at
that time examine the premises of the licensee in connection with such
determination. Any law enforcement officer who determines that any provision of
the Act, any rule or regulation adopted and promulgated pursuant to the Act, or
any ordinance, resolution, rule, or regulation adopted by the local governing
body has been or is being violated shall report such violation in writing to
the Executive Director of the Commission:
         (a)   Within 30 days after determining that such violation has
occurred;
         (b)   Within 30 days after the conclusion of an ongoing police
investigation; or
         (c)   Within 30 days after the verdict in a prosecution related to
such an ongoing police investigation if the prosecuting attorney determines
that reporting such violation prior to the verdict would jeopardize such
prosecution, whichever is later;
      (3)   To receive a signed complaint from any citizen within its
jurisdiction that any provision of the Act, any rule or regulation adopted and
promulgated pursuant to the Act, or any ordinance, resolution, rule, or
regulation relating to alcoholic liquor has been or is being violated and to
act upon these complaints in the manner provided in the Act;
      (4)   To receive retail, bottle club, craft brewery, and microdistillery
license fees as provided in Neb. RS 53-124 and 53-124.01 and pay the same,
after the license has been delivered to the applicant, to the City Treasurer;
      (5)   To examine or cause to be examined any applicant or any retail,
bottle club, craft brewery, or microdistillery licensee upon whom notice of
cancellation or revocation has been served as provided in the Act, to examine
or cause to be examined the books and records of any applicant or licensee,
except as otherwise provided for bottle club licensees under state law, and to
hear testimony and to take proof for its information in the performance of its
duties. For purposes of obtaining any of the information desired, the City
Council may authorize its agent or attorney to act on its behalf;
      (6)   To cancel or revoke on its own motion any license if, upon the same
notice and hearing as provided in Neb. RS 53-134.04, it determines that the
licensee has violated any of the provisions of the Nebraska Liquor Control Act
or any valid and subsisting ordinance, resolution, rule, or regulation duly
enacted, adopted, and promulgated relating to alcoholic liquor. The order of
cancellation or revocation may be appealed to the Commission within 30 days
after the date of the order by filing a notice of appeal with the Commission.
The Commission shall handle the appeal in the manner provided for hearing on an
application in Neb. RS 53-133;
      (7)   Upon receipt from the Commission of the notice and copy of
application as provided in Neb. RS 53-131, to fix a time and place for a
hearing at which the City Council shall receive evidence, either orally or by
affidavit from the applicant and any other person, bearing upon the propriety
of the issuance of a license. Notice of the time and place of the hearing shall
be published in a legal newspaper in or of general circulation in the city, one
time not less than seven and not more than 14 days before the time of the
hearing. The notice shall include, but not be limited to, a statement that all
persons desiring to give evidence before the City Council in support of or in
protest against the issuance of the license may do so at the time of the
hearing. The hearing shall be held not more than 45 days after the date of
receipt of the notice from the Commission, and after the hearing the City
Council shall cause to be recorded in the minute record of its proceedings a
resolution recommending either issuance or refusal of the license. The City
Clerk shall mail to the Commission by first class mail, postage prepaid, a copy
of the resolution which shall state the cost of the published notice, except
that failure to comply with this provision shall not void any license issued by
the Commission. If the Commission refuses to issue such a license, the cost of
publication of notice shall be paid by the Commission from the security for
costs;
      (8)   To review and authorize an application by a retail, bottle club,
craft brewery, farm winery, or microdistillery licensee for a temporary
expansion of its licensed premises within the jurisdiction of the local
governing body to an immediately adjacent area owned or leased by the licensee
or to an immediately adjacent street, parking lot, or alley, not to exceed 50
days for calendar year 2020 and, for each calendar year thereafter, not to
exceed 15 days per calendar year, as provided in Neb. RS 53-123.12 and Neb. RS
53-129; and
      (9)   To review and authorize an application by a craft brewery, farm
winery, or microdistillery licensee that holds a promotional farmers market
special designated license for a permit to use such promotional farmers market
special designated license to sell or dispense alcoholic liquor, which the
holder is licensed to produce, at a farmers market within the jurisdiction of
the local governing body as provided in section 14 of the Act. The local
governing body shall electronically notify the Commission within five days
after authorization of any permit pursuant to this division.
   (D)   (1)   When the Nebraska Liquor Control Commission mails or delivers to
the City Clerk a retail, craft brewery, or microdistillery license issued or
renewed by the Commission, the Clerk shall deliver the license to the licensee
upon receipt from the licensee of proof of payment of:
         (a)   The license fee if by the terms of Neb. RS 53-124 the fee is
payable to the City Treasurer;
         (b)   Any fee for publication of notice of hearing before the (City
Council/Board of Trustees) upon the application for the license;
         (c)   The fee for publication of notice of renewal, if applicable, as
provided in Neb. RS 53-135.01; and
         (d)   Occupation taxes, if any, imposed by the city, except that Class
J retail licensees shall not be subject to occupation taxes.
      (2)   Notwithstanding any ordinance or charter power to the contrary, the
city shall not impose an occupation tax on the business of any person, firm, or
corporation licensed under the Nebraska Liquor Control Act and doing business
within the corporate limits of the city in any sum which exceeds two times the
amount of the license fee required to be paid under the Act to obtain that
license.
(1976 Code, § 10-102) (Ord. 1468, passed 2-6-2017; Ord. 1483, passed 2-4-2019;
Ord. 1501, passed 6-7-2021; Ord. 1522, passed 5-2-2022)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 53-102, 53-131, 53-132, 53-134, 53-134.03
§ 112.03 LOCATION RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   Except as otherwise provided in division (B) of this section, no
license shall be issued for the sale at retail of any alcoholic liquor or for a
bottle club within 150 feet of any church, school, hospital, or home for
indigent persons or for veterans and their wives or children. The prohibition
does not apply to any location within such distance of 150 feet:
      (1)   For which a license to sell alcoholic liquor at retail or for a
bottle club has been granted by the Nebraska Liquor Control Commission for two
years continuously prior to making of application for license;
      (2)   To hotels offering restaurant services, to regularly organized
clubs, or to restaurants, food shops, or other places where sale of alcoholic
liquor is not the principal business carried on, if such place of business so
exempt was established for such purposes prior to May 24, 1935; or
      (3)   To a college or university in the state which is subject to Neb. RS
53-177.01.
   (B)   If a proposed location for the sale at retail of any alcoholic liquor
or for a bottle club is within 150 feet of any church, a license may be issued
if the Commission gives notice to the affected church and holds a hearing as
prescribed in Neb. RS 53-133 if the affected church submits a written request
for a hearing.
   (C)   Unless otherwise exempted by Neb. RS 53-177.01, no alcoholic liquor,
other than beer, shall be sold for consumption on the premises within 300 feet
from the campus of any college or university within the city, and no bottle
club shall be operated within 300 feet from the campus of any college, except
that this section:
      (1)   Does not prohibit a nonpublic college or university from
contracting with an individual or corporation holding a license to sell
alcoholic liquor at retail for the purpose of selling alcoholic liquor at
retail on the campus of such college or university at events sanctioned by such
college or university but does prohibit the sale of alcoholic liquor at retail
by such licensee on the campus of such nonpublic college or university at
student activities or events; and
      (2)   Does not prohibit sales of alcoholic liquor by a community college
culinary education program pursuant to Neb. RS 53-124.15.
(1976 Code, § 10-103) (Ord. 1418, passed 12-20-2010; Ord. 1426B, passed 12-5-
2011; Ord. 1461, passed 2-8-2016; Ord. 1483, passed 2-4-2019) Penalty, see §
110.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 53-177, 53-177.01
§ 112.04 DWELLINGS; ACCESS.
   Except in the case of hotels and clubs, no alcoholic liquor shall be
manufactured or sold at retail or wholesale upon any premises which have any
access which leads from the premises to any other portion of the same building
or structure used for dwelling or lodging purposes and permitted to be used or
kept accessible for use by the public. This section does not prevent any
connection between the premises and such other portion of the building or
structure which is used only by the licensee, his or her family or personal
guests.
(1976 Code, § 10-104) (Ord. 1468, passed 2-6-2017) Penalty, see §
110.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 53-178
§ 112.05 LICENSE DISPLAYED.
   Every licensee under the state’s Liquor Control Act, being Neb. RS 53-101
through 53-1,122 shall cause his or her license to be framed and hung in plain
public view in a conspicuous place on the licensed premises.
(1976 Code, § 10-105) Penalty, see §
110.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 53-148
§ 112.06 LICENSEE REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   No license shall be issued to:
      (1)   A person who is not a resident of this state, except in case of
railroad, airline, boat, or special party bus licenses;
      (2)   A person who is not of good character and reputation in the
community in which he or she resides;
      (3)   A person who is not a resident of this state and legally able to
work in this state;
      (4)   A person who has been convicted of or has pleaded guilty to a
felony under the laws of this state, any other state, or the United States;
      (5)   A person who has been convicted of or has pleaded guilty to any
Class I misdemeanor pursuant Neb. RS Chapter 28, Art. 3, 4, 7, 8, 10, 11, or
12, or any similar offense under a prior criminal statute or in another state,
except that any additional requirements imposed by this division on May 18,
1983, shall not prevent any person holding a license on that date from
retaining or renewing that license if the conviction or plea occurred prior to
May 18, 1983;
      (6)   A person whose license issued under the Nebraska Liquor Control Act
has been revoked for cause;
      (7)   A person who at the time of application for renewal of any license
issued under the Act would not be eligible for that license upon initial
application;
      (8)   A partnership, unless one of the partners is a resident of this
state and unless all the members of that partnership are otherwise qualified to
obtain a license;
      (9)   A limited liability company, unless one of the members is a
resident of this state and unless all the members of that company are otherwise
qualified to obtain a license;
      (10)   A corporation, if any officer or director of the corporation or
any stockholder owning in the aggregate more than 25% of the stock of that
corporation would be ineligible to receive a license under this section for any
reason other than the reasons stated in divisions (A)(1) and (A)(3) of this
section, or if a manager of a corporate licensee would be ineligible to receive
a license under this section for any reason. This division shall not apply to
railroad licenses;
      (11)   A person whose place of business is conducted by a manager or
agent, unless that manager or agent possesses the same qualifications required
of the licensee;
      (12)   A person who does not own the premises for which a license is
sought or does not have a lease or combination of leases on the premises for
the full period for which the license is to be issued;
      (13)   Except as provided in this division, an applicant whose spouse is
ineligible under this section to receive and hold a liquor license. Such an
applicant shall become eligible for a liquor license only if the Nebraska
Liquor Control Commission finds from the evidence that the public interest will
not be infringed upon if the license is granted. It shall be prima facie
evidence that when a spouse is ineligible to receive a liquor license, the
applicant is also ineligible to receive a liquor license. This prima facie
evidence shall be overcome if it is shown to the satisfaction of the
Commission:
         (a)   The licensed business will be the sole property of the
applicant; and
         (b)   The licensed premises will be properly operated.
      (14)   A person seeking a license for premises which do not meet
standards for fire safety as established by the State Fire Marshal;
      (15)   A law enforcement officer, except that this division shall not
prohibit a law enforcement officer from holding membership in any nonprofit
organization holding a liquor license or from participating in any manner in
the management or administration of a nonprofit organization; or
      (16)   A person less than 21 years of age.
   (B)   When a trustee is the licensee, the beneficiary or beneficiaries of
the trust shall comply with the requirements of this section, but nothing in
this section shall prohibit any such beneficiary from being a minor or person
who is mentally incompetent.
(1976 Code, § 10-106) (Ord. 724, passed 9-1-1983; Ord. 1418, passed 12-20-2010;
Ord. 1468, passed 2-6-2017; Ord. 1501, passed 6-7-2021)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 53-125
§ 112.07 EXAMINATIONS; MUNICIPAL POWERS AND DUTIES.
   (A)   Liquor application; municipal examination.
      (1)   Any person or persons desiring to obtain a license to sell
alcoholic liquor at retail shall file an application with the Liquor Control
Commission. Upon receipt from the Commission of the notice and copy of the
application as provided in Neb. RS 53-131, the governing body shall fix a time
and place at which a hearing will be held, and at which time the governing body
shall receive evidence, under oath, either orally, or in writing, from the
applicant and any other person concerning the propriety of the issuance of such
license. Such hearing shall be held not more than 45 days after the receipt of
notice from the commission. The governing body may: examine, or cause to be
examined, under oath, any applicant; examine or cause to be examined, the books
and records of any such applicant; to hear testimony; and to take proof for its
information in the performance of its duties. For purposes of obtaining any of
the information desired, the governing body may authorize its agent, the
Municipal Clerk or the Municipal Attorney, to act on its behalf.
      (2)   Notice of the time and place of such hearing shall be published in
a legal newspaper in, or of general circulation in, the municipality one time
not less than seven, nor more than 14, days before the time of the hearing.
Such notice shall include, but not be limited to, a statement that all persons
desiring to give evidence before the governing body in support of or in protest
against the issuance of such license may do so at the time of the hearing.
      (3)   The governing body shall, after the hearing provided in division
(A)(1) above, approve or deny the application within 45 days of receipt of such
application from the Commission, and shall cause to be spread at large in the
minute record of its proceedings a resolution approving or denying such
application. The Municipal Clerk shall thereupon mail or deliver to the
Commission a copy of the resolution within ten days of the decision to approve
or deny the application.
      (4)   Any resolution denying an application rendered by the governing
body shall be in writing or stated in the record and shall be accompanied by
findings. The findings shall consist of concise statements of the conclusions
upon each contested issue. The applicant shall be notified of the decision in
person or by mail.
(1976 Code, § 10-107)
   (B)   License renewal; powers and duties.
      (1)   A retail or bottle club license issued by the Nebraska Liquor
Control Commission and outstanding may be automatically renewed by the
Commission in the absence of a written request by the City Council to require
the licensee to submit an application for renewal. Any licensed retail premises
located in an area which is annexed to the city shall file a formal application
for a license, and while the application is pending, the licensee may continue
all license privileges until the original license expires or is cancelled or
revoked. If that license expired within 60 days following the annexation date
of the area, the license may be renewed by order of the Commission for not more
than one year.
      (2)   The City Clerk shall cause to be published in a legal newspaper in
or of general circulation in the municipality, one time between January 10 and
January 30 of each year, individual notice in the form prescribed by law of the
right of automatic renewal of each retail liquor and beer license and each
bottle club license within the municipality, except that notice of the right of
automatic renewal of Class C licenses shall be published between the dates of
July 10 and July 30 of each year. If written protests to the issuance of
automatic renewal of a license are filed in the office of the City Clerk by
three or more residents of the municipality on or before February 10, or August
10 for Class C licensees, the City Council shall hold a hearing to determine
whether continuation of the license should be allowed. Upon the conclusion of
any hearing required by this section, the City Council may request a licensee
to submit an application as provided in Neb. RS 53-135.
(1976 Code, § 10-108)
   (C)   Municipal powers and duties.
      (1)   The governing body is authorized to regulate by ordinance, not
inconsistent with the state’s Liquor Control Act, being Neb. RS 53-101 through
53-1,122, the business of all retail, craft brewery and microdistillery
licensees carried on within the corporate limits of the municipality.
      (2)   During the period of 45 days after the date of receipt by mail or
electronic delivery from the state’s Liquor Control Commission notice and a
copy of an application for a new license to sell alcoholic liquor at retail, a
craft brewery license or a microdistillery license, the governing body may make
and submit to the Commission recommendations relative to the granting or
refusal to grant the license to the applicant.
      (3)   The governing body, with respect to licenses within the corporate
limits of the municipality, has the following powers, functions and duties with
respect to retail, craft brewery and microdistillery licenses:
         (a)   To cancel or revoke for cause retail, craft brewery or
microdistillery licenses to sell or dispense alcoholic liquor issued to persons
for premises within its jurisdiction, subject to the right of appeal to the
state’s Liquor Control Commission;
         (b)   To enter or to authorize any law enforcement officer to enter at
any time upon any premises licensed under the state’s Liquor Control Act, being
Neb. RS 53-101 through 53-1,122 to determine whether any provision of the Act,
any rule or regulation adopted and promulgated pursuant to the Act, or any
ordinance, resolution, rule or regulation adopted by the governing body has
been or is being violated, and at that time examine the premises of the
licensee in connection with such determination. Any law enforcement officer who
determines that any provision of the Act, any rule or regulation adopted and
promulgated pursuant to the Act, or any ordinance, resolution, rule or
regulation adopted by the governing body has been or is being violated shall
report such violation in writing to the Executive Director of the Commission:
            1.   Within 30 days after determining that such violation has
occurred;
            2.   Within 30 days after the conclusion of an ongoing police
investigation; or
            3.   Within 30 days after the verdict in a prosecution related to
such an ongoing police investigation if the prosecuting attorney determines
that reporting such violation prior to the verdict would jeopardize such
prosecution, whichever is later.
         (c)   To receive a signed complaint from any citizen within its
jurisdiction that any provision of the Act, any rule or regulation adopted and
promulgated pursuant to the Act, or any ordinance, resolution, rule or
regulation relating to alcoholic liquor has been or is being violated and to
act upon these complaints in the manner provided in the Act;
         (d)   To receive retail, craft brewery and microdistillery license
fees as provided in Neb. RS 53-124 and 53-124.01 and pay the same, after the
license has been delivered to the applicant, to the Municipal Treasurer;
         (e)   To examine or cause to be examined any applicant or any retail,
craft brewery or microdistillery licensee upon whom notice of cancellation or
revocation has been served as provided in the Act, to examine or cause to be
examined the books and records of any applicant or licensee, and to hear
testimony and to take proof for its information in the performance of its
duties. For purposes of obtaining any of the information desired, the governing
body may authorize its agent or attorney to act on its behalf;
         (f)   To cancel or revoke on its own motion any license if, upon the
same notice and hearing as provided for citizen complaints, it determines that
the licensee has violated any of the provisions of the state’s Liquor Control
Act, being Neb. RS 53-101 through 53-1,122 or any valid and subsisting
ordinance, resolution, rule or regulation duly enacted, adopted and promulgated
relating to alcoholic liquor. The order of cancellation or revocation may be
appealed to the Commission within 30 days after the date of the order by filing
a notice of appeal with the Commission. The Commission shall handle the appeal
in the manner provided for hearing on an application in Neb. RS 53-133; and
         (g)   Upon receipt from the Commission of the notice and copy of
application as provided in Neb. RS 53-131, to fix a time and place for a
hearing at which the governing body shall receive evidence, either orally or by
affidavit from the applicant and any other person, bearing upon the propriety
of the issuance of a license.
            1.   Notice of the time and place of the hearing shall be published
in a legal newspaper in or of general circulation in the municipality, one time
not less than seven and not more than 14 days before the time of the hearing.
The notice shall include, but not be limited to, a statement that all persons
desiring to give evidence before the governing body in support of or in protest
against the issuance of the license may do so at the time of the hearing.
            2.   The hearing shall be held not more than 45 days after the date
of receipt of the notice from the Commission, and after the hearing the
governing body shall cause to be recorded in the minute record of its
proceedings a resolution recommending either issuance or refusal of the
license.
            3.   The Municipal Clerk shall mail to the Commission by first
class mail, postage prepaid, a copy of the resolution which shall state the
cost of the published notice; except that, failure to comply with this
provision shall not void any license issued by the Commission. If the
Commission refuses to issue such a license, the cost of publication of notice
shall be paid by the Commission from the security for costs.
      (4)   (a)   When the state’s Liquor Control Commission mails or delivers
to the Municipal Clerk a retail, craft brewery or microdistillery license
issued or renewed by the Commission, the Clerk shall deliver the license to the
licensee upon receipt from the licensee of proof of payment of:
            1.   The license fee if, by the terms of Neb. RS 53-124, the fee is
payable to the Municipal Treasurer;
            2.   Any fee for publication of notice of hearing before the
governing body upon the application for the license;
            3.   The fee for publication of notice of renewal, if applicable,
as provided in Neb. RS 53-135.01; and
            4.   Occupation taxes, if any, imposed by the municipality.
         (b)   Notwithstanding any ordinance or charter power to the contrary,
the municipality shall not impose an occupation tax on the business of any
person, firm or corporation licensed under the state’s Liquor Control Act,
being Neb. RS 53-101 through 53-1,122 and doing business within the corporate
limits of the municipality in any sum which exceeds two times the amount of the
license fee required to be paid under the Act to obtain that license.
(1976 Code, § 10-109)
(Ord. 635, passed 12-6-1979; Ord. 724, passed 9-1-1983; Ord. 762, passed 9-6-
1984; Ord. 915, passed 10-20-1986; Ord. 960, passed 9-26-1988; Ord. 994, passed
12-18-1989; Ord. 1055, passed 3-23-1992; Ord. 1362, passed 11-8-2004; Ord.
1364, passed 11-8-2004; Ord. 1418, passed 12-20-2010; Ord. 1426B, passed 12-5-
2011; Ord. 1483, passed 2-4-2019)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 53-131, 53-132, 53-134, 53-134.03, 53-135,
53-135.01
§ 112.08 OWNER OF PREMISES; EMPLOYER.
   (A)   The owner of any premise used for the sale at retail of alcoholic
beverages shall be deemed guilty of a violation of these laws to the same
extent as the said licensee if the owner shall knowingly permit the licensee to
use the said licensed premises in violation of any municipal code section or
state statute.
(1976 Code, § 10-110)
   (B)   The employer of any officer, director, manager or employees working in
a retail liquor establishment shall be held to be liable and guilty of any act
of omission or violation of any law or ordinance, and each such act or omission
shall be deemed and held to be the act of the employer, and will be punishable
in the same manner as if the said act or omission had been committed by him or
her personally.
(1976 Code, § 10-111) Penalty, see §
110.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 53-1,101, 53-1,102
§ 112.09 CLEAR VIEW.
   It shall be unlawful to use any screen, blind, curtain, partition, article
or other device in the windows or upon the doors of any retail liquor
establishment, other than restaurants, hotels and clubs, which will have the
effect of preventing a clear view into the interior of such licensed premises
from the street, road or sidewalk at all times. All licensed premises shall be
continuously lighted during business hours by natural or artificial white
lights to ensure the clear visibility into said establishment. Any licensee who
willfully violates the provisions of this section shall be subject to a
revocation of his or her license by the municipality, as provided herein.
(1976 Code, § 10-112) Penalty, see §
110.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 53-167
§ 112.10 SALES.
   (A)   Sale or gift to minor or mentally incompetent person prohibited. No
person shall sell, furnish, give away, dispose of, exchange or deliver, or
permit the sale, gift or procuring of any alcoholic liquors, to or for any
minor or to any person who is mentally incompetent.
(1976 Code, § 10-113)
   (B)   Credit sales prohibited.
      (1)   No person shall sell or furnish alcoholic liquor at retail to any
person on credit, on a passbook, on an order on a store, in exchange for any
goods, wares or merchandise, or in payment for any services rendered, and if
any person extends credit for any such purpose, the debt thereby attempted to
be created shall not be recoverable at law.
      (2)   Nothing in this section shall prevent the following:
         (a)   Any club holding a Class C license from permitting checks or
statements for alcoholic liquor to be signed by members or bona fide guests of
members and charged to the account of such members or guests in accordance with
the bylaws of such club;
         (b)   Any hotel or restaurant holding a retail license from permitting
checks or statements for liquor to be signed by regular guests residing at such
hotel or eating at such restaurant and charged to the accounts of such guests;
or
         (c)   Any licensed retailer engaged in the sale of wine or distilled
spirits from issuing tasting cards to customers.
(1976 Code, § 10-114)
   (C)   Original package. It shall be unlawful for any person or persons who
own, manage or lease any premise in which the sale of alcoholic beverages is
licensed, to have in their possession for sale at retail any alcoholic liquor
contained in casks or other containers, except in the original package. Nothing
in this division (C) shall prohibit the refilling of original packages of
alcoholic liquor for strictly private use and not for resale.
(1976 Code, § 10-116)
   (D)   Hours of sale.
      (1)   No alcoholic liquor, including beer, shall be sold at retail or
dispensed on any day between the hours of 1:00 a.m. and 6:00 a.m.
      (2)   It shall be unlawful on property licensed to sell alcoholic liquor
at retail to allow alcoholic liquor in open containers to remain or be in
possession or control of any person for purposes of consumption between the
hours of 15 minutes after the closing hour applicable to the licensed premises
and 6:00 a.m. on any day.
      (3)   Nothing in this section shall be construed to prohibit licensed
premises from being open for other business on days and hours during which the
sale or dispensing of alcoholic liquor is prohibited by this section.
(1976 Code, § 10-117)
(Ord. 581, passed 9-21-1978; Ord. 582, passed 9-21-1978; Ord. 626, passed 8-23-
1979; Ord. 673, passed 9-17-1981; Ord. 681, passed 2-18-1982; Ord. 723, passed
9-1-1983; Ord. 1050, passed 3-16-1992; Ord. 1053, passed 3-23-1992; Ord. 1069,
passed 12-21-1992; Ord. 1392, passed 11-20-2006; Ord. 1418, passed 12-20-2010;
Ord. 1426B, passed 12-5-2011; Ord. 1433A, passed 1-7-2013; Ord. 1455B, passed
2-9-2015; Ord. 1457, passed 4-20-2015) Penalty, see §
110.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 53-180, 53-183, 53-184
§ 112.11 SANITARY CONDITIONS.
   It shall be unlawful to open for public use any retail liquor establishment
that is not in a clean and sanitary condition. Toilet facilities shall be
adequate and convenient for customers and patrons and said licensed premises
shall be subject to any health inspections the governing body or the municipal
police may make or cause to be made. All applications for liquor licenses shall
be viewed in part from the standpoint of the sanitary conditions, and a report
concerning the said sanitary conditions shall be made at all hearings
concerning the application for, or renewal of, a liquor license.
(1976 Code, § 10-118) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 112.12 HIRING MINORS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to hire a minor regardless of sex under
the age of 19 years to serve or dispense alcoholic liquors, including beer, to
said licensee’s customers.
(1976 Code, § 10-119) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 112.13 CONSUMPTION IN PUBLIC PLACES OR PLACES OPEN TO THE PUBLIC;
RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   (1)   Except when the Nebraska Liquor Control Commission has issued a
license as provided in Neb. RS 53-186(2) or as provided in Neb. RS 60-6,211.08,
it is unlawful for any person to consume alcohol liquor upon property owned or
controlled by the state or any governmental subdivision thereof unless
authorized by the governing bodies having jurisdiction over such property.
      (2)   It is unlawful for any person owning, operating, managing, or
conducting any bottle club, dance hall, restaurant, cafe, or club or any place
open to the general public to permit or allow any person to consume alcoholic
liquor upon the premises except as permitted by a license issued for such
premises pursuant to the Nebraska Liquor Control Act. It is unlawful for any
person to consume alcoholic liquor in any bottle club, dance hall, restaurant,
cafe, or club or any place open to the general public except as permitted by a
license issued for such premises pursuant to the Act. This division does not
apply to a retail licensee while lawfully engaged in the catering of alcoholic
beverages or to limousines or buses operated under Neb. RS 60-6,211.08.
(1976 Code, § 10-120)
   (B)   (1)   For the purpose of this division (B), the following definitions
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
         ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE.
            1.   Beer, ale, porter, stout and other similar fermented
beverages, including sake or similar products, of any name or description,
containing 0.5% or more of alcohol by volume, brewed or produced from malt,
wholly or in part, or from any substitute therefor;
            2.   Wine of not less than 0.5% alcohol by volume;
            3.   Distilled spirits, which is that substance known as ethyl
alcohol, ethanol or spirits of wine in any form, including all dilutions and
mixtures thereof from whatever source or by whatever process produced; and
            4.   ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE does not include trace amounts not readily
consumable as a beverage.
         HIGHWAY. A road or street including the entire area within the right-
of-way.
         LIMOUSINE. A luxury vehicle used to provide prearranged passenger
transportation on a dedicated basis at a premium fare that has a seating
capacity of at least five and no more than 14 persons behind the driver with a
physical partition separating the driver seat from the passenger compartment.
LIMOUSINE does not include taxicabs, hotel or airport buses or shuttles or
buses.
         OPEN ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE CONTAINER. Except as provided in Neb. RS 53-
123.04(3) and 53-123.11(1)(c), any bottle, can or other receptacle that:
            1.   Contains any amount of alcoholic beverage; and
            2.   a.   Is open or has a broken seal; or
               b.   The contents of which are partially removed.
         PASSENGER AREA. The area designed to seat the driver and passengers
while the motor vehicle is in operation and any area that is readily accessible
to the driver or a passenger while in their seating positions, including any
compartments in the area. PASSENGER AREA does not include the area behind the
last upright seat of the motor vehicle if the area is not normally occupied by
the driver or a passenger and the motor vehicle is not equipped with a trunk.
      (2)   Except as otherwise provided in this section, it is unlawful for
any person in the passenger area of a motor vehicle to possess an open
alcoholic beverage container while the motor vehicle is located in a public
parking area or on any highway in the municipality.
      (3)   Except as provided in division (A) above or division (B)(4) below,
it is unlawful for any person to consume an alcoholic beverage:
         (a)   In a public parking area or on any highway in the municipality;
or
         (b)   Inside a motor vehicle while in a public parking area or on any
highway in the municipality.
      (4)   This division (B) does not apply to persons who are passengers of,
but not drivers of, a limousine or bus being used in a charter or special party
service as defined by rules and regulations adopted and promulgated by the
state’s Public Service Commission and subject to Neb. Admin. Code Ch. 75, Art.
3. Such passengers may possess open alcoholic beverage containers and may
consume alcoholic beverages while such limousine or bus is in a public parking
area or on any highway in the municipality if:
         (a)   The driver of the limousine or bus is prohibited from consuming
alcoholic liquor; and
         (b)   Alcoholic liquor is not present in any area that is readily
accessible to the driver while in the driver’s seat, including any compartments
in such area.
(1976 Code, § 10-128)
(Ord. 1065, passed 8-24-1992; Ord. 1426B, passed 12-5-2011; Ord. 1483, passed
2-4-2019) Penalty, see §
110.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 53-186, 53-186.01, 60-6,211.08
§ 112.14 ACQUISITION, POSSESSION AND MANUFACTURE.
   (A)   (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person or purchase, receive,
acquire, accept or possess any alcoholic liquor acquired from any other person
other than one duly licensed to handle alcoholic liquor under this chapter and
the state’s Liquor Control Act, being Neb. RS 53-101 through 53-1,122 unless
within specific exemptions provided in this chapter or the Act, being Neb. RS
53-101 through 53-1,122.
      (2)   (a)   Except as otherwise provided in this section, it shall be
unlawful for any person to transport, import, bring or cause to be transported,
imported, brought or shipped into the state for the personal use of the
possessor, his or her family, or guests a quantity of alcoholic liquor in
excess of nine liters in any one calendar month.
         (b)   Division (B)(1) above does not apply to a person importing
alcoholic liquor from a holder of a retail direct sales shipping license or its
equivalent, which alcoholic liquor is for personal use or for use by such
person’s family or guests, if the total amount imported by such person in any
one calendar year does not exceed 108 liters.
(1976 Code, § 10-121)
   (B)   (1)   No person shall manufacture, bottle, blend, sell, barter,
transport, deliver, furnish or possess any alcoholic liquor for beverage
purposes, except as specifically provided in this chapter and the state’s
Liquor Control Act, being Neb. RS 53-101 through 53-1,122.
      (2)   Nothing is this chapter shall prevent:
         (a)   The possession of alcoholic liquor legally obtained as provided
in this chapter or the Act for the personal use of the possessor and his or her
family or guests;
         (b)   The making of wine, cider or other alcoholic liquor by a person
from fruits, vegetables or grains, or the product thereof, by simple
fermentation and without distillation, if made solely for the use of the maker
and his or her family and guests;
         (c)   Any duly licensed practicing physician or dentist from
possessing or using alcoholic liquor in the strict practice of his or her
profession, any hospital or other institution caring for the sick and diseased
persons from possessing and using alcoholic liquor for the treatment of bona
fide patients of that hospital or other institution, or any drug store
employing a licensed pharmacist from possessing or using alcoholic liquor in
the compounding of prescriptions of licensed physicians;
         (d)   The possession and dispensation of alcoholic liquor by an
authorized representative of any religion on the premises of a place of
worship, for the purpose of conducting any bona fide religious rite, ritual or
ceremony;
         (e)   Persons who are 16 years old or older from carrying alcoholic
liquor from licensed establishments when they are accompanied by a person not a
minor;
         (f)   Persons who are 16 years old or older from handling alcoholic
liquor containers and alcoholic liquor in the course of their employment;
         (g)   Persons who are 16 years old or older from removing and
disposing of alcoholic liquor containers for the convenience of the employer
and customers in the course of their employment;
         (h)   Persons who are 16 years old or older from completing a
transaction for the sale of alcoholic liquor in the course of their employment
if they are not handling or serving alcoholic liquor; or
         (I)   Persons who are 19 years old or older from serving or selling
alcoholic liquor in the course of their employment.
(Ord. 1208, passed 1-22-1996; Ord. 1468, passed 2-6-2017) Penalty, see §
110.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 53-168.06, 53-175, 53-194.03
§ 112.15 INTOXICATED PERSONS.
   (A)   (1)   Any law enforcement officer with the power to arrest for traffic
violations may take a person who is intoxicated and in the judgment of the
officer dangerous to himself, herself or others, or who is otherwise
incapacitated, from any public or quasi-public property.
      (2)   An officer removing an intoxicated person from public or quasi-
public property shall make a reasonable effort to take such intoxicated person
to his or her home or to place such person in any hospital, clinic, alcoholism
center or with a medical doctor as may be necessary to preserve life or to
prevent injury.
      (3)   Such effort at placement shall be deemed reasonable if the officer
contacts those facilities or doctor which have previously represented a
willingness to accept and treat such individuals and which regularly do accept
such individuals. If such efforts are unsuccessful or are not feasible, the
officer may then place such intoxicated person in civil protective custody;
except that, civil protective custody shall be used only as long as is
necessary to preserve life or to prevent injury, and under no circumstances
longer than 24 hours. The placement of such person in civil protective custody
shall be recorded at the facility or jail at which he or she is delivered and
communicated to his or her family or next of kin, if they can be located, or to
such person designated by the person taken into civil protective custody.
   (B)   (1)   The law enforcement officer who acts in compliance with this
section shall be deemed to be acting in the course of his or her official duty
and shall not be criminally or civilly liable for such actions.
      (2)   The taking of an individual into civil protective custody under
this section shall not be considered an arrest.
      (3)   No entry or other record shall be made to indicate that the person
has been arrested or charged with a crime.
   (C)   (1)   For purposes of this section, PUBLIC PROPERTY shall mean any
public right-of-way, street, highway, alley, park or other state, county or
municipally-owned property.
      (2)   For the purposes of this section, QUASI-PUBLIC PROPERTY shall mean
and include private or publicly-owned property utilized for proprietary or
business uses which invites patronage by the public or which invites public
ingress and egress.
(1976 Code, § 10-122) (Ord. 625, passed 8-23-1979; Ord. 674, passed 9-17-1981)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 53-1,121
§ 112.16 RETAIL LICENSING STANDARDS; BINDING RECOMMENDATIONS.
   (A)   The governing body of the city shall have authority to approve liquor
license applications or to deny such applications pursuant to the state’s
Liquor Control Act, being Neb. RS 53-101 through 53-1,122. The governing body
of the said city shall consider the following licensing standards and criteria
at any hearing for an evaluation of any applicant for a retail alcoholic liquor
license, for the upgrading of a license to sell alcoholic liquor, or for the
expansion or change in location of the premises of a licensee, and for the
purpose of formulating a recommendation from said governing body to the state’s
Liquor Control Commission in accordance with the state’s Liquor Control Act,
being Neb. RS 53-101 through 53-1,122:
      (1)   The adequacy of existing law enforcement resources and services in
the area;
      (2)   The recommendation of the city’s Police Department or any other law
enforcement agency;
      (3)   Existing motor vehicle and pedestrian traffic flow in the vicinity
of the proposed licensed premises, potential traffic and parking problems and
the proximity and availability of on-street and off-street parking;
      (4)   Zoning restrictions and city zoning and land-use policies;
      (5)   Sanitation or sanitary conditions on or about the proposed licensed
premises;
      (6)   The existence of a citizen’s protest and similar evidence in
support of or in opposition to the application;
      (7)   The existing population and projected growth within the
jurisdiction of the city’s governing body and within the area to be served;
      (8)   The existing liquor licenses, the class of each such license and
the distance and times of travel between establishments that issued such
licenses;
      (9)   Whether the proposed license would be compatible with the
neighborhood or community where the proposed premises are located;
      (10)   Whether the type of business or activity proposed to be operated
or presently operated in conjunction with the proposed license is and will be
consistent with the public interest as declared in Neb. RS 53-101.01;
      (11)   Whether the applicant can ensure that all alcoholic beverages,
including beer and wine, will be handled by persons in accordance with Neb. RS
53-102;
      (12)   Whether the applicant has taken every precaution to protect
against the possibility of shoplifting of alcoholic liquor, which alcoholic
liquor shall be displayed and kept in and sold from an area which is reasonably
secured;
      (13)   Whether the applicant is fit, willing and able to properly provide
the service proposed in conformance with all provisions and requirements of and
rules and regulations adopted and promulgated pursuant to the state’s Liquor
Control Act, being Neb. RS 53-101 through 53-1,122;
      (14)   Whether the applicant has demonstrated that the type of management
and control exercised over the licensed premises will be sufficient to ensure
that the licensee can conform to all the provisions and requirements of and
rules and regulations adopted and promulgated pursuant to the state’s Liquor
Control Act, being Neb. RS 53-101 through 53-1,122;
      (15)   The background information of the applicant established by
information contained in the public records of the state’s Liquor Control
Commission and investigations conducted by law enforcement agencies;
      (16)   Past evidence of discrimination involving the applicant as
evidenced by findings of fact before any administrative board or agency of the
city’s governing body, any other governmental board or agency of the city, any
other governmental unit or any court of law;
      (17)   Whether the applicant or the applicant’s representatives
suppressed any fact or provided any inaccurate information to the state’s
Liquor Control Commission or the city’s governing body or the employees of the
state’s Liquor Control Commission or the city’s governing body relative to the
license application or liquor investigations. The applicant shall be required
to cooperate in providing a full disclosure to the investigating agents of the
governing body of the city;
      (18)   Proximity of and impact on schools, hospitals, libraries, parks
and public institutions;
      (19)   Whether activities proposed to be conducted on the licensed
premises or in adjacent related outdoor areas will create unreasonable noise or
disturbance; and
      (20)   Compliance with state laws, liquor rules and regulations, and
municipal ordinances and regulations and whether or not the applicant has ever
forfeited bond to appear in court to answer charges of having committed a
felony or charges of having violated any law or ordinance enacted in the
interest of good morals and decency or has been convicted of violating or has
forfeited bond to appear in court and answer charges for violating any law or
ordinance relating to alcoholic liquor.
   (B)   (1)   It shall be the liquor license applicant’s duty to produce
evidence pertaining to the designated criteria prescribed in this division (A)
above.
      (2)   The burden of proof and persuasion shall be on the party filing the
application.
(1976 Code, § 10-123) (Ord. 900, passed 5-12-1986; Ord. 995, passed 12-18-1989)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 53-134
§ 112.17 LIQUOR APPLICATION; HEARING.
   (A)   Notice. Notice of a hearing held pursuant to Neb. RS 53-134 shall be
given to the applicant by the City Clerk and shall contain the date, time and
location of the hearing. Two or more proceedings which are legally or factually
related may be heard and considered together unless any party thereto makes a
showing sufficient to satisfy the governing body that prejudice would result
therefrom.
   (B)   Procedure.
      (1)   Hearings will be informal and conducted by the City Attorney of the
municipality. The intent is an inquiry into the facts, not an adversative
action. Each witness may present their testimony in narrative fashion or by
question and answer.
      (2)   Either the governing body or the applicant may order the hearing to
be recorded by the City Clerk, at the expense of the applicant(s).
      (3)   The city’s governing body may admit and give probative effect to
evidence which possesses probative value commonly accepted by reasonably
prudent individuals. The City Attorney may limit testimony where it appears
incompetent, irrelevant or unduly repetitious. If there is opposition to any
application and such opposition desires the opportunity to present arguments
and to cross-examine the applicant and any witnesses in favor of such
application, they shall choose a spokesperson to perform such function who
shall notify the City Attorney of such representation prior to the start of the
hearing.
      (4)   The order of the proceeding is as follows:
         (a)   Exhibits will be marked in advance by the City Clerk and
presented to the City Attorney prior to or during the hearing;
         (b)   Presentation of evidence, witnesses and arguments by applicant;
         (c)   Testimony of any other citizens in favor of such proposed
license;
         (d)   Examination of applicant, witnesses or citizens by City
Attorney, governing body or duly appointed agent;
         (e)   Cross-examination of applicant, witnesses or citizens by
spokesperson for opposition, if any;
         (f)   Presentation of evidence and witnesses by opposition;
         (g)   Testimony of any other citizens in opposition to such proposed
license;
         (h)   Presentation of evidence by the city and law enforcement
personnel;
         (i)   Cross-examination by applicant;
         (j)   Rebuttal evidence by both parties and by city administration and
agent; and
         (k)   Summation by applicant and opposition spokesperson, if any.
      (5)   In all cases, the burden of proof and persuasion shall be on the
party filing the application. Any member of the governing body and the City
Attorney may question any witness, call witnesses or request information. All
witnesses shall be sworn. The governing body may make further inquiry and
investigation following the hearing. The said governing body or the applicant
may order the hearing to be recorded by the City Clerk, at the expense of the
applicant(s).
(1976 Code, § 10-124) (Ord. 916, passed 10-20-1986; Ord. 996, passed 12-18-
1989)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 53-134
§ 112.18 CATERING LICENSES.
   (A)   The holder of a license to sell alcoholic liquor at retail issued
under Neb. RS 53-124 a craft brewery license, a microdistillery license or a
farm winery license may obtain an annual catering license by filing an
application and license fee with the state’s Liquor Control Commission.
   (B)   Upon receipt from the Commission of the notice and a copy of the
application as provided in Neb. RS 53-124.12, the governing body shall process
the application in the same manner as provided for other alcoholic liquor
retail licenses.
   (C)   (1)   The governing body, with respect to catering licensees within
its corporate limits, may cancel a catering license for cause for the remainder
of the period for which that catering license is issued.
      (2)   Any person whose catering license is canceled may appeal to the
District Court.
   (D)   The governing body may impose an occupation tax on the business of a
catering licensee doing business within the liquor license jurisdiction of the
governing body. The tax may not exceed double the license fee for a catering
license.
(1976 Code, § 10-125) (Ord. 961, passed 9-26-1988; Ord. 1054, passed 3-23-1992;
Ord. 1159, passed 2-6-1995; Ord. 1365, passed 11-8-2004; Ord. 1418, passed 12-
20-2010)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 53-124.12
§ 112.19 KEG SALES.
   (A)   When any person licensed to sell alcoholic liquor at retail sells
alcohol for consumption off the premises in a container with a liquid capacity
of five or more gallons or 18.92 or more liters, the seller shall record the
date of the sale, the keg identification number, the purchase’s name and
address and the number of the purchaser’s motor vehicle operator’s license,
state identification card or military identification, if the military
identification contains a picture of the purchaser, together with the
purchaser’s signature. This record shall be on a form prescribed by the state’s
Liquor Control Commission and shall be kept by the licensee at the retail
establishment where the purchase was made for not less than six months. The
records kept pursuant to this section shall be available for inspection by any
law enforcement officer during normal business hours or at any other reasonable
time. Any person violating this section shall be guilty of an offense.
   (B)   Any person who unlawfully tampers with, alters or removes the keg
identification number from a container described in division (A) above or is in
possession of a contained described in division (A) above with an altered or
removed keg identification number after the container has been taken from the
licensed premises pursuant to a retail sale and before its return to the
licensed premises or other place where returned kegs are accepted shall be
guilty of an offense.
(1976 Code, § 10-126) (Ord. 1481, passed 12-20-2010; Ord. 1461, passed 2-8-
2016) Penalty, see §
110.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 53-167.03
§ 112.20 LICENSE PREMISES; INSPECTIONS.
   The City Council shall cause frequent inspections to be made on the premises
of all retail licensees and bottle club licensees. If it is found that any such
licensee is violating any provision of this chapter, the Nebraska Liquor
Control Act, or the rules and regulations of the Nebraska Liquor Control
Commission, or is failing to observe in good faith the purpose of this chapter
or the Act, the license may be suspended, canceled, or revoked after the
licensee is given an opportunity to be heard in his or her defense.
(Ord. 1483, passed 2-4-2019)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 53-116.01
§ 112.21 CITIZEN COMPLAINTS.
   Any five residents of the city shall have the right to file a complaint with
the City Council stating that any retail licensee or bottle club licensee
subject to the jurisdiction of the City Council has been or is violating any
provision of the Nebraska Liquor Control Act or the rules or regulations issued
pursuant to the Act. The complaint shall be in writing in the form prescribed
by the City Council and shall be signed and sworn to by the parties
complaining. The complaint shall state the particular provision, rule, or
regulation believed to have been violated and the facts in detail upon which
belief is based. If the City Council is satisfied that the complaint
substantially charges a violation and that from the facts alleged there is
reasonable cause for that belief, it shall set the matter for hearing within
ten days from the date of the filing of the complaint and shall serve notice
upon the licensee of the time and place of the hearing and of the particular
charge in the complaint. The complaint shall in all cases be disposed of by the
City Council within 30 days from the date the complaint was filed by resolution
thereof, which resolution shall be deemed the final order for purpose of appeal
to the Nebraska Liquor Control Commission as provided in Neb. RS 53-1,115.
(Ord. 1483, passed 2-4-2019)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 53-134.04
§ 112.22 RIGHTS OF LICENSEE.
   (A)   The license provided for in §§
112.01 and
112.02 shall, when issued, authorize the sale of cigars, tobacco, electronic
nicotine delivery systems, cigarettes, and cigarette material by the licensee
and employees, to persons 21 years of age or over, at the place of business
described in the license for the term therein authorized, unless the license is
forfeited as a result of court action as provided in Neb. RS 28-1425.
   (B)   If the license is revoked and forfeited pursuant to Neb. RS 28-1425,
all rights under the license shall at once cease and terminate.
(Ord. 1501, passed 6-7-2021)
Statutory reference:
   Sale to person under 21 prohibited; penalties, see Neb. RS 28-1425
CHAPTER 113: ITINERANT SALES AND VENDORS
Section
Itinerant Sales
   
113.01   Definition
   
113.02   License required
   
113.03   Application
   
113.04   Fee
   
113.05   Bond
   
113.06   Appointment of agent
   
113.07   License expiration
   
113.08   Appeal
   
113.09   Police enforcement
Vendors
   
113.20   Definitions
   
113.21   License required
   
113.22   Application
   
113.23   License fee
   
113.24   Occupation tax
   
113.25   Insurance
   
113.26   License and identification badges
   
113.27   Restrictions applicable to all vendors
   
113.28   License suspension or revocation
   
113.29   Appeal
   
113.30   Police enforcement
ITINERANT SALES
§ 113.01 DEFINITION.
   A TRANSIENT MERCHANT, ITINERANT MERCHANT or ITINERANT VENDOR is defined as
any non-resident of the municipality and either a person, firm or corporation,
whether as owner, agent, consignee or employee, who engages temporarily within
the city in the business of peddling, hawking, selling or delivering goods,
wares and merchandise or selling advertising, magazine subscriptions or taking
orders for goods, wares, merchandise, advertising or magazine subscriptions, or
soliciting donations for personal gain or for a firm or corporation; provided,
non-resident organizations formed for charitable, education or religious
purposes, and farmers’ markets or flea markets sponsored and supervised by the
local Chamber of Commerce shall not be included in this definition of a
transient merchant, itinerant merchant or itinerant vendor.
(1976 Code, § 10-201) (Ord. 1003, passed 6-25-1990)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-134, 75-323
§ 113.02 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for a transient merchant, itinerant merchant or
itinerant vendor to engage in such business within the municipality without
first obtaining a license therefor.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any farmer, truck grower or others who
produce, hawk or peddle products of the farm, fruit or other staples of food,
or who peddle, sell or offer to sell any commodity or article of commerce or
trade to park their conveyances or erect a place of business for the purpose of
selling said products upon any street within the city zoned for residential or
commercial use, unless such sales are sponsored and supervised by the local
Chamber of Commerce as a farmers’ market or flea market.
(1976 Code, § 10-202) (Ord. 1003, passed 6-25-1990) Penalty, see §
110.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-134, 75-323 through 75-335
§ 113.03 APPLICATION.
   Applicants for a license shall file a written sworn application signed by
the applicant if an individual, by all partners if a partnership, and by the
president if a corporation, with the Municipal Clerk, showing:
   (A)   The name or names of the person or persons having the management or
supervision of the applicant’s business during the time that it is proposed
that it will be carried on in the municipality; the local address or addresses
of such person or persons while engaged in such business; the permanent address
or addresses of such person or persons; the capacity in which such person or
persons will act (that is, whether as proprietor, agent or otherwise); the name
and address of the person, firm or corporation for whose account the business
will be carried on, if any; and, if a corporation, under the law of what state
the same is incorporated;
   (B)   The place or places in the municipality where it is proposed to carry
on applicant’s business, and the length of time during which it is proposed
that such business shall be conducted;
   (C)   A statement of the nature of merchandise to be sold or offered for
sale by the applicant;
   (D)   A brief statement of the nature of the advertising done or proposed to
be done in order to attract customers;
   (E)   Credentials from the person for whom the applicant proposes to do
business, authorizing the applicant to act as such representative; and
   (F)   Such other reasonable information as to the identity or character of
the person or persons having the management or supervision of the applicant’s
business or the method or plan of doing such business as the Municipal Clerk
may deem proper.
(1976 Code, § 10-203)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-134
§ 113.04 FEE.
   The applicant shall pay a license fee of $50 to cover the cost of processing
the application and issuing the license.
(1976 Code, § 10-201) (Ord. 1169, passed 8-21-1995; Ord. 1294, passed 8-20-
2001)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-134, 17-525
§ 113.05 BOND.
   (A)   Before any license shall be issued for engaging in an itinerant
business, such applicant shall file with the Municipal Clerk a bond running to
the municipality in the sum of $10,000 and executed by the applicant as
principal, and one corporate surety, or two individual sureties upon whom
service of process may be had in the county, such bond to be approved by the
Municipal Attorney, conditioned that such applicant shall comply fully with all
the provisions of this code, and the statutes of the state, regulating and
concerning the sale of goods, wares and merchandise, and will pay all judgments
rendered against the applicant for any violation of this code or the statutes,
or any of them, together with all judgments and costs that may be recovered
against him or her by any person for damage growing out of any
misrepresentation or deception practiced on any person transacting business
with such applicant, either at the time of making the sale or through any
advertisement of any character whatsoever with reference to the merchandise
sold or any part thereof.
   (B)   Action on the bond may be brought in the name of the municipality to
the use of the aggrieved person.
   (C)   Nothing herein shall be construed to apply to any itinerant vender
required to file a bond under the provisions of the statutes of the state as a
prerequisite of doing business within the state.
(1976 Code, § 10-205)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-134, 75-329
§ 113.06 APPOINTMENT OF AGENT.
   (A)   Before any license shall be issued, such applicant shall file with the
Municipal Clerk an instrument nominating and appointing the Municipal Clerk, or
the person performing the duties of such position, his or her true and lawful
agent with full power and authority to acknowledge service of notice or process
in respect to any matters connected with or arising out of the business
transacted under such license.
   (B)   (1)   Immediately upon being served with process, the Municipal Clerk
shall send to the licensee at his or her last known address, by registered
mail, a copy of such process.
      (2)   Nothing herein shall be construed to apply to any itinerant vendor
required to appoint a state official as an agent for the purpose of receiving
service of process as a prerequisite for doing business within the state.
(1976 Code, § 10-206)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-134, 75-325
§ 113.07 LICENSE EXPIRATION.
   All licenses issued shall expire seven days after the date of issuance
thereof unless a prior date is fixed therein.
(1976 Code, § 10-206) (Ord. 1169, passed 8-21-1995)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-134
§ 113.08 APPEAL.
   (A)   Any person aggrieved by the decision of the Municipal Clerk in regard
to the denial of an application for a license or in connection with the
revocation of a license, shall have the right to appeal to the governing body.
   (B)   Such appeal shall be taken by filing with the City Clerk within seven
days after notice of the decision has been mailed to such person’s last known
address, a written statement setting forth the grounds for appeal.
   (C)   The governing body shall set the time and place for a hearing on such
appeal and notice shall be given to such person by registered mail, postage
prepaid, at his or her last known address.
   (D)   The order of the governing body on such appeal shall be final.
(1976 Code, § 10-206)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-134
§ 113.09 POLICE ENFORCEMENT.
   It shall be the duty of the municipal police to examine all places of
business and persons subject to the provisions of this subchapter and to
enforce the provisions herein against any person found to be violating the
same.
(1976 Code, § 10-207)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-134, 75-334
VENDORS
§ 113.20 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   PUBLIC STREET OR SIDEWALK. Includes all areas legally open to public use as
public streets, sidewalks, roadways, highways, parkways, alleys and any other
public way.
   STAND. Any newsstand, table bench, booth, rack handcart, pushcart or any
other fixture or device that is not required to be licensed and registered by
the Department of Motor Vehicles, used for the display, storage or
transportation of articles offered for sale by a vendor.
   VENDOR.
      (1)   Any person, including an employee or agent of another, who sells or
offers to sell food, beverages, foods or merchandise on any public street or
sidewalk from a stand, motor vehicle or from his or her person, or one who
travels by foot, wagon, motor vehicle, pushcart or any other method of
transportation from house to house or street to street selling or offering to
sell food, beverages, goods or merchandise.
      (2)   In addition, the term shall not mean or include, and there shall be
exempt from the provisions of this subchapter those residents of the county who
are selling or delivering for sale fruits and vegetables.
(1976 Code, § 10-210) (Ord. 1397, passed 9-24-2007)
§ 113.21 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any vendor to sell, display or offer for sale any
food, beverage, goods or merchandise without first obtaining a license from the
city.
(1976 Code, § 10-211) (Ord. 1397, passed 9-24-2007) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 113.22 APPLICATION.
   The application for a vendor’s license shall contain all information
relevant and necessary to determine whether a particular license may be issued,
including, but not limited to:
   (A)   Proof of the identity and business of the applicant;
   (B)   A brief statement of the nature, character and quality of the food,
beverages, goods or merchandise to be sold;
   (C)   If employed by another, the name and business address of the person;
   (D)   If a motor vehicle is to be used in the vending business, a
description of the vehicle together with the motor vehicle registration number
and the license number and a certificate of insurance on the vehicle;
   (E)   A description of the proposed location of the vending business and the
length of time during which it is proposed that the business shall be
conducted; and
   (F)   A sales tax permit as required by Neb. RS 77-2705.
(1976 Code, § 10-212) (Ord. 1397, passed 9-24-2007)
§ 113.23 LICENSE FEE.
   (A)   The applicant for a vendor’s license shall pay a license fee to cover
the costs of processing the application and issuing the license and enforcing
the provisions of this subchapter.
   (B)   The license fee shall be such amount as established by the Council by
resolution.
(1976 Code, § 10-213) (Ord. 1397, passed 9-24-2007)
§ 113.24 OCCUPATION TAX.
   (A)   The applicant for a vendor’s license shall also pay an occupation tax
in such amounts as established by Council by resolution.
   (B)   All license fees and occupation taxes shall be paid for each licensed
therefor.
(1976 Code, § 10-214) (Ord. 1397, passed 9-24-2007)
§ 113.25 INSURANCE.
   No license shall be issued to an applicant unless the applicant furnishes
proof to the city of a public liability bond or insurance policy in an amount
not less than $300,000 for property damage and injuries, including injury
resulting in death, caused by the operation of the vending business.
(1976 Code, § 10-215) (Ord. 1397, passed 9-24-2007)
§ 113.26 LICENSE AND IDENTIFICATION BADGES.
   (A)   The license issued to a vendor shall be carried with the vendor while
he is engaged in the business of vending.
   (B)   In addition to the license, the city shall issue an identification
badge to every vendor. Vendors shall wear their badges in such a way that the
badges may be easily read while doing business. If a badge becomes damaged or
obscured, the vendor shall return it to the city and receive another badge.
   (C)   Licenses and identification badges shall be used only by the person to
whom they were issued and may not be transferred to any other person.
(1976 Code, § 10-216) (Ord. 1397, passed 9-24-2007)
§ 113.27 RESTRICTIONS APPLICABLE TO ALL VENDORS.
   (A)   Stands. Vendor stands shall not:
      (1)   Impede access to the entrance of any adjacent building or driveway;
and/or
      (2)   Locate within 50 feet of a fire hydrant, fire escape, bus stop,
loading zone or driveway of a fire station or police station.
   (B)   Hours of operation. Vendors shall be allowed to engage in the business
of vending only between 7:00 a.m. and 10:00 p.m.; except that, those vendors
who conduct their business by going door to door shall be allowed to operate
only between 8:00 a.m. and 9:00 p.m.
   (C)   Removal of trash. All trash or debris accumulating within 50 feet of
any vending stand shall be collected by the vendor and deposited in a trash
container.
(1976 Code, § 10-217) (Ord. 1397, passed 9-24-2007) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 113.28 LICENSE SUSPENSION OR REVOCATION.
   (A)   A vendor’s license issued may be revoked by the City Council after
notice and hearing for any of the following causes:
      (1)   Fraud or misrepresentation in the application for a license;
      (2)   Fraud or misrepresentation in the course of conducting the business
of vending;
      (3)   Conducting the business of vending contrary to the conditions of
the license; and
      (4)   Conducting the business of vending in such a manner as to create a
public nuisance or constitute a danger to the public health, safety or welfare.
   (b)   Upon suspension or revocation the city shall deliver written notice to
the license holder stating the action taken and the reasons supporting such
action. The written notice shall be delivered to the license holder’s place of
business or mailed to the license holder’s last known address.
(1976 Code, § 10-218) (Ord. 1397, passed 9-24-2007)
§ 113.29 APPEAL.
   Any person aggrieved by the decision of the City Clerk in regard to the
denial of an application for a vendor’s license or in connection with the
suspension or revocation of a license shall have the right to appeal to the
City Council. Such appeal shall be taken by filing a written statement setting
forth the grounds for appeal with the City Council within seven days after
notice of the decision has been mailed to such person’s last known address. The
City Council shall set the time and place for a hearing on such appeal and
notice shall be given to such person by certified or registered mail, postage
prepaid, at his or her last known address. The order of the City Council on
such appeal shall be final.
(1976 Code, § 10-219) (Ord. 1397, passed 9-24-2007)
§ 113.30 POLICE ENFORCEMENT.
   It shall be the duty of the police to examine all places of business and
persons subject to the provisions of this subchapter and to enforce the
provisions of this section against any person found to be violating this
subchapter.
(1976 Code, § 10-220) (Ord. 1397, passed 9-24-2007)
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
   Chapter
      
130.   GENERAL OFFENSES
CHAPTER 130: GENERAL OFFENSES
Section
Offenses Against Administration
   
130.01   Impersonating an officer
   
130.02   Refusing to assist officer
   
130.03   Resisting or obstructing officer
   
130.04   Abusing an officer
Offenses Against Public Morals, Health and Safety
   
130.15   Criminal trespass
   
130.16   Criminal mischief
   
130.17   Drinking in public
   
130.18   Toxic inhalants
   
130.19   Prostitution
   
130.20   Posted advertisements, other writing
   
130.21   Assault and battery
   
130.22   Disturbing the peace
   
130.23   Disorderly conduct
   
130.24   Malicious mischief
   
130.25   Assemblies
   
130.26   Rioting
   
130.27   Window peeping
   
130.28   Littering
   
130.29   Fences
   
130.30   Appliances in yard
   
130.31   Obstructing streets, water flow
   
130.32   Weeds, litter, stagnant water
   
130.33   Abandoned automobiles
   
130.34   Unlicensed, inoperable vehicles
   
130.35   Curfew
   
130.36   False reporting
   
130.37   Shoplifting
   
130.38   Tobacco; possession by minors
   
130.39   Sexual predator residency requirements
   
130.40   Minors; endangering, employment and the like
Offenses Against Property
   
130.60   Larceny
   
130.61   Concealing stolen property
   
130.62   Arson
   
130.63   Injury to trees
   
130.64   Fire equipment
   
130.65   Fire hose
   
130.66   Trash or garbage
   
130.67   Public indecency
   
130.68   Gambling
 
   
130.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Animals, see
Ch. 90
   Fireworks, see
Ch. 93
   General code penalty, see §
10.99
   Nuisances, see §§
91.15 through
91.22
   Streets, Sidewalks and Public Property, see
Ch. 151
OFFENSES AGAINST ADMINISTRATION
§ 130.01 IMPERSONATING AN OFFICER.
   It shall be unlawful for any person other than a municipal or state police
officer to wear an official badge or uniform, or to falsely and willfully
impersonate the said officials.
(1976 Code, § 6-201) Penalty, see §
130.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 28-610
§ 130.02 REFUSING TO ASSIST OFFICER.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to refuse to assist a municipal police
officer when lawfully requested to do so by him or her.
(1976 Code, § 6-202) Penalty, see §
130.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 28-728
§ 130.03 RESISTING OR OBSTRUCTING OFFICER.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to resist any municipal police
officer when such officer is in the lawful performance of his or her duties.
(1976 Code, § 6-203)
   (B)   (1)   A person commits the offense of obstructing a police officer
when, by using or threatening to use violence, force, physical interference or
obstacle, he or she intentionally obstructs, impairs or hinders:
         (a)   The enforcement of the penal law or the preservation of the
peace by a peace officer or judge acting under color of his or her official
authority; or
         (b)   A police animal assisting a peace officer acting pursuant to the
peace officer’s official authority.
      (2)   For purposes of this section, POLICE ANIMAL means a horse or dog
owned or controlled by the state or any county, city or village for the purpose
of assisting a peace officer acting pursuant to his or her official authority.
(1976 Code, § 6-203.1)
(Ord. 1433A, passed 1-7-2013) Penalty, see §
130.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 28-729
§ 130.04 ABUSING AN OFFICER.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to abuse a police officer or municipal
official in the execution of his or her office.
(1976 Code, § 6-204) Penalty, see §
130.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 28-729
OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC MORALS, HEALTH AND SAFETY
§ 130.15 CRIMINAL TRESPASS.
   (A)   A person commits first degree criminal trespass if:
      (1)   He or she enters or secretly remains in any building or occupied
structure, or any separately secured or occupied portion thereof, knowing that
he or she is not licensed or privileged to do so; or
      (2)   He or she enters or remains in or on a public power infrastructure
facility knowing that he or she does not have the consent of a person who has
the right to give consent to be in or on the facility.
   (B)   First degree criminal trespass is a Class I misdemeanor.
   (C)   For purposes of this section, PUBLIC POWER INFRASTRUCTURE FACILITY
means a power plant, an electrical station or substation, or any other facility
which is used by a public power supplier as defined in Neb. RS 70-2103 to
support the generation, transmission, or distribution of electricity and which
is surrounded by a fence or is otherwise enclosed.
   (D)   (1)   A person commits second degree criminal trespass if, knowing
that he or she is not licensed or privileged to do so, enters or remains in any
place as to which notice against trespass is given by:
         (a)   Actual communication to the actor; or
         (b)   Posting in a manner prescribed by law or reasonably likely to
come to the attention of intruders; or
         (c)   Fencing or other enclosure manifestly designed to exclude
intruders, except as otherwise provided in division (A) of this section.
      (2)   A person commits second degree criminal trespass if, knowing that
he or she is not licensed or privileged to do so, he or she intentionally
causes an electronic device, such as an unmanned aircraft, to enter into, upon,
or above the property of another, including such property owned by such person
and leased or rented to another, with the intent to observe another person
without his or her consent in a place of solitude or seclusion.
      (3)   For purposes of this section, unmanned aircraft means an aircraft,
including an aircraft commonly known as a drone, which is operated without the
possibility of direct human intervention from within or on the aircraft.
      (4)   Second degree criminal trespass is a Class III misdemeanor, except
as provided for in division (D)(3)(5) of this section.
      (5)   Second degree criminal trespass is a Class II misdemeanor if the
offender defies an order to leave personally communicated to him or her by the
owner of the premises or other authorized person.
(1976 Code, § 6-205) (Ord. 1539, passed 1-9-2023) Penalty, see §
130.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 28-588, 28-588.01
§ 130.16 CRIMINAL MISCHIEF.
   (A)   A person commits criminal mischief if he or she:
      (1)   Damages property of another intentionally or recklessly;
      (2)   Intentionally tampers with property of another so as to endanger
person or property; or
      (3)   Intentionally or maliciously causes another to suffer pecuniary
loss by deception or threat.
   (B)   Criminal mischief is an offense:
      (1)   If the actor intentionally or maliciously causes pecuniary loss of
$500 or more, but less than $5,000; or
      (2)   If the actor intentionally, maliciously or recklessly causes
pecuniary loss in an amount of less than $500 or if his or her action results
in no pecuniary loss.
(1976 Code, § 6-206) (Ord. 1461, passed 2-8-2016; Ord. 1468, passed 2-16-2017)
Penalty, see §
130.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 28-519
§ 130.17 DRINKING IN PUBLIC.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to consume alcoholic beverages in the
public streets, alleys, roads, highways or upon any property owned by the
municipality or other governmental subdivision thereof, or inside vehicles
while upon the public streets, alleys, roads or highways, in theaters, dance
halls or any other place open to the public; provided, the provisions of this
section shall not apply to liquor establishments licensed by the state.
(1976 Code, § 6-215) Penalty, see §
130.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 53-186
§ 130.18 TOXIC INHALANTS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to breathe or inhale any substance for
the purpose of inducing a condition of intoxication, depression, exhilaration
or in any other distorting or disturbing state which affects the auditory,
visual or nervous processes. Any person who shall sell or offer for sale any
container of a substance producing such an affect and having the property of
releasing toxic vapors shall be guilty of a misdemeanor if he or she has cause
to suspect that the product sold will be used in violation of this section.
(1976 Code, § 6-216) Penalty, see §
130.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 28-4,109, 28-4,110
§ 130.19 PROSTITUTION.
   (A)   Except as provided in division (C) below, any person who performs,
offers or agrees to perform any act of sexual contact or sexual penetration, as
those terms are defined in Neb. RS 28-318, with any person not his or her
spouse, in exchange for money or other thing of value, commits the offense of
prostitution.
   (B)   It is an affirmative defense to prosecution under this section that
such person was a trafficking victim, as defined in Neb. RS 28-830.
   (C)   If the law enforcement officer determines, after a reasonable
detention for investigative purposes, that a person suspected of or charged
with a violation of division (A) above is a person under 18 years of age, such
person shall be immune from prosecution for a prostitution offense under this
section and shall be subject to temporary custody under Neb. RS 43-248 and
further disposition under the state’s Juvenile Code. A law enforcement officer
who takes a person under 18 years of age into custody under this section shall
immediately report an allegation of a violation of Neb. RS 28-831 to the
Department of Health and Human Services which shall commence an investigation
within 24 hours under the Child Protection and Family Safety Act.
(1976 Code, § 6-223) (Ord. 1448, passed 12-23-2013; Ord. 1455B, passed 2-9-
2015) Penalty, see §
130.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 28-801
§ 130.20 POSTED ADVERTISEMENTS, OTHER WRITING.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to wrongfully and maliciously
tear, deface, remove or cover up the posted advertisement or bill of any
person, firm or corporation when said bill or advertisement is rightfully and
lawfully posted, and the same remains of value.
(1976 Code, § 6-224)
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to post, paste or paint any sign,
advertisement or other writing of any nature upon a fence, pole, building or
other property without the written permission of the owner of the said
property.
(1976 Code, § 6-225)
Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.21 ASSAULT AND BATTERY.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to assault, threaten, strike or injure
any other person or persons. Any person who assaults or batters another person
or persons shall be deemed to be guilty of a misdemeanor.
(1976 Code, § 6-232) Penalty, see §
130.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 28-411
§ 130.22 DISTURBING THE PEACE.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person or persons to assemble or gather
within the municipality with the intent to do an unlawful or disorderly act or
acts, by force or violence against the municipality, or residents therein, or
who shall disturb the public peace, quiet, security, repose or sense of
morality.
   (B)   Any person or persons so assembled or gathered shall be deemed to be
guilty of a misdemeanor.
(1976 Code, § 6-233) Penalty, see §
130.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 28-818
§ 130.23 DISORDERLY CONDUCT.
   Any person who shall knowingly start a fight, fight, commit assault or
battery, make unnecessary noise, or otherwise conduct themselves in such a way
as to breach the peace shall be deemed to be guilty of a misdemeanor.
(1976 Code, § 6-234) Penalty, see §
130.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-129, 17-556
§ 130.24 MALICIOUS MISCHIEF.
   It shall be deemed a misdemeanor for any person to willfully destroy,
mutilate, deface, injure or remove any tomb, monument, gravestone, structure or
thing of value which is located upon any government property, cemetery or
property of historic value.
(1976 Code, § 6-235) Penalty, see §
130.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 12-519
§ 130.25 ASSEMBLIES.
   (A)   Disturbing an assembly.
      (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person or persons to disturb,
interrupt or interfere with any lawful assembly of people, whether religious or
otherwise, by loud and unnecessary noise, threatening behavior or indecent and
shocking behavior.
      (2)   Any person or persons so disturbing an assembly shall be deemed to
be guilty of a misdemeanor and fined in accord with state statute.
(1976 Code, § 6-236)
   (B)   Unlawful assembly. It shall be unlawful for three or more persons to
assemble together upon any sidewalk or street thereof, in front of or adjacent
to any store, shop or other place of business, so as to obstruct the public
right-of-way along said street or sidewalk, or entrance to said place of
business, or so as to obstruct or injure the carrying on or any lawful business
in any of the places aforesaid within the limits of the municipality.
(1976 Code, § 6-237)
Penalty, see §
130.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 28-804
§ 130.26 RIOTING.
   It shall be unlawful for any person or persons to congregate together for
the purpose of breaching the peace by rioting, or to induce others to riot
through words, actions or conduct and whosoever shall congregate with others
for the purpose of rioting, or inducing others to riot shall be deemed to be
guilty of a misdemeanor.
(1976 Code, § 6-238) Penalty, see §
130.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-556, 28-804
§ 130.27 WINDOW PEEPING.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to go upon the private premises of
another to look or peep into any window, door or other opening in a building
occupied by any other person.
(1976 Code, § 6-240) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.28 LITTERING.
   (A)   Any person who deposits, throws, discards or otherwise disposes of any
litter on any public or private property or in any waters commits the offense
of littering unless:
      (1)   Such property is an area designated by law for the disposal of such
material and such person is authorized by the proper public authority to so use
such property; or
      (2)   The litter is placed in a receptacle or container installed on such
property for such purpose.
   (B)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      LITTER. All waste material susceptible of being dropped, deposited,
discarded or otherwise disposed of by any person upon any property in the
state, but does not include wastes of primary processes of farming or
manufacturing.
      WASTE MATERIAL. Any material appearing in a place or in a context not
associated with that material’s function or origin.
   (C)   Whenever litter is thrown, deposited, dropped or dumped from any motor
vehicle or watercraft in violation of this section, the operator of such motor
vehicle or watercraft commits the offense of littering.
(1976 Code, § 6-241) (Ord. 1155, passed 2-6-1995) Penalty, see §
130.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 28-523
§ 130.29 FENCES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to erect, or cause to be erected, and
maintain any barbed wire or electric fence within the corporate limits except
for underground or invisible electric fences made for the containment of pets
by use of a collar and not harmful to or affecting persons or other animals.
(1976 Code, § 6-242) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.30 APPLIANCES IN YARD.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to permit a refrigerator, icebox,
freezer or any other dangerous appliance to be in the open and accessible to
children whether on private or public property unless he or she shall first
remove all doors and make the same reasonably safe.
(1976 Code, § 6-243) Penalty, see §
130.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 18-1720
§ 130.31 OBSTRUCTING STREETS, WATER FLOW.
   (A)   Street games. It shall be unlawful for any person to play catch, bat a
ball, kick or throw a football, or to engage in any exercise or sport upon the
municipal streets and sidewalks. Nothing herein shall be construed to prohibit
or prevent the governing body from ordering from time to time certain streets
and public places blocked off for the purpose of providing a safe area to
engage in such exercise and sport.
(1976 Code, § 6-244)
   (B)   Obstruction of public ways. It shall be unlawful for any person to
permit, erect, maintain, allow or suffer to remain on any street, alley,
sidewalk or other public way within the municipality any obstruction, stand,
wagon, display or other obstacle inconvenient to, or inconsistent with, the
public use of the same.
(1976 Code, § 6-245)
   (C)   Obstructing water flow. It shall be unlawful for any person to stop or
obstruct the passage of water in a street gutter, culvert, water pipe or
hydrant.
(1976 Code, § 6-246)
(Ord. 973, passed 5-15-1989; Ord. 998, passed 1-22-1990) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.32 WEEDS, LITTER, STAGNANT WATER.
   (A)   Lots or pieces of ground within the municipality or within it
extraterritorial zoning jurisdiction shall be drained or filled so as to
prevent stagnant water or any other nuisance accumulating thereon.
   (B)   The owner or occupant of any lot or piece of ground within the
municipality or within its extraterritorial zoning jurisdiction shall keep the
lot or piece of ground and the adjoining streets and alleys free of any growth
of 12 inches or more in height of weeds, grasses or worthless vegetation.
   (C)   The throwing, depositing or accumulation of litter on any lots or
piece of ground within the municipality or within its extraterritorial zoning
jurisdiction is prohibited.
   (D)   It is hereby declared to be a nuisance to permit or maintain any
growth of 12 inches or more in height of weeds, grasses or worthless vegetation
on any lots or piece of ground within the municipality or within its
extraterritorial zoning jurisdiction or on the adjoining streets or alleys or
to litter or cause litter to be deposited or remain thereon, except in proper
receptacles.
   (E)   Any owner or occupant of a lot or piece of ground shall, upon
conviction of violating this section, be guilty of an offense.
   (F)   (1)   Notice to abate and remove such nuisance shall be given to each
owner or owner’s duly authorized agent and to the occupant, if any. The
municipality shall establish the method of notice by ordinance. If notice is
given by first class mail, such mail shall be conspicuously marked as to it
importance. Within five days after receipt of such notice, the owner or
occupant of the lot or piece of ground may request a hearing with the
municipality to appeal the decision to abate or remove a nuisance by filing a
written appeal with the office of the Clerk. A hearing on the appeal shall be
held within 14 days after the filing of the appeal and shall be conducted by an
elected or appointed officer as designated in the ordinance. The hearing
officer shall render a decision on the appeal within five business days after
the conclusion of the bearing. If the appeal fails, the municipality may have
such work done. Within five days after receipt of such notice, if the owner of
the lot or piece of ground does not request a hearing with the municipality or
fails to comply with the order to abate, and remove the nuisance, the
municipality may have such work done.
      (2)   The cost and expenses of any such work shall be paid by the owner.
If unpaid for two months after such work is done, the municipality may either:
         (a)   Levy and assess the costs and expenses of the work upon the lot
or piece of ground so benefitted as a special assessment in the same manner as
other special assessments of improvements are levied and assessed; or
         (b)   Recover in a civil action the costs and expenses of the work
upon the lot or piece of ground and the adjoining streets and alleys.
   (G)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      LITTER. Includes, but is not limited to:
         (a)   Trash, rubbish, refuse, garbage, paper, rags and ashes;
         (b)   Wood, plaster, cement, brick or stone building rubble;
         (c)   Grass, leaves and worthless vegetation, except when used as
ground mulch or in a compost pile;
         (d)   Offal and dead animals; and
         (e)   Any machine or machines, vehicle or vehicles, or parts of a
machine or vehicle which have lost their identity, character, utility or
serviceability as, such through deterioration, dismantling or the ravages of
time, are inoperative or unable to perform their intended functions or are cast
off, discarded or thrown away or left as waste, wreckage or junk.
      WEEDS. Include, but are not limited to, bindweed (Convolvulus arvensis),
puncture vine (Tribulus Terrestris), leafy spurge (Euphorbia esula), Canada
thistle (Cirsium arvense), perennial peppergrass (Lepidium draba), Russian
knapweed (Centaurea picris), Johnson Grass (Sbrghum halepense), nodding or musk
thistle, quack grass (Agroyronrepens), perennial sow thistle (Sonchu’s
arvensis), horse nettle (Solanim carolinense), bull thistle (Cirsium
lanceolatum), buckthorn (Rhamnus sp.) (tourn), hemp plant (Cannabis sativa) and
ragweed (Ambrosiaceae).
(1976 Code, § 6-247) (Ord. 687, passed 8-19-1982; Ord. 1042, passed 8-19-1991;
Ord. 1164, passed 7-10-1995; Ord. 1367, passed 11-8-2004; Ord. 1412, passed 2-
22-2010; Ord. 1446, passed 12-23-2013; Ord. 1461, passed 2-8-2016; Ord. 1479,
passed 2-5-2018) Penalty, see §
130.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-563
§ 130.33 ABANDONED AUTOMOBILES.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      ABANDONED VEHICLE.
      (1)   A motor vehicle is an ABANDONED VEHICLE:
         (a)   If left unattended, with no license plates or valid In Transit
stickers issued pursuant to the Motor Vehicle Registration Act affixed thereto,
for more than six hours on any public property;
         (b)   If left unattended for more than 24 hours on any public
property, except a portion thereof on which parking is legally permitted;
         (c)   If left unattended for more than 48 hours, after the parking of
such vehicle has become illegal, if left on a portion of any public property on
which parking is legally permitted;
         (d)   If left unattended for more than seven days on private property
if left initially without permission of the owner, or after permission of the
owner is terminated;
         (e)   If left for more than 30 days in the custody of a city law
enforcement agency after the agency has sent a letter to the last-registered
owner and lienholder under division (D) of this section; or
         (f)   If removed from private property by the city pursuant to a city
ordinance or this code.
      (2)   An all-terrain vehicle or minibike is an ABANDONED VEHICLE:
         (a)   If left unattended for more than 24 hours on any public
property, except a portion thereof on which parking is legally permitted;
         (b)   If left unattended for more than 48 hours, after the parking of
such vehicle has become illegal, if left on a portion of any public property on
which parking is legally permitted;
         (c)   If left unattended for more than seven days on private property
if left initially without permission of the owner, or after permission of the
owner is terminated;
         (d)   If left for more than 30 days in the custody of a city law
enforcement agency after the agency has sent a letter to the last-registered
owner and lienholder under division (D) of this section; or
         (e)   If removed from private property by the city pursuant to a city
ordinance or this code.
      (3)   A MOBILE HOME is an abandoned vehicle if left in place on private
property for more than 30 days after a local governmental unit, pursuant to an
ordinance or resolution, has sent a certified letter to each of the last-
registered owners and posted a notice on the mobile home, stating that the
mobile home is subject to sale or auction or vesting of title as set forth in
Neb. RS 60-1903.
      (4)   No motor vehicle subject to forfeiture under Neb. RS 28-431 shall
be an ABANDONED VEHICLE under this section.
      MOBILE HOME. A movable or portable dwelling constructed to be towed on
its own chassis, connected to utilities, and designed with or without a
permanent foundation for year-round living. It may consist of one or more units
that can be telescoped when towed and expanded later for additional capacity,
or of two or more units, separately towable but designed to be joined into one
integral unit, and shall include a manufactured home as defined in Neb. RS 71-
4603. MOBILE HOME does not include a mobile home or manufactured home for which
an affidavit of affixture has been recorded pursuant to Neb. RS 60-169.
      PRIVATE PROPERTY. Any privately owned property which is not included
within the definition of public property.
      PUBLIC PROPERTY. Any public right-of-way, street, highway, alley, or park
or other state, county, or city-owned property.
   (B)   If an abandoned vehicle, at the time of abandonment, has no license
plates of the current year or valid In Transit stickers issued pursuant to Neb.
RS 60-376 affixed and is of a wholesale value, taking into consideration the
condition of the vehicle, of $500 or less, title shall immediately vest in the
city. Any certificate of title issued under this division to the city shall be
issued at no cost to the city.
   (C)   (1)   Except for vehicles governed by division (B) of this section,
the city shall make an inquiry concerning the last-registered owner of such
vehicle as follows:
         (a)   Abandoned vehicle with license plates affixed, to the
jurisdiction which issued such license plates; or
         (b)   Abandoned vehicle with no license plates affixed, to the
Department of Motor Vehicles.
      (2)   The city shall notify the last-registered owner, if any, and any
lienholder, if any, within 15 business days that the vehicle in question has
been determined to be an abandoned vehicle and that, if unclaimed, either:
         (a)   It will be sold or will be offered at public auction after five
days from the date such notice was mailed; or
         (b)   Title will vest in the city 30 days after the date such notice
was mailed.
      (3)   If the agency described in division (C)(1)(a) or (b) of this
section also notifies the city that a lien or mortgage exists, such notice
shall also be sent to the lienholder or mortgagee. Any person claiming such
vehicle shall be required to pay the cost of removal and storage of such
vehicle.
      (4)   Title to an abandoned vehicle, if unclaimed, shall vest in the
city:
         (a)   Five days after the date the notice is mailed if the vehicle
will be sold or offered at public auction under division (C)(2)(a) of this
section;
         (b)   Thirty days after the date the notice is mailed if the city will
retain the vehicle; or
         (c)   If the last-registered owner cannot be ascertained, when notice
of such fact is received.
      (5)   After title to the abandoned vehicle vests pursuant to division (C)
(4) of this section, the city may retain for use, sell, or auction the
abandoned vehicle. If the city has determined that the vehicle should be
retained for use, the city shall, at the same time that the notice, if any, is
mailed, publish in a newspaper of general circulation in the jurisdiction an
announcement that the city intends to retain the abandoned vehicle for its use
and that title will vest in the city 30 days after the publication.
   (D)   (1)   If a city law enforcement agency has custody of a motor vehicle
for investigatory purposes and has no further need to keep it in custody, it
shall send a certified letter to each of the last-registered owners, if any,
and lienholders, if any, within 15 calendar days stating that the vehicle is in
the custody of the law enforcement agency, that the vehicle is no longer needed
for law enforcement purposes, and that after 30 days the agency will dispose of
the vehicle.
      (2)   This division shall not apply to motor vehicles subject to
forfeiture under Neb. RS 28-431.
      (3)   No storage fees shall be assessed against the registered owner of a
motor vehicle held in custody for investigatory purposes under this division
(D) unless the registered owner or the person in possession of the vehicle when
it is taken into custody is charged with a felony or misdemeanor related to the
offense for which the law enforcement agency took the vehicle into custody. If
a registered owner or the person in possession of the vehicle when it is taken
into custody is charged with a felony or misdemeanor but is not convicted, the
registered owner shall be entitled to a refund of the storage fees.
   (E)   (1)   A law enforcement agency is authorized to remove an abandoned or
trespassing vehicle from private property upon the request of the private
property owner on whose property the vehicle is located and upon information
indicating that the vehicle is an abandoned or trespassing vehicle. After
removal, the law enforcement agency with custody of the vehicle shall follow
the procedures in Neb. RS 60-1902 and 60-1903.
      (2)   A law enforcement agency is authorized to contact a private towing
service in order to remove an abandoned or trespassing vehicle from private
property upon the request of the private property owner on whose property the
vehicle is located and upon information indicating that the vehicle is an
abandoned or trespassing vehicle. A vehicle towed away under this division is
subject to Neb. RS 52-601.01 through 52-605 and 60-2410 by the private towing
service which towed the vehicle.
      (3)   A private property owner is authorized to remove or cause the
removal of an abandoned or trespassing vehicle from such property and may
contact a private towing service for such removal. A private towing service
that tows the vehicle shall notify, within 24 hours, the designated law
enforcement agency in the jurisdiction from which the vehicle is removed and
provide the registration plate number, the vehicle identification number, if
available, the make, model, and color of the vehicle, and the name of the
private towing service and the location, if applicable, where the private
towing service is storing the vehicle. A vehicle towed away under this division
is subject to Neb. RS 52-601.01 through 52-605 and 60-2410 by the private
towing service that towed the vehicle.
      (4)   For purposes of this section, a trespassing vehicle is a vehicle
that is parked without permission on private property that is not typically
made available for public parking.
   (F)   If a state agency caused an abandoned vehicle described in division
(A)(a)(5) or (A)(b)(4) of this section to be removed from public property in
this city, the state agency shall be entitled to custody of the vehicle. If a
state agency caused an abandoned vehicle described in division (A)(a)(1), (2),
(3), or (4) or (A)(b)(1), (2), or (3) of this section to be removed from public
property in this city, the state agency shall deliver the vehicle to the city
which shall have custody.
   (G)   Any proceeds from the sale of an abandoned vehicle in the city's
custody less any expenses incurred by the city shall be held by the city
without interest, for the benefit of the owner or lienholders of such vehicle
for a period of two years. If not claimed within such two-year period, the
proceeds shall be paid into the general fund of the city.
   (H)   Neither the owner, owner's agent, owner's employee, lessee, nor
occupant of the premises from which any abandoned vehicle is removed, nor the
city, shall be liable for any loss or damage to such vehicle which occurs
during its removal or while in the possession of the city or its contractual
agent, while in the possession of a private towing service, or as a result of
any subsequent disposition.
   (I)   No person shall cause any vehicle to be an abandoned vehicle as
described in division (A)(a)(1), (2), (3), or (4) or (A)(b)(1), (2), or (3) of
this section.
   (J)   No person other than one authorized by the city or appropriate state
agency shall destroy, deface, or remove any part of a vehicle which is left
unattended on a highway or other public place without license plates affixed or
which is abandoned. Anyone violating this division shall be guilty of an
offense.
   (K)   The last-registered owner of an abandoned vehicle shall be liable to
the city for the costs of removal and storage of such vehicle.
   (L)   Any person violating the provisions of this section shall be guilty of
an offense.
(1976 Code, § 6-248) (Ord. 532, passed 4-21-1977; Ord. 982, passed 9-25-1989;
Ord. 1454, passed 10-20-2014; Ord. 1483, passed 2-4-2019; Ord. 1523, passed 5-
2-2022) Penalty, see §
130.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 60-1901, 60-1902, 60-1903, 60-1903.01, 60-
1903.02, 60-1904,     60-1905, 60-1906, 60-1907, 60-1908, 60-1909
§ 130.34 UNLICENSED, INOPERABLE VEHICLES.
   (A)   No person in charge or control of any property within the
municipality, other than municipal property, whether as owner, tenant,
occupant, lessee or otherwise, shall allow any partially dismantled,
inoperable, wrecked, junked or discarded vehicle to remain on such property
longer than ten days.
   (B)   When used in this section, VEHICLE shall include any motor vehicle,
trailer, camper, boat, boat trailer, personal water craft or other apparatus
usually towed by a motor vehicle and items which require licensing to be
utilized on any roadway or waterway.
   (C)   No unlicensed or inoperable vehicle shall be permitted to remain on
any private or public property for any length of time; provided, this section
shall not apply: to a vehicle in an enclosed building; to a business
enterprise, operated in a lawful place and manner, when such vehicle is
necessary to the lawful operation of the business; or to a vehicle in an
appropriate storage place or depository maintained in a lawful place and manner
by the municipality. Any vehicle allowed to remain on property in violation of
this section shall constitute a nuisance and shall be abated, and any person
violating this section shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.
   (D)   Additionally, the municipality may enter upon the property and cause
said vehicle to be towed, with the owner of the property being responsible for
the costs thereof.
(1976 Code, § 6-249) (Ord. 531, passed 4-21-1977; Ord. 1280, passed 9-11-2000;
Ord. 1399, passed 12-4-2007) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.35 CURFEW.
   (A)   (1)   It shall be unlawful for any minor person to be upon the public
streets or other public places, vacant lots or other unsupervised places,
within the city between the hours of:
         (a)   Ten p.m. to 5:00 a.m. of the following day, of all days of the
week, for any person under the age of 16 years; and
         (b)   Twelve p.m. to 5:00 a.m. of the following day, of all days of
the week, for those persons of 16 and 17 years of age.
      (2)   Any person who would otherwise be in violation of division (A)(1)
above, shall not be in violation if any of the following exceptions apply:
         (a)   When the minor person is accompanied by a parent, guardian or
other adult person having the care or custody of such minor person;
         (b)   When the minor person is accompanied by an adult authorized by a
parent, guardian or other adult person having the care or custody of such minor
person, to take said person’s place in accompanying said minor for a designated
period of time and purpose within a specified area;
         (c)   When the minor person is upon an emergency errand or legitimate
business as directed by his or her parent, guardian or other adult person
having the care or custody of such minor person;
         (d)   When the presence of such minor is as the result of some
legitimate employment, trade, profession or occupation in which the minor
person is engaged;
         (e)   When the minor person is upon the sidewalk or property where the
minor resides;
         (f)   When the minor person is returning home from a school activity
or an activity of a religious or other voluntary association, or a place of
public entertainment, such as a movie, play or sporting event or any such
activity of the kind normally attended by minors 17 years and under; provided
that, when such activity terminates after or less than one hour prior to the
respective curfews, the curfew shall commence one hour after the termination of
such activity;
         (g)   When the minor is, with parental consent, engaged in normal
interstate travel through the city, or originating or terminating in the city;
and
         (h)   When the minor is married or has been married pursuant to state
law, or is emancipated.
      (3)   It shall be unlawful for the parent, guardian or other adult person
having the care or custody of a minor person to allow or permit such minor
person to do any act which is prohibited by this division (A).
      (4)   No minor person, arrested under the provisions of this division (A)
shall be placed in confinement until he or she has been taken home, or the
parent, guardian or other adult person having the care or custody of such minor
person has been notified, and the arresting officer has ascertained whether
such minor person is within the control of his or her parents, guardian or
other adult person having the care or custody of said minor person; and, if
such parent, guardian or other adult person having the care or custody of said
minor person shall state to such arresting officer that said minor cannot be
controlled by him or her, then such minor may be proceeded against. Otherwise,
the parent, guardian or other adult person having the care or custody of said
minor person may also be proceeded against.
      (5)   Any minor under the age of 16 years of age violating the provisions
of this section shall be dealt with in accordance with the Juvenile Court Law
of the state and procedure thereunder.
(1976 Code, § 6-254)
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any minor under the age of 17 years to
loiter, wander, stroll, drive, play or otherwise be in or upon any of the
streets, alleys, parks or other public places in the city on October 31 of each
year, commonly known as “Halloween Night”, after the hour of 8:00 p.m. and
before the hour of 5:00 a.m. of the following day, unless said minor is
accompanied by a parent, guardian or other adult person having the care or
custody or control of said individual under the age of 17 years; or unless said
individual is engaged in lawful employment, or is traveling to and from such
employment. This division (B) shall not apply in the event the individual under
the age of 17 years is engaged in an emergency errand. No minor under the age
of 17 years detained by city’s Police Department personnel under the provisions
of this division (B) shall be placed in confinement until after efforts have
been made to return said minor to his or her home, or until after the parent,
guardian or other adult person having the obligation for the care, custody and
control of said minor under the age of 17 years have been notified of the
detention of said minor child and said parent, guardian or other adult person
has informed the detaining police officer that said minor cannot be controlled
by said parent, guardian or other adult person. Any individual under the age of
17 years violating the terms of this division (B) may be charged and prosecuted
as provided herein notwithstanding that said minor has been taken to his or her
home, or the parent, guardian or other adult person having an obligation to the
care, custody and control of said individual has been informed as to the
detention of said minor individual as provided herein.
(1976 Code, § 6-255)
(Ord. 565, passed 10-20-1977; Ord. 1010, passed 10-8-1990; Ord. 1220, passed 7-
8-1996) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.36 FALSE REPORTING.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to:
   (A)   Furnish information he or she knows to be false to any peace officer
or other official with the intent to instigate an investigation or an alleged
criminal matter or impede the investigation of an actual criminal matter;
   (B)   Furnish information he or she knows to be false alleging the existence
of an emergency in which human life or property are in jeopardy to any
hospital, ambulance company or other person or governmental agency which deals
with emergencies involving danger to life or property;
   (C)   Furnish any information, or cause such information to be furnished or
conveyed by electric, electronic, telephonic or mechanical means, knowing the
same to be false concerning the need for assistance of a Fire Department or any
personnel or equipment of such Department; or
   (D)   Furnish any information he or she knows to be false concerning the
location of any explosive in any building or other property to any person.
(1976 Code, § 6-253) (Ord. 698, passed 8-5-1982) Penalty, see §
130.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 28-907
§ 130.37 SHOPLIFTING.
   (A)   A person commits the crime of theft by shoplifting when he or she,
with the intent of appropriating merchandise to his or her own use without
paying for the same or to deprive the owner of possession of such property or
its retail value, in whole or in part, does any of the following:
      (1)   Conceals or takes possession of the goods or merchandise of any
store or retail establishment;
      (2)   Alters the price tag or other price marking on goods or merchandise
of any store or retail establishment;
      (3)   Transfers the goods or merchandise of any store or retail
establishment from one container to another;
      (4)   Interchanges the label or price tag from one item of merchandise
with a label or price tag from another item of merchandise; or
      (5)   Causes the cash register or other sales recording device to reflect
less than the retail price of the merchandise.
   (B)   In any prosecution for theft by shoplifting, in order to allow the
owner of owners of shoplifted property the use of such property pending
criminal prosecutions, photographs of the shoplifted property may be accepted
as prima facie evidence as to the identity of the property. Such photograph
shall be accompanied by a written statement containing the following:
      (1)   A description of the property;
      (2)   The name of the owner or owners of the property;
      (3)   The time, date and location where the shoplifting occurred;
      (4)   The time and date the photograph was taken;
      (5)   The name of the photographer; and
      (6)   Verification by the arresting officer.
   (C)   Prior to allowing the use of shoplifted property as provided in this
section, legal counsel for the alleged shoplifter shall have a reasonable
opportunity to inspect and appraise the property and may file a motion for
retention of the property, which motion shall be granted if there is any
reasonable basis for believing that the photographs and accompanying affidavit
may be misleading.
(1976 Code, § 6-254) (Ord. 699, passed 8-5-1982) Penalty, see §
130.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 28-514
§ 130.38 TOBACCO; POSSESSION BY MINORS.
   (A)   Possession of tobacco products by minors.
      (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person under the age of 18 years to
possess any tobacco products; provided that, the possession by a person under
the age of 18 years under the direct supervision of the parent or guardian of
such person in the privacy of the parent’s or guardian’s home shall not be
prohibited.
      (2)   TOBACCO PRODUCTS shall be defined to mean any substance containing
tobacco leaf, including, but not limited to, cigarettes, cigars, pipe tobacco,
snuff, chewing tobacco or dipping tobacco.
(1976 Code, § 6-258)
   (B)   Minors.
      (1)   Use of tobacco by persons under the age of 21. Whoever, being a
person under the age of 21 years, shall smoke cigarettes or cigars, use
electronic nicotine delivery systems or alternative nicotine products, or use
tobacco in any form whatever in this city, shall be guilty of an offense. Any
person charged with a violation of this section may be free from prosecution if
he or she furnishes evidence for the conviction of the person or persons
selling or giving him or her the cigarettes, cigars, electronic nicotine
delivery systems, alternative nicotine products, or tobacco.
      (2)   Sale of tobacco to persons under the age of 21.
         (a)   Whoever shall sell, give, or furnish in any way any tobacco in
any form whatever, or any cigars, cigarettes or cigarette paper, electronic
nicotine delivery systems, or alternative nicotine products, to any person
under 21 years of age is guilty of an offense.
         (b)   1.   In order to further the public policy of deterring
licensees or other persons from violating division (A) of this section, a
person who is at least 15 years of age but under 21 years of age may assist a
peace officer in determining compliance with such division if:
            2.   The parent or legal guardian of the person has given written
consent for the person to participate in such compliance check if such person
is under 19 years of age;
            3.   The person is an employee, a volunteer, or an intern with a
state or local law enforcement agency;
            4.   The person is acting within the scope of his or her assigned
duties as part of a law enforcement investigation;
            5.   The person does not use or consume a tobacco product as part
of such duties; and
            6.   The person is not actively assigned to a diversion program, is
not a party to a pending criminal proceeding or a proceeding pending under the
Nebraska Juvenile Code, and is not on probation.
         (c)   Any person under the age of 21 years acting in accordance with
and under the authority of this section shall not be in violation of Neb. RS
28-1427.
      (3)   Misrepresentation by person under the age of 21 to obtain tobacco.
Any person under the age of 21 years who obtains cigars, tobacco, cigarettes,
or cigarette material, electronic nicotine delivery systems, or alternative
nicotine products from a licensee hereunder by representing that he or she is
of the age of 21 years or over, is guilty of an offense.
(1976 Code, § 6-260)
(Ord. 1081, passed 3-8-1993; Ord. 1237, passed 7-21-1997; Ord. 1455B, passed 2-
9-2015; Ord. 1483A, passed 12-23-2019; Ord. 1501, passed 6-7-2021) Penalty, see
§
130.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 28-1418, 28-1419, 28-1427, 28-1429.02
§ 130.39 SEXUAL PREDATOR RESIDENCY REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Findings and intent.
      (1)   The state’s legislature has found that certain sex offenders
present a high risk to commit repeat offenses and has enabled municipalities to
restrict such persons’ place of residency as provided in the Sexual Predator
Residency Restriction Act.
      (2)   (a)   Sex offenders who prey on children and who are high risks to
repeat such acts present an extreme threat to public safety.
         (b)   The cost of sex offender victimization to these children and to
society at large, while incalculable, is exorbitant.
      (3)   It is the intent of this section to serve the city’s compelling
interest to promote, protect and improve the health, safety and welfare of the
citizens of the city by creating certain areas around locations where children
regularly congregate in concentrated numbers where certain sexual predators
cannot reside.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      CHILD CARE FACILITY. A facility licensed pursuant to the Child Care
Licensing Act.
      RESIDE. To sleep, live or dwell at a place, which may include more than
one location, and may be mobile or transitory.
      RESIDENCE. A place where an individual sleeps, lives or dwells, which may
include more than one location, and may be mobile or transitory.
      SEX OFFENDER. An individual who has been convicted of a crime listed in
Neb. RS 29-4003 and who is required to register as a sex offender pursuant to
the Sex Offender Registration Act.
      SEXUAL PREDATOR. An individual who is required to register under the Sex
Offender Registration Act, who has committed an aggravated offense as defined
in Neb. RS 29-4001.01 and who has victimized a person 18 years of age or
younger.
      SCHOOL. A public, private, denominational or parochial school which meets
the requirements for state accreditation or approval.
   (C)   Sexual predator residency restrictions; penalties; exceptions.
      (1)   Prohibited location of residence. It is unlawful for any sexual
predator to reside within 500 feet of a school or child care facility.
      (2)   Measure of distance. For purposes of determining the minimum
distance separation, the distance shall be measured by following a straight
line from the outer property line of the residence to the nearest outer
boundary line of the school or child care facility.
      (3)   Penalties. A person who violates this section shall be punished as
provided in §
130.99 of this chapter.
      (4)   Exceptions. This section shall not apply to a sexual predator who:
         (a)   Resides within a prison or correctional or treatment facility
operated by the state or a political subdivision;
         (b)   Established a residence before 7-1-2006, and has not moved from
that residence; or
         (c)   Established a residence after 7-1-2006, and the school or child
care facility triggering the restriction was established after the initial date
of the sexual predator’s residence at that location.
(1976 Code, § 6-259) (Ord. 1386, passed 5-22-2006; Ord. 1419, passed 2-7-2011)
Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.40 MINORS; ENDANGERING, EMPLOYMENT AND THE LIKE.
   (A)   Endangering prohibited. It shall be unlawful for any person having the
care, custody, control or confidence of or influence over any child to allow
such child to be endangered, or the health of such child injured, or the morals
of such child to be impaired, or to willfully cause or permit such child to be
placed in such a position, business or occupation that his or her life, health
or morals will be endangered; or to torture, torment, cruelly punish or
willfully or negligently deprive such child of necessary food, clothing or
shelter, or in any other manner injure such child unnecessarily.
(1976 Code, § 6-301)
   (B)   Employment. It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation
to take, receive, hire or employ any child under the age of 14 years to labor
in any mill, factory or in or about any business or employment whatever within
the city, during the school hours of any school day.
(1976 Code, § 6-302)
   (C)   Presence in drinking establishments prohibited.
      (1)   (a)   It shall be unlawful for any proprietor or keeper of a tavern
or beer hall:
            1.   To employ any individual under the age of 19 years for serving
or selling alcoholic beverages in the course of his or her employment;
            2.   To employ any person under the age of 16 years for removing
and disposing of alcoholic liquor containers for the convenience of the
employer and customers in the course of his or her employment as servers or
busers; and
            3.   To permit any individual under the age of 19 years to be in or
about such place of business after 9:00 p.m., or to obtain or to drink any
alcoholic beverage in or about such place of business, or to bet or wager with
playing cards or other gambling devices in or about such place of business.
         (b)   For the purpose of this section, a TAVERN or BEER HALL is
defined to be any establishment located within the corporate limits of the city
where alcoholic beverages are sold and served and in which the service of good,
if served at all, is incidental to the sale of such beverages. Service of food
shall be considered incidental if the food service generates less than one-half
of the gross revenue from the operation of said business.
      (2)   Every owner or operator of any establishment offering for sale
alcoholic beverages shall, upon request of the Mayor, City Clerk or Chief of
Police, permit access to all records of said establishment, and upon request,
furnish, for official use only in ascertaining the type of business operated, a
certified statement of the type of business operated, a certified statement of
the alcoholic beverages sold, together with the amount of sales tax, if any,
collected and remitted to the state on such sales made during any certain
designated period.
      (3)   It shall be the duty of the person who is the proprietor or keeper
of a tavern or beer hall, as defined in this section, to post conspicuously in
his or her place of business the following sign, “Individuals Under the Age of
Nineteen Years Not Allowed After 9:00 p.m.”. Failure to post such a sign shall
constitute an unlawful act.
(1976 Code, § 6-303)
   (D)   False credentials. It shall be unlawful for any minor child to make
false statements or to furnish, present or exhibit any fictitious or false
registration card, identification card or note or other document, or to
furnish, present or exhibit such document or documents issued to a person other
than the one presenting the same, for the purpose of gaining admission to any
prohibited place or for the purpose of procuring the sale, gift or delivery of
prohibited articles, including liquor, beer or wine.
(1976 Code, § 6-304)
   (E)   Unlawful services of others.
      (1)   It shall be unlawful for any minor to engage or to utilize the
services of any other person, whether for remuneration or not, to procure for
such minor any article which the minor himself or herself is prohibited by this
section from purchasing.
      (2)   It shall be unlawful for any person, whether for remuneration or
not, to procure for any minor any article which the minor is forbidden by this
section from purchasing.
(1976 Code, § 6-305)
(Ord. 528, passed 3-17-1977; Ord. 685, passed 7-8-1982; Ord. 689, passed 7-29-
1982; Ord. 1299, passed 1-21-2002) Penalty, see §
130.99
OFFENSES AGAINST PROPERTY
§ 130.60 LARCENY.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person within the corporate limits to
steal any money, goods or chattels of any kind whatever.
   (B)   Any person who shall steal property of any kind, whether the same be
entirely in money or entirely property of the value of less than $300 shall be
deemed to be guilty of a misdemeanor.
(1976 Code, § 6-207) Penalty, see §
130.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 28-512, 28-514
§ 130.61 CONCEALING STOLEN PROPERTY.
   Any person who receives or conceals stolen property, goods or chattels of
any kind with the intent to defraud the owner, or whoever receives or conceals
any money or other accountable receipts and evidences of ownership shall be
deemed to be guilty of a misdemeanor.
(1976 Code, § 6-208) Penalty, see §
130.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 28-513
§ 130.62 ARSON.
   Any person who willfully or maliciously sets on fire any property when the
injury or damage therefrom shall be of a less value than $35, shall be deemed
to be guilty of a misdemeanor.
(1976 Code, § 6-209) Penalty, see §
130.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 28-503
§ 130.63 INJURY TO TREES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to purposely or carelessly, and without
lawful authority, cut down, carry away, injure, break down or destroy any
fruit, ornamental, shade or other tree or trees standing or growing on any land
belonging to another person or persons or on any public land in the corporate
limits. Any public service company desiring to trim or cut down any tree,
except on property owned and controlled by it, shall make an application to the
governing body to do so, and the written permit of the governing body in
accordance with its decision to allow such an action shall constitute the only
lawful authority on the part of the company to do so.
(1976 Code, § 6-210) (Ord. 533, passed 4-21-1977) Penalty, see §
130.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 28-565 through 28-567
§ 130.64 FIRE EQUIPMENT.
   It shall be unlawful for any person who is not an active member of the
Municipal Fire Department to deface, destroy, handle or loiter about the
equipment and property of the Fire Department.
(1976 Code, § 6-211) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.65 FIRE HOSE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, without the consent of the Fire Chief,
or the Assistant Fire Chief, to drive any vehicle over the unprotected hose of
the Fire Department at any time.
(1976 Code, § 6-212) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.66 TRASH OR GARBAGE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to willfully, maliciously or negligently
place or throw upon the premises of another any filth, garbage, leaves, papers
or other matter to the annoyance of the owner or occupant thereon. It shall be
unlawful for any person who is not a resident of the municipality to deposit or
place trash, garbage, filth, leaves, papers or other matters in trash
receptacles located within the municipality with the result being that such
trash, garbage or other items are ultimately removed and trucked or taken to a
landfill site by municipality employees; it shall also be unlawful for any
person residing within the municipality to allow non-residents of the
municipality to deposit or place trash, garbage, filth, leaves, papers or other
matters in trash receptacles belonging to municipal residents with the ultimate
result being that such trash, garbage or other items are removed and trucked or
taken to a landfill site by municipal employees.
(1976 Code, § 6-213) (Ord. 974, passed 7-10-1989) Penalty, see §
130.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 28-523
§ 130.67 PUBLIC INDECENCY.
   (A)   A person, 18 years of age or over, commits the offense of public
indecency if such person performs or procures, or assists any other person to
perform, in a public place and where the conduct may reasonably be expected to
be viewed by members of the public:
      (1)   An act of sexual penetration as defined in Neb. RS 28-318;
      (2)   An exposure of the genitals of the body done with intent to affront
or alarm any person; or
      (3)   A lewd fondling or caressing of the body of another person of the
same or opposite sex.
   (B)   It shall not be a violation of this section for an individual to
breast-feed a child in a public place.
(Ord. 1483A, passed 12-23-2019)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 28-806
§ 130.68 GAMBLING.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the definitions found in Neb. RS 28-
1101 shall be used.
   (B)   A person commits the offense of promoting gambling if he or she
knowingly:
      (1)   Advances or profits from any unlawful gambling activity by:
         (a)   Engaging in bookmaking;
         (b)   Receiving, in connection with any unlawful gambling scheme or
enterprise, any amount of money played in the scheme or enterprise in any one
day; or
         (c)   Betting something of value in an amount of $500 or more with one
or more persons in one day;
      (2)   Participates in unlawful gambling as a player by betting less than
$500 in any one day.
   (C)   (1)   A person commits the offense of possession of a gambling device
if he or she manufactures, sells, transports, places, possesses, or conducts or
negotiates any transaction affecting or designed to affect ownership, custody,
or use of any gambling device, knowing that it shall be used in the advancement
of unlawful gambling activity.
      (2)   The owner or operator of a retail establishment who is not a
manufacturer, distributor, or seller of mechanical amusement devices as defined
under the Mechanical Amusement Device Tax Act, shall have an affirmative
defense to possession of a gambling device described in division (C)(1) of this
section if the device bears an unexpired mechanical amusement device decal as
required by such Act. However, such affirmative defense may be overcome if the
owner or operator had actual knowledge that operation of the device constituted
unlawful gambling activity at any time such device was operated on the premises
of the retail establishment.
      (3)   Notwithstanding any other provisions of this division, any
mechanical game or device classified by the federal government as an illegal
gambling device and requiring a federal Gambling Device Tax Stamp as required
by the Internal Revenue Service in its administration of 26 U.S.C. 4461 and
4462, amended July 1, 1965, by Public Law 89-44, is hereby declared to be
illegal.
   (D)   In any prosecution under this section, it shall be an affirmative
defense that the writing, paper, instrument, or article possessed by the
defendant was neither used nor intended to be used in the advancement of an
unlawful gambling activity.
   (E)   Proof of possession of any gambling device shall be prima facie
evidence of possession thereof with knowledge of its contents and character.
   (F)   It shall be no defense to a prosecution under any provision of this
section relating to gambling that the gambling is conducted outside this city
and is not in violation of the laws of the jurisdiction in which it is
conducted.
   (G)   In addition to any other penalty, a sentencing court may order that
any money, securities, negotiable instruments, firearms, conveyances, or
electronic communication devices as defined in Neb. RS 28-833 or any equipment,
components, peripherals, software, hardware, or accessories related to
electronic communication devices, or any gambling devices be forfeited as a
part of the sentence imposed if it finds by clear and convincing evidence
adduced at a separate hearing in the same prosecution, conducted pursuant to
Neb. RS 28-1601, that any or all such property was derived from, used, or
intended to be used to facilitate a violation of this section.
   (H)   In any prosecution for an offense defined in this section, when the
defendant's status as a player constitutes an excusing condition, the fact that
the defendant was a player shall constitute an affirmative defense.
   (I)   Nothing in this section shall be construed to:
      (1)   Apply to or prohibit wagering on the results of horse races by the
parimutuel or certificate method when conducted by licensees within the
racetrack enclosure at licensed horse race meetings; or
      (2)   Prohibit or punish the conducting or participating in any bingo,
lottery by the sale of pickle cards, lottery, raffle, or gift enterprise when
conducted in accordance with the Nebraska Bingo Act, the Nebraska County and
City Lottery Act, the Nebraska Lottery and Raffle Act, the Nebraska Pickle Card
Lottery Act, the Nebraska Small Lottery and Raffle Act, the State Lottery Act,
or Neb. RS 9-701; or
      (3)   Apply to or prohibit the operation of games of chance, whether
using a gambling device or otherwise, by authorized gaming operators within
licensed racetrack enclosures or the participation or playing of such games of
chance, whether participated in or played using a gambling device or otherwise,
by individuals 21 years of age or older within licensed racetrack enclosures as
provided in the Nebraska Racetrack Gaming Act.
   (J)   In any prosecution under this section in which it is necessary to
prove the occurrence of a sporting event, a published report of its occurrence
in any daily newspaper, magazine, or other periodically printed publication of
general circulation shall be admissible in evidence and shall constitute prima
facie evidence of the occurrence of the event.
(Ord. 1483A, passed 12-23-2019; Ord. 1524, passed 5-2-2022)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 28-1102 through 28-1104, 28-1107 through 28-
1113, 28-1117
§ 130.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   (1)   Any person who shall violate or refuse to comply with the
enforcement of any of the provisions of this chapter, set forth at full length
herein or incorporated by reference, shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor
and, upon conviction thereof, shall be fined not more than $500 for each
offense.
      (2)   A new violation shall be deemed to have been committed every 24
hours of such failure to comply.
(1976 Code, § 6-401)
   (B)   (1)   Whenever a nuisance exists as defined in this chapter, the
municipality may proceed by a suit in equity to enjoin and abate the same, in
the manner provided by law.
      (2)   Whenever, in any action, it is established that a nuisance exists,
the court may together with the fine or penalty imposed, enter an order of
abatement as a part of the judgment in the case.
(1976 Code, § 6-402)
   (C)   (1)   Conviction of a misdemeanor under §
130.24 of this chapter shall be punishable by a fine not less than $5, nor more
than $100.
      (2)   Any such offender shall also be liable, in an action for trespass
in the name of the beneficial holder of said property, for all damages which
arise from the commission of such unlawful act.
(1976 Code, § 6-235)
   (D)   Any other person violating §
130.35(A) of this chapter shall be served with a citation to appear in court
and, upon conviction, be fined not more than $500 for each offense, or shall be
imprisoned in jail for a period not to exceed 30 days, or both such fine and
imprisonment.
(1976 Code, § 6-254)
   (E)   Persons convicted of violating the provisions of §
130.38(A) of this chapter shall be punished by a monetary fine of not less than
$35 and not more than $100.
(1976 Code, § 6-258)
(Ord. 1372, passed 1-24-2005; Ord. 1449, passed 12-23-2013)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 18-1720, 18-1722
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
   Chapter
      
150.   BUILDING REGULATIONS; CONSTRUCTION
      
151.   STREETS, SIDEWALKS AND PUBLIC PROPERTY
      
152.   TRAILER AND MOBILE HOME COURTS
      
153.   FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT
      
154.   PLANNING AND ZONING
CHAPTER 150: BUILDING REGULATIONS; CONSTRUCTION
Section
General Provisions
   
150.001   Building Inspector
   
150.002   Building permits
Plumbers and Electricians
   
150.015   License required
   
150.016   Electricians; quality of work; exam
National Construction Codes
   
150.030   Building Code
   
150.031   International Property Maintenance Code
   
150.032   Plumbing Code
   
150.033   Electrical Code
   
150.034   Mobile Home Building Code
   
150.035   Rental Housing Standards Code
   
150.036   Mechanical Code
Moving Buildings
   
150.050   “Building” defined
   
150.051   Permit required
   
150.052   Permit; application
   
150.053   Duties of Building Inspector
   
150.054   Damage deposits
   
150.055   Fees and deposits
   
150.056   Duties of permit holder
   
150.057   Enforcement
   
150.058   General license not to be issued
   
150.059   Consent of property owners
Unsafe Buildings
   
150.070   Definition
   
150.071   Prohibition
   
150.072   Determination and notice
   
150.073   Hearing and appeal
   
150.074   Emergency
   
150.075   Special assessments
   
150.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 150.001 BUILDING INSPECTOR.
   (A)   Power and authority. The Building Inspector shall be the municipal
official who shall have the duty of enforcing all building and housing
regulations as herein prescribed. He or she shall inspect all buildings
repaired, altered, built or moved in the municipality as often as necessary to
ensure compliance with all municipal ordinances. He or she shall have the power
and authority to order all work stopped on any construction, alteration or
relocation which violates any provisions prescribed herein. He or she shall
issue permission to continue any construction, alteration or relocation when
the governing body is satisfied that no provision will be violated. If the stop
order is an oral one, it shall be followed by a written stop order within 24
hours. Such written order may be served by any municipal police officer.
(1976 Code, § 9-101)
   (B)   Right of entry. It shall be unlawful for any person to refuse to allow
the Building Inspector entry into any building or structure where the work of
construction, alteration, repair or relocation is taking place for the purpose
of making official inspections at any reasonable hour.
(1976 Code, § 9-102)
   (C)   Appeal from decision. In the event it is claimed that the true intent
and meaning of this chapter has been wrongly interpreted by the Building
Inspector; that the time allowed for compliance with any order of the Building
Inspector is too short; or that conditions peculiar to a particular building
make it unreasonably difficult to meet the literal requirements prescribed by
this chapter and the Building Inspector, the owner, his or her agent or the
occupant may file a notice of appeal within ten days after the decision or
order of the Building Inspector has been made. The governing body shall sit and
act as the Municipal Board of Appeals and shall have the power and authority,
when appealed to, to modify the decision or order of the Building Inspector.
Such a decision shall be final, subject only to any remedy which the aggrieved
person may have at law or equity.
(1976 Code, § 9-103)
   (D)   Barricades and lights. It shall be the duty of the owner, tenant or
lessee causing the construction, demolition or moving of any building or
improvement within the municipality to have during such work all excavations,
open basements, building materials and debris protected by suitable guards or
barricades by day and by warning lights at night. The failure, neglect or
refusal of said persons to erect such guards shall constitute a violation of
this section and the municipal police or the Building Inspector shall stop all
work until guards are erected and maintained as required.
(1976 Code, § 9-104)
Penalty, see §
150.999
§ 150.002 BUILDING PERMITS.
   (A)   Permit required. Any person desiring to commence or proceed to erect,
construct, repair, enlarge, demolish or relocate any building or dwelling, or
cause the same to be done, shall file with the Building Inspector an
application for a building permit. The application shall be in writing on a
form to be furnished by the Building Inspector for that purpose. Every such
application shall set forth the legal description of the land upon which the
construction or relocation is to take place, the nature of the use or
occupancy, the principal dimensions, the estimated cost, the names of the
owner, architect and contractor and such other information as may be requested
thereon. The application, plans and specifications so filed with the Building
Inspector shall be checked and examined by the governing body and, if they are
found to be in conformity with the requirements of this chapter and all other
ordinances applicable thereto, the Building Inspector shall issue the said
applicant a permit. Whenever there is a discrepancy between permit application
procedures contained herein and those contained in any building code adopted by
reference, the provisions contained herein shall govern.
(1976 Code, § 9-201)
   (B)   Permit limitation.
      (1)   If the work for which a permit has been issued shall not have begun
within one year of the date thereof, or if the construction shall be
discontinued for a period of one year, the permit shall be void.
      (2)   Before work can be resumed, a new permit shall be obtained in the
same manner and form as an original permit.
(1976 Code, § 9-202)
   (C)   Duplicate to County Assessor. Whenever a building permit is issued for
the erection, alteration, or repair of any building within the city's corporate
limits or extraterritorial zoning jurisdiction, if the improvement is $2,500 or
more, a duplicate of the permit shall be issued to the County Assessor.
   (D)   Curb and gutter installation required. Any person applying for a
building permit with regard to a residential property or any other structural
improvement in a residential district shall first be required to demonstrate
that curb and gutter, meeting the requirements of the Building Inspector, is
installed for the property which is the subject of the building permit
application.
(1976 Code, § 9-204)
(Ord. 624, passed 8-23-1979; Ord. 1292, passed 7-9-2001; Ord. 1353, passed 8-
11-2004; Ord. 1525, passed 5-2-2022) Penalty, see §
150.999
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-130 through 17-132, 17-550, 17-1001, 18-
1743
PLUMBERS AND ELECTRICIANS
§ 150.015 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   (A)   Any plumber wishing to do business in connection with the water works
or sewer system of the municipality shall, before receiving a license, file in
the office of the City Clerk an application in writing asking to become a
licensed plumber of the municipality, which application shall set forth his or
her name and the name of each member of his or her firm, if any, his or her
place of business and stating his or her willingness to be governed by the
rules and regulations now or to be hereafter adopted by the City Council
concerning his or her business. Before receiving a license, he or she shall
also file in the office of the City Clerk, proof of liability insurance
acceptable to the City Clerk, which liability insurance shall be renewed
annually. The licensee shall indemnify and keep harmless the city and the City
Clerk from all liability from accidents and damages arising from any negligence
or unskillfulness in doing or protecting his or her work, or from any
unfaithful or inadequate work done in pursuance of his or her license, and that
he or she will also restore the streets, sidewalks and pavement in as good
condition as he or she found them and keep and maintain the same in good order
to the satisfaction of the City Clerk and City Council for a period of six
months thereafter; and that he or she will pay all fines imposed upon him or
her for the violation of any rules and regulations adopted by the said
municipality and in force during the term of his or her license. The license
herein mentioned shall be issued by the Clerk, under the seal of the City, when
ordered by the Council. The fee charged by the City Clerk for the issuance of
said license shall be $25 annually, with the effective date of the license
being from January 1 to December 31 of each year.
(1976 Code, § 10-401)
   (B)   Any electrician wishing to do business in the municipality shall,
before receiving a license, file in the office of the City Clerk an application
in writing asking to become a licensed electrician of the municipality, which
application shall set forth his or her name and the name of each member of his
or her firm, if any, his or her place of business, and stating his or her
willingness to be governed by the rules and regulations now or to be hereafter
adopted by the City Council concerning his or her business. Before receiving a
license, he or she shall also file in the office of the City Clerk, proof of
liability insurance acceptable to the City Clerk, which liability insurance
shall be renewed annually. The licensee shall indemnify and keep harmless the
city and the City Clerk from all liability from accidents and damages arising
from any negligence or unskillfulness in doing or protecting his or her work,
or from any unfaithful or inadequate work done in pursuance of his or her
license; and he or she will also restore the streets, sidewalks and pavement in
as good condition as he or she found them and keep and maintain the same in
good order to the satisfaction of the City Clerk and City Council for a period
of six months thereafter; and that he or she will pay all fines imposed upon
him or her for the violation of any rules and regulations adopted by the said
municipality and in force during the term of his or her license. The license
herein mentioned shall be issued by the Clerk, under the seal of the city, when
ordered by the Council. The fee by the City Clerk for the issuance of said
license shall be $25 annually, with the effective date of the license being
from January 1 to December 31 of each year.
(1976 Code, § 10-402)
(Ord. 1274, passed 1-10-2000) Penalty, see §
150.999
§ 150.016 ELECTRICIANS; QUALITY OF WORK; EXAM.
   (A)   Forfeiture of license. Any electrician who shall be guilty of
violation of any of the rules and regulations adopted by the City Council shall
forfeit his or her license, such violations shall be determined by the City
Council at a hearing to be held at any regular or special meeting. A forfeiture
of the license of any electrician shall operate as a suspension of the license
held by the co-partner in the same business, or by any person in his, her or
their employ.
(1976 Code, § 10-403)
   (B)   Quality of work. All electrical work shall be skillfully done and in
the manner required by the City Council and shall be subject to inspection and
approval; the quality and pattern of all appurtenances shall, in like manner,
be subject to approval.
(1976 Code, § 10-404)
   (C)   License required. No person shall install any electric apparatus
within the corporate limits without first having obtained a license to do so as
hereinafter provided. In addition, no licensed electrical contractor, master
electrician or journeyman electrician may lend his or her license to any person
or knowingly permit the use thereof by another. The Electrical Inspector shall
recommend and the Examining Board shall issue licenses to those persons who
have been issued a valid and unexpired electrician’s license by the state;
provided, said persons shall have complied with the other terms and conditions
precedent to the issuance of licenses as required in this subchapter. In the
event that the applicant holds a license issued by the state, the license
required herein shall be in the form of an occupation tax certificate.
Application for a license shall be made to the Utilities Superintendent in
writing showing the name and residence of the applicant, the business location
of the applicant and such other information as may be required.
(1976 Code, § 10-405)
   (D)   Examination.
      (1)   In the event that the applicant is not a holder of a valid and
unexpired license issued by the state, or holds a current license which is of a
classification less than the classification needed to do the work proposed, the
applicant shall submit to an examination to determine his or her fitness and
competency for executing the work covered by the license for which application
is made, which examination shall be given by the Examining Board for
Electricians. Upon payment of the required fees, such applicant shall receive
such license, after having shown himself or herself to be fit, competent and
qualified to the satisfaction of the Examining Board by said examination to
receive such license. Any person who fails to pass the required examination
shall not be eligible to take the examination again until six months have
elapsed, but, within six months, he or she may take an examination for a lesser
grade of license.
      (2)   The examination shall consist of two parts:
         (a)   Written examination, which shall count as 50%; and
         (b)   Personal interview and past experience, which shall count as
50%.
      (3)   The examination shall be passed to the satisfaction of the
Examining Board. A grade of 75% shall be considered as passing. An examination
fee set by resolution of the governing body shall be paid to the Utilities
Superintendent upon application for a license.
(1976 Code, § 10-406)
   (E)   Expiration and renewal of certificate of registration. Registration
certificates shall expire on December 31 of the year in which they are issued
and shall not be assignable. Certificates of registration, at the time of their
expiration, may be renewed upon recommendation of the Examining Board, without
an examination, upon payment of the required registration fee. Any person
registered as a master electrician who does not renew his or her certificate of
registration by July 1 after the expiration of same, shall pay any registration
fee required by this chapter for a master electrician, and shall again prove
his or her qualification to the Examining Board before such person can again be
registered hereunder.
(1976 Code, § 10-407)
(Ord. 703, passed 8-5-1982; Ord. 704, passed 8-5-1982; Ord. 705, passed 8-5-
1982) Penalty, see §
150.999
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 81-566, 81-579, 81-586, 81-592, 81-5,100
NATIONAL CONSTRUCTION CODES
§ 150.030 BUILDING CODE.
   The International Building Code, including appendix chapters applicable, as
published by the International Code Council, Inc., is hereby adopted as the
Building Code of the city for establishing the minimum regulations governing
the conditions and maintenance of all property, buildings and structures;
providing, the standards for supplied utilities and facilities and other
physical things and conditions essential to ensure that structures are safe,
sanitary and fit for occupation and use, and providing for the condemnation of
buildings and structures unfit for human occupancy and use and for the
demolition of such buildings and structures. Each and all of the regulations,
provisions, penalties, conditions and terms of the Building Code are hereby
referred to, adopted and made a part hereby, as if fully set out in this
section with the additions, insertions, deletions and changes, if any,
prescribed in this section. The Building Code, printed in book or pamphlet
form, is hereby incorporated by reference in addition to all amended editions
as though printed in full herein insofar as such code does not conflict with
the statutes of the state. One copy of the Building Code is on file at the
office of the Municipal Clerk and is available for public inspection. The
provisions of the Building Code shall be controlling throughout the
municipality and throughout its zoning jurisdiction.
(1976 Code, § 9-501) (Ord. 1352, passed 11-8-2004; Ord. 1426A, passed 10-24-
2011; Ord. 1436, passed 11-4-2013; Ord. 1505, passed 10-4-2021)
§ 150.031 INTERNATIONAL PROPERTY MAINTENANCE CODE.
   The International Property Maintenance Code, including appendix chapters
applicable, as published by the International Code Council, Inc., is hereby
adopted as the Property Maintenance Code of the city for regulating and
controlling the design, construction, quality of materials, erection,
installation, alteration, repair, location, relocation, replacement, addition
to, use or maintenance of one- and two-family dwellings and townhouses not more
than three stories in height in the city and providing for the issuance of
permits and collection of fees therefore. Each and all of the regulations,
provisions, penalties, conditions, and terms of the International Property
Maintenance Code are hereby referred to, adopted, and made a part hereof as if
fully set out in this section, with the additions, insertions, deletions, and
changes, if any, prescribed in this section. The International Property
Maintenance Code, printed in book or pamphlet form, is hereby incorporated by
reference in addition to all amended editions as though printed in full herein
insofar as such code does not conflict with the Nebraska State Statutes. One
copy of the International Property Maintenance Code is on file at the office of
the Municipal Clerk and is available for public inspection. The provisions of
the International Property Maintenance Code shall be controlling throughout the
municipality and throughout its zoning jurisdiction.
(1976 Code, § 9-502) (Ord. 1352, passed 11-8-2004; Ord. 1426A, passed 10-24-
2011; Ord. 1431, passed 5-21-2012; Ord. 1436, passed 11-4-2013; Ord. 1505,
passed 10-4-2021)
§ 150.032 PLUMBING CODE.
   To provide certain minimum standards, provisions and requirements for safe
and stable installation, methods of connection and uses of materials in the
installation of plumbing and heating, the International Plumbing Code, 2012
Edition, published by the American Society of Mechanical Engineers, and printed
in book or pamphlet form, together with a standard code to prevent the backflow
and backsiphonage of harmful material which can contaminate the public water
system, printed by the city in pamphlet form, are hereby incorporated by
reference in addition to all amended editions as though printed in full herein
insofar as said codes do not conflict with the statutes of the state. Copies of
the Plumbing Code and a standard code to prevent backflow and backsiphonage are
on file at the office of the Municipal Clerk and are available for public
inspection during city office hours. The provisions of the Plumbing Code and
the standard code to prevent the backflow and backsiphonage shall be
controlling throughout the municipality and throughout its zoning jurisdiction.
(1976 Code, § 9-503) (Ord. 1427, passed 5-2-1983; Ord. 947, passed 5-2-1988;
Ord. 1027, passed 2-18-1991)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-1001, 18-132, 19-902
§ 150.033 ELECTRICAL CODE.
   To provide certain minimum standards, provisions and requirements for safe
and fire-proof installation, methods of connection and uses of materials in the
installation of electrical wiring and appliances, the National Electrical Code,
2012 Edition, as recommended and published by the National Fire Protection
Association, and printed in book or pamphlet form, is hereby incorporated by
reference, in addition to all amended editions as though printed in full herein
insofar as said code does not conflict with the statutes of the state. Copies
of the Electrical Code are on file at the office of the Municipal Clerk and are
available for public inspection at any reasonable time. The provisions of the
Electrical Code shall be controlling throughout the municipality and throughout
its zoning jurisdiction.
(1976 Code, § 9-504) (Ord. 1427, passed 5-7-2012)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-1001,18-132,19-902
§ 150.034 MOBILE HOME BUILDING CODE.
   The rules, regulations and requirements as set forth in the Standards for
Mobile Homes, National Fire Protection Association, 2011 Edition, and any
supplements and amendments thereto hereafter made or adopted by the National
Fire Protection Association are hereby incorporated and made a part of the Code
as though spread at large herein. Copies of the Mobil Home Building Code are on
file at the office of the Municipal Clerk and are available for public
inspection at any reasonable time. The provisions of this Code shall be
controlling throughout the municipality and throughout its zoning jurisdiction.
(1976 Code, § 9-505) (Ord. 1427, passed 5-7-2012)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-1001, 18-132
§ 150.035 RENTAL HOUSING STANDARDS CODE.
   (A)   To provide certain minimum standards, provisions and requirements for
safe and stable design, construction, uses of materials and maintenance of
rental residential dwellings, the regulations promulgated by the U.S.
Department of Housing and Urban Development and known as “Section 8 Existing
Housing Program”, published by the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban
Development, and printed in book or pamphlet form, is hereby incorporated by
reference in addition to all amended editions as though printed in full herein
insofar as said regulations do not conflict with the statutes of the state. The
City Council shall have the authority to establish regulations differing from
the Section 8 Existing Housing Program, by resolution, and any such resolution
is hereby incorporated by reference, and, together with the regulations known
as Section 8 Existing Housing Program, shall constitute the Rental Housing
Standards Code for the municipality. Three copies of the Rental Housing
Standards Code are on file at the office of the Municipal Clerk and are
available for public inspection at any reasonable time. The provisions of the
Rental Housing Standards Code shall be controlling throughout the municipality.
   (B)   To ensure compliance with the Rental Housing Standards Code, every
residential dwelling unit within the municipality which is not occupied by a
person who is a record title owner of said unit, shall be inspected by the
municipality and brought into compliance with this Code by the owner or owners
of said dwelling at the time of a change of occupancy of said unit.
   (C)   An inspection shall not be required if, within the two-year period
immediately preceding the change of occupancy, a change of occupancy occurred
in the unit which resulted in an inspection and certification of compliance
with the Rental Housing Standards Code. All costs of compliance with the Rental
Housing Standards Code shall be paid by the owner of the unit. The owner of the
dwelling shall pay a fee of $25 for the inspection required under this section.
The Municipal Building Inspector is hereby authorized to reduce the required
inspection fee to no less than $10 for each rental dwelling unit for owners of
multiple rental dwelling units who agree to have a sufficient number of said
owner’s dwelling units inspected at least once every two years regardless of
change in occupancy. The Building Inspector shall determine eligibility for the
reduced inspection fee.
   (D)   The owner of a residential dwelling unit shall have a period of 60
days from the date of initial inspection to bring the unit into compliance with
the Code. An additional 60-day period shall be allowed, upon payment of a fee
of $25 for said extension to the city; provided that, the extension fee must be
paid prior to the expiration of the initial 60-day period. Any further
extension must be requested by the City Council prior to the expiration of the
original period allowed for compliance, and the City Council shall have the
authority to grant or deny requests for additional extensions of time.
   (E)   An owner of a residential dwelling unit who has failed to report a
change of occupancy which requires an inspection; failed to allow the
municipality to inspect a residential dwelling covered by this section; failed
to pay fees required under this section; failed to bring a dwelling into
compliance with the Code within the time allowed to said owner, or an owner in
violation of any other aspect of this section, shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor, and a new violation shall be deemed to have been committed for
each 24 hours of continued non-compliance.
   (F)   Notwithstanding the above, the Municipal Building Inspector shall have
the authority to order an inspection of any residential dwelling covered by
this section for the purpose of determining whether or not said dwelling is in
compliance with the Code. No fee shall be required for the inspection ordered
by the Building Inspector under this provision. If it is determined, after any
such inspection, that a dwelling is not in compliance, all owners of said
dwelling shall be in violation of this section until said dwelling is brought
into compliance with this section, and a new violation shall be deemed to have
been committed for each 24 hours of continued non-compliance.
(1976 Code, § 9-506) (Ord. 1045, passed 12-9-1991; Ord. 1102, passed 12-6-1993;
Ord. 1211, passed 3-18-1996)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-1001, 18,132, 19-902
§ 150.036 MECHANICAL CODE.
   To provide certain minimum standards, provisions, and requirements for the
design, construction, quality of materials, erection, installation, alteration,
repair, location, relocation, replacement, addition to, use or maintenance of
heating, ventilating, cooling, refrigeration systems, incinerations or other
miscellaneous heat-producing appliances in the city, the Uniform Mechanical
Code, 2012 Edition, published by the international Conference of Building
Officials, and published in book or pamphlet form, is hereby incorporated by
reference in addition to all amended additions as though printed in full herein
insofar as said Code does not conflict with the statutes of the state. Three
copies of the Mechanical Code are on file at the office of the Municipal Clerk
and are available for public inspection at any reasonable time. The provisions
of the mechanical code shall be controlling throughout the municipality and
throughout its zoning jurisdiction.
(1976 Code, § 9-507) (Ord. 1085, passed 3-8-1993)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17,1001, 18-132, 19-902
MOVING BUILDINGS
§ 150.050 “BUILDING” DEFINED.
   (A)   The word BUILDING, for purposes of this subchapter, shall mean a
structure designed, built or occupied as a shelter or roofed enclosure for
person, animals or property and used for residential, business, mercantile,
storage, commercial, industrial, institutional, assembly, educational or
recreational purposes.
   (B)   A structure which, when loaded, does not violate any width, height,
length or weight restrictions for movement upon the public highways of the
state shall not fall within this definition.
(1976 Code, § 9-301) (Ord. 1106, passed 6-6-1994)   
§ 150.051 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   No person shall move any building over, along or across any highway, street
or alley within the corporate limits of the city without first obtaining a
permit from the City Clerk.
(1976 Code, § 9-302) (Ord. 1106, passed 6-6-1994) Penalty, see §
150.999
§ 150.052 PERMIT; APPLICATION.
   A person seeking issuance of a permit hereunder shall file an application
for such permit with the city’s Building Inspector.
   (A)   Form. The application shall be made in writing, upon forms provided by
the Building Inspector or otherwise and shall be filed in the office of the
Building Inspector.
   (B)   Contents. The application shall set forth:
      (1)   A description of the building proposed to be moved, giving street
number, construction materials, dimensions, number of rooms and condition of
exterior and interior;
      (2)   A legal description of the lot from which the building is to be
moved, giving the lot, block and tract number, if located in the city;
      (3)   A legal description of the lot to which it is proposed such
building be moved, giving lot, block and tract number, if located in the city;
      (4)   The portion of the lot to be occupied by the building when moved;
      (5)   The highways, streets and alleys over, along or across which the
building is proposed to be moved;
      (6)   Proposed moving date and hours; and
      (7)   Any additional information which the Building Inspector shall find
necessary to a fair determination of whether a permit should issue.
   (C)   Accompanying papers.
      (1)   Tax certificate. The owner of the building to be moved shall file
with the application sufficient evidence that the building and lot from which
it is to be removed are free of liens and that all taxes and any city
assessments or utility charges against the same are paid in full.
      (2)   Certificate of ownership or entitlement. The applicant shall file
with the application a written statement or bill signed by the owner, or other
sufficient evidence, that he or she is entitled to move the building.
   (D)   Fee. The application shall be accompanied by a permit fee in the
amount of $50.
(1976 Code, § 9-303) (Ord. 1106, passed 6-6-1994)   
§ 150.053 DUTIES OF BUILDING INSPECTOR.
   (A)   Inspection. The Building Inspector shall inspect the building and the
applicant’s equipment to determine whether the standards for issuance of a
permit are met.
   (B)   Standards for issuance. The Building Inspector shall refuse to issue a
permit if he or she finds:
      (1)   Any application requirement or any fee or deposit requirement has
not been complied with;
      (2)   The building is too large to move without endangering persons or
property within the city;
      (3)   The building is in such a state of deterioration or disrepair or is
otherwise so structurally unsafe that it could not be moved without endangering
persons or property within the city;
      (4)   The building is structurally unsafe or unfit for the purpose for
which moved, if the removal location is within the city;
      (5)   The applicant’s equipment is unsafe and that the persons or
property would be endangered by its use;
      (6)   Zoning or other ordinances would be violated by the building in its
new location; and
      (7)   For any other reason persons or property in the city would be
endangered by the moving of the building.
   (C)   Estimate to the city. The Building Inspector shall procure from the
city’s Street Department and the city’s Utilities Department an estimate of the
expense that will be incurred in removing and replacing any electric wires,
street lamps or pole lines belonging to the city or any other property of the
city, the removal and replacement of which will be required, reason of the
moving of the building through the city, together with the cost of materials
necessary to be used in making such removals and replacements. Prior to the
issuance of the permit, the Building Inspector shall require of the applicant a
deposit of a sum of money equal to the amount of the estimated expense or $500,
whichever is greater.
   (D)   Notice. When the Building Inspector shall determine that the moving of
a building shall interfere with any gas mains, telephone or telegraphs poles or
wires, cable television wires or equipment, or other public or private
facilities, said Building Inspector shall give notice to the person, business
or franchise owning such facilities of the provisions of any proposed moving
permit.
   (E)   Designate streets for removal. The Building Inspector shall procure
from the Public Streets and Utilities Departments a list of the designated
streets over which the building may be moved. The Building Inspector shall have
the list approved by the Chief of Police and shall reproduce the list upon the
permit in writing. In making their determinations, the Street Department and
Utilities Department and Chief of Police shall act to assure maximum safety to
persons and property in the city and to minimize congestion and traffic hazards
on public streets.
(1976 Code, § 9-304) (Ord. 1106, passed 6-6-1994)
§ 150.054 DAMAGE DEPOSITS.
   (A)   General. An application hereunder shall be accompanied by a cash
deposit in the sum of $10,000 as an indemnity for any damage which the city may
sustain by reason of damage or injury to any highway, street or alley, sidewalk
fire hydrant or other property of the city, which may be caused by or be
incidental to the removal of any building over, along and across any street in
the city and to indemnify the city against any claim of damages to persons or
private property, and to satisfy any claims by private individuals arising out
of, caused by or incidental to the moving of any building over, along or across
any street in the city. This damage deposit shall be in addition to the permit
fee and deposit for expense to the city.
   (B)   Bond in lieu of deposit.
      (1)   Any person filing an application hereunder may, in lieu of the
general cash deposit required above, file with the Building Inspector a bond,
approved as to form by the City Attorney, executed by a bonding or surety
company authorized to do business in the state, in the amount of $100,000,
conditioned upon the assurance that this and other applicable ordinances and
laws will be complied with.
      (2)   Such bond shall run to the city for the use and benefit of any
person or persons intended to be protected thereby and shall be conditioned on
the payment of any damage to public or private property and the payment of any
damages or losses resulting from any malfeasance, misfeasance or non- feasance
or negligence in connection with any of the activities or conditions upon which
the permit applied for is granted.
   (C)   Insurance policy in lieu of deposit. Any person filing an application
hereunder may, in lieu of the general cash deposit required above, file with
the Building Inspector a liability insurance policy, issued by an insurance
company authorized to do business in the state, and approved as to form by the
City Attorney, in the same amount and providing the same protection as would be
required for bond hereunder.
(1976 Code, § 9-305) (Ord. 1106, passed 6-6-1994; Ord. 1422, passed 5-9-2011)
§ 150.055 FEES AND DEPOSITS.
   (A)   Deposit. The Building Inspector shall deposit all fees and deposits
and bonds or insurance policies with the City Clerk.
   (B)   Return upon non-issuance. Upon his or her refusal to issue a permit,
the Building Inspector shall return to the applicant all deposits, bonds and
insurance policies. Permit fees filed with the application shall not be
returned.
   (C)   Return upon allowance for expense.
      (1)   After the building has been removed the Building Inspector shall
furnish the City Clerk with a written statement of all expenses incurred in
removing and replacing all property belonging to the city, and of all material
used in making or the removal or replacement together with a statement of all
damage caused to or inflicted upon property belonging to the city.
      (2)   The City Clerk shall authorize the Building Inspector to return to
the applicant all deposits after the City Clerk deducts the sum sufficient to
pay for all of the costs and expenses and for all damage done to the property
of the city by reason of the removal of the building.
      (3)   Permit fees deposits with the application shall not be returned.
(1976 Code, § 9-306) (Ord. 981,passed 9-25-1989; Ord. 1106, passed 6-6-1994)
§ 150.056 DUTIES OF PERMIT HOLDER.
   Every permittee under this subchapter shall:
   (A)   Use designated streets. Move a building only over streets designated
for such use in the written permit;
   (B)   Notify of revised moving time. Notify the Building Inspector in
writing of a desired change in moving date and hours as proposed in the
application;
   (C)   Notify of damage. Notify the Building Inspector in writing of any and
all damage done to property belonging to the city within 24 hours after the
damage or injury has occurred;
   (D)   Display lights. Cause red lights to be displayed during the nighttime
on every side of the building, while standing on a street, in such manner as to
warn the public of the obstruction, and shall at all times erect and maintain
barricades across the streets in such manner as to protect the public from
damage or injury by reason of the removal of the building;
   (E)   Comply with governing law. Comply with the Building Code, the Fire
Code, the zoning ordinances and all other applicable ordinances and laws upon
relocating the building in the city;
   (F)   Pay expense of officer. Pay the expense of a traffic officer ordered
by the city to accompany the movement of the building to protect the public
from injury;
   (G)   Clear old premises. Remove all rubbish and materials and fill all
excavations to existing grade at the original building site so that the
premises are left in a safe and sanitary condition; and
   (H)   Remove service connections. See that the sewer line is properly
plugged, the water shut off, electricity disconnected and all meters returned
to the city office. The permittee shall notify the gas and cable television
companies to remove their services.
(1976 Code, § 9-307) (Ord. 1106, passed 6-6-1994) Penalty, see §
150.999
§ 150.057 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Enforcing officers. The Building Inspector, Police Department and City
Clerk shall enforce and carry out the requirements of this subchapter.
   (B)   Permittee liable for expense above deposit. The permittee shall be
liable for any expense, damages or costs in excess of deposited amounts or
securities, and the City Attorney shall prosecute an action against the
permittee in a court of competent jurisdiction for the recovery of such
excessive amounts.
   (C)   Premises left unsafe. The city shall proceed to do the work necessary
to leaving the original premises in a safe and sanitary condition, where
permittee does not comply with the requirements of this subchapter, and the
cost thereof shall be charged against the general deposit.
(1976 Code, § 9-308) (Ord. 1106, passed 6-6-1994)
§ 150.058 GENERAL LICENSE NOT TO BE ISSUED.
   There shall be no license or general permit given to anyone to move
buildings at will or generally within the city.
(1976 Code, § 9-309) (Ord. 1106, passed 6-6-1994)
§ 150.059 CONSENT OF PROPERTY OWNERS.
   Buildings, other than modular buildings occupied for less than one year and
other buildings of new construction occupied for less than one year, which are
otherwise permitted to be moved, shall not be moved unless written consent and
approval is signed by all property owners abutting directly across the street
from, and three-fourths of all property owners within 150 feet of the lot to
which such building is to be moved.
(1976 Code, § 9-310) (Ord. 1106, passed 6-6-1994) Penalty, see §
150.999
UNSAFE BUILDINGS
§ 150.070 DEFINITION.
   The term UNSAFE BUILDING, as used in this subchapter, is hereby defined to
mean and include any building, shed, fence or other human-made structure which
is dangerous to the public health because of its condition, and which may cause
or aid in the spread of disease or injury to the health of the occupants of it
or neighboring structures; which because of faulty construction, age, lack of
proper repair or any other cause is especially liable to fire and constitutes
or creates a fire hazard; which, by reason of faulty construction or any other
cause, is liable to cause injury or damage by the collapse or fall of all or
any part of such structure. Any such unsafe building in the municipality is
hereby declared to be a nuisance.
(1976 Code, § 9-401)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 18-1720, 18-1722, 18-1722.01
§ 150.071 PROHIBITION.
   It shall be unlawful to maintain or permit the existence of any unsafe
building in the municipality and it shall be unlawful for the owner, occupant
or person in custody of any dangerous building to permit the same to remain in
an unsafe condition or to occupy such building or permit it to be occupied
while it is in an unsafe condition.
(1976 Code, § 9-402) Penalty, see §
150.999
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 18-1720, 18-1722, 18-1722.01
§ 150.072 DETERMINATION AND NOTICE.
   (A)   Whenever the Building Inspector, the Fire Official, the Health
Official or the governing body shall be of the opinion that any building or
structure in the municipality is an unsafe building, he or she shall file a
written statement to this effect with the Municipal Clerk. The Clerk shall,
thereupon, cause the property to be posted accordingly and shall file a copy of
such determination in the office of the county’s Register of Deeds, and shall
serve written notice upon the owner thereof, and upon the occupant thereof, if
any, by certified mail or by personal service. Such notice shall state that the
building has been declared to be in an unsafe condition; and that such
dangerous condition must be removed or remedied by repairing or altering the
building or by demolishing it; and that the condition must be remedied within
60 days from the date of receipt. Such notice may be in the following terms:
 

To ________________________________________________ (owner-occupant of premises) of the premise known and described as                                                                                                                             .
 
You are hereby notified that                                                                        (describe building) on the premises above mentioned has been determined to be an unsafe building and a nuisance after inspection by
___________________________________ . The causes for this decision are ________________________________ (here insert the facts as to the dangerous condition).
 
You must remedy this condition or demolish the building within 60 days from the date of receipt of this notice or the municipality will proceed to do so. Appeal of this determination may be made to the governing body, acting as the Board of
Appeals, by filing with the Municipal Clerk within ten days from the date of receipt of this notice a request for a hearing.
 
   (B)   If the person receiving the notice has not complied therewith or taken
an appeal from the determination of the officer or employee finding that a
dangerous building exists within ten days from the time when this notice is
served upon such person by personal service or certified mail, the Building
Inspector may, upon orders of the governing body, proceed to remedy the
condition or demolish the unsafe building.
(1976 Code, § 9-403)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 18-1720, 18-1722, 18-1722.01
§ 150.073 HEARING AND APPEAL.
   (A)   Upon receiving the notice to repair or demolish the building, the
owner of the building, within the time stipulated, may in writing to the
Municipal Clerk request a hearing before the governing body, sitting as the
Board of Appeals, to present reasons why the building should not be repaired or
demolished. The governing body shall grant such hearing within ten days from
the date of receiving the request.
   (B)   A written notice of the governing body’s decision following the
hearing shall be sent to the property owner by certified mail. If the governing
body rejects the appeal, the owner shall have five days from the sending of the
decision to begin repair or demolition and removal. If, after the five-day
period, the owner has not begun work, the governing body shall proceed to cause
such work to be done; provided, the property owner may appeal such decision to
the appropriate court for adjudication during which proceedings the decision of
the governing body shall be stayed.
   (C)   Where the municipality has not adopted a building code, the statutes
of the state relating to bonded indebtedness and collection of delinquent taxes
shall apply.
(1976 Code, § 9-404)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 18-1720, 18-1722, 18-1722.01
§ 150.074 EMERGENCY.
   Where any unsafe building or structure poses an immediate danger to the
health, safety or general welfare of any person or persons, and the owner fails
to remedy the situation in a reasonable time after notice by the Building
Inspector to do so, the municipality may summarily repair or demolish and
remove such building or structure.
(1976 Code, § 9-405)
§ 150.075 SPECIAL ASSESSMENTS.
   (A)   If any owner of any building or structure fails, neglects or refuses
to comply with notice by or on behalf of the municipality to repair,
rehabilitate or demolish and remove a building or structure which is unsafe and
a public nuisance, the municipality may proceed with the work specified in the
notice to the property owner. A statement of the cost of such work shall be
transmitted to the governing body.
   (B)   The governing body may:
      (1)   Levy the cost as a special assessment against the lot or real
estate upon which the building or structure is located and such special
assessment shall be a lien on the real estate and shall be collected in the
manner provided for special assessments; or
      (2)   Collect the cost from the owner of the building or structure and
enforce the collection by civil action in any court of competent jurisdiction.
(1976 Code, § 9-406) (Ord. 1020, passed 1-21-1991)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 18-1720, 18-1722, 18-1722.01, 77-1725
§ 150.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   (1)   Any person who shall violate or refuse to comply with the
enforcement of any of the provisions of this chapter, set forth at full length
herein or incorporated by reference, shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor
and, upon conviction thereof, shall be fined not more than $500 for each
offense. A new violation shall be deemed to have been committed every 24 hours
of such failure to comply.
(1976 Code, § 9-601)
      (2)   (a)   Whenever a nuisance exists, as defined in this chapter, the
municipality may proceed by a suit in equity to enjoin and abate the same, in
the manner provided by law.
         (b)   Whenever, in any action, it is established that a nuisance
exists, the court may together with the fine or penalty imposed, enter an order
of abatement as a part of the judgment in the case.
(1976 Code, § 9-602)
   (B)   Any person who shall violate or refuse to comply with the enforcement
of §§
150.015 and
150.016 of this chapter, set forth at full length herein or incorporated by
reference, shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction
thereof, shall be fined not more than $500 for each offense. A new violation
shall be deemed to have been committed every 24 hours of such failure to
comply.
(1976 Code, § 10-1201)
(Ord. 1449, passed 12-23-2013)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 18-1720, 18-1722
CHAPTER 151: STREETS, SIDEWALKS AND PUBLIC PROPERTY
Section
General Provisions
   
151.001   Cutting paving, curb or sidewalk
   
151.002   Utilities using municipal property; fee
   
151.003   Railroad companies
Municipal Property
   
151.015   Definition
   
151.016   Maintenance and control
   
151.017   Sale and conveyance of real property
   
151.018   Sale and conveyance of personal property
   
151.019   Obstructions
   
151.020   Weeds
   
151.021   Acquisition of property; construction and the like
   
151.022   Public works involving architecture or engineering
Sidewalks
   
151.035   Overhanging branches
   
151.036   Sidewalks to be kept clean
   
151.037   Obstructions
   
151.038   Repair
   
151.039   Construction by owner
   
151.040   Construction by municipality; bids
   
151.041   Construction by petition
Streets
   
151.055   Names and numbers
   
151.056   Opening, improving or vacating
   
151.057   Excavations
   
151.058   Driving stakes
   
151.059   Mixing concrete
   
151.060   Harmful liquids
   
151.061   Eave and gutter spouts
   
151.062   Construction notice
   
151.063   Pipe lines and wires
   
151.064   Street and utility installation; location
   
151.065   Construction; assessment
   
151.066   Improvements
   
151.067   Deferral from special assessments
   
151.068   Driveway approaches
   
151.069   Vacating public ways; procedure
   
151.070   Operation of vehicles
 
   
151.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 151.001 CUTTING CURBS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to cut into any paving, curb or
sidewalk for the purpose of constructing a driveway or any other purpose
whatsoever without first having obtained a written permit from the Public
Services Commissioner. The application for such permit shall contain the
following information:
      (1)   The addition, block and lot which the improvement is to serve;
      (2)   The location of the proposed improvement with reference to adjacent
lot lines; and
      (3)   The width of the improvement and type of surface which the
improvement will connect.
   (B)   Upon the application being filed, it shall be the Public Services
Commissioner’s duty to inspect the place of entry into the paving, sidewalk or
curb and approve such application on such terms and conditions, including
starting and completion dates, as he or she determines necessary. When cutting
into any paving, it shall be the duty of the party to cut the paving under such
rules and regulations as may be prescribed by the Public Services Commissioner
or the City Engineer. When the applicant is ready to close the opening made, he
or she shall inform the Public Services Commissioner, who shall supervise and
inspect the materials used and the work done in closing the opening. It shall
be discretionary with the Commissioner, under the supervision and inspection of
the City Administrator or the City Engineer, to do the work of cutting and
closing the paving and charge the costs thereof to the party who obtained such
permit.
   (C)   Before any permit is issued, the applicant for such permit shall
deposit with the City Treasurer a sum set by resolution of the City Council for
all paving curb or sidewalk to be cut. Such sum shall be set on a per-square-
foot cost of construction basis. The deposit shall be retained by the city for
the purpose of replacing the paving, curb or sidewalk in the event the work is
done by the city. In the event the city elects to require the applicant to
replace the paving, curb or sidewalk, the deposit shall be retained by the city
until the work is completed to the satisfaction of the Public Services
Commissioner. In lieu of making the deposit above set forth, the applicant may,
before any permit is issued, execute a bond to the city with a good and
sufficient surety or sureties to be approved by the City Council for the total
cost of the improvement.
   (D)   In the event that the work has not been completed by the completion
date as set forth on the approved application, the city may cancel the permit
if work has not commenced, complete the work and retain a sufficient sum of the
deposit to reimburse the city for such completion work or serve notice on the
applicant’s bonding company of such failure to complete the work, and if
necessary file legal action on applicant’s bond.
(1976 Code, § 8-401) (Ord. 1490, passed 7-20-2020) Penalty, see §
151.999
§ 151.002 UTILITIES USING MUNICIPAL PROPERTY; FEE.
   (A)   Franchise fee imposed. The City Council hereby determines that the
municipality incurs expenses and liabilities because of the use by utility
systems operating within the municipality on public rights-of-way and easements
belonging to the city and that said utilities shall henceforth make payment for
such expenses and liabilities in the form of franchise fee payable to the city,
as hereinafter set forth.
(1976 Code, § 8-501)
   (B)   Amount of franchise fee. There is hereby assessed against each public
utility making use of public rights-of-way and easements located within the
city a franchise fee equal to 8% of such utility’s gross billing of revenues
from sales within the jurisdiction of the city; provided that, this franchise
fee shall not apply to any privately owned utility located in the municipality
presently operating under a franchise granted by the municipality.
(1976 Code, § 8-502)
   (C)   Franchise fee; monthly payment. Each utility subject to the provisions
of this section shall pay to the City Treasurer on a time schedule established
by the said City Clerk a monthly payment equal to 8% of the utility’s gross
receipts for such month derived from sales of its service or product located
within the jurisdiction of the city. Such utility shall make available to the
City Treasurer a monthly report or statement showing the amount of total gross
receipts which are the basis for which payment of franchise fees described
herein are paid to the municipality.
(1976 Code, § 8-503)
(Ord. 1012, passed 10-22-1990)
§ 151.003 RAILROAD COMPANIES.
   (A)   Safe crossings. It shall be the duty of every railroad company doing
business in, or traveling through, the municipality to keep in a suitable, and
safe condition the crossings and right-of-way in the municipality. If any such
crossing shall at any time fall into disrepair and become unsafe, or
inconvenient for public travel, the governing body may, by resolution, call
upon the said company to make whatever repairs that they may deem necessary to
correct the dangerous condition. Notice of the said resolution shall be served
upon the local agent of the said company. In the event that the railroad shall
fail, or neglect to repair, and correct the said condition as aforesaid within
48 hours, neglect for each 24 hours thereafter shall be deemed, and is hereby
made a separate, and distinct offense against the provisions herein.
(1976 Code, § 10-601)
   (B)   Lighting. It shall be the duty of all railroad companies owning,
operating and maintaining a railroad through the municipality to sufficiently
light all crossings and to install as many signal systems as the governing body
shall deem necessary at the expense of the said company.
(1976 Code, § 10-602) Penalty, see §
151.999
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-143, 17-144, 17-561
MUNICIPAL PROPERTY
§ 151.015 DEFINITION.
   The term SIDEWALK SPACE, as used herein, shall mean that portion of a street
between curb lines and adjacent property lines.
(1976 Code, § 8-101)
§ 151.016 MAINTENANCE AND CONTROL.
   The governing body shall have the care, supervision and control of all
public highways, bridges, streets, alleys, public squares and commons within
the municipality, and shall cause the same to be kept open and in repair and
free from nuisances.
(1976 Code, § 8-102)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-567
§ 151.017 SALE AND CONVEYANCE OF REAL PROPERTY.
   (A)   Except as provided in division (G) of this section, the power of the
city to convey any real property owned by it, including land used for park
purposes and public squares, except real property used in the operation of
public utilities, shall be exercised by resolution, directing the sale at
public auction or by sealed bid of that property and the manner and terms of
such sales, except that the property shall not be sold at public auction or by
sealed bid when:
      (1)   The property is being sold in compliance with the requirements of
federal or state grants or programs;
      (2)   The property is being conveyed to another public agency; or
      (3)   The property consists of streets and alleys.
   (B)   The City Council may establish a minimum price for real property at
which bidding shall begin or shall serve as a minimum for a sealed bid.
   (C)   After the passage of the resolution directing the sale, notice of all
proposed sales of property described in division (A) of this section and the
terms of such sales shall be published once each week for three consecutive
weeks in a legal newspaper published in or of general circulation in the city.
   (D)   (1)   If within 30 days after the third publication of the notice a
remonstrance petition against the sale:
         (a)   Conforms to Neb. RS 32-628;
         (b)   Is signed by registered voters of the city equal in number to
30% of the registered voters of the city voting at the last regular city
election held therein; and
         (c)   Is filed with the City Council, that property shall not then,
nor within one year thereafter, be sold. If the date for filing the petition
falls upon a Saturday, Sunday, or legal holiday, the signatures shall be
collected within the 30-day period, but the filing shall be considered timely
if filed or postmarked on or before the next business day.
      (2)   Upon the receipt of the remonstrance, the City Council, with the
aid and assistance of the Election Commissioner or County Clerk, shall
determine the validity and sufficiency of signatures on the petition. The City
Council shall deliver the petition to the Election Commissioner or County Clerk
by hand carrier, by use of law enforcement officials, or by certified mail,
return receipt requested.
      (3)   Upon receipt of the petition, the Election Commissioner or County
Clerk shall issue to the City Council a written receipt that the petition is in
the custody of the Election Commissioner or County Clerk. The Election
Commissioner or County Clerk shall compare the signature of each person signing
the petition with the voter registration records to determine if each signer
was a registered voter on or before the date on which the petition was filed
with the City Council. The Election Commissioner or County Clerk shall also
compare the signer's printed name, street and number or voting precinct, and
city or post office address with the voter registration records to determine
whether the signer was a registered voter. The signature and address shall be
presumed to be valid only if the Election Commissioner or County Clerk
determines that the printed name, street and number or voting precinct, and
city or post office address match the registration records and that the
registration was received on or before the date on which the petition was filed
with the City Council. The determinations of the Election Commissioner or
County Clerk may be rebutted by any credible evidence which the City Council
finds sufficient. The express purpose of the comparison of names and addresses
with the voter registration records, in addition to helping to determine the
validity of the petition, the sufficiency of the petition, and the
qualifications of the signer, shall be to prevent fraud, deception, and
misrepresentation in the petition process.
      (4)   Upon completion of the comparison of names and addresses with the
voter registration records, the Election Commissioner or County Clerk shall
prepare in writing a certification under seal setting forth the name and
address of each signer found not to be a registered voter and the signature
page number and line number where the name is found, and if the reason for the
invalidity of the signature or address is other than the nonregistration of the
signer, the Election Commissioner or County Clerk shall set forth the reason
for the invalidity of the signature. If the Election Commissioner or County
Clerk determines that a signer has affixed his or her signature more than once
to the remonstrance and that only one person is registered by that name, the
Election Commissioner or County Clerk shall prepare in writing a certification
under seal setting forth the name of the duplicate signature and shall count
only the earliest dated signature.
      (5)   The Election Commissioner or County Clerk shall certify to the City
Council the number of valid signatures necessary to constitute a valid
remonstrance. The Election Commissioner or County Clerk shall deliver the
remonstrance and the certifications to the City Council within 40 days after
the receipt of the remonstrance from the City Council. The delivery shall be by
hand carrier, by use of law enforcement officials, or by certified mail, return
receipt requested. Not more than 20 signatures on one signature page shall be
counted.
      (6)   The City Council shall, within 30 days after the receipt of the
remonstrance and certifications from the Election Commissioner or County Clerk,
hold a public hearing to review the remonstrance and certifications and receive
testimony regarding them. The City Council shall, following the hearing, vote
on whether or not the remonstrance is valid and shall uphold the remonstrance
if sufficient valid signatures have been received.
   (E)   Real estate now owned or hereafter owned by the city may be conveyed
without consideration to the state for state armory sites or, if acquired for
state armory sites, shall be conveyed strictly in accordance with the
conditions of Neb. RS 18-1001 through 18-1006.
   (F)   Following passage of the resolution directing a sale, publishing of
the notice of the proposed sale, and passing of the 30-day right-of-
remonstrance period, the property shall then be sold. The sale shall be
confirmed by passage of an ordinance stating the name of the purchaser and
terms of the sale.
   (G)   Divisions (A) through (F) of this section shall not apply to the sale
of real property if the authorizing resolution directs the sale of real
property, the total fair market value of which is less than $5,000. Following
passage of the resolution directing the sale of the property, notice of the
sale shall be posted in three prominent places within the city for a period of
not less than seven days prior to the sale of the property. The notice shall
give a general description of the property offered for sale and state the terms
and conditions of sale. Confirmation of the sale by passage of an ordinance may
be required.
(1976 Code, § 8-103)
(Ord. 671, passed 9-17-1981; Ord. 702, passed 8-5-1982; Ord. 1147, passed 2-6-
1995; Ord. 1205, passed 1-22-1996; Ord. 1350, passed 11-8-2004; Ord. 1479,
passed 2-5-2018; Ord. 1540, passed 1-9-2023)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-503, 17-503.01
§ 151.018 SALE AND CONVEYANCE OF PERSONAL PROPERTY.
   (A)   The power of the city to convey any personal property owned by it
shall be exercised by resolution directing the sale and the manner and terms of
the sale. Following passage of the resolution directing the sale of the
property, notice of the sale shall be posted in three prominent places within
the city for a period of not less than seven days prior to the sale of the
property. If the fair market value of the property is greater than $5,000,
notice of the sale shall also be published once in a legal newspaper published
in or of general circulation in the city at least seven days prior to the sale
of the property. The notice shall give a general description of the property
offered for sale and state the terms and conditions of sale.
   (B)   Personal property may be conveyed notwithstanding the procedure in
division (A) above when:
      (1)   Such property is being sold in compliance with the requirements of
federal or state grants or programs; or
      (2)   Such property is being conveyed to another public agency.
(1976 Code, § 8-103.1) (Ord. 1350, passed 11-8-2004)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-503.02
§ 151.019 OBSTRUCTIONS.
   (A)   (1)   Trees and shrubs, growing upon, or near the lot line, or upon
public ground and interfering with the use, or construction of any public
improvements shall be deemed an obstruction under this subchapter. Said trees
and shrubs, or the roots thereof, may be removed by the municipality at the
expense of the owner of the property upon which the tree or shrubs are located
should the owner fail, or neglect, after notice, to do so. It shall be unlawful
for any person, persons, firm or corporation to obstruct or encumber, by
fences, gates, buildings, structures or otherwise, any of the streets, alleys,
sidewalk space, sidewalks, public ways or public grounds. The prohibition
against the obstruction of sidewalk space or sidewalks shall not be construed
as being a prohibition of sidewalk sales in the business district, but retail
merchants shall be prohibited hereby from materially obstructing or encumbering
the sidewalk space or sidewalks during sidewalk sales to an extent that the
area for walking thereon is materially reduced.
      (2)   Whenever the owner of any obstruction, encumbrance or encroachment
upon any street, alley, sidewalk space, sidewalk, public way or public ground
within the municipality refuses, or neglects to remove the same after receiving
notice to do so, or after diligent search, cannot be found for the purpose of
giving such notice to the owner, such obstruction, encumbrance or encroachment
shall be deemed a public nuisance and it shall be the duty of the Street
Commissioner to cause the same to be removed or taken down and the expenses
thereof shall be recoverable from the owner in an action at law. In addition,
the owner of the obstruction, encumbrance or encroachment shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor and shall, upon receiving notice, and conviction, to be fined for
each and every day that the obstruction, encumbrance or encroachment remains on
public property.
      (3)   The provisions of this section shall not apply to mailboxes and
supports for mailboxes upon streets within the municipality which have been
designated as rural routes for postal delivery service by the United States
Postal Service; provided that, said mailboxes must be approved by the Postal
Service and that no part of any such mailbox or its supporting structure shall
extend more than six inches over the curb from the line between the curb and
sidewalk or more than 12 inches over the sidewalk from the line between the
curb and sidewalk.
(1976 Code, § 8-104)
   (B)   (1)   The municipality shall have the power to remove all obstructions
from the sidewalks, curbstones, gutters and crosswalks at the expense of the
person placing them there or at the expense of the municipality and to require
and regulate the planting and protection of shade trees in and along the
streets and the trimming and removing of such trees.
      (2)   The municipality shall have the power to regulate the building of
bulkheads, cellar and basement ways, stairways, railways, windows, doorways,
awnings, hitching posts and rails, lampposts, awning posts, all other
structures projection upon or over and adjoining, and all other excavations
through and under the sidewalks in the municipality.
(1976 Code, § 8-104.1)
   (C)   (1)   The municipality shall have power to prevent and remove all
encroachments, including snow, ice, mud or other obstructions, into and upon
all sidewalks, streets, avenues, alleys and other municipal property.
      (2)   (a)   If the abutting property owner refuses or neglects, after
five days’ notice by publication or, in place thereof, personal service of such
notice, to remove all encroachments from sidewalks, as provided in division (C)
(1) above, the municipality through the proper officers may cause such
encroachments to be removed and the cost of removal shall be paid out of the
Street Fund.
         (b)   The governing body shall assess the cost of the notice and
removal of the encroachment against the abutting property as a special
assessment. The special assessment shall be known as a special sidewalk
assessment and, together with the cost of notice, shall be levied and collected
as a special assessment in addition to the general revenue taxes and shall be
subject to the same penalties as other special assessments and shall draw
interest from the date of the assessment.
      (3)   Upon payment of the assessment, the assessment shall be credited to
the Street Fund.
(1976 Code, § 8-104.2)
   (D)   Persons engaged in the erection, construction, reconstruction,
wrecking or repairing of any building, or the construction, or repair, of a
sidewalk along any street, may occupy the public street space with such
building material and equipment as long as is necessary if such persons shall
make application to and receive a permit in writing from the Street
Commissioner to do so; provided, no permit for the occupancy of the sidewalk
space, and more than one-third of the roadway of the public space adjacent to
the real estate on which said building is to be constructed, erected,
reconstructed, wrecked or repaired shall be granted; and, provided further, a
suitable passageway for pedestrians shall be maintained within the public space
included in the permit which shall be protected and lighted in the manner
required by the Street Commissioner.
(1976 Code, § 8-105)
(Ord. 599, passed 1-18-1979; Ord. 1111, passed 7-11-1994; Ord. 1238, passed 9-
8-1997; Ord. 1461, passed 2-8-2016) Penalty, see §
151.999
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-555, 17-557, 17-557.01
§ 151.020 WEEDS.
   It is hereby the duty of the Street Commissioner or his or her duly
authorized agent to view and inspect the sidewalk space within the corporate
limits for growing weeds during the growing season, and if rank and noxious
weeds are found growing thereon, he or she shall notify the owner or occupant
thereof, to cut down such weeds as close to the ground as can be practicably
done and keep the weeds cut thereon in like manner during the growing season
for weeds. In the event that the owner of any lot or parcel of land within the
municipality is a non-resident of the municipality or cannot be found therein
the notice may be given to any person having the care, custody or control of
such lot or parcel of land. In the event that there can be found no one within
the municipality to whom notice can be given, it shall be the duty of the
Street Commissioner or his or her agent to post a copy of the notice on the
premise and then to cut or cause the weeds thereon to be cut as therein
provided and report the cost thereof in writing to the governing body. The cost
shall then be audited and paid by the municipality and the amount thereof shall
be assessed against the lot or parcel of land as a special tax thereon at the
rate of $7.50 per hour, and shall be collected as are other taxes of the
municipality or may be recovered by civil suit brought by the municipality
against the owner of the parcel of land. In the event the property owner is a
non-resident of the county in which the property lies, the municipality shall,
before levying any special assessment against that property, send a copy of any
notice required by law to be published by means of certified mail, return
receipt requested to the last known address of the non-resident property owner.
The last known address shall be that address listed on the current tax rolls at
the time such required notice was first published.
(1976 Code, § 8-106)
§ 151.021 ACQUISITION OF PROPERTY; CONSTRUCTION AND THE LIKE.
   (A)   (1)   The municipality is authorized and empowered to purchase, accept
by gift or devise, purchase real estate upon which to erect and erect a
building or buildings for an auditorium, fire station, municipal building or
community house for housing municipal enterprises and social and recreation
purposes, and other public buildings, and maintain, manage and operate the same
for the benefit of the inhabitants of the municipality.
      (2)   Except as provided in division (A)(3) below, before any such
purchase can be made or building erected, the question shall be submitted to
the electors of the municipality at a general municipal election or at an
election duly called for that purpose, or as set forth in Neb. RS 17-954, and
be adopted by a majority of the electors voting on such question.
      (3)   If the funds to be used to finance the purchase or construction of
a building pursuant to this section are available other than through a bond
issue then either:
         (a)   Notice of the proposed purchase or construction shall be
published in a newspaper of general circulation in the municipality and no
election shall be required to approve the purchase or construction unless
within 30 days after the publication of the notice, a remonstrance against the
purchase or construction is signed by registered voters of the municipality
equal in number to 15% is filed with the governing body. If the date for filing
the remonstrance falls upon a Saturday, Sunday or legal holiday, the signatures
shall be considered timely if filed or postmarked on or before the next
question shall be submitted to the voters of the municipality voting at the
last regular municipal election held therein and is filed with the governing
body. If the date for filing the remonstrance falls upon a Saturday, Sunday or
legal holiday, the signatures shall be considered timely if filed or postmarked
on or before the next business day. If a remonstrance with the necessary number
of qualified signatures is timely filed, the questions shall be submitted to
the voters of the municipality at a general municipal election or a special
election duly called for that purpose. If the purchase or construction is not
approved, the property involved shall not then, nor within one year following
the election, be purchased or constructed; or
         (b)   The governing body may proceed without providing the notice and
right of remonstrance required in division (A)(3)(a) above if the property can
be purchased below the fair market value as determined by an appraisal, there
is a willing seller, and the purchase price is less than $25,000.
      (4)   The purchase shall be approved by the governing body after notice
and public hearing as provided in Neb. RS 18-1755.
(1976 Code, § 8-107)
   (B)   When acquiring an interest in real property by purchase or eminent
domain, the municipality shall do so only after the governing body has
authorized the acquisition by action taken in a public meeting after notice and
public hearing.
(1976 Code, § 8-108)
   (C)   The municipality shall not purchase, lease-purchase or acquire for
consideration real property having an estimated value of $100,000 or more
unless an appraisal of such property has been performed by a certified real
estate appraiser.
(1976 Code, § 8-109)
(Ord. 672, passed 9-17-1981; Ord. 1157, passed 2-6-1995; Ord. 1158, passed 2-6-
1995; Ord. 1206, passed 1-22-1996)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 13-403, 17-953, 17-953.01, 18-1755
§ 151.022 PUBLIC WORKS INVOLVING ARCHITECTURE OR ENGINEERING.
   (A)   (1)   Except as otherwise provided in this section and Neb. RS 81-349
and 81-3453, the municipality shall not engage in the construction of any
public works involving architecture or engineering unless the plans,
specifications and estimates have been prepared and the construction has been
observed by an architect, a professional engineer or a person under the direct
supervision of an architect, professional engineer or those under the direct
supervision of an architect or professional engineer.
      (2)   This division (A) shall not apply to any public work in which the
contemplated expenditure for the complete project does not exceed $100,000 or
the adjusted dollar amount set by the Board of Engineers and Architects.
   (B)   The provisions of division (A) above regulating the practice of
architecture do not apply to the following activities or the other activities
specified in Neb. RS 81-3449:
      (1)   Any alteration, renovation or remodeling of a building if the
alteration, renovation or remodeling does not affect architectural or
engineering safety features of the building;
      (2)   A public service provider who employs a design professional
performing professional services for itself;
      (3)   The practice of any other certified trade or legally recognized
profession;
      (4)   Earthmoving and related work associated with soil and water
conservation practices performed any land owned by the municipality that is not
subject to a permit from the Department of Natural Resources; and
      (5)   The work of employees and agents of the municipality performing, in
accordance with other requirements of law, their customary duties in the
administration and enforcement of codes, permit programs and land use
regulations and their customary duties in utility and public works
construction, operation and maintenance.
   (C)   The provisions of division (A) above regulating the practice of
engineering do not apply to the following activities, the activities specified,
in division (B) above, or the other activities specified in Neb. RS 81-3453:
      (1)   These services ordinarily performed by subordinates under direct
supervision of a professional engineer or those commonly designated as
locomotive, stationary, marine operating engineers, power plant operating
engineers or manufacturers who supervise the operation of or operate machinery
or equipment or who supervise construction within their own plant; and
      (2)   The construction of water wells as defined in Neb. RS 46-1212, the
installation of pumps and pumping equipment into water wells, and the
decommissioning of water wells, unless such construction, installation or
decommissioning is required by the municipality to be designed or supervised by
an engineer or unless legal requirements are imposed upon the municipality as a
part of a public water supply.
   (D)   For the purpose of this section, the municipality is considered a
public service provider if it employs or appoints an architect or a
professional engineer to be in responsible charge of the municipality’s
architectural or engineering work.
(1976 Code, § 8-110) (Ord. 1360, passed 11-8-2004; Ord. 1426B, passed 12-5-
2011; Ord. 1461, passed 2-8-2016)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 81-3423, 81-3449, 81-3453
SIDEWALKS
§ 151.035 OVERHANGING BRANCHES.
   (A)   The owner or occupant of any lot, piece or parcel of ground abutting
or adjacent to any street or sidewalk over which there extends the branches of
trees shall at all times keep the branches or limbs thereof trimmed to the
height of at least eight feet above the surface of said street or walk.
   (B)   Whenever the limbs or branches of any tree or trees extend over
streets or sidewalks contrary to the provisions herein so as to interfere with
the lighting of the street from street lights, or with the convenience of the
public using said street or sidewalk, the governing body at any regular or
special meeting may pass a resolution ordering the owner or occupant to cut or
remove said obstructions within five days after having received a copy thereof
from the Street Commissioner stating that the municipality will remove said
branches and charge the costs thereof to the owner or occupant as a special
assessment for improvements as herein provided, if said resolution is not
complied with.
   (C)   In the event the property owner is a non-resident of the county in
which the property lies, the municipality shall, before levying any special
assessment against that property, send a copy of any notice required by law to
be published by means of certified mail, return receipt requested to the last
known address of the non-resident property owner.
   (D)   The last known address shall be that address listed on the current tax
rolls at the time such required notice was first published.
(1976 Code, § 8-201) Penalty, see §
151.999
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-557.01
§ 151.036 SIDEWALKS TO BE KEPT CLEAN.
   It shall be unlawful for the occupant of any lot or lots or the owner of any
vacant lot or lots within the corporate limits to allow snow, sleet, mud, ice
or other substance to accumulate on the sidewalks or to permit any snow, sleet,
ice, mud or other substance to remain upon said sidewalk. All sidewalks within
the business district shall be cleaned within five hours after the cessation of
a storm, unless the storm or fall of snow shall have taken place during the
night, in which case the sidewalk shall be cleaned before 9:00 a.m. the
following day; provided, sidewalks within the residential areas of the
municipality shall be cleaned within 24 hours after the cessation of the storm.
(1976 Code, § 8-202) Penalty, see §
151.999
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-557
§ 151.037 OBSTRUCTIONS.
   (A)   The city may remove all obstructions from the sidewalks, curbstones,
gutters and crosswalks at the expense of the person placing them there or at
the expense of the city and require and regulate the planting and protection of
shade trees in and along the streets and the trimming and removing of such
trees.
   (B)   The city may regulate the building of bulkheads, cellar and basement
ways, stairways, railways, windows, doorways, awnings, hitching posts and
rails, lampposts, awning posts, all other structures projecting upon or over
and adjoining and all other excavations through and under the sidewalks in the
city.
(Ord. 1468, passed 2-6-2017)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-555
§ 151.038 REPAIR.
   (A)   The Mayor and City Council may construct and repair sidewalks, or
cause the construction and repair of sidewalks in such manner as the Mayor and
City Council deems necessary and assess the expense thereof on the property in
front of which such construction or repairs are made, after having given
notice:
      (1)   By publication in one issue of a legal newspaper of general
circulation in the municipality; and
      (2)   By either causing a written notice to be served upon the occupant
in possession of the property involved or to be posted upon such premises ten
days prior to the commencement of such repair or construction.
   (B)   The notice shall:
      (1)   State that the governing body has ordered repair of the sidewalk;
      (2)   Contain the municipality’s estimate of the cost of the repair;
      (3)   Notify the property owner that he or she may, within ten days after
the date of publication of the notice, notify the municipality that he or she
will repair the sidewalk within 30 days after such date of publication; and
      (4)   Notify the property owner that if he or she fails to so notify the
municipality within the ten days or, having so notified the municipality, fails
to repair the sidewalk within the 30 days, the municipality will cause the
sidewalk to be repaired and the expense thereof to be assessed against the
property.
   (C)   (1)   Before the municipality imposes any special assessments for
sidewalk repair, a copy of the notice that is required to be published shall be
mailed to the last-known address of all non-resident property owners as shown
on the current tax rolls at the time such notice is first published.
      (2)   The Municipal Clerk shall mail the notice by certified mail with
return receipt requested.
      (3)   For purposes of this division (C), NON-RESIDENT PROPERTY OWNER
means any person or corporation whose residence and mailing address as shown on
the current tax rolls is outside the boundaries of the county in which the
property subject to assessment is located and who is a record owner of the
property.
   (D)   All sidewalks shall be repaired in conformity with such plans and
specifications as may be approved by the governing body.
   (E)   Assessments made under this section shall be made and assessed in the
manner provided in Neb. RS 17-524.
(1976 Code, § 8-204) (Ord. 1361, passed 11-8-2004) Penalty, see §
151.999
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 13-310, 13-312, 13-314, 17-522
§ 151.039 CONSTRUCTION BY OWNER.
   (A)   (1)   Any person desiring to construct, or cause to be constructed,
any sidewalk shall do so only as herein provided.
      (2)   It shall be unlawful for any person to construct any sidewalk
without first having obtained a permit.
   (B)   Said owner shall make application in writing for a permit and file
such application in the office of the City Administrator or Street
Commissioner. The permit shall give a description of the lot, or piece of land
along which the sidewalk is to be constructed. The City Administrator or Street
Commissioner shall issue the desired permit unless good cause shall appear why
said permit should be denied; provided, if it is desired to construct the
sidewalk at any other than the regularly prescribed location, grade or
elevation, the City Administrator or Street Commissioner shall submit the
application to the governing body who shall determine whether the permit should
be granted or denied.
   (C)   All sidewalks shall be constructed of concrete, glass, iron or a
combination of such materials. In the fire limits, all sidewalks shall be
constructed plumb with the lot lines, unless the governing body by resolution
otherwise order. Within the fire limits, all sidewalks shall extend in width
from lot line to curb, if any, and in no event less than eight feet in width
and elsewhere within the corporate limits, all sidewalks shall be laid four
feet in width, unless the governing body, by resolution, otherwise orders. It
shall be unlawful for any person to construct, or cause to be constructed said
sidewalk at any other location, grade or elevation and, if there is no
established grade, then on the grade or elevation indicated by the City
Administrator or Street Commissioner.
(1976 Code, § 8-205) Penalty, see §
151.999
§ 151.040 CONSTRUCTION BY MUNICIPALITY; BIDS.
   (A)   (1)   The governing body may, by resolution, order the construction of
a sidewalk on any lot or piece of ground within the municipality. Notice of the
governing body’s intention to construct said sidewalk shall be given by the
Municipal Clerk by publication of notice one time in a legal newspaper of
general circulation in the municipality.
      (2)   A copy of said notice shall be personally served upon the occupant
in possession of such property or, when personal service is not possible, said
notice shall be posted upon such premises ten days prior to the commencement of
construction. The notice required in this section shall be prepared by the
Municipal Attorney in accordance with the provisions of this section. Such
service shall include a form of return evidencing personal service or posting
as herein required.
      (3)   Said notice shall notify the owner of the premise of the passage of
the resolution ordering him or her to construct or cause to be constructed a
sidewalk within 30 days after the date of publication and, further that, if he
or she fails to construct the sidewalk or cause the same to be done within the
time allowed, the municipality will cause the sidewalk to be constructed and
the cost thereof shall be levied and assessed as a special tax against the
premise; provided, the notice shall contain the official estimate of the cost
of said construction and no special assessment in excess of this estimate shall
be assessed against the property. In the event the property owner is a non-
resident of the county in which the property lies, the municipality shall,
before levying any special assessment against that property, send a copy of any
notice required by law to be published by means of certified mail, return
receipt requested to the last known address of the non-resident property owner.
The last known address shall be that address listed on the current tax rolls at
the time such required notice was first published.
(1976 Code, § 8-206)
   (B)   Whenever the municipality shall construct, widen, replace or
reconstruct any sidewalk, notice prepared by the Municipal Attorney, specifying
the work to be done and calling for bids for doing such work and supplying the
necessary materials and labor shall be published in at least one issue of a
legal newspaper of general circulation in the municipality; provided, bids so
invited shall be filed in the office of the Municipal Clerk within ten days
after the date of publication. Bids shall be opened at the next regular or
special meeting of the governing body, and the governing body shall then award
the work to the lowest responsible bidder. Upon approval of the work, the
governing body may require the contractor to accept payment in certificates
issued to him by the Municipal Clerk entitling him or her to all assessments or
special taxes, against such real estate whenever such assessments or special
taxes, shall be collected together with the interest or penalty collected
thereon. Each certificate shall give the legal description of the lot, lots or
parcel of ground against which the assessments or special taxes are assessed.
Such certificate or certificates may be assigned and transferred, entitling the
holder to the same rights as if held by the original contractor. The County
Treasurer shall pay over to such contractor or other holder of the certificate
or certificates all assessments or special taxes against such real estate,
together with the interest and penalty thereon, at any time upon presentation
of such certificate or certificates after said assessments or special taxes
against such real estate together with interest or penalty thereon shall have
been collected.
(1976 Code, § 8-207)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-522, 17-523
§ 151.041 CONSTRUCTION BY PETITION.
   If the owners of the record title representing more than 60% of the front
footage of the directly abutting property, subject to assessment for sidewalk
improvements, petition the governing body to make the same, the governing body
shall proceed in all things as though such construction had been ordered by it.
Upon the petition of any freeholder who is an abutting owner in fee simple of
property subject to assessment for sidewalk improvements, the governing body
may order permanent sidewalks built in accordance with this subchapter upon the
freeholder making, executing and delivering to the municipality an agreement to
the effect that the petitioning freeholder will pay the engineering service fee
and all other incidental construction costs until paid shall be a perpetual
lien upon the real estate along which the freeholder desires such sidewalk to
be constructed and that the petitioner gives and grants to the municipality the
right to assess and levy the costs of such construction against the
freeholder’s real estate abutting the sidewalk improvement and promises to pay
such costs with interest. The total cost of such improvement shall be levied,
allocated, financed and specially assessed as provided by law. In the event the
property owner is a non-resident of the county in which the property lies, the
municipality shall, before levying any special assessment against that
property, send a copy of any notice required by law to be published by means of
certified mail, return receipt requested to the last known address of the non-
resident property owner. The last known address shall be that address listed on
the current tax rolls at the time such required notice was first published.
(1976 Code, § 8-208) (Ord. 621, passed 8-23-1979)
STREETS
§ 151.055 NAMES AND NUMBERS.
   The governing body may at any time, by ordinance, rename any street or
provide a name for any new street. Buildings used for residence or business
purposes and located along such streets shall retain such numbers as the
governing body may require. It shall be the duty of the Street Commissioner,
upon the erection of any new building or buildings to assign the proper numbers
to said building or buildings and give notice to the owner or owners and
occupant or occupants of the same.
(1976 Code, § 8-301)
§ 151.056 OPENING, IMPROVING OR VACATING.
   (A)   The governing body may grade, partially or to an established grade,
change grade, curb, recurb, gutter, regutter, pave, gravel, regravel,
macadamize, remacadamize, widen or narrow streets or roadways, resurface of re-
lay existing pavement or otherwise improve any streets, alleys, public grounds,
public ways, entirely or partially, and streets which divide the municipal
corporate area and the area adjoining the municipality; construct or
reconstruct pedestrian walks, plazas, malls, landscaping, outdoor sprinkler
systems, foundations, decorative water ponds, lighting systems and permanent
facilities; and construct sidewalks and improve the sidewalk space. These
projects may be funded at public cost or by the levy of special assessments on
the property especially benefitted in proportion to such benefits, except as
provided in Neb. RS 19-2428 through 19-2431.
   (B)   The governing body may, by ordinance, create improvement districts, to
be consecutively numbered, which may include two or more connecting or
intersecting streets, alleys or public ways, and may include two or more types
of the improvements authorized under this section in a single district in one
proceeding.
   (C)   All of the improvements which are to be funded by a levy of special
assessment on the property especially benefitted shall be ordered as provided
in Neb. RS 17-510 to 17-512, except as otherwise provided in Neb. RS 17-509.
(1976 Code, § 8-302) (Ord. 1479, passed 2-5-2018)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-509
§ 151.057 EXCAVATIONS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to make an excavation in any street or
streets for any purpose whatsoever unless a written permit is issued by the
Street Commissioner authorizing such excavations.
(1976 Code, § 8-303) Penalty, see §
151.999
§ 151.058 DRIVING STAKES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to drive any peg or stake of any kind
into the pavement in any street or alley without first procuring the written
consent of the Street Commissioner.
(1976 Code, § 8-304) Penalty, see §
151.999
§ 151.059 MIXING CONCRETE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to mix any concrete or plastering
material directly on the street pavement for any reason whatsoever.
(1976 Code, § 8-305) Penalty, see §
151.999
§ 151.060 HARMFUL LIQUIDS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to place or permit to leak in the gutter
of any street, waste gasoline, kerosene or high lubricating oils, which damage
or act as a solvent upon said streets.
(1976 Code, § 8-306) Penalty, see §
151.999
§ 151.061 EAVE AND GUTTER SPOUTS.
   It is hereby declared unlawful for any person to erect or maintain any
dwelling house or business building within the limits of the municipality where
the said dwelling or building abuts on any sidewalk or street without providing
proper guttering and eave spouts to receive the waste waters that collect on
the said sidewalks and streets. All eave spouts erected on any dwelling house
or business building shall be constructed to drain into the alleys, or shall be
buried beneath the sidewalks and drain into the streets where it is found to be
impossible to drain said eave spouts into the alley.
(1976 Code, § 8-307) Penalty, see §
151.999
§ 151.062 CONSTRUCTION NOTICE.
   The governing body shall notify the owners in fee simple of real estate
abutting a street, alley or a part thereof which is to be put under contract
for paving or repaving. Notice shall also be given to all gas, electric service
and telephone companies. Notice shall also be given to all consumers of gas,
water and sewer services which will be discontinued during such construction.
Said notice shall be published one time in a legal newspaper at least 20 days
prior to the beginning of such construction by the party undertaking such
construction and said notice shall state at what date connections must be made
and excavation completed. All gas, water, sewer and underground connections
must be made prior to the paving or repaving of the street under construction.
After expiration of such time, permits for excavation will not be issued, nor
will excavation be allowed, until after the completion of the pavement in said
street or alley, and the formal final acceptance thereof by the proper
officials of the municipality.
(1976 Code, § 8-308)
§ 151.063 PIPE LINES AND WIRES.
   Poles, wires, gas mains, pipe lines and other appurtenances of public
service companies shall be located, or erected over, upon or under the streets,
alleys and common grounds of the municipality. Application for location of the
above shall be made to the governing body in writing. Approval by that body
shall be issued in writing. Any public service company granted a right-of-way
for the erection and maintenance of poles, conduits, gas mains, pipe lines and
wires shall at all times erect and locate their poles, wires, gas mains, pipe
lines and other appurtenances at such places and in such manner as shall be
designated by the governing body. Such poles, wires, gas mains, pipe lines, and
other appurtenances, shall be removed or relocated by said companies at their
own expense when requested to do so by the governing body. Any such relocation
shall be ordered by resolution of the governing body and the Municipal Clerk
shall notify any and all companies affected. Said companies shall, within 24
hours after receiving notice, at their own expense, cause the poles, wires, gas
mains, pipe lines or other appurtenances to be removed. The governing body
shall designate another location as closely as possible where said poles,
wires, gas mains, pipe lines or other appurtenances, may be reset or placed.
All poles, wires, gas mains, pipe lines or other appurtenances shall be reset,
placed or erected in such a manner that they will not interfere with the water
system; sewerage system; poles, wires and mains of any public utility; adjacent
buildings; or with travel on the public ways and property. Whenever possible,
all pole lines, wires, gas mains, pipe lines or appurtenances shall be confined
to the alleys of the municipality.
(1976 Code, § 8-309) Penalty, see §
151.999
§ 151.064 STREET AND UTILITY INSTALLATION; LOCATION.
   From and after the effective date of this section, any public utilities
installed in alleys or other public rights-of-way within the city shall be
installed in such a manner that electrical and telephone installations shall be
on one side of the alley or other public right-of-way and natural gas piping
shall be on the on the other side of such alley or other public right-of-way.
The first of such utilities to make installation in such alley or other public
right-of-way shall be entitled to choose which side of the alley or public
right-of-way on which the installation shall be made, and the installations of
such utilities made thereafter shall comply with the intent of this section.
(1976 Code, § 8-310) (Ord. 575, passed 6-29-1978) Penalty, see §
151.999
§ 151.065 CONSTRUCTION; ASSESSMENT.
   To defray the costs and expenses of street improvements, as may be
authorized by law, the governing body shall have power and authority to levy
and collect special taxes and assessments upon the lots and pieces of ground
adjacent to, abutting upon or especially benefitting from, the street, avenue,
alley or sidewalk in whole or in part opened, widened, curbed, curbed and
guttered, graded, paved, repaired, graveled, macadamized, parked, extended,
constructed or otherwise improved or repaired. The governing body sitting as
the Board of Equalization shall review all such improvements in accordance with
the procedure provided by law. All special assessments shall be made by the
governing body at a regular or special meeting by resolution, taking into
account the benefits derived or injuries sustained in consequence of such
improvements and the amount charged against same. The vote shall be recorded in
the minutes. Notice of the time of holding such meeting and the purpose for
which it is to be held shall be published in some legal newspaper published, or
of general circulation, in the municipality at least four weeks before the same
shall be held. In lieu of such aforementioned notice, personal service may be
had upon the persons owning or occupying the property to be assessed. Such
assessments shall be known as “special assessments for improvements” and with
the cost of notice shall be levied and collected as a special tax in addition
to the taxes for general revenue purposes, subject to the same penalties and
collected in like manner as other municipal taxes and shall be certified to the
County Clerk by the Municipal Clerk forthwith after the date of levy, for
collection by the Treasurer of said county unless otherwise specified. Said
assessments shall become delinquent in equal annual installments over such
period of years, not to exceed 15, as the governing body may determine, at the
time of making the levy, the first such equal installment to become delinquent
on the anniversary date which shall be 50 days after the date of such levy.
After it shall become delinquent, said assessment shall draw interest at the
legal interest rate per annum. In the event the property owner is a non-
resident of the county in which the property lies, the municipality shall,
before levying any special assessment against that property, send a copy of any
notice required by law to be published by means of certified mail, return
receipt requested to the last known address of the non-resident property owner.
The last known address shall be that address listed on the current tax rolls at
the time such required notice was first published.
(1976 Code, § 8-311)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-511, 17-524
§ 151.066 IMPROVEMENTS.
   (A)   Of streets on corporate limits. The Mayor and Council shall have the
power to improve any street or part thereof which divides the municipal
corporate area and the area adjoining the municipality. When creating an
improvement district including land adjacent to the municipality, the Council
shall have power to assess, to the extent of special benefits, the costs of
such improvements upon the properties found especially benefitted thereby.
(1976 Code, § 8-312)
   (B)   Petition for improvements. Whenever a petition signed by the owners of
record title representing more than 60% of the front footage of the property
directly abutting upon the street, streets, alley, alleys, public ways or the
public grounds proposed to be improved, shall be presented and filed with the
Municipal Clerk, petitioning therefor, the governing body shall by ordinance
create a paving, graveling or other improvement district or districts, and
shall cause such work to be done or such improvement to be made, and shall
contract therefor, and shall levy assessments on the lots and parcels of land
abutting on or adjacent to such street, streets, alley or alleys, especially
benefitted thereby in such district in proportion to such benefits, to pay the
cost of such improvement. The governing body shall have the discretion to deny
the formation of the proposed district when the area has not previously been
improved with a water system, sewer system and grading of streets. If the
governing body should deny a requested improvement district formation, it shall
state the grounds for such denial in a written letter to interested parties.
(1976 Code, § 8-313)
   (C)   Improvement districts; objections. Whenever the governing body deems
it necessary to make any improvements allowed by statute which are to be funded
by a levy of special assessment on the property especially benefitted, the
governing body shall by ordinance create a paving, graveling or other
improvement district and, after the passage, approval and publication or
posting of such ordinance, shall publish notice of the creation of any such
district for six days in a legal newspaper of the municipality, if a daily
newspaper, or for two consecutive weeks if it is a weekly newspaper. If no
legal newspaper is published in the municipality, the publication shall be in a
legal newspaper of general circulation in the municipality. If the owners of
the record title representing more than 50% of the front footage of the
property directly abutting on the street or alley to be improved file with the
Municipal Clerk within 20 days after the first publication of such notice
written objections to the creation of such district, such improvement shall not
be made as provided in such ordinance, but such ordinance shall be repealed. If
objections are not filed against the district in the time and manner prescribed
in this section, the governing body shall immediately cause such work to be
done or such improvement to be made, shall contract for the work or improvement
and shall levy assessments on the lots and parcels of land abutting on or
adjacent to such street or alley especially benefitted in such district in
proportion to such benefits to pay the cost of such improvement.
(1976 Code, § 8-314)
(Ord. 622, passed 8-23-1979; Ord. 623, passed 8-23-1979; Ord. 722, passed 9-1-
1983; Ord. 1207, passed 1-22-1996)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-509, 17-510, 17-511
§ 151.067 DEFERRAL FROM SPECIAL ASSESSMENTS.
   (A)   (1)   Whenever the governing body of a municipality creates a paving
district which includes land adjacent to the municipality which is within an
agricultural use zone and is used exclusively for agricultural use, the owners
of record title of such adjacent land may apply for a deferral from special
assessments.
      (2)   For purposes of this section, the terms AGRICULTURAL USE and
AGRICULTURAL USE ZONE shall have the meaning specified in Neb. RS 77-1343.
   (B)   Any owner of record title eligible for the deferral granted by this
section shall, to secure such assessment, make application to the governing
body of the municipality within 90 days after creation of the paving district.
Any owner of record title who makes application for the deferral provided by
this section shall notify the county’s Register of Deeds of such application in
writing prior to approval by the governing body. The governing body shall
approve the application of any owner of record title upon determination that
the property:
      (1)   Is within an agricultural use zone and is used exclusively for
agricultural use; and
      (2)   The owner has met the requirements of this section.
   (C)   The deferral provided for in this section shall be terminated upon any
of the following events:
      (1)   Notification by the owner of record title to the governing body to
remove such deferral;
      (2)   Sale or transfer to a new owner who does not make a new application
within 60 days of the sale or transfer, except as provided in division (C)(3)
below;
      (3)   Transfer by reason of death of a former owner to a new owner who
does not make application within 125 days of the transfer;
      (4)   The land is no longer being used as agricultural land; or
      (5)   Change of zoning to other than an agricultural zone.
   (D)   Whenever property which has received a deferral pursuant to this
section becomes disqualified for such deferral, the owner of record title of
such property shall pay to the municipality an amount equal to:
      (1)   The total amount of special assessments which would have been
assessed against such property, to the extent of special benefits, had such
deferral not been granted; and
      (2)   Interest upon the special assessments not paid each year at the
rate of 6% from the dates at which such assessments would have been payable if
no deferral had been granted.
   (E)   In cases where the deferral provided by this section is terminated as
a result of a sale or transfer described in divisions (B) or (C) above, the
lien for assessments and interest shall attach as of the day preceding such
sale or transfer.
(1976 Code, § 8-315) (Ord. 730, passed 9-1-1983)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 19-2428 through 19-2431
§ 151.068 DRIVEWAY APPROACHES.
   (A)   The Street Commissioner may require the owner of property served by a
driveway approach constructed or maintained upon the street right-of-way to
repair or replace any such driveway approach which is cracked, broken or
otherwise deteriorated to the extent that it is causing or is likely to cause
damage to or interfere with any street structure including pavement or
sidewalks.
   (B)   The Municipal Clerk shall give the property owner notice by registered
letter or certified mail, directed to the last-known address of such owner or
the agent of such owner, directing the repair or replacement of such driveway
approach. If, within 30 days of mailing such notice, the property owner fails
or neglects to cause such repairs or replacements to be made, the Street
Commissioner may cause such work to be done and assess the cost upon the
property served by such approach.
(1976 Code, § 8-316) (Ord. 761, passed 9-6-1984)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 18-1748
§ 151.069 VACATING PUBLIC WAYS; PROCEDURE.
   (A)   (1)   SPECIAL DAMAGES shall mean only those losses or damages or
injuries which a property owner suffers that are peculiar or special or unique
to his or her property, and which result from the governing body vacating such
street, avenue, alley, lane or similar public ways. SPECIAL DAMAGES shall not
mean those losses or damages or injuries that a property owner suffers that are
in common with the rest of the city or public at large, even though those
losses or damages or injuries suffered by the property owner are greater in
degree that the rest of the city or public at large.
      (2)   The Chairperson shall appoint three, five or seven disinterested
residents of the municipality to a special commission to ascertain the amount
of special damages that the abutting property owners are entitled to receive
and which resulted from the governing body vacating such street, avenue, alley,
lane or similar public way. The appointees of the special commission shall be
approved by the City Council. Only special damages, as herein defined, shall be
awarded to the abutting property owners.
      (3)   In determining the amount of compensation to award the abutting
property owners as special damages, the aforementioned commission shall use the
following rule: the abutting property owner is entitled to recover as
compensation the difference between the value of such property immediately
before and immediately after the vacating of such street, avenue, alley, lane
or similar public way. However, if no difference in value exists the abutting
property owner is entitled to no compensation.
(1976 Code, § 8-317)
   (B)   Whenever the governing body decides that it would be in the best
interests of the municipality to vacate a street, avenue, alley, lane or
similar public way, the governing body shall comply with the following
procedure.
      (1)   Notice. Notice shall be given to all abutting property owners
either by first class mail to their last known address or if there is no known
address then by publishing the notice in a newspaper that is of general
circulation in the municipality. The content of the notice will advise the
abutting property owners that the governing body will consider vacating such
street, avenue, alley, lane or similar public way at its next regular meeting
or if a special meeting is scheduled for such discussion, then the date, time
and place of such meeting.
      (2)   Consent/waiver.
         (a)   The governing body may have all the abutting property owners
sign a form stating that they consent to the action being taken by the
governing body and waive their right of access. The signing of such form has no
effect on claims for special damages, as defined herein, by the abutting
property owners, but does create the presumption that the governing body’s
action was proper.
         (b)   However, if all the abutting property owners do not sign the
consent/waiver form, the governing body may still proceed with vacating such
street, avenue, alley, lane or similar public way under the authority granted
them by Neb. RS 17-558 and 17-559.
      (3)   Ordinance. The governing body shall pass an ordinance that shall
state essentially the following:
         (a)   A declaration that the action is expedient for the public good
or in the best interests of the municipality;
         (b)   A statement that the municipality shall have an easement for
maintaining all utilities; and
         (c)   A method or procedure for ascertaining special damages to
abutting property owners.
      (4)   Filing. The Clerk shall file a copy of the ordinance with the
county’s Register of Deeds to ensure that abutting property owners can gain
title to their share of the vacated street, avenue, alley, lane or similar
public way and so that such land will be drawn to the attention of the County
Assessor.
(1976 Code, § 8-318)
(Ord. 909, passed 10-20-1986; Ord. 913, passed 10-20-1986)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-558, 17-559
§ 151.070 OPERATION OF VEHICLES.
   (A)   The city may, by ordinance or resolution, prohibit the operation of
vehicles upon any highway or impose restrictions as to the weight of vehicles,
for a total period not to exceed 180 days in any one calendar year, when
operated upon any highways under the jurisdiction of and for the maintenance of
which the city is responsible whenever any such highway by reason of
deterioration, rain, snow or other climatic condition will be seriously damaged
or destroyed unless the use of vehicles thereon is prohibited or the
permissible weight thereof reduced. The city shall erect or cause to be erected
and maintained signs designating the provisions of the ordinance or resolution
at each end of that portion of any highway affected thereby, and the ordinance
or resolution shall not be effective until such signs are erected and
maintained.
   (B)   The city may also, by ordinance or resolution, prohibit the operation
of trucks or other commercial vehicles or impose limitations as to the weight
thereof on designated highways, which prohibitions and limitations shall be
designed by appropriate signs placed on such highways.
(Ord. 1468, passed 2-6-2017)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 60-681
§ 151.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who shall violate or refuse to comply with the enforcement
of any of the provisions of this chapter, set forth at full length herein or
incorporated by reference, shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon
conviction thereof, shall be fined not more than $500 for each offense. A new
violation shall be deemed to have been committed every 24 hours of such failure
to comply.
(1976 Code, § 8-601)
   (B)   (1)   Whenever a nuisance exists, as defined in this chapter, the
municipality may proceed by a suit in equity to enjoin and abate the same, in
the manner provided by law.
      (2)   Whenever, in any action, it is established that a nuisance exists,
the court may, together with the fine or penalty imposed, enter an order of
abatement as a part of the judgment in the case.
(1976 Code, § 8-602)
(Ord. 1449, passed 12-23-2013)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 18-1720, 18-1722
CHAPTER 152: TRAILER AND MOBILE HOME COURTS
Section
General Provisions
   
152.01   Definitions
   
152.02   Permit required
   
152.03   Application; renewals
   
152.04   Plans and specifications
   
152.05   Annual permit fees; reinspection fees
   
152.06   Inspections required
   
152.07   Inspection of records
   
152.08   Duty of owners and occupants
   
152.09   Notices of violations
   
152.10   Emergencies
   
152.11   Management; registration
   
152.12   Conflict
Utilities and Conditions
   
152.25   Location, space and general layout; area
   
152.26   Access roads
   
152.27   Positioning of homes and trailers
   
152.28   Unlawful to occupy unless on space
   
152.29   Parking of motor vehicles
   
152.30   Service buildings
   
152.31   Water supply; plumbing
   
152.32   Sewer supply
   
152.33   Refuse; disposal, storage and removal
   
152.34   Insect and rodent control
   
152.35   Electrical lighting
   
152.36   Fuel containers and supply
   
152.37   Fire protection
   
152.38   Stands and skirting
   
152.39   Alterations and additions
   
152.40   Animals and pets
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 152.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BUILDING INSPECTOR. The legally designated building authority of the city or
his or her authorized representative.
   CERTIFICATE OF COMPLIANCE. A written statement by the Health Officer
certifying compliance with the requirements of this chapter.
   DEPENDENT TRAILER. A trailer which does not have a built-in flush toilet and
a bath or shower.
   ELECTRICAL INSPECTOR. The legally designated electrical authority of the
city or his or her authorized representative.
   FIRE INSPECTOR. The legally designated Fire Chief of the city or his or her
authorized representative.
   HEALTH OFFICER. Any member of the Board of Health.
   INDEPENDENT TRAILER. A trailer which has a built-in flush toilet and a bath
or shower in serviceable condition.
   MOBILE HOME. A structure or building suitable for permanent (more than 30
days) living quarters built upon or having a frame or chassis to which wheels
may be attached by which it may be moved upon a highway whether or not such
structure actually has, at any given time, such wheels attached, or is jacked
up or skirted up, more than eight feet wide and 32 feet in length, and designed
or used for residential occupancy with or without a permanent foundation when
connected to the required utilities.
   MOBILE HOME COURT. A contiguous parcel of land under single ownership
containing two acres or more, which has been developed for the placement of
mobile homes and approved by special permit of the City Council and is owned by
an individual, firm, partnership or corporation that has received a permit from
the city.
   PERMIT. A written permit issued by the City Council permitting a trailer
court or mobile home court to operate under this chapter and regulations
promulgated thereunder.
   PERSON. Any natural person or any partnership, association or corporation
existing in and authorized to do business in the state.
   PLUMBING INSPECTOR. The legally designated plumbing authority of the city or
his or her authorized representative.
   SERVICE BUILDING. A building housing toilet facilities for men and women,
and such other faculties as may be required by this chapter.
   TRAILER. Any vehicle, without motive power, designated for living quarters
and for being drawn by a motor vehicle and is suitable for recreational,
vacation or travel purposes and which is not more than eight feet in width, nor
more than 32 feet in length, including hitch; provided, the length shall not
apply if the gross weight does not exceed 4,500 pounds.
   TRAILER COURT. Also referred to as a trailer camp shall mean any plot of
ground approved by the city upon which two or more trailers or mobile homes
occupied for dwelling or sleeping purposes are located and which has received a
special permit for its location from the City Council.
   TRAILER SPACE. A plot of ground within a trailer court designated for the
accommodation of one trailer or mobile home and reserved for exclusive use of
its occupants.
(1976 Code, § 10-501)
§ 152.02 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to construct, maintain or operate
any trailer court or mobile home court within the limits of the city unless he
or she holds a valid permit issued by the City Clerk in the name of such person
for the specific trailer court or mobile home court. Applications for permits
shall be made to the City Clerk who shall issue a permit upon compliance by the
applicant with provisions of this chapter, as evidenced by a certificate of
compliance, which certificate shall show compliance with applicable legal
requirements. No permit shall be transferable. Every person holding a trailer
court or mobile home court permit shall give notice in writing to the City
Clerk within 72 hours after having sold, transferred, given away or otherwise
disposed of any interest in or control of any trailer court or mobile home
court. Such notice shall include the name and address of the person succeeding
to the ownership or control of the trailer court or mobile home court.
   (B)   Presently licensed trailer courts and mobile home courts as of the
effective date of this chapter may continue their operation; provided, they
meet the court development standards herein provided and further that they
fully comply with the mobile home or trailer stand requirements of this
chapter.
(1976 Code, § 10-502) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 152.03 APPLICATION; RENEWALS.
   (A)   Application for original trailer court or mobile home court permits
shall be in writing and verified. The application shall contain the following:
      (1)   The name and address of the applicant;
      (2)   The interest of the applicant in the trailer court or mobile home
court and the location;
      (3)   The legal description of the trailer court or mobile home court;
and
      (4)   A complete plan and supplemental specifications (in triplicate) of
the trailer court or mobile home court showing compliance with all applicable
provisions of the city ordinances.
   (B)   (1)   An application for renewal of a permit shall be required and
such renewal issued by the City Clerk before any changes are made in the
trailer court or mobile home court which deviate from the plans and
specifications as approved in the original permit or the latest renewal
thereof.
      (2)   Applications for renewals of permits shall be in writing and
verified by the holder of the permit and shall set out any proposed changes in
the trailer court or mobile home court.
(1976 Code, § 10-503)
§ 152.04 PLANS AND SPECIFICATIONS.
   The plans and specifications of the trailer court or mobile home court shall
show:
   (A)   The area, dimensions and location of the tract of land;
   (B)   The number, location, dimensions and size of all trailer or mobile
home spaces;
   (C)   The location and widths of roadways and walkways;
   (D)   The location of service buildings and any other proposed structures as
required;
   (E)   The location and construction details of water and sewer lines and
service outlets;
   (F)   Source of water service, if a public supply; construction and location
details, if a private supply. An adequate supply of pure drinking water must be
available;
   (G)   Type of sewage disposal, including construction and location details,
if a private system;
   (H)   Plans and specifications of all buildings and other improvements
constructed or to be constructed within the trailer court or mobile home court;
and
   (I)   All plans and detail drawings drawn to scale.
(1976 Code, § 10-504)
§ 152.05 ANNUAL PERMIT FEES; REINSPECTION FEES.
   (A)   The following fees relative to the issuance to permits, inspections
and reinspections for trailer courts and mobile home courts shall be paid in
order for such permits, inspections, plan reviews and reinspections to be
valid:
 
Category       Annual Fee Required Inspection
2-15 spaces    $150       $50/space
16-25 spaces   $250       $50/space
26 - 50 spaces $350       $50/space
Over 50 spaces $450       $50/space
 
   (B)   All permits shall expire at midnight December 31 of each calendar
year. The above fees must be paid on or before January 1 of each year for the
applicable category in order for a person to receive an annual permit to
conduct, operate or maintain a mobile home court or trailer court and receive
the required annual inspection of such court. Subsequent inspections shall be
classified as those which are required to determine if violations which were
discovered in previous inspections have been corrected. Subsequent inspection
fees shall be charged for spaces not in compliance 30 days after receipt of
annual inspection report. Failure to bring all spaces into compliance by June 1
may result in revoking the annual permit. A permit shall be valid continuously
so long as the annual permit fees are paid and so long as the permit is not
revoked.
(1976 Code, § 10-505) (Ord. 1262, passed 1-11-1999; Ord. 1294, passed 8-20-
2001)
§ 152.06 INSPECTIONS REQUIRED.
   The Health Officer, upon displaying his or her identification, is hereby
authorized and directed to make inspections to determine the condition of
trailer courts or mobile home courts in order to perform his or her duty of
safeguarding the health and safety of occupants of trailer courts or mobile
home courts and of the general public. The Health Officer, Plumbing Inspector,
Building Inspector, Fire Inspector, Electrical Inspector or other authorized
inspecting personnel shall have the power to enter at reasonable times upon any
private or public property to inspect and investigate conditions affected by
this chapter.
(1976 Code, § 10-506)
§ 152.07 INSPECTION OF RECORDS.
   The Health Officer shall have the power to inspect the register containing a
record of all trailers and mobile homes and occupants using the trailer court
or mobile home court.
(1976 Code, § 10-507)
§ 152.08 DUTY OF OWNERS AND OCCUPANTS.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of the owners or occupants of trailer courts and
mobile home courts and trailers or mobile homes contained therein, or of the
person in charge thereof, to give the Health Officer or other authorized
inspecting personnel free access to such premises at reasonable times for the
purpose of inspection. The inspecting personnel, before the commencement of any
inspection, shall offer to the owner or person in charge of the trailer court
or mobile home court the opportunity to accompany such inspecting personnel on
the inspection of the premises. The owner shall have a person in charge of the
trailer court or mobile home court and should the person in charge be
unavailable to accompany the inspecting personnel at the time of the
inspection, this shall in no way delay such inspection.
(1976 Code, § 10-508)
   (B)   Every occupant of a trailer court or mobile home shall give the owner
thereof or his agent or employee access to any part of such trailer court or
mobile home court at reasonable times to make repairs or alterations necessary
to effect compliance with this chapter.
(1976 Code, § 10-509)
§ 152.09 NOTICES OF VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   Whenever the Health Officer determines that there are reasonable
grounds to believe that there has been a violation of any provisions of this
chapter, he or she shall give notice of such alleged violation to the person to
whom the permit was issued, as hereinafter provided.
   (B)   Such notice shall:
      (1)   Be in writing;
      (2)   Include a statement of the reasons for its issuance;
      (3)   Specify a reasonable time (but not less than 30 days) for the
performance of any act it requires;
      (4)   Contain an outline of remedial action, which, if taken, will effect
compliance with the provisions of this chapter; and
      (5)   Be served upon the owner or his or her agent; provided that, such
notice shall have been properly served when a copy thereof has been sent by
registered mail to the last known address of the owner or agent, or when the
owner or agent has been served with the notice by any other method authorized
by the laws of the state.
   (C)   At the end of such period, the Health Officer shall inspect such
trailer court or mobile home court and, if the alleged violations have not been
corrected, the City Clerk shall revoke the permit and give notice in writing of
such revocation to the person to whom the permit is issued. Upon receipt of
notice of revocation, such person shall cease operations of such trailer court
or mobile home court.
(1976 Code, § 10-510)
§ 152.10 EMERGENCIES.
   Whenever the Health Officer finds that an emergency exists which requires
immediate action to protect the public health, he or she may, without notice or
hearing, issue an order reciting the existence of such an emergency and take
action as he or she may deem necessary to meet the emergency including
requiring the revocation of the permit by the City Clerk. Notwithstanding any
other provisions of this chapter, such order shall be effective immediately,
but upon petition to the Mayor and City Council shall be afforded a hearing as
soon as possible.
(1976 Code, § 10-511)
§ 152.11 MANAGEMENT; REGISTRATION.
   (A)   Trailer court or mobile home court owners or operators shall maintain
a register which shall be available to any authorized person inspecting the
court, and shall be preserved for a period of not less than one year. Such
register shall indicate:
      (1)   The name and addresses of all trailer occupants and mobile home
occupants stopping in the court;
      (2)   The make, model and license number of the motor vehicle and
trailer;
      (3)   The state, territory or county issuing the trailer license;
      (4)   The dates of arrival and departure of each trailer; and
      (5)   Whether or not each trailer is a dependent or independent trailer.
(1976 Code, § 10-538)
   (B)   The person to whom a permit for a trailer court or mobile home court
is issued shall provide adequate personnel to maintain the court, its faculties
and equipment in good repair and in a clean and sanitary condition at all
times.
(1976 Code, § 10-539)
   (C)   (1)   Responsibilities of the court management.
         (a)   The person, firm or corporation to whom a license is issued to
operate the mobile home court or trailer court shall operate said court in
strict compliance with the provisions of this chapter and of the special permit
provisions of the City Council and shall provide adequate supervision to
maintain the court, its related facilities, roadways, walkways, open spaces,
utilities and equipment in good repair and in a clean and sanitary condition.
         (b)   Said licensee shall be responsible to see that all plumbing,
heating and electrical connections, alterations and additions comply with the
requirements of this chapter. No structural additions of any kind shall be
constructed, or become any part of a mobile home, trailer accessory building or
service facility until it meets the approval of the Building Official and is
constructed under proper permit issued by the Building Official.
         (c)   The court licensee shall supervise the placement of each mobile
home unit or trailer unit upon its stand and shall be responsible for ensuring
its compliance with an approved foundation system and notification to the
Building Official when new units are placed.
      (2)   Responsibilities of court occupants.
         (a)   The occupant of any mobile home or trailer shall comply with all
applicable requirements of this chapter and shall maintain his or her mobile
home space or trailer space, its facilities and equipment in good repair and in
a clean and sanitary condition.
         (b)   The occupants of any mobile home or trailer shall be responsible
to see that ah plumbing, heating, cooling and electrical connections,
alterations and additions comply with the requirements of this chapter. No
structural additions of any kind shall be constructed, or become any part of a
mobile home, trailer, accessory building or service facility until it meets the
approval of the Building Official and is constructed under proper permit issued
by the Building Official. The mobile home or trailer occupant may be served
with notices of non-compliance together with the court licensee.
(1976 Code, § 10-540)
   (D)   (1)   Whenever the Building Official determines that there has been a
violation of this chapter, or has reasonable grounds to believe that there is
or has been a violation of any provision of this chapter, he or she shall give
notice of such alleged violation to the person, firm or corporation to whom the
mobile home court or trailer court license was issued as hereinafter provided.
      (2)   Such notice shall:
         (a)   Be in writing;
         (b)   Specify in detail the alleged violation;
         (c)   Specify a reasonable time (but generally not less than 30 days)
for the performance of any act it requires;
         (d)   Contain an outline of remedial action, which if taken will
effect compliance with the provisions of this chapter; and
         (e)   Be served upon the licensee; provided that, such notice shall
have been properly served when a copy thereof has been sent by registered mail
to the last known address of licensee, or when same has been served by any
other method authorized by the laws of the state.
      (3)   At the end of such period specified for compliance, the Building
Official shall inspect the mobile home court or trailer court and if the
alleged violations have not been corrected, the City Clerk shall remove the
license and shall give notice in writing of such revocation to the person, firm
or corporation to whom the license is issued. Upon receipt of such notice of
revocation, the licensee shall cease operation of such mobile home court or
trailer court.
      (4)   Whenever the Building Official finds an emergency exists which
requires immediate action to protect the public health, safety and welfare, he
or she may issue an order reciting the existence of such emergency and take
action as he or she may deem necessary to meet the emergency. Notwithstanding
any other provisions of this chapter, such order shall be effective
immediately.
(1976 Code, § 10-541)
§ 152.12 CONFLICT.
   (A)   In any case where a provision of this chapter is found to be in
conflict with a provision of any zoning, building, fire, safety or health
ordinance or code of the city, existing on the effective date of this chapter,
the provision which, as applied to trailers, trailer courts, mobile homes or
mobile home courts, establishes the higher standard for the promotion and
protection of the health and safety of the public shall prevail.
   (B)   In any case where a provision of this chapter is found to be in
conflict with a provision of any other ordinance or code of the city existing
on the effective date of this chapter which established a lower standard for
the promotion and protection of the health and safety of the public, the
provisions of this chapter shall be deemed to prevail, and such other
ordinances or codes are hereby declared to be repealed to the extend that they
may be found in conflict with this chapter.
(1976 Code, § 10-542)
UTILITIES AND CONDITIONS
§ 152.25 LOCATION, SPACE AND GENERAL LAYOUT; AREA.
   (A)   Trailer courts or mobile home courts shall be located on a well-
drained site, free from marshes, swamps or other potential breeding places for
insects or rodents, and so that its drainage will not endanger any water
supply.
(1976 Code, § 10-512)
   (B)   In addition to trailer or mobile home spaces, trailer courts or mobile
home courts shall accommodate access roads, parking for motor vehicles and
space for any other facility required by this chapter and any zoning regulation
that may be adopted.
(1976 Code, § 10-513)
   (C)   All trailers and mobile homes shall be located in a trailer court or
mobile home court that has received a permit for operation from the city and
only so long as said permit is current; provided, trailers and mobile homes may
be located in other areas of the municipality where permitted by Ch. 154 of
this code of ordinances.
(1976 Code, § 10-544) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 152.26 ACCESS ROADS.
   Access roads shall be provided to each trailer or mobile home space and
shall connect with a street or highway and shall have a minimum unobstructed
width of 20 feet and shall permit Fire Department apparatus to approach within
200 feet of any part of any trailer or mobile home. In all trailer courts or
mobile home courts constructed after the effective date of this chapter access
roads shall also provide for continuous forward movement of using vehicles.
(1976 Code, § 10-514) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 152.27 POSITIONING OF HOMES AND TRAILERS.
   All mobile home units or trailer units shall be positioned on a mobile home
space or trailer space in compliance with the requirements of the special
permit provisions granted by the City Council or in accordance with the zoning
requirements at the time of the establishment of the mobile home court or
trailer court as follows: in mobile home courts or trailer courts constructed
after the adoption of this code, a distance of at least 25 feet shall be
maintained between mobile homes or trailers and mobile homes or trailers and
buildings in all horizontal directions unless specifically adjusted by the City
Council upon specific request due to special circumstances as provided in the
zoning ordinance.
(1976 Code, § 10-515) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 152.28 UNLAWFUL TO OCCUPY UNLESS ON SPACE.
   It shall be unlawful to allow any trailer or mobile home to be occupied in a
trailer court or mobile home court unless the trailer or mobile home is
situated on a trailer space or mobile home space. If a mobile home, then the
mobile home must comply with all the construction standards as set forth in the
Standard for Mobile Homes, NFPA No. 501B, as designated in §§
150.001 and
150.002 of this code of ordinances.
(1976 Code, § 10-516) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 152.29 PARKING OF MOTOR VEHICLES.
   Parking space for motor vehicles shall be provided and the parking area
shall be clearly defined. Motor vehicle parking shall be provided on the basis
of one stall, nine feet wide by 20 feet long for each trailer space or mobile
home space.
(1976 Code, § 10-517) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 152.30 SERVICE BUILDINGS.
   (A)   (1)   Trailer courts that accommodate dependent trailers shall provide
at least the following facilities within a service building:
         (a)   For one to ten dependent trailer spaces, two flush-type toilets
and lavatories and one shower or bath tub for females; one flush-type toilet,
one urinal, one lavatory and one shower or bath tub for males; and one slop-
water closet consisting of at least one flush-type toilet bowl receptacle for
emptying containers of human excreta, with an adequate supply of hot and cold
running water for cleaning such containers; this slop-water closet shall be a
separate room of a service building with a single direct opening to the
outside; and
         (b)   For more than ten dependent trailers, the following additional
fixtures shall be provided; one lavatory and one shower or bath tub for each
sex for every additional ten dependent trailers or fraction thereof; one water
closet for females for every additional ten dependent trailers or fraction
thereof; one water closet for males for every additional 15 dependent trailers
or fraction thereof; provided that, urinals may be substituted for not more
than one-third of the additional water closets required under this division (A)
(1)(b).
      (2)   Dependent trailer spaces shall be not more than 200 feet from a
service building.
(1976 Code, § 10-518)
   (B)   In addition to other requirements listed previously, the service
building shall comply with the following specifications:
      (1)   Be located 25 feet or more from any trailer; provided, however,
that, this requirement shall not apply to construction lawfully in existence at
the effective date of this chapter;
      (2)   Be of permanent construction, lighted with natural lighting by
windows or skylights at least 12% of the floor area and artificial lighting;
      (3)   Be of moisture-resistant material;
      (4)   Have adequate heating facilities to maintain a temperature of 70°F
at a distance of three feet above floor level under ordinary minimum winter
conditions and to supply adequate hot water during time of peak demands. These
facilities should be maintained in safe and good working condition; and
      (5)   Have all rooms well-ventilated and all exterior openings
effectively screened with no larger than 16 mesh screen.
(1976 Code, § 10-519)
   (C)   (1)   Laundry facilities shall be provided in the ratio of at least
one clothes washing machine and one laundry tray to every 30 dependent trailer
spaces, and shall be in a separate room of a service building or in a separate
building.
      (2)   Clothes drying facilities shall be available without charge for all
spaces. Facilities may be provided on individual spaces or centrally located
for community use; and they may be outdoor clothes drying racks or mechanical
drying facilities in a service building.
(1976 Code, § 10-520) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 152.31 WATER SUPPLY; PLUMBING.
   (A)   (1)   An accessible, adequate, safe and potable water supply shall be
provided in each trailer court or mobile home court, capable of furnishing a
minimum of 150 gallons per day per trailer space. An independent water supply
to serve a trailer court shall be developed only after express approval has
been granted by the Health Officer. Where a public supply of water of such
quality is available, connection shall be made thereto and that supply be used
exclusively.
      (2)   The water system of a trailer court or mobile home court shall be
connected and distributed by pipes to all buildings and to all trailer spaces
or mobile home spaces.
      (3)   Water piping shall be constructed and maintained in accordance with
city ordinances. The water system shall not be connected with non-potable water
or water supplies which have not been approved by the Health Officer, and shall
be protected against backflow or backsiphonage.
      (4)   Individual water service connections shall be constructed so that
they will not be damaged by parking trailers or mobile homes. The trailer or
mobile home court water system shall be adequate to provide at least 20 pounds
per square inch of pressure at all trailer or mobile home connections.
(1976 Code, § 10-521)
   (B)   (1)   Where an independent or private water system is used to serve a
trailer or mobile home court with water obtained from wells, the well shall
have been approved by the Health Officer, and shall have been drilled or
driven. Springs or other sources of supply shall not be used unless approved by
the Health Officer.
      (2)   Every well which serves a trailer or mobile home court shall be
located and constructed in such a manner that neither underground nor surface
contamination will reach the water supply from any source. A minimum distance
of 150 feet shall be maintained between the water supply and any cesspool. A
minimum distance of 100 feet shall be maintained between the water supply and
any other possible source of contamination; except that, sewers or pipes
through which sewage may back up shall be located at least 50 feet from any
well or water suction pipeline. Where such sewers or pipes are specifically
constructed to provide adequate safeguards and when specifically authorized by
the Health Officer, such sewers or pipes through which sewage may back up may
be closer than 50 feet, but not less than 30 feet from a well.
      (3)   No well-casings, pumps, pumping machinery or suction pipes which
serve a trailer or mobile home court shall be located in any pit, room or space
extending below ground level, nor in any room or space above ground which is
walled in or otherwise enclosed, unless such rooms, whether above or below
ground, have free drainage by gravity to the surface of the ground, and the
floor of rooms above ground shall be at least six inches above grade; such
floors shall be water-tight, and sloped from the pump pedestal to the drain.
The pedestal shall be not less than 12 inches above the floor.
(1976 Code, § 10-522)
   (C)   Water reservoirs which serve a trailer or mobile home court shall be
water-tight, and constructed of impervious material, all overflows and vents of
such reservoirs shall be effectively screened. Open reservoirs are prohibited.
Manholes of such reservoirs shall be constructed with over-lapping covers, so
as to prevent contamination. Overflow pipes from a reservoir shall not connect
to any pipe in which sewage or polluted water may back up. Underground stop and
waste cocks shall not be installed on any connection.
(1976 Code, § 10-523)
   (D)   Plumbing in trailer or mobile home courts shall comply with city
plumbing ordinances and regulations.
(1976 Code, § 10-524) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 152.32 SEWER SUPPLY.
   (A)   Connections. Each independent trailer space or mobile home space shall
be provided with at least a three-inch sewer connection. The sewer connection
shall be provided with suitable fittings as adaptors so that a water-tight
connection can be made between a trailer or mobile home drain and the sewer
connection. Such individual trailer or mobile home connections shall be
constructed so that they can be closed when not linked to a trailer or mobile
home and shall be capped so as to prevent escape odors.
(1976 Code, § 10-525)
   (B)   Sewer lines.
      (1)   Sewer lines shall be constructed in accordance with plans approved
by the Health Officer and in accordance with the recommendations of such Health
Officer.
      (2)   All sewer lines shall be adequately vented, and shall be laid with
sufficient earth to prevent breakage from traffic.
(1976 Code, § 10-526)
   (C)   Sewage disposal. It shall be unlawful to permit any waste water from
sinks, baths, showers or other plumbing fixtures in any trailer or mobile home
court to be deposited upon the surface of the ground and all such fixtures,
when in use, must be connected to the city sewer system.
(1976 Code, § 10-527) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 152.33 REFUSE; DISPOSAL, STORAGE AND REMOVAL.
   (A)   Storage, collection and disposal of refuse in a trailer or mobile home
court shall be managed so as not to create health hazards, rodent harborage,
insect-breeding areas, accident or fire hazards or air pollution.
(1976 Code, § 10-528)
   (B)   (1)   Refuse shall be stored in fly-tight, water-tight, rodent-proof
containers, which shall be located not more than 150 feet from any trailer or
mobile home.
      (2)   Containers shall be provided in sufficient number and capacity to
store properly all refuse, and otherwise in conformity with Ch. 51 of this code
of ordinances.
(1976 Code, § 10-529)
   (C)   (1)   Refuse shall be removed from the trailer court or mobile home
court at least once weekly. Where suitable refuse removal service is not
available from municipal or private agencies, the trailer court operator or
mobile home operator shall provide this service. Refuse shall be removed and
transported as required by city ordinance.
      (2)   Where municipal or private disposal service is not available, the
trailer court or mobile home operator shall dispose of the refuse in conformity
with the city ordinances.
      (3)   Refuse and garbage incineration on the trailer court premises is
prohibited, unless specifically approved by the Health Officer. Such approval
shall be based on a review of the plans and specifications for such
incinerators and approval of the site as well as the type of material placed in
the incinerator.
(1976 Code, § 10-530) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 152.34 INSECT AND RODENT CONTROL.
   (A)   Insect and rodent control measures to safeguard public health as
required by the Health Officer shall be applied in the trailer court or mobile
home court.
   (B)   Use of effective larvicidal solutions may be required by the Health
Officer for fly or mosquito breeding areas which cannot be controlled by other,
more permanent measures.
   (C)   The Health Officer may require a trailer court operator or mobile home
operator to take measures to control insects and obnoxious weeds.
   (D)   Debris which may harbor rodents shall not accumulate in a trailer
court or mobile home court. When rats or other objectional rodents are detected
in a trailer court or mobile home court, the court operator shall take definite
action, as described by the Health Officer, to exterminate them.
(1976 Code, § 10-531) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 152.35 ELECTRICAL LIGHTING.
   (A)   Standard 115-volt electrical service shall be provided each trailer or
mobile home, additional service may be furnished.
   (B)   High voltage distribution power lines in a trailer court or mobile
home court shall be supported on poles or buried.
   (C)   Low voltage service lines (115-230 volts) may be supported on poles or
buried, or may be laid on surface in sheathed cable, approved by the city’s
Electrical Inspector.
   (D)   Illumination of roadways and walkways shall be equivalent to that
required for residential areas.
Electrical wiring referred to in this section shall comply with the Electrical
Code of the city.
(1976 Code, § 10-532) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 152.36 FUEL CONTAINERS AND SUPPLY.
   (A)   Piping from fuel storage tanks or cylinders to trailers or mobile
homes shall be copper or other acceptable metallic tubing and shall be
permanently installed and securely fastened in place. Fuel storage tanks or
cylinders shall be set upon a firm foundation or otherwise firmly secured in
place, readily available for inspection and located so as to require filling
and draining on the outside and shall be not less than five feet from any
trailer exit. The possible effect on the outlet piping of settling of
containers shall be guarded against by a flexible connection or special
fitting.
   (B)   No empty fuel containers shall be placed under trailers or mobile
homes, but shall be left in place if the trailer is so designed for more than
one container. If not so designed, the empty containers shall be stored in an
area which the trailer court operator or mobile home operator shall designate
for the storage of such containers.
   (C)   The National Fire Protection Association Pamphlet No. 501A for Trailer
Courts, as it presently exists or may hereafter be amended, is hereby
incorporated by reference and shall apply to all trailer courts and mobile home
courts except that no filling plant for liquefied petroleum gases shall be
constructed, maintained or operated within a trailer court or mobile home
court.
(1976 Code, § 10-533) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 152.37 FIRE PROTECTION.
   (A)   Trailer courts or mobile home courts shall be subject to the Fire
Prevention Code of the city.
   (B)   Trailer courts or mobile home courts shall be kept free from litter,
rubbish, dry brush and other flammable materials.
   (C)   Portable fire extinguishers of a type approved by the Chief of the
Fire Department shall be kept in service buildings and at other locations
designated by the Chief, and shall be maintained in good operating condition.
Appropriate measures shall be taken to prevent freezing of fire equipment.
   (D)   Where a public water system with a water main of six inches or larger
is available to the trailer court or mobile home court, standard fire hydrants
shall be located within 1,000 feet of each trailer or mobile home or service
building.
   (E)   Where the water supply system does not provide at least a six-inch
water main, a two-inch frost-protected water riser within 300 feet of each
trailer or mobile home or service building shall be provided in trailer courts
or mobile home courts.
   (F)   The person to whom the trailer court permit or mobile home permit is
issued shall be responsible for informing all tenants about means for summoning
fire apparatus, the Police Department and trailer court employees, and he or
she shall conspicuously post a list of safety rules and regulations, the form
of which is found in Appendix A of the National Fire Protection Association
Pamphlet No. 501A, as it presently exists or may hereafter be amended.
(1976 Code, § 10-534) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 152.38 STANDS AND SKIRTING.
   (A)   The area of the mobile home or trailer stand shall be improved to
provide an adequate and approved foundation for the placement of the mobile
home or trailer, thereby positioning the super structure against uplift,
sliding, rotation or overbearing. The mobile home or trailer stand shall be on
basically non-combustible materials and shall not shift, or settle unevenly
under the weight of the mobile home or trailer due to frost action, inadequate
drainage, vibration or other forces acting upon the super structure. A mobile
home or trailer stand may be provided by means of a solid concrete foot or
block sixteen inches by 16 inches by four inches minimum placed on solid
uniform soil upon which are placed and centered standard concrete blocks on top
of another with cells placed vertically. A solid four-inch concrete cap
covering the concrete blocks shall be provided as the bearing area to be
positioned directly beneath the steel frame of the mobile home or trailer. If
blocking shall be provided upon which shall be placed a wooden spacer and
wooden shims upon the full length of the mobile home or trailer unit, they
shall be placed not more than ten feet apart and not more than five feet from
the ends of the unit.
   (B)   The skirting of all mobile homes and trailers is required. Such
skirting shall not attach a mobile home or trailer permanently to the ground,
but shall be sufficient to withstand wind blow requirements and shall not
provide a harborage for junk or rodents nor create a fire hazard. Such skirting
shall be provided with removable or hinged access panels sufficient to provide
easy access to all utility connection points of the mobile home or trailer and
its subsequent connection with the utility risers if they are located within
the skirted area.
   (C)   Skirting for trailers, travel trailers or recreational trailers on
authorized overnight trailer spaces shall not be required; provided that, the
trailer, travel trailer or recreational trailer is not parked on said overnight
space for more than 30 days. All mobile homes and trailers shall be secured to
the ground by being affixed to a minimum of four anchors as to prevent the
trailer or mobile home from overturning or the separation of the chassis from
the frame due to high winds within 30 days of location in the mobile home or
trailer space.
(1976 Code, § 10-535) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 152.39 ALTERATIONS AND ADDITIONS.
   No additions or appurtenances shall be built onto or become a part of any
trailer or mobile home unless they are approved by the Health Officer. All
plumbing and electrical alterations shall be in accordance with city ordinance.
(1976 Code, § 10-536) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 152.40 ANIMALS AND PETS.
   No owner or person in charge of a dog, cat or other pet animal shall permit
it to run at large, or to commit any nuisance within the limits of any trailer
court or mobile home court.
(1976 Code, § 10-537) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 153: FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT
Section
General Provisions
   
153.01   Statutory authorization
   
153.02   Findings of fact
   
153.03   Statement of purpose
   
153.04   Land to which chapter applies
   
153.05   Enforcement officer
   
153.06   Interpretation of district boundaries
   
153.07   Compliance
   
153.08   Abrogation and greater restrictions
   
153.09   Interpretation
   
153.10   Warning and disclaimer of liability
   
153.11   Severability
   
153.12   Appeal
   
153.13   Definitions
Administration and Enforcement
   
153.25   Development permit
   
153.26   Zoning districts established
   
153.27   Variances
   
153.28   Non-conforming uses
   
153.29   Amendments
Flood Hazard Reduction
   
153.40   Floodplain development
   
153.41   Flood Fringe District (including AO and AH Zones)
   
153.42   Floodway Overlay District
 
   
153.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 153.01 STATUTORY AUTHORIZATION.
   (A)   The legislature of the state has delegated the responsibility to local
governmental units to adopt zoning regulations designed to protect the public
health, safety and general welfare.
   (B)   The legislature, in Neb. RS 31-1001 to 31-1022, has further assigned
the responsibility to adopt, administer and enforce floodplain management
regulations to the county, city or village with zoning jurisdiction over the
flood-prone area.
   (C)   Therefore, the Mayor and City Council ordains as follows.
(1976 Code, § 14-101) (Ord. 1421, passed 4-18-2011)
§ 153.02 FINDINGS OF FACT.
   (A)   Flood losses resulting from periodic inundation. The flood hazard
areas of the city are subject to inundation which results in loss of life and
property, health and safety hazards, disruption of commerce and governmental
services, extraordinary public expenditures for flood protection and relief,
and impairment of the tax base all of which adversely affect the public health,
safety and general welfare.
   (B)   General causes of the flood losses. These flood losses are caused by:
      (1)   The cumulative effect of obstructions in floodplains causing
increases in flood heights and velocities; and
      (2)   The occupancy of flood hazard areas by uses vulnerable to floods or
hazardous to others, which are inadequately elevated or otherwise unprotected
from flood damages.
   (C)   Methods used to analyze flood hazards. This chapter uses a reasonable
method of analyzing flood hazards which consists of a series of interrelated
steps:
      (1)   Selection of a regulatory flood which is based upon engineering
calculations which permit a consideration of such flood factors as its expected
frequency of occurrence, the area inundated and the depth of inundation. The
base flood is selected for this chapter. It is representative of large floods
which are reasonably characteristic of what can be expected to occur on the
particular streams subject to this chapter. It is in the general order of a
flood which could be expected to have a 1% chance of occurrence in any one
year, as delineated on the Federal Insurance Administration’s Flood Insurance
Study, and illustrative materials dated 5-3-2011, as amended;
      (2)   Calculation of water surface profiles based on a hydraulic
engineering analysis of the capacity of the stream channel and overbank areas
to convey the base flood;
      (3)   Computation of the floodway required to convey this flood without
increasing flood heights more than one foot at any point;
      (4)   Delineation of floodway encroachment lines within which no
obstruction is permitted which would cause any water surface increase along the
floodway profile; and
      (5)   Delineation of floodway fringe (i.e., that area outside the
floodway encroachment lines, but which still is subject to inundation by the
base flood).
(1976 Code, § 14-101) (Ord. 1421, passed 4-18-2011)
§ 153.03 STATEMENT OF PURPOSE.
   It is the purpose of this chapter to promote the public health, safety and
general welfare and to minimize those losses described in §
153.02(B) of this chapter by applying the provisions of this chapter to:
   (A)   Restrict or prohibit uses which are dangerous to health, safety or
property in times of flooding or cause undue increases in flood heights or
velocities;
   (B)   Require that uses vulnerable to floods, including public facilities
which serve such uses, be provided with flood protection at the time of initial
construction;
   (C)   Protect individuals from buying lands which are unsuited for intended
purposes because of flood hazard; and
   (D)   Assure that eligibility is maintained for property owners in the
community to purchase flood insurance in the National Flood Insurance Program.
(1976 Code, § 14-101) (Ord. 1421, passed 4-18-2011)
§ 153.04 LANDS TO WHICH CHAPTER APPLIES.
   (A)   This chapter shall apply to all lands within the jurisdiction of the
city identified on the Flood Insurance Rate Maps (FIRM) dated 5-3-2011 as
numbered and unnumbered A Zones (including AE, AO and AH Zones) and within the
Zoning Districts FW and FF established in §
153.26 of this chapter.
   (B)   In all areas covered by this chapter, no development shall be
permitted, except upon the issuance of a floodplain permit to develop, granted
by the city or its duly designated representative under such safeguards and
restrictions as the city or the designated representative may reasonably impose
for the promotion and maintenance of the general welfare, health of the
inhabitants of the community and where specifically noted in §§
153.40,
153.41 and
153.42 of this chapter.
(1976 Code, § 14-102) (Ord. 1421, passed 4-18-2011)
§ 153.05 ENFORCEMENT OFFICER.
   The Zoning Administrator of the community is hereby designated as the
community’s duly designated Enforcement Officer under this chapter.
(1976 Code, § 14-102) (Ord. 1421, passed 4-18-2011)
§ 153.06 INTERPRETATION OF DISTRICT BOUNDARIES.
   (A)   The boundaries of the Floodway and Flood Fringe Overlay Districts
shall be determined by scaling distances on the official Zoning Map or on the
Flood Insurance Rate Map or Floodway Map.
   (B)   Where interpretation is needed to the exact location of the boundaries
of the districts as shown on the official Zoning Map, as for example where
there appears to be a conflict between a mapped boundary and actual field
conditions, the Enforcement Officer shall make the necessary interpretation. In
such cases where the interpretation is contested, the Board of Adjustment will
resolve the dispute. The regulatory flood elevation for the point in questions
shall be the governing factor in locating the district boundary on the land.
The person contesting the location of the district boundary shall be given a
reasonable opportunity to present his or her case to the Board of Adjustment
and to submit his or her own technical evidence, if he or she so desires.
(1976 Code, § 14-102) (Ord. 1421, passed 4-18-2011)
§ 153.07 COMPLIANCE.
   Within identified special flood hazard areas of this community, no
development shall be located, extended, converted or structurally altered
without full compliance with the terms of this chapter and other applicable
regulations.
(1976 Code, § 14-102) (Ord. 1421, passed 4-18-2011)
§ 153.08 ABROGATION AND GREATER RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   It is not intended by this chapter to repeal, abrogate or impair any
existent easements, covenants or deed restrictions.
   (B)   However, where this chapter imposes greater restrictions, the
provision of this chapter shall prevail.
   (C)   All other ordinances inconsistent with this chapter are hereby
repealed to the extent of the inconsistency only.
(1976 Code, § 14-102) (Ord. 1421, passed 4-18-2011)
§ 153.09 INTERPRETATION.
   In their interpretation and application, the provisions of this chapter
shall be held to be minimum requirements and shall be liberally construed in
favor of the governing body and shall not be deemed a limitation or repeal of
any other powers granted by state statutes.
(1976 Code, § 14-102) (Ord. 1421, passed 4-18-2011)
§ 153.10 WARNING AND DISCLAIMER OF LIABILITY.
   The degree of flood protection required by this chapter is considered
reasonable for regulatory purposes and is based on engineering and scientific
methods of study. Larger floods may occur on rare occasions or the flood height
may be increased by human-made or natural causes, such as ice jams and bridge
openings restricted by debris. This chapter does not imply that areas outside
Floodway and Flood Fringe District boundaries or land uses permitted within
such districts will be free from flooding or flood damage. This chapter shall
not create liability on the part of the city or any officer or employee thereof
for any flood damages that may result from reliance on this chapter or any
administrative decision lawfully made thereunder.
(1976 Code, § 14-102) (Ord. 1421, passed 4-18-2011)
§ 153.11 SEVERABILITY.
   If any section, clause, provision or portion of this chapter is adjudged
unconstitutional or invalid by a court of competent jurisdiction, the remainder
of this chapter shall not be affected thereby.
(1976 Code, § 14-102) (Ord. 1421, passed 4-18-2011)
§ 153.12 APPEAL.
   Where a request for a permit to develop or a variance is denied by the
Zoning Administrator, the applicant may apply for such permit or variance
directly to the Board of Adjustment.
(1976 Code, § 14-102) (Ord. 1421, passed 4-18-2011)
§ 153.13 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   APPEAL. A request for a review of the Zoning Administrator’s interpretation
of any provision of this chapter or a request for a variance.
   APPURTENANT STRUCTURE. A structure on the same parcel of property as the
principal structure, the use of which is incidental to the use of the principal
structure.
   AREA OF SHALLOW FLOODING. A designated AO or AH Zone on a community’s Flood
Insurance Rate Map (FIRM) with a 1% or greater annual chance of flooding to an
average depth of one to three feet where a clearly defined channel is
unpredictable and where velocity flow may be evident. Such flooding is
characterized by ponding or sheet flow.
   BASE FLOOD. The flood having 1% chance of being equaled or exceeded in any
given year.
   BASEMENT. Any area of the building having its floor subgrade (below ground
level) on all sides.
   DEVELOPMENT. Any human-made change to improved or unimproved real estate,
including, but not limited to, buildings or other structures, mining, dredging,
filling, grading, paving, excavation or drilling operations or storage of
equipment or materials.
   EXISTING CONSTRUCTION. (For the purposes of determining rates) structures
for which the “start of construction” commenced before the effective date of
the FIRM or before 1-1-1975, for FIRMs effective before that date. EXISTING
CONSTRUCTION may also be referred to as EXISTING STRUCTURES.
   EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A manufactured home park or
subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including a minimum, the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is complete before the effective date
of the floodplain management regulations adopted by a community.
   EXPANSION TO AN EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISIONS. The
preparation of additional sites by the construction of facilities for servicing
the lots on which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads).
   FLOOD or FLOODING. A general and temporary condition of partial or complete
inundation of normally dry land areas from:
      (1)   The overflow of inland or tidal waters; and
      (2)   The usual and rapid accumulation of runoff of surface waters from
any source.
   FLOOD FRINGE. The area of the floodplain, outside of the floodway, that on
the average is likely to be flooded once every 100 years (i.e., that has a 1%
chance of flood occurrence in any one year).
   FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAP (FIRM). An official map of a community, on which
the Flood Insurance Study has delineated the flood hazard boundaries and the
zones establishing insurance rates applicable to the community.
   FLOOD INSURANCE STUDY. The official report provided by the Federal Emergency
Management Agency. The report contains flood profiles, as well as the Flood
Boundary Floodway Map and the water surface elevation of the base flood.
   FLOODPLAIN. Any land area susceptible to being inundated by water from any
source. (See definition of FLOODING.)
   FLOODWAY or REGULATORY FLOODWAY. The channel of a river or other water
course and the adjacent land areas that must be reserved in order to discharge
the base flood without cumulatively increasing the water surface more than one
foot.
   FREEBOARD. A factor of safety usually expressed in feet above a flood level
for purposes of floodplain management. FREEBOARD tends to compensate for the
many unknown factors that could contribute to flood heights greater than the
height calculated for a selected size flood and floodway conditions, such as
wave action, clogged bridge openings and the hydrological effect of
urbanization of the watershed.
   HIGHEST ADJACENT GRADE. The highest natural elevation of the ground surface
prior to construction next to the proposed walls of structure.
   HISTORIC STRUCTURE. Any structure that is:
      (1)   Listed individually in the National Register of Historic Places (a
listing maintained by the Department of Interior) or preliminarily determined
by the Secretary of the Interior as meeting the requirements for individual
listing on the National Register;
      (2)   Certified or preliminarily determined by the Secretary of the
Interior as contributing to the historical significance of a registered
historic district or a district preliminarily determined by the Secretary as
contributing to the historical significance of a registered historic district
or a district preliminarily determined by the Secretary to qualify as a
registered historic district;
      (3)   Individually listed on a state inventory of historic places in
states with historic preservation programs which have been approved by the
Secretary of the Interior; or
      (4)   Individually listed on a local inventory of historic places in
communities with historic preservation programs that have been certified
either:
         (a)   By an approved state program as determined by the Secretary of
the Interior; or
         (b)   Directly by the Secretary of the Interior in states without
approved programs.
   VARIANCES. A grant of relief to a person from the requirements of this
chapter which permits construction in a manner otherwise prohibited by this
chapter where specific enforcement would result in unnecessary hardship.
   VIOLATION. A failure of a structure or other development to be fully
complaint with the community’s floodplain management regulations.
(1976 Code, § 14-112) (Ord. 1421, passed 4-18-2011)
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
§ 153.25 DEVELOPMENT PERMIT.
   (A)   Permit required. No person, firm or corporation shall initiate any
floodplain development or substantial improvement or cause the same to be done
without first obtaining a separate permit for development, as defined in §
153.13 of this chapter.
   (B)   Administration.
      (1)   The Zoning Administrator is hereby appointed to administer and
implement the provisions of this chapter.
      (2)   Duties of the Zoning Administrator shall include, but not be
limited to:
         (a)   Review of all developmental permit applications to assure that
sites are reasonably safe from flooding and that the permit requirements of
this chapter have been satisfied;
         (b)   Review applications for proposed development to assure that all
necessary permits have been obtained from those federal, state or local
government agencies from which prior approval is required;
         (c)   Review subdivision proposals and other proposed new development,
including manufactured home parks or subdivisions, to determine whether such
proposals will be reasonably safe from flooding;
         (d)   Notify adjacent communities and the state’s Department of
Natural Resources prior to any alteration or relocations of a watercourse and
submit evidence of such notification to the Federal Emergency Management
Agency;
         (e)   Assure that maintenance is provided within the altered or
relocated portion of said watercourse so that the flood carrying capacity is
not diminished;
         (f)   Verify, record and maintain record of the actual elevation (in
relation to mean sea level) of the lowest floor (including basement) of all new
or substantially improved structures in special flood hazard areas;
         (g)   Verify, record and maintain record of the actual elevation (in
relation to mean sea level) to which new or substantially improved structures
have been flood-proofed; and
         (h)   When flood-proofing is utilized for a particular structure the
Zoning Administrator shall be presented certification from a registered
professional engineer or architect.
   (C)   Application for permit. To obtain a floodplain development permit, the
applicant shall first file an application in writing on a form furnished for
that purposes. Every such application shall:
      (1)   Identify and described the development to be covered by the
floodplain development permit;
      (2)   Described the land on which the proposed development is to be done
by lot, block, tract and house and street address or similar description that
will readily identify and definitely locate the proposed building or
development;
      (3)   Indicate the use or occupancy for which the proposed development is
intended;
      (4)   Be accompanied by plans and specifications for proposed
construction;
      (5)   Be signed by the permittee or his or her authorized agent who may
be required to submit evidence to indicate such authority; and
      (6)   Give such other information as reasonably may be required by the
Zoning Administrator.
(1976 Code, § 14-103) (Ord. 1421, passed 4-18-2011)
§ 153.26 ZONING DISTRICTS ESTABLISHED.
   Along watercourses where a floodway has been established, the mapped
floodplain areas are hereby divided into the two following districts: a
Floodway Overlay District (FW) and a Flood Fringe Overlay District (FF) as
identified in the Flood insurance Study, and accompanying map(s). Within these
districts, all uses not meeting the standards of this chapter and those
standards of the underlying zoning district shall be prohibited.
(1976 Code, § 14-104) (Ord. 1421, passed 4-18-2011)
§ 153.27 VARIANCES.
   (A)   Procedures.
      (1)   The Board of Adjustment as established by the city shall hear and
decide appeals and requests for variances from the requirements of this
chapter.
      (2)   The Board of Adjustment shall hear and decide appeals when it is
alleged that there is an error in any requirement, decision or determination
made by the Zoning Administrator in the enforcement or administration of this
chapter.
      (3)   Any person aggrieved by the decision of the Board of Adjustment or
any taxpayer may appeal such decision to the District Court as provided in Neb.
RS 19-912.
      (4)   In passing upon such applications, the Board of Adjustment shall
consider all technical evaluation, all relevant factors, standards specified in
other sections of this chapter and:
         (a)   The danger that materials may be swept onto other lands to the
injury of others;
         (b)   The danger of life and property due to flooding or erosion
damage;
         (c)   The susceptibility of the proposed facility and its contents to
flood damage and the effect of such damage on the individual owner;
         (d)   The importance of the services provided by the proposed facility
to the community;
         (e)   The necessity to the facility of a waterfront location, where
applicable;
         (f)   The availability of alternative locations, not subject to
flooding or erosion damage, for the proposed use;
         (g)   The compatibility of the proposed use with existing and
anticipated development;
         (h)   The relationship of the proposed use to the comprehensive plan
and floodplain management program for that area;
         (i)   The safety of access to the property in times of flood for
ordinary and emergency vehicles;
            1.   The expected heights, velocity, duration rate of rise and
sediment transport of the flood waters and the effects of wave action, if
applicable, expected at the site; and
            2.   The costs of providing governmental services during and after
flood conditions including maintenance and repair of public utilities and
facilities such as sewer, gas, electrical and water systems, and streets and
bridges.
   (B)   Conditions for variances.
      (1)   Generally, variances may be issued for new construction and
substantial improvements to be erected on a lot of one-half acre or less in
size contiguous to and surrounded by lots with existing structures constructed
below the base flood level; providing, divisions (B)(2) through (B)(6) below
have been fully considered. As the lot size increases beyond the one-half acre,
the technical justification required for issuing the variance increases.
      (2)   Variances may be issued for the repair or rehabilitation of
historic structures upon a determination that the proposed repair or
rehabilitation will not preclude the structure’s continued designation as a
historic structure and the variance is the minimum necessary to preserve the
historic character and design of the structure.
      (3)   Variances shall not be issued within any designated floodway if any
increase in flood levels along the floodway profile during the base flood
discharge would result.
      (4)   Variances shall only be issued upon a determination that the
variance is the minimum necessary, considering the flood hazard, to afford
relief.
      (5)   Variances shall only be issued upon:
         (a)   A showing of good and sufficient cause;
         (b)   A determination that failure to grant the variance would result
in exceptional hardship to the applicant; and
         (c)   A determination that the granting of a variance will not result
in increased flood heights, additional threats to public safety, extraordinary
public expense, create nuisances, cause fraud on or victimization of the public
or conflict with existing local laws or ordinances.
      (6)   This application shall be given a written notice over the signature
of a community official that:
         (a)   The issuance of a variance to construct a structure below the
base flood level will result in increased premium rates for flood insurance up
to amounts as high as $25 for $100 of insurance coverage; and
         (b)   Such construction below the base flood level increases risks to
life and property. Such notification shall be maintained with the record of all
variance actions as required by this chapter.
(1976 Code, § 14-108) (Ord. 1421, passed 4-18-2011)
§ 153.28 NON-CONFORMING USES.
   (A)   A structure or the use of a structure or premises which was lawful
before the passage or amendment of the chapter, but which is not in conformity
with the provisions of this chapter may be continued subject to the following
conditions.
      (1)   If such use is discontinued for 24 consecutive months, any future
use of the building premises shall conform to this chapter. The Utility
Department shall notify the Zoning Administrator in writing of instances of
non-conforming uses where utility services have been discontinued for a period
of 24 months.
      (2)   Uses or adjuncts thereof that are or become nuisances shall not be
entitled to continue as non-conforming uses.
   (B)   If any non-conforming use or structure is destroyed by any means,
including flood, it shall not be reconstructed if the cost is more than 50% of
the market value of the structure before the damage occurred; except that, if
it is reconstructed in conformity with the provisions of this chapter. This
limitation does not include the cost of any alteration to comply with existing
state or local health, sanitary, building or safety codes or regulations or the
cost of any alteration of a structure listed on the National Register of
Historic Places or a State Inventory of Historic Places; provided that, the
alteration shall not preclude its continued designation.
(1976 Code, § 14-109) (Ord. 1421, passed 4-18-2011)
§ 153.29 AMENDMENTS.
   The regulations, restrictions and boundaries set forth in this chapter may
from time to time be amended, supplemented, changed or appealed to reflect any
and all changes in the National Flood Disaster Protection Act of 1973;
provided, however, that, no such action may be taken until after a public
hearing in relation thereto, at which parties in interest and citizens shall
have an opportunity to be heard. Notice of the time and place of such hearing
shall be published in a newspaper of general circulation in the city. At least
ten days shall elapse between the date of this publication and the public
hearing. A copy of such amendments will be provided to the Federal Emergency
Management Agency. The regulations of this chapter are in compliance with the
National Flood Insurance Program Regulations as published in C.F.R. Title 44
and the 1983 State Floodplain Management Act.
(1976 Code, § 14-110) (Ord. 1421, passed 4-18-2011)
FLOOD HAZARD REDUCTION
§ 153.40 FLOODPLAIN DEVELOPMENT.
   (A)   No permit for development shall be granted for new construction,
substantial improvements and other development(s) including the placement of
manufactured homes within all numbered and unnumbered A Zones (including AE, AO
and AH Zones) unless the conditions of this section are satisfied.
   (B)   All areas identified as unnumbered A Zones on the FIRM are subject to
inundation of the base flood; however, the water surface elevation was not
provided. The unnumbered A Zones shall be subject to all development provisions
of §
153.41 of this chapter. If Flood Insurance Study data is not available, the
community shall utilize any base flood elevation or floodway data currently
available from federal, state or other sources.
   (C)   Until a floodway has been designated, no development or substantial
improvement may be permitted within special flood hazard areas unless the
applicant has demonstrated that the proposed development or substantial
improvement, when combined with all other existing and reasonably anticipated
developments or substantial improvements, will not increase the water surface
elevation of the base flood more than one foot at any location as shown on the
Flood Insurance Study.
   (D)   New construction, subdivision proposal’s substantial improvements,
prefabricated buildings, placement of manufactured homes and other developments
shall require:
      (1)   Design or anchorage to prevent flotation, collapse or lateral
movement of the structure resulting from hydrodynamic and hydrostatic loads,
including the effects of buoyancy;
      (2)   New or replacement water supply systems and/or sanitary sewage
systems be designed to minimize or eliminate infiltration of floods waters into
the systems and discharges from the systems into flood waters and on-site waste
disposal systems be located so as to avoid impairment or contamination;
      (3)   Construction with materials resistant to flood damage, utilizing
methods and practices that minimize flood damages, and with electrical,
heating, ventilation, plumbing and air conditioning equipment and other service
facilities that are designed and/or located so as to prevent water from
entering or accumulating within the components during conditions of flooding;
and
      (4)   All utility and sanitary facilities be elevated or flood proofed up
to the regulatory flood protection elevation.
   (E)   (1)   The storage or process of materials that are in time of flooding
buoyant, flammable, explosive or could be injurious to human, animal or plant
life is prohibited.
      (2)   Storage of other material or equipment may be allowed if not
subject to major damage by floods and firmly anchored to prevent flotation or
if readily removable from the area within the time available after flood
warning.
   (F)   Subdivision proposals and other proposed new development, including
manufactured home parks or subdivisions, be required to assure that:
      (1)   All such proposals are consistent with the need to minimize flood
damage;
      (2)   All public utilities and facilities, such as sewer, gas, electrical
and water systems are located, elevated and constructed to minimize or
eliminate flood damage;
      (3)   Adequate drainage is provided so as to reduce exposure to flood
hazards; and
      (4)   Proposals for development (including proposals for manufactured
homes parks and subdivisions) of five acres or 50 lots, whichever is lesser,
include within such proposals the base flood elevation.
(1976 Code, § 14-105) (Ord. 1421, passed 4-18-2011)
§ 153.41 FLOOD FRINGE DISTRICT (INCLUDING AO AND AH ZONES).
   (A)   Permitted uses. Any use permitted in §
153.42 of this chapter shall be permitted in the Flood Fringe Overlay District.
No use shall be permitted in the district unless the standards of §
153.40 of this chapter are met.
   (B)   Standards for the Flood Fringe Overlay District.
      (1)   Require new construction or substantial improvements of residential
structures to have the lowest floor, including basement, elevated to or above
one foot above the base flood elevation.
      (2)   Require new construction or substantial improvements of non-
residential structures to have the lowest floor, including basement, elevated
to or above one foot above the base flood elevation or, together with attendant
utility and sanitary facilities, to be flood-proofed so that below that level
the structure is water-tight with walls substantially impermeable to the
passage of water and with structural components having the capability of
resisting hydrostatic and hydrodynamic loads and effects of buoyancy. A
registered professional engineer or architect shall certify that the standards
of this division (B)(2) are satisfied. Such certification shall be provided to
the Zoning Administrator as set forth in §
153.25(B)(2)(f) of this chapter.
      (3)   Require for all new construction and substantial improvements that
fully enclosed areas below the lowest floor that are usable solely for parking
of vehicles, building access or storage in an area other than a basement and
which are subject to flooding shall be designed to automatically equalize
hydrostatic flood forces on exterior walls by allowing for the entry and exit
of flood waters. Designs for meeting this requirement must either be certified
by a registered professional engineer or architect or meet or exceed the
following minimum criteria: a minimum of two openings having a total net area
of not less than one square inch for every square foot of enclosed area subject
to flooding to flooding shall be provided. The bottom of all openings shall be
not higher than one foot above grade. Openings may be equipped with screens,
louvers, valves or other coverings or devices; provided that, they permit the
automatic entry and exit of flood waters.
      (4)   Appurtenant structures used exclusively for storage of motor
vehicles, and storage of other items readily removable in the event of a flood
warning may have their lowest floor below one foot above the base flood
elevation; provided, the structure meets the requirements as set forth in
division (B)(3) above; and, provided that, no utilities are installed in the
structure, except elevated or flood- proofed electrical fixtures. If the
structure is converted to another use, it must be brought into full compliance
with the minimum standards governing such use.
      (5)   Within AH Zones, adequate drainage paths around structures on
slopes shall be required in order to guide flood waters around and away from
proposed structures.
      (6)   (a)   All manufactured homes shall be anchored to resist
floatation, collapse or lateral movement. Manufactured homes must be anchored
in accordance with local building codes or FEMA guidelines. In the event that
over-the-top frame ties to ground anchors are used, the following specific
requirements (or their equivalent) shall be met:
            1.   Over-the-top ties be provided at each of the four corners of
the manufactured home, with two additional ties per side at intermediate
locations and manufactured homes less than 50 feet long requiring one
additional tie per side;
            2.   Frame ties be provided at each corner of the home with five
additional ties per side at intermediate points and manufactured homes less
than 50 feet long requiring four additional ties per side;
            3.   All components of the anchoring system be capable of carrying
a force of 4,800 pounds; and
            4.   Any additions to the manufactured home be similarly anchored.
         (b)   Require that all manufactured homes to be placed or
substantially improved within special flood hazard areas on the community’s
FIRM on sites:
            1.   Outside of a manufactured home park or subdivision;
            2.   In a new manufactured home park or subdivision;
            3.   In an expansion to an existing manufactured home park or
subdivision; or
            4.   In an existing manufactured home park or subdivision on which
a manufactured home has incurred “substantial damage” as the result of a flood,
be elevated on a permanent foundations such that the lowest floor of the
manufactured home is at or above one foot above the base flood elevation; and
be securely anchored to an adequately anchored foundation system in accordance
with the provisions of division (B)(6)(a) above.
         (c)   Require that manufactured homes to be placed or substantially
improved on sites in an existing manufactured home park or subdivision within
special flood hazard areas on the community’s FIRM that are not subject to the
provisions of division (B)(6)(b) above be elevated so that either:
            1.   The lowest floor of the manufactured home is at or above one
foot above the base flood elevation; or
            2.   The manufactured home chassis is supported by reinforced piers
or other foundation elements of at least equivalent strength that are no less
than 36 inches in height above grade; and be securely anchored to an adequately
anchored foundation system in accordance with the provisions of division (B)(6)
(a) above.
      (7)   (a)   Recreational vehicles placed on sites within the special
flood hazard areas on the community’s official map shall either:
            1.   Be on the site for fewer than 180 consecutive days;
            2.   Be fully licensed and ready for highway use; or
            3.   Meet the permit requirements and the elevation and anchoring
requirements for “manufactured homes” of this chapter.
         (b)   A recreational vehicle is ready for highway use if it is on its
wheels or jacking system, is attached to the site only by quick-disconnect type
utilities and security devices and has no permanently attached additions.
      (8)   Located within the areas of special flood hazard established in §
153.06 of this chapter are areas designated as AO Zones. These areas have
special flood hazards associated with base flood depths of one to three feet
where a clearly defined channel does not exist and where the path of flooding
is unpredictable and indeterminate; therefore, the following provisions apply
with AO Zones.
         (a)   All new construction and substantial improvements of residential
structures shall have the lowest floor (including basement) elevated above the
highest adjacent grade at least as high as one foot above the depth number
specified in feet on the community’s FIRM (at least two feet if no depth number
is specified).
         (b)   All new construction and substantial improvements of non-
residential structures shall:
            1.   Have the lowest floor elevated above the highest adjacent
grade at least as high as one foot above the depth number specified in feet on
the community’s FIRM (at least two feet if no depth number is specified); or
            2.   Together with attendant utility and sanitary facilities be
completely flood-proofed to or above that level so that any space below that
level is water-tight with walls substantially impermeable to the passage of
water and with structural components having the capability of resisting
hydrostatic and hydrodynamic loads and effects of buoyancy. Such certification
shall be provided to the official as set forth in §
153.25(B)(2)(g) of this chapter.
         (c)   Adequate drainage paths around structures on slopes shall be
required in order to guide flood waters around and away from proposed
structures.
(1976 Code, § 14-106) (Ord. 1421, passed 4-18-2011)
§ 153.42 FLOODWAY OVERLAY DISTRICT.
   (A)   Permitted uses. Only uses having a low flood-damage potential and not
obstructing flood flows shall be permitted within the Floodway District to the
extent that they are not prohibited by any other ordinance. The following are
recommended uses for the Floodway District:
      (1)   Agricultural uses such as general farming, pasture, nurseries,
forestry;
      (2)   Residential uses such as lawns, gardens, parking and play areas;
      (3)   Non-residential areas such as loading areas, parking and airport
landing strips; and
      (4)   Public and private recreational uses such as golf courses, archery
ranges, picnic grounds, parks, wildlife and nature preserves.
   (B)   Standards for the Floodway Overlay District. New structures for human
habitation are prohibited. All encroachment, including fill, new construction,
substantial improvements and other development must be prohibited unless
certification by a registered professional engineer or architect is provided
demonstrating that the development shall not result in any increase in water
surface elevations along the floodway profile during occurrence of the base
flood discharge. These uses are subject to the standards of §§
153.40 and
153.41 of this chapter. In Zone A unnumbered, obtain, review and reasonably
utilize any flood elevation and floodway data available through federal, state
or other sources or §
153.40(F)(4) of this chapter, in meeting the standards of this section.
(1976 Code, § 14-107) (Ord. 1421, passed 4-18-2011)
§ 153.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Violation of the provisions of this chapter or failure to comply with
any of its requirements (including violations of conditions and safeguards
established in connection with grants of variances or special exceptions) shall
constitute a misdemeanor. Any person who violates this chapter or fails to
comply with any of its requirements shall, upon conviction thereof, be fined
not more that $200 and, in addition, shall pay all costs and expenses involved
in the case. Each day such violation continues shall be considered a separate
offense.
   (B)   Nothing herein contained shall prevent the city or other appropriate
authority from taking such other lawful action is as necessary to prevent or
remedy any violation.
(1976 Code, § 14-110) (Ord. 1421, passed 4-18-2011)
CHAPTER 154: PLANNING AND ZONING
Section
   
154.01   Comprehensive Development Plan
   
154.02   Subdivision and zoning regulations
   
154.03   Sign regulations
   
154.04   Conflicts
 
   
154.99   Penalty
§ 154.01 COMPREHENSIVE DEVELOPMENT PLAN.
   The city’s Comprehensive Development Plan provisions, and any and all
amendments, are hereby adopted by reference and incorporated herein as if set
out in full.
(1976 Code, § 11-101) (Ord. 1466, passed 12-5-2016)
§ 154.02 SUBDIVISION AND ZONING REGULATIONS.
   The city’s subdivision and zoning regulations, and any and all amendments,
are hereby adopted by reference and incorporated herein as if set out in full.
(1976 Code, § 11-201 and Ch. 12) (Ord. 1467, passed 12-5-2016)
§ 154.03 SIGN REGULATIONS.
   The city’s sign regulations, and any and all amendments, are hereby adopted
by reference and incorporated herein as if set out in full.
(1976 Code, Ch. 13) (Ord. 1477, passed 1-22-2018)
§ 154.04 CONFLICTS.
   Where the provisions adopted by this chapter conflict with one another or
with the provisions of
Ch. 150  of this code of ordinances, the most restrictive or stringent
provisions shall govern.
(1976 Code, § 11-301)
§ 154.99 PENALTY.
   Any person who shall violate or refuse to comply with the enforcement of any
of the provisions of this chapter, set forth at full length herein or
incorporated by reference, shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon
conviction thereof, shall be fined not more than $500 for each offense. A new
violation shall be deemed to have been committed every 24 hours of such failure
to comply.
(1976 Code, § 11-401) (Ord. 1427, passed 5-7-2012; Ord. 1449, passed 12-23-
2013)
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to Nebraska Revised Statutes
References to 1976 Code
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO NEBRASKA REVISED STATUTES
Neb. RS Section Code Section
Neb. RS Section                       Code Section
3-501 through 3-514                   31.08
5-108                                 33.13
9-501 through 9-513                   110.17
9-601 to 9-653                        35.15
9-701                                 130.68
10-201 through 10-411                 35.34
10-601 through 10-614                 35.34
Ch. 11, Art. 1                        34.26
11-101                                30.001
11-104                                30.001
11-105                                30.001
11-109 through 11-118                 30.001
12-301 through 12-403                 95.01
12-403                                95.02
12-519                                130.24
12-1001                               35.34
13-310                                151.038
13-312                                151.038
13-314                                151.038
13-403                                151.021
                                      32.32;
13-501 through 13-513                 35.20;
                                      35.22
13-503                                35.15
13-504                                35.16
13-505                                35.16
13-506                                35.17
13-507                                35.17
13-508                                35.19;
                                      35.37
13-509                                35.19
13-509.02                             35.19
13-511                                35.20
                                      35.17;
13-518 to 13-522                      35.19;
                                      35.20
13-519                                33.11
13-801 through 13-827                 34.27
13-1802                               34.27
13-2001 through 13-2043               32.32
13-2016.01                            51.15
13-2501 through 13-2550               34.27
14-114                                30.055
15-133                                112.02
16-230                                51.01
16-231                                51.01
16-246                                51.01
16-318(3)                             30.074
16-901                                51.01
17-102                                33.08;
                                      33.15
17-103                                30.041;
                                      33.08
                                      30.041;
17-104                                30.042;
                                      33.08
17-105                                30.023
                                      30.055;
                                      30.070;
                                      30.077;
                                      30.084;
17-107                                30.085;
                                      30.086;
                                      30.087;
                                      30.088;
                                      34.28
17-107.02(2)                          33.03
17-107.02(4)                          33.04
17-107.02(6)                          33.06
17-107.02(6), (7)                     33.07
17-107.02(9)                          30.025
                                      30.003;
17-108.02                             30.055;
                                      30.071;
                                      33.19
17-110                                30.055
17-111                                30.055
17-112                                30.055
17-113                                30.055
17-114                                51.17
17-115                                30.055
17-118                                30.078;
                                      34.27
17-119                                30.088
17-120                                111.02
                                      30.076;
17-121                                30.077;
                                      31.05;
                                      91.01
17-123                                51.17
17-124                                30.078
17-129                                130.23
17-130 through 17-132                 150.002
                                      93.03;
                                      113.01;
                                      113.02;
                                      113.03;
17-134                                113.04;
                                      113.05;
                                      113.06;
                                      113.07;
                                      113.08;
                                      113.09
17-137                                93.04
17-143                                151.003
17-144                                151.003
17-147                                30.079;
                                      34.01
17-148                                30.040
17-149                                55.01
17-150                                30.081
17-207                                51.17
17-213                                30.078
17-405                                30.081;
                                      30.082
17-502                                30.002
17-503                                151.017
17-503.01                             151.017
17-503.02                             151.018
                                      10.99;
17-505                                30.079;
                                      32.01
17-509                                151.056;
                                      151.066
17-510                                151.066
17-510 to 17-512                      151.056
17-511                                151.065;
                                      151.066
17-522                                151.038;
                                      151.040
17-523                                151.040
17-524                                151.038;
                                      151.065
                                      110.01;
                                      110.02;
17-525                                110.03;
                                      110.04;
                                      113.04
17-526                                90.07
17-531                                54.01
17-534                                54.01
17-536                                54.15
                                      54.03;
                                      54.05;
                                      54.12;
17-537                                54.13;
                                      54.16;
                                      54.18;
                                      54.21
17-539                                54.16
17-540                                35.31;
                                      54.08
17-541                                30.084
                                      54.05;
17-542                                54.07;
                                      54.09;
                                      54.10
17-543                                30.084
17-547                                90.11
17-548                                90.05
17-549                                92.25;
                                      92.28
17-550                                92.23;
                                      150.002
                                      91.15;
17-555                                151.019;
                                      151.037
                                      92.28;
17-556                                93.02;
                                      130.23;
                                      130.26
                                      72.31;
17-557                                151.019;
                                      151.036
17-557.01                             151.019;
                                      151.035
17-558                                151.069
17-559                                151.069
17-561                                151.003
17-563                                130.32
17-567                                151.016
17-568                                30.082
                                      30.081;
17-568.01                             30.082;
                                      35.25
17-568.02                             35.25
17-602                                33.14
17-604                                30.001;
                                      30.070
17-605                                30.073
17-606                                30.074
17-606(2)                             30.074
17-607                                35.33
17-608                                35.33
17-609                                35.33
17-610                                30.075
17-611                                30.003
17-612                                30.003
                                      32.04;
17-613                                32.07;
                                      32.08;
                                      35.25
                                      10.15;
17-614                                32.05;
                                      32.06;
                                      32.09
17-614(3)                             32.06
17-616                                30.020;
                                      32.06
17-701                                35.15
17-702                                35.23
17-706                                35.22
17-708                                35.24
17-710                                35.30
17-711                                35.28
17-714                                35.27
17-715                                35.27
17-718                                34.01
17-801 through 17-808                 31.06
17-810                                31.06
                                      52.03;
17-902                                52.04;
                                      52.05;
                                      52.06
17-902 through 17-904                 52.01
17-906                                52.01
17-909                                52.01
17-919                                30.081;
                                      30.082
17-925.01                             55.01
17-925.02                             55.08
17-938                                95.04
17-941                                95.03
17-948                                94.01
17-948 through 17-952                 94.03
17-949                                94.01
17-951                                94.01
17-952                                94.01
17-953                                34.01;
                                      151.021
17-953.01                             151.021
17-954                                151.021
                                      150.002;
                                      150.032;
17-1001                               150.033;
                                      150.034;
                                      150.035;
                                      150.036
                                      10.16;
                                      91.03;
                                      92.20;
18-132                                150.032;
                                      150.033;
                                      150.034;
                                      150.035;
                                      150.036
18-301 through 18-312                 30.003
18-412                                32.34
18-412.01                             35.25
18-412.02                             32.34
18-415                                53.04
18-416                                54.10
18-1001 through 18-1006               151.017
18-1208                               110.01
18-1214                               35.35
18-1303                               51.01
18-1701                               30.073
                                      10.99;
                                      51.99;
                                      90.99;
                                      91.15;
                                      130.30;
                                      130.99;
18-1720                               150.070;
                                      150.071;
                                      150.072;
                                      150.073;
                                      150.075;
                                      150.999;
                                      151.999
                                      10.99;
                                      51.99;
                                      90.99;
                                      130.99;
                                      150.070;
18-1722                               150.071;
                                      150.072;
                                      150.073;
                                      150.075;
                                      150.999;
                                      151.999
                                      150.070;
                                      150.071;
18-1722.01                            150.072;
                                      150.073;
                                      150.075
18-1729                               72.01
18-1736                               72.45
18-1736 to 18-1741.07                 72.49
                                      72.45;
18-1737                               72.46;
                                      72.52
18-1738                               72.47;
                                      72.48
18-1738.01                            72.48
18-1739                               72.48;
                                      72.49
18-1740                               72.49
18-1741                               72.51
18-1741.01                            72.47;
                                      72.53
18-1741.04                            72.53
18-1741.06                            72.53
18-1743                               150.002
18-1748                               55.07;
                                      151.068
18-1755                               151.021
18-1756                               35.25
18-2101 to 18-2144                    31.11
18-2101 to 18-2154                    31.11
18-2102.01                            31.02;
                                      31.11
18-2147 to 18-2153                    31.11
18-2501 through 18-2511               32.20
18-2501 through 18-2531               32.99
18-2512                               32.21
18-2513                               32.21
18-2514                               32.22
18-2515                               32.22
18-2516                               32.24
18-2517                               32.25
18-2519                               32.27
18-2520                               32.28
18-2521                               32.29
18-2522                               32.30
18-2523 through 18-2526               32.31
18-2527                               32.32
18-2528                               32.32
18-2529 through 18-2531               32.33
18-2532 through 18-2535               32.99
18-2536                               32.34
18-2537                               32.34
18-2715                               31.02
18-2801 through 18-2808               35.15
19-613                                33.08
19-710                                91.17
19-901 et seq.                        31.02
19-901 to 19-914                      31.04
                                      91.03;
                                      92.20;
19-902                                150.032;
                                      150.033;
                                      150.035;
                                      150.036
19-903                                31.02
19-908                                31.04
19-909                                31.04
19-910                                31.04
19-912                                31.04;
                                      153.27
19-916                                31.02
19-924 through 19-929                 31.02
19-930 to 19-933                      31.02
19-1101                               30.074
19-1102                               30.073
19-1103                               30.073;
                                      30.074
19-1301 through 19-1304               35.31
19-1305                               54.01
19-1405                               30.084
19-2101 through 19-2106               51.30
19-2106                               51.16
19-2428 through 19-2431               151.056;
                                      151.067
19-2901 through 19-2909               35.26
20-203                                90.30
21-1316.01                            35.33
23-122                                30.073
23-186                                35.35
23-928                                35.29
23-929                                35.29
25-505.01                             33.18
25-1801                               50.01
25-21,149 through 25-21,164           32.23
28-109                                90.33
Ch. 28, Art. 3, 4, 7, 8, 10, 11 or 12 112.06
28-318                                130.19;
                                      130.67
28-411                                130.21
28-431                                130.33
28-4,109                              130.18
28-4,110                              130.18
28-503                                130.61
28-512                                130.60
28-513                                130.61
28-514                                130.37;
                                      130.60
                                      92.03;
28-519                                95.06;
                                      130.16
28-520                                90.30
28-521                                71.36;
                                      90.30
28-523                                130.28;
                                      130.66
28-552                                90.12
28-553                                90.12
28-565 through 28-567                 130.63
28-588                                130.15
28-588.01                             130.15
28-610                                130.01
28-728                                130.02
28-729                                130.03;
                                      130.04
28-801                                130.19
28-804                                130.25;
                                      130.26
28-806                                130.67
28-818                                130.22
28-830                                130.19
28-831                                130.19
28-833                                130.68
28-907                                92.09;
                                      130.36
                                      92.02;
28-908                                92.04;
                                      92.06
28-1004                               90.09
28-1005                               90.09
28-1008                               90.14;
                                      90.30
28-1009                               90.14
28-1009.02                            90.15
28-1009.03                            90.15
28-1012                               90.14;
                                      91.21
28-1013.01                            90.15
28-1013.02                            90.15
28-1101                               130.68
28-1102 through 28-1104               130.68
28-1107 through 28-1113               130.68
28-1117                               130.68
28-1213                               92.28
28-1219                               34.07
28-1229                               92.28
28-1233                               92.28
28-1233(3)                            92.28
28-1241                               93.01;
                                      93.02
28-1241(6)                            93.01
28-1241(7)                            93.01;
                                      93.04
28-1244                               93.02
28-1245                               93.02
28-1249                               93.04
28-1418                               130.38
28-1419                               130.38
28-1420                               110.15
28-1420 to 28-1429                    110.15
28-1421                               110.15
28-1422                               110.15
28-1423                               110.15
28-1425                               110.15;
                                      112.22
28-1426                               110.15
28-1427                               130.38
28-1428                               110.15
28-1429                               110.15
28-1429.02                            130.38
28-1465                               34.27
28-1466                               34.27
28-1472                               34.27
28-1601                               130.68
29-422 to 29-429                      90.14
29-423                                72.02
29-426                                72.04
29-4001.01                            130.39
29-4003                               130.39
31-1001 to 31-1022                    153.01
                                      30.055;
Ch. 32                                33.01;
                                      33.08
32-102                                33.14
32-109                                30.055
32-402.01                             33.10
32-404                                33.01;
                                      33.02
32-405                                33.11;
                                      33.18
32-417                                33.16
32-418                                33.16
32-533                                33.08
32-537(7), (8)                        33.17
32-554                                33.08
32-556                                33.01
32-557                                33.08
32-559                                33.11
32-560                                30.056
32-561                                30.056
32-562                                33.18
32-567 to 32-570                      33.18
32-569                                30.056
32-574                                33.18
32-603                                30.055
32-604                                30.055
32-606                                33.05;
                                      33.12
32-607                                33.05;
                                      33.12
32-608                                33.09;
                                      33.12
32-615                                33.12
32-616                                33.12
32-617                                33.12
32-618                                33.12
32-621                                33.12
32-622                                33.05
32-625                                33.05
32-625(2)                             33.12
32-627                                33.05;
                                      33.12
32-628                                33.12;
                                      151.017
32-628 through 32-631                 35.18
32-629                                33.12;
                                      33.18
32-630                                33.12;
                                      33.18
32-710                                33.12
32-802                                35.18
32-952 through 32-959                 33.11
32-1202                               33.11
32-1301                               33.18
32-1302                               33.18
32-1303                               33.18
32-1304                               33.18
32-1305                               33.18
32-1306                               33.18
32-1307                               33.18
32-1308                               33.18
32-1309                               33.18
33-139.01                             34.04
33-141                                30.074
35-102                                30.079;
                                      34.04
35-106                                110.01;
                                      110.16
35-108                                30.079;
                                      34.04
35-109                                34.04
35-504                                92.26
35-506                                92.26
35-508                                92.26
35-509                                92.26
35-511                                92.26
35-520                                92.09
35-530 through 35-536                 92.26
37-1254.01                            34.27
37-1254.05                            34.27
39-609 through 39-611                 71.01
39-614                                71.01
39-618                                70.03
39-619                                70.03;
                                      71.01
39-619.01                             71.01
39-620                                71.08
                                      71.07;
39-622                                71.08;
                                      71.30
39-625                                71.08;
                                      71.30
39-628                                71.31
39-629                                71.32
39-631                                71.38
39-638                                71.09
39-640                                71.07
39-650                                71.06
39-651                                71.06
39-652 through 39-654                 71.06
39-662                                Ch. 74, Schd. I
39-663                                Ch. 74, Schd. I
39-664                                Ch. 74, Schd. I
39-668                                73.18
39-669                                71.25
39-669.01                             71.25
39-669.02                             71.25
39-669.21                             70.18
39-669.26                             71.25;
                                      71.27
39-671                                72.04
39-672                                72.26;
                                      72.27
39-673                                72.22;
                                      72.28
39-674                                72.20
39-676                                71.34
39-677                                71.33
39-681                                71.32;
                                      92.08
39-682                                92.07
39-683                                70.02
39-690                                73.18
39-691                                73.18
39-694                                71.31
                                      70.17;
                                      70.18;
                                      71.01;
                                      71.05;
                                      71.06;
                                      71.07;
                                      71.08;
39-697                                71.10;
                                      72.03;
                                      72.04;
                                      72.22;
                                      72.23;
                                      72.24;
                                      72.28;
                                      72.29;
                                      72.30
39-6,104.01                           70.15
39-6,104.02                           70.15;
                                      70.99
39-6,104.03                           70.99
39-6,124                              70.34
39-6,129                              70.35
39-6,130                              70.35
39-6,136                              70.34
39-6,137                              70.34;
                                      71.34
39-6,170                              70.34
39-6,189                              71.03
39-6,192                              70.16;
                                      70.18
39-6,196                              73.17
39-6,203                              73.17
39-6,205 through 39-6,207             71.37
43-248                                130.19
46-1212                               151.022
48-1503                               35.25
49-14,102                             30.093
49-801(16)                            10.05
49-1499.04                            30.093
51-201                                35.18;
                                      94.02
51-202                                31.02;
                                      94.02
51-205                                94.02
51-207                                94.02
51-209                                94.02
51-211                                94.02
51-212                                94.02
51-215                                35.31
51-216                                35.31
51-501                                35.18
52-601.01 to 52-605                   130.33
52-604.01 to 52-2410                  130.33
                                      110.01;
                                      112.05;
53-101 through 53-1,122               112.07;
                                      112.14;
                                      112.16
53-101.01                             112.16
53-102                                112.02;
                                      112.16
53-103.01 through 53-103.42           112.01
53-116.01                             112.20
53-123.04(3)                          112.13
53-123.11(1)(c)                       112.13
53-123.12                             112.02
                                      112.02;
53-124                                112.07;
                                      112.18
53-124.01                             112.02;
                                      112.07
53-124.12                             112.18
53-124.15                             112.03
53-125                                112.06
53-129                                112.02
53-131                                112.02;
                                      112.07
                                      110.01;
53-132                                112.02;
                                      112.07
                                      112.02;
53-133                                112.03;
                                      112.07
                                      112.02;
53-134                                112.07;
                                      112.16;
                                      112.17
53-134.03                             112.02;
                                      112.07
53-134.04                             112.02;
                                      112.21
53-135                                112.07
53-135.01                             112.02;
                                      112.07
53-148                                112.05
53-160                                110.01
53-167                                112.09
53-167.03                             112.19
53-168.06                             112.14
53-175                                112.14
53-177                                112.03
53-177.01                             112.03
53-178                                112.04
53-180                                112.09
53-183                                112.09
53-184                                112.09
53-186                                112.13;
                                      130.17
53-186.01                             112.13
53-186(2)                             112.13
53-194.03                             112.14
53-1,101                              112.08
53-1,102                              112.08
53-1,115                              112.21
53-1,121                              34.29;
                                      112.15
54-601                                90.10
54-602                                90.10
54-603                                90.03
54-605                                90.05
54-617                                90.30
54-618                                90.31
54-619                                90.32
54-620                                90.33
54-621                                90.33
54-622.01                             90.33
54-623                                90.33
54-624                                90.33
54-603(3)                             90.03
Ch. 60, Art. 1, 3, 5 and 17           73.17
60-136                                91.15
60-169                                130.33
Ch. 60, Art. 3                        70.30;
                                      70.31
60-2,209                              71.35
60-301 through 60-3,235               35.35
60-302                                70.30;
                                      70.31
60-311                                70.31
60-320                                70.30;
                                      70.31
60-320.01                             70.30
60-321                                70.30;
                                      70.31
60-323                                70.30
60-324                                70.32
60-325                                70.32
60-376                                130.33
Ch. 60, Art. 4                        70.30;
                                      73.17
Ch. 60, Art. 6                        70.01
60-606 through 60-676                 70.01
60-680                                72.20;
                                      72.25
60-681                                151.070
60-1901                               130.33
60-1902                               130.33
60-1903                               130.33
60-1903.01                            130.33
60-1903.02                            130.33
60-1904                               130.33
60-1905                               130.33
60-1906                               130.33
60-1907                               130.33
60-2106                               94.03
60-2401                               72.04
60-2402                               72.04
60-2410                               130.33
60-3,113                              72.45;
                                      72.46
60-4,163                              34.27
60-4,164                              34.27
60-4,186                              70.30
60-6,118                              72.46
60-6,142                              73.15
60-6,146 through 60-6,154             71.07
60-6,166                              92.05
60-6,167                              72.20
60-6,168                              72.20
60-6,185                              Ch. 74, Schd. I
60-6,186                              Ch. 74, Schd. I
60-6,187                              Ch. 74, Schd. I
60-6,188                              Ch. 74, Schd. I
60-6,196                              34.27
60-6,197                              34.27
60-6,211.01                           34.27
60-6,211.02                           34.27
60-6,211.08                           112.13
60-6,219                              70.33;
                                      73.02
60-6,220                              70.33
60-6,224                              70.33
60-6,235                              70.33
60-6,244                              70.33
60-6,265                              71.11
60-6,267                              71.11
60-6,268                              71.11
60-6,278 through 60-6,282             73.01
60-6,285                              70.33
60-6,305                              Ch. 74, Schd. I
60-6,310                              73.17
60-6,311                              73.17
60-6,312                              73.17
60-6,313                              73.17;
                                      Ch. 74, Schd. I
60-6,315                              73.15
60-6,316                              73.16
60-6,318                              73.15
60-6,354                              73.16
60-6,355                              73.18
66-489                                110.01
66-489.02                             110.01
66-4,140                              110.01
66-4,145                              110.01
66-4,146                              110.01
70-504                                32.34
70-624.04                             30.093
70-650.01                             32.34
70-650.02                             32.34
70-1601 through 70-1615               50.04
70-1605                               50.02
70-1607                               50.02
70-1608 through 70-1614               50.02
70-1615                               50.02
70-2103                               130.15
71-423                                34.29
71-1572 to 71-15,168                  31.10
71-1637                               35.18
71-4401                               90.01
71-4402                               90.02
71-4404                               90.02
71-4405                               90.02
71-4406                               90.02
71-4407                               90.02
71-4408                               90.05
71-4603                               130.33
71-5301                               54.23
75-323                                113.01
75-323 through 75-335                 113.02
75-325                                113.06
75-329                                113.05
75-334                                113.09
77-1343                               151.067
77-1601.02                            35.37
77-1606                               35.18
77-1725                               150.075
77-2201                               30.074
77-2201 through 77-2215               30.074
77-2202                               30.074
77-2209                               30.074
77-2210                               30.074
77-2212                               30.074
77-2337                               35.31
77-2339                               35.31
77-2341                               35.33
77-2362                               35.33
77-2365.01                            35.33
77-2366                               35.33
77-2602                               110.01
77-2704-24                            110.01
77-2705                               113.22
77-3442                               35.18
77-3443                               35.18
77-3444                               33.11;
                                      35.18
77-4008                               110.01
80-202                                35.18
80-203 to 80-205                      32.34
81-145 through 81-162                 35.25
81-201                                90.14
81-349                                151.022
81-502                                92.20
81-506                                30.079;
                                      34.10
81-512                                30.079
81-520.01                             92.27
81-566                                150.016
81-579                                150.016
81-586                                150.016
81-592                                150.016
81-5,100                              150.016
81-829.51                             35.20
81-829.65                             34.27
81-839                                30.081
81-1179 through 81-1177               31.10
81-1444                               34.26
81-1517                               51.31
81-1519                               51.31
81-3423                               151.022
81-3449                               151.022
81-3453                               151.022
84-712 through 84-712.09              30.073;
                                      30.074
84-712(2)                             30.073
84-1407 to 84-1414                    30.017
84-1408                               30.016
84-1409                               30.016
84-1409(1)                            30.015
84-1409(2)                            30.015
84-1410                               30.017;
                                      30.022
                                      30.016;
84-1411                               30.018;
                                      30.021
84-1412                               30.019;
                                      30.022
                                      30.016;
84-1413                               30.019;
                                      30.020
86-329 through 86-331                 50.04
86-331.01 through 86-331.04           50.01;
                                      52.05
86-704                                110.01
                                      
 
REFERENCES TO 1976 CODE
1976 Code 2018 Code
1976 Code       2018 Code
1-101           30.055
1-102           30.040
1-103           30.041
1-104           30.042
1-105           30.056
1-106           30.055
1-107           30.057
1-108           30.055
1-201           30.070
1-202           30.071
1-203           30.072
1-204           30.073
1-205           30.074
1-208           30.075
1-209           30.076
1-210           30.077
1-211           30.078
1-212           30.079
1-212.01        30.080
1-213           30.081
1-214           30.082
1-215           30.083
1-216           30.084
1-217           30.085
1-218           30.086
1-219           30.087
1-220           30.088
1-221           30.089
1-223           30.090
1-224           30.091
1-225           30.092
1-301           30.001
1-302           30.001
1-401           30.002
1-501           30.015
1-502           30.015
1-503           30.016
1-504           30.017
1-505           30.018
1-506           30.019
1-507           30.020
1-508           30.021
1-509           30.022
1-510           30.023
1-511           30.024
1-512           30.025
1-513           30.026
1-601           32.01
1-602           32.02
1-603           32.03
1-604           32.04
1-605           32.05
1-606           32.06
1-609           32.08
1-610           32.09
1-701           33.01
1-701.01        33.02
1-702           33.03
1-703           33.04
1-704           33.05
1-705           33.06
1-706           33.07
1-708           33.09
1-709           33.10
1-710           33.11
1-712           33.12
1-713           33.13
1-714           33.14
1-716           33.15
1-717           33.16
1-718           33.17
1-719           33.18
1-720           33.19
1-801           35.15
1-802           35.16
1-803           35.17
1-804.01        35.19
1-804.02        35.20
1-805           35.21
1-806           35.22
1-807           35.23
1-808           35.24
1-809           35.25
1-810           35.26
1-811           35.27
1-812           35.28
1-813           35.29
1-814           35.30
1-815           35.31
1-816           35.32
1-817           35.33
1-818           35.33
1-819           35.34
1-820           35.35
1-821           35.36
1-901           30.003
1-902           30.003
1-903           30.003
1-1001          32.20
1-1002          32.21
1-1003          32.22
1-1003.01       32.23
1-1004          32.24
1-1005          32.25
1-1006          32.26
1-1007          32.27
1-1008          32.28
1-1009          32.29
1-1010          32.30
1-1011          32.31
1-1012          32.32
1-1013          32.33
1-1014          32.99
1-1015          32.34
1-1101          32.99
2-101           31.01
2-104           31.05
2-106           31.06
2-108           31.07
2-109           31.08
2-201           31.02
2-202           31.03
2-203           31.04
2-307           31.10
2-308           31.10
2-309           31.10
2-310           31.10
2-311           31.10
2-312           31.10
2-313           31.10
2-314           31.10
2-315           31.10
2-316           31.10
2-401           31.99
3-101           54.01
3-102           54.02
3-103           54.03
3-104           54.04
3-105           54.05
3-105.01        54.05
3-106           54.06
3-107           54.07
3-108           54.08
3-109           54.09
3-110           54.10
3-111           54.11
3-112           54.12
3-113           54.13
3-114           54.14
3-115           54.15
3-116           54.16
3-117           54.17
3-118           54.18
3-119           54.19
3-120           54.20
3-121           54.21
3-122           54.22
3-125           54.23
3-126           54.24
3-201           55.01
3-202           55.02
3-203           55.03
3-203.01        55.03
3-203.02        55.03
3-204           55.04
3-205           55.30
3-205.01        55.31
3-205.02        55.32
3-205.03        55.33
3-205.04        55.34
3-205.05        55.35
3-205.06        55.36
3-206           55.05
3-207           55.06
3-208           55.50
3-208.01        55.51
3-208.02        55.52
3-208.03        55.53
3-208.04        55.54
3-208.05        55.55
3-208.06        55.56
3-208.07        55.57
3-209           55.58
3-210           55.07
3-211           55.08
3-212           55.09
3-212.01        55.09
3-212.03        55.09
3-213           55.10
3-214           55.11
3-215           55.12
3-216           55.13
3-217           55.14
3-218           55.14
3-219           55.14
3-220           55.14
3-221           55.14
3-222           55.14
3-223           55.14
3-224           55.14
3-225           55.15;
                55.99
3-226           55.16
3-227           55.16
3-228           55.16
3-229           55.99
3-230           55.99
3-301           34.01
3-302           34.02
3-302.01        34.03
3-303           34.04
3-304           34.05
3-305           34.05
3-306           34.05
3-307           34.06
3-308           34.07
3-309           34.08
3-310           34.09
3-311           34.10
3-401           34.25
3-402           34.26
3-403           34.27
3-404           34.28
3-501           94.03
3-502           94.03
3-503           94.03
3-601           94.01
3-602           94.01
3-603           94.01
3-604           94.01
3-701           94.02
3-702           94.02
3-703           94.02
3-704           94.02
3-705           94.02
3-706           94.02
3-707           94.02
3-708           94.02
3-801           95.01
3-802           95.02
3-803           95.03
3-804           95.04
3-805           95.05
3-806           95.06
3-807           95.07
3-901           51.30
3-902           51.31
3-1001          52.01
3-1002          52.02
3-1005          52.03
3-1008          52.04
3-1009          52.05
3-1011          52.06
3-1013          52.07
3-1025          52.08
3-1101          50.01
3-1102          50.02
3-1103          50.03
3-1104          50.04
3-1201          34.99
4-101           91.01
4-102           91.02
4-103           91.03
4-104           91.02
4-201           51.15
4-202           51.15
4-203           51.16
4-204           51.16
4-204.01        51.16
4-205           51.17
4-206           51.15
4-401           51.01
4-501           51.99
4-502           51.99
5-101           70.01
5-201           71.01
5-202           71.01
5-203           71.02
5-204           71.03
5-205           71.04
5-206           71.05
5-207           71.05
5-208           71.06
5-209           71.06
5-210           71.06
5-211           71.07
5-212           71.07
5-213           71.07
5-214           71.07
5-215           71.08
5-216           71.08
5-217           71.08
5-218           71.09
5-219           71.10
5-220           71.01
5-221           71.01
5-222           71.01
5-301           70.02
5-302           70.03
5-303           70.03
5-304           73.19
5-305           Ch. 74, Schd. I
5-306           Ch. 74, Schd. I
5-308           71.25
5-309           71.26
5-310           71.27
5-311           71.28
5-312           71.29
5-313           71.30
5-314           71.30
5-315           71.31
5-316           71.32
5-317           71.32
5-318           71.33
5-319           71.34
5-320           71.35
5-321           71.35
5-322           71.36
5-323           70.15
5-324           70.99
5-325           70.16
5-326           70.16
5-327           70.17
5-328           70.18
5-329           71.37
5-330           73.01
5-331           71.38
5-332           71.11
5-333           73.02
5-334           71.39
5-401           70.30
5-402           70.31
5-403           70.32
5-404           70.33
5-405           70.34
5-406           70.35
5-407           70.35
5-501           73.15
5-502           73.16
5-503           73.17
5-504           73.17
5-505           73.17
5-506           73.17
5-507           73.17
5-508           73.17
5-509           73.18
5-510           73.19
5-601           72.20
5-602           72.21
5-603           72.22
5-604           72.22
5-605           72.23
5-606           72.23
5-607           72.24
5-608           72.25
5-609           72.26
5-610           72.27
5-611           72.24
5-612           72.28
5-613           72.28
5-614           72.29
5-615           72.30
5-616           72.30
5-617           72.31
5-618           72.01
5-619           72.02
5-620           72.03
5-621           72.45
5-621.01        72.46
5-621.02        72.47
5-621.03        72.48
5-621.04        72.48
5-621.05        72.49
5-621.06        72.50
5-621.07        72.51
5-621.08        72.52
5-621.09        72.53
5-622           72.04
5-623           72.04
5-624           72.04
5-625           Ch. 75, Schd. I
5-626           Ch. 74, Schd. II
5-627           Ch. 74, Schd. II
5-627           Ch. 75, Schd. II
5-628           Ch. 75, Schd. II
5-629           71.40
5-630           71.40
5-631           71.40
5-632           71.40;
                72.04
5-633           72.04
5-634           72.05
5-701           70.99
6-101           90.01
6-103           90.02
6-104           90.02
6-105           90.03
6-106           90.03
6-107           90.04
6-108           90.05
6-109           90.05
6-110           90.05
6-111           90.06
6-112           90.07
6-113           90.02
6-114           90.05
6-115           90.08
6-116           90.09
6-117           90.10
6-118           90.11
6-119           90.12
6-120           90.12
6-121           90.13
6-122           90.05
6-123           90.09
6-124           90.09
6-126           90.30
6-127           90.31
6-128           90.32
6-129           90.33
6-130           90.34
6-133           90.14
6-134           90.15
6-135           90.16
6-201           130.01
6-202           130.02
6-203           130.03
6-203.1         130.03
6-204           130.04
6-205           130.15
6-206           130.16
6-207           130.60
6-208           130.61
6-209           130.62
6-210           130.63
6-211           130.64
6-212           130.65
6-213           130.66
6-215           130.17
6-216           130.18
6-223           130.19
6-224           130.20
6-225           130.20
6-232           130.21
6-233           130.22
6-234           130.23
6-235           130.24;
                130.99
6-236           130.25
6-237           130.25
6-238           130.26
6-240           130.27
6-241           130.28
6-242           130.29
6-243           130.30
6-244           130.31
6-245           130.31
6-246           130.31
6-247           130.32
6-248           130.33
6-249           130.34
6-253           130.36
                130.35;
6-254           130.37;
                130.99
6-255           130.35
6-256           130.38
6-258           130.38;
                130.99
6-259           130.39
6-260           130.38
6-301           130.40
6-302           130.40
6-303           130.40
6-304           130.40
6-305           130.40
6-401           90.99;
                130.99
6-402           90.99;
                130.99
6-403           90.99
7-101           92.01
7-102           92.02
7-103           92.03
7-104           92.04
7-105           92.05
7-106           92.06
7-107           92.07
7-108           92.08
7-109           92.09
7-201           92.20;
                92.24
7-202           92.20
7-203           92.21
7-204           92.22
7-205           92.23
7-207           92.25
7-208           92.26
7-209           92.27
7-301           92.28
7.401           92.99
8-101           151.015
8-102           151.016
8-103           151.017
8-103.1         151.018
8-104           151.019
8-104.1         151.019
8-104.2         151.019
8-105           151.019
8-106           151.020
8-107           151.021
8-108           151.021
8-109           151.021
8-110           151.022
8-201           151.035
8-202           151.036
8-204           151.038
8-205           151.039
8-206           151.040
8-207           151.040
8-208           151.041
8-301           151.055
8-302           151.056
8-303           151.057
8-304           151.058
8-305           151.059
8-306           151.060
8-307           151.061
8-308           151.062
8-309           151.063
8-310           151.064
8-311           151.065
8-312           151.066
8-313           151.066
8-314           151.066
8-315           151.067
8-316           151.068
8-317           151.069
8-318           151.069
8-401           151.001
8-501           151.002
8-502           151.002
8-503           151.002
8-601           151.999
8-602           151.999
9-101           150.001
9-102           150.001
9-103           150.001
9-104           150.001
9-201           150.002
9-202           150.002
9-204           150.002
9-301           150.050
9-302           150.051
9-303           150.052
9-304           150.053
9-305           150.054
9-306           150.055
9-307           150.056
9-308           150.057
9-309           150.058
9-310           150.059
9-401           150.070
9-402           150.071
9-403           150.072
9-404           150.073
9-405           150.074
9-406           150.075
9-501           150.030
9-502           150.031
9-503           150.032
9-504           150.033
9-505           150.034
9-506           150.035
9-507           150.036
9-601           150.999
9-602           150.999
10-101          112.01
10-102          112.02
10-103          112.03
10-104          112.04
10-105          112.05
10-106          112.06
10-107          112.07
10-108          112.07
10-109          112.07
10-110          112.08
10-111          112.08
10-112          112.09
10-113          112.10
10-114          112.10
10-116          112.10
10-117          112.10
10-118          112.11
10-119          112.12
10-120          112.13
10-121          112.14
10-122          112.15
10-123          112.16
10-124          112.17
10-125          112.18
10-126          112.19
10-128          112.13
10-201          113.01
10-202          113.02
10-203          113.03
10-204          113.04
10-205          113.05
10-206          113.06
10-207          113.07
10-208          113.08
10-209          113.09
10-210          113.20
10-211          113.21
10-212          113.22
10-213          113.23
10-214          113.24
10-215          113.25
10-216          113.26
10-217          113.27
10-218          113.28
10-219          113.29
10-220          113.30
10-301          111.01
10-306          111.02
10-307          111.02
10-401          150.015
10-402          150.015
10-403          150.016
10-404          150.016
10-405          150.016
10-406          150.016
10-407          150.016
10-501          152.01
10-502          152.02
10-503          152.03
10-504          152.04
10-505          152.05
10-506          152.06
10-507          152.07
10-508          152.08
10-509          152.08
10-510          152.09
10-511          152.10
10-512          152.25
10-513          152.25
10-514          152.26
10-515          152.27
10-516          152.28
10-517          152.29
10-518          152.30
10-519          152.30
10-520          152.30
10-521          152.31
10-522          152.31
10-523          152.31
10-524          152.31
10-525          152.32
10-526          152.32
10-527          152.32
10-528          152.33
10-529          152.33
10-530          152.33
10-531          152.34
10-532          152.35
10-533          152.36
10-534          152.37
10-535          152.38
10-536          152.39
10-537          152.40
10-538          152.11
10-539          152.11
10-540          152.11
10-541          152.11
10-542          152.12
10-544          152.25
10-601          151.003
10-602          151.003
10-701          93.01
10-702          93.02
10-703          93.03
10-704          93.04
10-705          93.04
10-801          110.01
10-801.01       110.15
10-802          110.16
10-803          110.02
10-804          110.03
10-805          110.04
10-806          110.17
10-807          110.17
10-1001         53.01
10-1002         53.02
10-1003         53.03
10-1004         53.04
10-1005         53.05
10-1006         53.06
10-1007         53.07
10-1008         53.08
Ch. 10, Art. 11 110.18
                93.99;
10-1201         110.99;
                150.999
11-101          154.01
11-201          154.02
11-301          154.04
11-401          154.99
Ch. 12          154.02
Ch. 13          154.03
14-101          153.01—
                153.03
14-102          153.04—
                153.12
14-103          153.25
14-104          153.26
14-105          153.40
14-106          153.41
14-107          153.42
14-108          153.27
14-109          153.28
14-110          153.29;
                153.99
14-112          153.13
                
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
6/605    - -         50.02
1380     - -         50.02
528      3-17-1977   130.40
531      4-21-1977   130.34
532      4-21-1977   130.33
533      4-21-1977   130.63
536      4-21-1977   33.10
538      4-21-1977   30.070
557      9-22-1977   51.16
558      9-22-1977   33.01
560      9-22-1977   35.26
562      9-22-1977   110.02
563      9-22-1977   31.05
565      10-20-1977  130.35
573      4-20-1978   92.20
575      6-29-1978   151.064
577      9-21-1978   31.03
578      9-21-1978   31.04
580      9-21-1978   92.26
581      9-21-1978   112.10
582      9-21-1978   112.10
595      1-11-1979   52.05
596      1-11-1979   54.09
599      1-18-1979   151.019
619      8-23-1979   71.26
620      8-23-1979   73.17
621      8-23-1979   151.041
622      8-23-1979   151.066
623      8-23-1979   151.066
624      8-23-1979   150.002
625      8-23-1979   112.15
626      8-23-1979   112.10
627      9-6-1979    30.003
630      9-27-1979   55.09
635      12-6-1979   112.07
                     55.03—
                     55.05;
                     55.13—
                     55.16;
629      5-8-1980    55.30—
                     55.36;
                     55.50—
                     55.58;
                     55.99
641      5-10-1980   90.05
644      7-31-1980   51.16
650      12-4-1980   72.04
655      2-19-1981   55.09—
                     55.11
659      3-26-1981   54.09
662      6-4-1981    31.07
665      9-17-1981   30.023
666      9-17-1981   33.03
667      9-17-1981   33.07
668      9-17-1981   31.02
669      9-17-1981   72.04
670      9-17-1981   90.05
671      9-17-1981   151.017
672      9-17-1981   151.021
673      9-17-1981   112.10
674      9-17-1981   112.15
675      9-21-1981   92.24
679      1-21-1982   72.01
681      2-18-1982   112.10
683      6-24-1982   92.24
685      7-8-1982    130.40
686      7-29-1982   51.16
689      7-29-1982   130.40
                     32.20—
690      8-5-1982    32.34;
                     32.99
691      8-5-1982    30.003
697      8-5-1982    71.37
698      8-5-1982    130.36
699      8-5-1982    130.37
701      8-5-1982    92.24
702      8-5-1982    151.017
703      8-5-1982    150.016
704      8-5-1982    150.016
705      8-5-1982    150.016
687      8-19-1982   130.32
708      11-18-1982  72.31
1427     5-2-1983    150.032
713      6-9-1983    50.03
720      9-1-1983    30.081
721      9-1-1983    30.082
722      9-1-1983    151.066
723      9-1-1983    112.10
724      9-1-1983    112.06;
                     112.07
                     30.015—
727      9-1-1983    30.018;
                     30.022
729      9-1-1983    50.01
730      9-1-1983    151.067
732      9-15-1983   30.092
733      9-15-1983   Ch. 74, Schd. I
                     32.20—
757      11-3-1983   32.34;
                     32.99
249      11-8-1983   32.99
751      1-6-1984    30.056
745      6-7-1984    94.03
747      8-9-1984    51.16
752      9-6-1984    30.071
                     33.11;
753      9-6-1984    33.12;
                     33.19
754      9-6-1984    35.16
758      9-6-1984    55.07
759      9-6-1984    50.02
761      9-6-1984    151.068
762      9-6-1984    112.07
765      9-6-1984    30.055
887      11-25-1985  72.25
892      3-10-1986   Ch. 74, Schd. I
894      4-8-1986    30.023
896      5-5-1986    90.06
897      5-12-1986   55.09
898      5-12-1986   54.09
900      5-12-1986   112.16
904      6-9-1986    Ch. 74, Schd. I
906      8-4-1986    110.01
909      10-20-1986  151.069
911      10-20-1986  32.07
912      10-20-1986  34.26
913      10-20-1986  151.069
914      10-20-1986  95.07
915      10-20-1986  112.07
916      10-20-1986  112.17
910      11-17-1986  52.05
946      5-2-1988    54.23
947      5-2-1988    150.032
948      7-18-1988   54.09
945      9-12-1988   52.01—
                     52.06
949      9-12-1988   54.05
951      9-26-1988   35.35
952      9-26-1988   31.08
953      9-26-1988   51.01
955      9-26-1988   71.38
956      9-26-1988   72.04
957      9-26-1988   90.09
959      9-26-1988   93.01
960      9-26-1988   112.07
961      9-26-1988   112.18
985      9-26-1988   93.02
963      11-7-1988   110.18
966      12-5-1988   30.003
973      5-15-1989   130.31
974      7-10-1989   130.66
981      9-25-1989   150.055
982      9-25-1989   130.33
983      10-10-1989  72.30
985      11-6-1989   54.09
988      12-18-1989  35.33
989      12-18-1989  35.35
990      12-18-1989  71.01
992      12-18-1989  90.30—
                     90.34
993      12-18-1989  92.28
994      12-18-1989  112.07
995      12-18-1989  112.16
996      12-18-1989  112.17
998      1-22-1990   130.31
1001     6-4-1990    Ch. 75, Schd. I
1003     6-25-1990   113.01;
                     113.02
1009     9-10-1990   73.18
1010     10-8-1990   130.35
1011     10-22-1990  110.17
1012     10-22-1990  151.002
1023     1-7-1991    31.06
1014     1-21-1991   30.057
1015     1-21-1991   30.056
1016     1-21-1991   30.071
1017     1-21-1991   71.11
1018     1-21-1991   90.14
1019     1-21-1991   90.09
1020     1-21-1991   150.075
1024     1-21-1991   91.02
1025     1-21-1991   30.003
1026     1-21-1991   90.08
1027     2-18-1991   150.032
1028     3-18-1991   Ch. 74, Schd. I
1030     4-15-1991   54.05
1031     4-15-1991   54.09
1033     5-7-1991    72.01;
                     72.02
1034     5-21-1991   54.09
1035     6-17-1991   31.07
1036     6-17-1991   55.02;
                     55.09
1040     8-5-1991    30.003
1042     8-19-1991   130.32
1046     11-20-1991  54.02;
                     54.24
1047     11-20-1991  30.003
1045     12-9-1991   150.035
1047     1-20-1992   54.24
1050     3-16-1992   112.10
1051     3-23-1992   70.30
1053     3-23-1992   112.10
1054     3-23-1992   112.18
1055     3-23-1992   112.07
1056     3-23-1992   30.003
1062     7-20-1992   30.003
1063     7-20-1992   51.16
1065     8-24-1992   112.13
1069     12-21-1992  112.10
                     Ch. 74, Schd. I;
1073     1-11-1993   Ch. 75, Schd. I;
                     Ch. 75, Schd. II
1075     3-8-1993    30.073
1076     3-8-1993    30.015
1077     3-8-1993    30.017
1078     3-8-1993    32.32
1079     3-8-1993    72.49
1080     3-8-1993    72.52
1081     3-8-1993    130.38
1085     3-8-1993    150.036
1086     3-8-1993    72.05
1089     4-12-1993   72.05
1090     7-12-1993   31.07
1092     7-12-1993   30.003
1094     8-9-1993    54.24
1095     8-9-1993    30.003
1096     9-13-1993   31.09
1101     11-8-1993   90.08
1102     12-6-1993   150.035
1107     3-21-1994   31.06
1106     6-6-1994    150.050—
                     150.059
1111     7-11-1994   151.019
1113     8-8-1994    30.080;
                     34.03
1114     8-8-1994    90.01;
                     90.03
1117     11-21-1994  55.09
1116     12-5-1994   90.03
1121     1-24-1995   54.05
1122     2-6-1995    35.16
1124     2-6-1995    35.22
1125     2-6-1995    70.01
1126     2-6-1995    71.07
1127     2-6-1995    73.16
1128     2-6-1995    70.30
1129     2-6-1995    70.31
1130     2-6-1995    70.33
1131     2-6-1995    73.15
1132     2-6-1995    73.02
1133     2-6-1995    73.01
1135     2-6-1995    73.17
1136     2-6-1995    73.17
1137     2-6-1995    73.17
1138     2-6-1995    72.21
1139     2-6-1995    72.45
1140     2-6-1995    72.46
1141     2-6-1995    72.47
1142     2-6-1995    72.50
1143     2-6-1995    72.52
1144     2-6-1995    72.53
1146     2-6-1995    92.28
1147     2-6-1995    151.017
1148     2-6-1995    30.017
1149     2-6-1995    32.06
1150     2-6-1995    35.19
1151     2-6-1995    31.03
1154     2-6-1995    51.15
1155     2-6-1995    130.28
1156     2-6-1995    92.27
1157     2-6-1995    151.021
1158     2-6-1995    151.021
1159     2-6-1995    112.18
1164     7-10-1995   130.32
1167     8-21-1995   52.05
1169     8-21-1995   113.04;
                     113.07
1177     10-9-1995   92.05
1178     10-24-1995  110.17
1181     11-20-1995  72.04
1186     12-18-1995  54.02;
                     54.05
1184     1-8-1996    34.28
1187     1-22-1996   35.15
1189     1-22-1996   35.22
1190     1-22-1996   31.03
1191     1-22-1996   31.04
1192     1-22-1996   50.04
1193     1-22-1996   30.023
1194     1-22-1996   70.30
1195     1-22-1996   70.31
1196     1-22-1996   70.33
1197     1-22-1996   72.45
1198     1-22-1996   72.47
1199     1-22-1996   72.48
1200     1-22-1996   72.48
1201     1-22-1996   72.49
1202     1-22-1996   72.50
1203     1-22-1996   72.51
1204     1-22-1996   72.52
1205     1-22-1996   151.017
1206     1-22-1996   151.021
1207     1-22-1996   151.066
1208     1-22-1996   112.14
1212     1-22-1996   54.05
1211     3-18-1996   150.035
1220     7-8-1996    130.35
1221     9-9-1996    51.16
1227     11-4-1996   35.36
1228     3-24-1997   72.25
1230     3-24-1997   90.01;
                     90.02
1237     7-21-1997   130.38
1238     9-8-1997    151.019
1240     10-6-1997   90.01
1241     10-6-1997   35.36
1242     10-20-1997  55.09
1262     1-11-1999   152.05
1273     11-22-1999  93.03;
                     93.04
1274     1-10-2000   150.015
1280     9-11-2000   130.34
1281     9-25-2000   31.10
1283     9-25-2000   51.16
1284     12-20-2000  52.05
1289     4-9-2001    Ch. 74, Schd. I
1293     6-25-2001   55.31;
                     55.51
1292     7-9-2001    150.002
                     93.04;
1294     8-20-2001   110.01;
                     113.04;
                     152.05
1296     10-8-2001   51.16
1298     1-7-2002    72.30
1299     1-21-2002   130.40
1301     5-20-2002   54.09
1307     9-16-2002   71.39
1314     3-10-2003   Ch. 74, Schd. I
1320     9-8-2003    30.091
1322     11-10-2003  31.05
1353     8-11-2004   150.002
1344     11-8-2004   34.04
1345     11-8-2004   34.27
1346     11-8-2004   33.11
1348     11-8-2004   32.22;
                     32.23
1349     11-8-2004   35.33
1350     11-8-2004   151.017;
                     151.018
1352     11-8-2004   150.030;
                     150.031
1354     11-8-2004   31.04
1355     11-8-2004   30.017
1356     11-8-2004   33.01
1356     11-8-2004   33.02;
                     71.11
1358     11-8-2004   94.02
1360     11-8-2004   151.022
1361     11-8-2004   151.038
1362     11-8-2004   112.07
1364     11-8-2004   112.07
1365     11-8-2004   112.18
1367     11-8-2004   130.32
1372     1-24-2005   90.99;
                     130.99
1373     1-24-2005   90.05
1377     6-6-2005    52.05
1378     6-6-2005    54.09
1379     6-6-2005    55.02;
                     55.09
1381     7-25-2005   52.05
1383     10-24-2005  55.09
1385     4-24-2006   110.01
1386     5-22-2006   130.39
1389     6-19-2006   90.12
1390     7-10-2006   Ch. 74, Schd. I
1392     11-20-2006  112.10
1395     2-4-2007    90.05
                     71.40;
1393     2-5-2007    72.04;
                     Ch. 74, Schd. II;
                     Ch. 75, Schd. II
                     90.02;
1395     6-4-2007    90.06;
                     90.07
1397     9-24-2007   113.20—
                     113.30
1399     12-4-2007   130.34
1400     12-17-2007  90.06
                     30.001;
1401     1-7-2008    90.01;
                     90.02
1402     3-10-2008   52.05
1406     10-6-2008   51.16
1411     11-23-2009  90.12
1412     2-22-2010   130.32
1413     4-19-2010   90.11;
                     90.13
1414     8-9-2010    52.05
1415     9-13-2010   51.16
1416     11-8-2010   52.08
1417     11-22-2010  93.01—
                     93.03
                     33.09;
                     90.03;
                     90.09;
                     90.14;
                     112.01;
1418     12-20-2010  112.03;
                     112.06;
                     112.07;
                     112.10;
                     112.18;
                     112.19
1419     2-7-2011    130.39
                     153.01—
                     153.13;
                     153.25—
1421     4-18-2011   153.29;
                     153.40—
                     153.42;
                     153.99
1422     5-9-2011    150.054
1423     8-8-2011    54.09
1424     8-8-2011    55.09
1426A    10-24-2011  150.030;
                     150.031
                     30.055;
                     30.070;
                     33.05;
                     33.12;
                     33.18;
1426B    12-5-2011   34.27; ;
                     112.03;
                     112.07;
                     112.10;
                     112.13;
                     151.022
                     150.033;
1427     5-7-2012    150.034;
                     154.99
1431     5-21-2012   150.031
1444     12-23-2012  30.073
                     90.14;
1433A    1-7-2013    110.01;
                     112.10;
                     130.03
1433B    2-18-2013   90.16
1436     11-4-2013   150.030;
                     150.031
1437     12-23-2013  30.001
1438     12-23-2013  35.15
1439     12-23-2013  35.16
1440     12-23-2013  35.17
1442     12-23-2013  35.19
1443     12-23–201330.055
1445     12-23-2013  30.074
1446     12-23-2013  130.32
1447     12-23-2013  32.06
1448     12-23-2013  130.19
                     31.99;
                     32.99;
                     34.99;
                     51.99;
                     70.99;
                     90.99;
1449     12-23-2013  92.99;
                     93.99;
                     110.99;
                     130.99;
                     150.999;
                     151.999;
                     154.99
1450     2-17-2014   52.05
1451     3- -2014    31.07
1452     5-5-2014    52.05
1454     10-20-2014  130.33
1455A    11-24-2014  30.057;
                     34.04
                     30.055;
                     33.09;
                     33.12;
1455B    2-9-2015    110.01;
                     110.15;
                     112.10;
                     130.19;
                     130.38
1456     3-9-2015    73.19
1457     4-20-2015   112.10
1458     5-18-2015   52.05
1460     1-18-2016   54.09;
                     55.09
                     30.056;
                     33.18;
                     35.20;
                     50.02;
                     70.01;
                     90.03;
1461     2-8-2016    90.14;
                     112.03;
                     112.19;
                     130.16;
                     130.32;
                     151.019;
                     151.022
1462     5-23-2016   71.03
1465     10-17-2016  52.05
1466     12-5-2016   154.01
1467     12-5-2016   154.02
                     33.08;
                     33.12;
                     35.01;
                     90.14;
1468     2-6-2017    112.02;
                     112.04;
                     112.06;
                     112.14;
                     151.037;
                     151.070
1471     6-19-2017   35.01
1470     7-10-2017   31.11
1472     8-7-2017    30.091
1474     9-5-2017    51.16
1475     12-4-2017   110.18
1476     1-8-2018    35.01
1477     1-22-2018   154.03
                     30.016;
                     31.03;
                     34.27;
                     35.17;
1479     2-5-2018    35.18;
                     35.25;
                     72.20;
                     130.32;
                     151.017;
                     151.056
1478     2-19-2018   71.40
                     34.04;
                     Ch. 74, Schd. I;
                     112.02;
                     112.03;
1483     2-4-2019    112.07;
                     112.13;
                     112.20;
                     112.21;
                     130.33
1484     2-20-2019   30.023
1485     3-18-2019   91.15—
                     91.18
1486     3-18-2019   31.12
1484A    9-9-2019    30.003
1487     9-23-2019   72.25
                     71.40;
1488     9-23-2019   72.04;
                     Ch. 74, Schd. II;
                     Ch. 75, Schd. II
                     33.12;
                     33.18;
                     34.29;
                     35.31;
                     35.37;
1483A    12-23-2019  90.01;
                     90.02;
                     110.15;
                     130.38;
                     130.67;
                     130.68
1490     7-20-2020   151.001
1491     8-24-2020   90.31;
                     90.32
1494     9-21-2020   92.29
1495     10-5-2020   110.19
1499     8-16-2021   52.05
                     30.023,
                     30.073,
                     30.074,
                     33.11,
                     33.18,
1501     6-7-2021    35.17,
                     35.38,
                     110.15,
                     112.02,
                     112.06,
                     112.22,
                     130.38
1504     9-20-2021   31.09
1505     10-4-2021   150.030,
                     150.031
1506     11-23-2021  33.15
1509     5-2-2022    30.022
1510     5-2-2022    30.073
1511     5-2-2022    30.093
1512     5-2-2022    32.06
1513     5-2-2022    32.07
1514     5-2-2022    33.05
1515     5-2-2022    33.09
1516     5-2-2022    34.28
1517     5-2-2022    35.19
1518     5-2-2022    35.37
1519     5-2-2022    35.37
1520     5-2-2022    51.01
1521     5-2-2022    71.04
1522     5-2-2022    112.02
1523     5-2-2022    130.33
1524     5-2-2022    130.68
1525     5-2-2022    150.002
1528     2-20-2023   52.05
1529     12-19-2022  50.05
1530     1-9-2023    30.019
1531     1-9-2023    33.11
1532     1-9-2023    33.18
1533     1-9-2023    35.16
1534     1-9-2023    35.17
1535     1-9-2023    35.18
1536     1-9-2023    35.19
1537     1-9-2023    35.37
1538     1-9-2023    90.14
1539     1-9-2023    130.15
1540     1-9-2023    151.017
                    
 
