CITY OF CROFTON, NEBRASKA
CODE OF ORDINANCES
Current through local ordinance 2-12-24, passed 2-12-2024
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street, Suite 310
Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
Tel: (800) 445-5588
Internet: http://www.amlegal.com
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
   Chapter
      
10.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
11.   CITY STANDARDS
CHAPTER 10: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
10.01   Title of code
   
10.02   Interpretation
   
10.03   Application to future ordinances
   
10.04   Captions
   
10.05   Definitions
   
10.06   Rules of interpretation
   
10.07   Severability
   
10.08   Reference to other sections
   
10.09   Reference to offices
   
10.10   Errors and omissions
   
10.11   Official time
   
10.12   Reasonable time
   
10.13   Ordinances repealed
   
10.14   Ordinances unaffected
   
10.15   Repeal or modification of ordinance
   
10.16   Section histories; statutory references
   
10.17   Local changes to this code of ordinances
 
   
10.99   General penalty
§ 10.01 TITLE OF CODE.
   This codification of ordinances shall be designated as the City of Crofton
Code of Ordinances and may be so cited.
§ 10.02 INTERPRETATION.
   Unless otherwise provided herein, or by law or implication required, the
same rules of construction, definition and application shall govern the
interpretation of this code as those governing the interpretation of state law.
§ 10.03 APPLICATION TO FUTURE ORDINANCES.
   All provisions of Title I compatible with future legislation shall apply to
ordinances hereafter adopted amending or supplementing this code unless
otherwise specifically provided.
§ 10.04 CAPTIONS.
   Headings and captions used in this code, other than the title, chapter and
section numbers, are employed for reference purposes only and shall not be
deemed a part of the text of any section.
§ 10.05 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   General rule. Words and phrases shall be taken in their plain, or
ordinary and usual sense. However, technical words and phrases having a
peculiar and appropriate meaning in law shall be understood according to their
technical import.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this code, the following definitions
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      CITY, MUNICIPAL CORPORATION or MUNICIPALITY. Crofton, Nebraska.
      CITY COUNCIL or GOVERNING BODY. The legislative body of the city.
      CODE, THIS CODE or THIS CODE OF ORDINANCES. This city code as modified by
amendment, revision and the adoption of new titles, chapters or sections.
      COUNTY. Knox County, Nebraska.
      MAY. The act referred to is permissive.
      MONTH. A calendar month.
      OATH. Includes an affirmation in all cases in which, by law, an
affirmation may be substituted for an oath, and in such cases, the words SWEAR
and SWORN shall be equivalent to the words AFFIRM and AFFIRMED.
      OFFICER, OFFICE, EMPLOYEE, COMMISSION or DEPARTMENT. An officer, office,
employee, commission or department of this city unless the context clearly
requires otherwise.
      PERSON. Includes bodies politic and corporate, societies, communities,
the public generally, individuals, partnerships, limited liability companies,
joint-stock companies and associations.
(Neb. RS 49-801(16))
      PRECEDING or FOLLOWING. Next before or next after, respectively.
      SHALL. The act referred to is mandatory.
      SIGNATURE or SUBSCRIPTION. Includes a mark when the person cannot write.
      STATE. The State of Nebraska.
      SUBCHAPTER. A division of a chapter, designated in this code by a heading
in the chapter analysis and a capitalized heading in the body of the chapter,
setting apart a group of sections related by the subject matter of the heading.
Not all chapters have SUBCHAPTERS.
      WRITTEN. Any representation of words, letters or figures, whether by
printing or otherwise.
      YEAR. A calendar year, unless otherwise expressed.
§ 10.06 RULES OF INTERPRETATION.
   The construction of all ordinances of this city shall be by the following
rules, unless that construction is plainly repugnant to the intent of the Mayor
and City Council or of the context of the same ordinance.
   (A)   AND or OR. Either conjunction shall include the other as if written
“and/or” if the sense requires it.
   (B)   Acts by assistants. When a statute or ordinance requires an act to be
done which, by law, an agent or deputy as well may do as the principal, the
requisition shall be satisfied by the performance of the act by an authorized
agent or deputy.
   (C)   Gender; singular and plural; tenses. Words denoting the masculine
gender shall be deemed to include the feminine and neuter genders; words in the
singular shall include the plural, and words in the plural shall include the
singular; the use of a verb in the present tense shall include the future, if
applicable.
   (D)   General term. A general term following a specific enumeration of terms
is not to be limited to the class enumerated unless expressly so limited.
§ 10.07 SEVERABILITY.
   If any provision of this code as now or later amended, or its application to
any person or circumstance, is held invalid, the invalidity does not affect
other provisions that can be given effect without the invalid provision or
application.
§ 10.08 REFERENCE TO OTHER SECTIONS.
   Whenever a section refers to another section hereof, that reference shall
extend and apply to the section referred to as subsequently amended, revised,
recodified or renumbered unless the subject matter is materially altered by the
amendment or revision.
§ 10.09 REFERENCE TO OFFICES.
   Reference to a public office or officer shall be deemed to apply to any
office, officer or employee of this city exercising the powers, duties or
functions contemplated in the provision, irrespective of any transfer of
functions or change in the official title of the functionary.
§ 10.10 ERRORS AND OMISSIONS.
   If a manifest error is discovered, consisting of the misspelling of any
words; the omission of any word or words necessary to express the intention of
the provisions affected; the use of a word or words to which no meaning can be
attached; or the use of a word or words when another word or words was clearly
intended to express the intent, then the spelling shall be corrected and the
word or words supplied, omitted or substituted as will conform with the
manifest intention, and the provisions shall have the same effect as though the
correct words were contained in the text as originally published. No alteration
shall be made or permitted if any question exists regarding the nature or
extent of the error.
§ 10.11 OFFICIAL TIME.
   The official time, as established by applicable state/federal laws, shall be
the official time within this city for the transaction of all city business.
§ 10.12 REASONABLE TIME.
   (A)   In all cases where an ordinance requires an act to be done in a
reasonable time or requires reasonable notice to be given, REASONABLE TIME OR
NOTICE shall be deemed to mean the time which is necessary for a prompt
performance of the act or the giving of the notice.
   (B)   The time within which an act is to be done, as herein provided, shall
be computed by excluding the first day and including the last. If the last day
is Sunday, it shall be excluded.
§ 10.13 ORDINANCES REPEALED.
   This code contains all of the provisions of a general nature pertaining to
the subjects enumerated and embraced in this code. All prior ordinances
pertaining to the subjects treated by this code are repealed, except that
nothing shall affect any rights acquired under, actions involving, or fines,
penalties, forfeitures or liabilities incurred pursuant to those ordinances
prior to repeal.
§ 10.14 ORDINANCES UNAFFECTED.
   All ordinances of a temporary or special nature and all other ordinances
pertaining to subjects not embraced in this code, including ordinances
specified in this section, shall remain in full force and effect unless
repealed expressly or by necessary implication:
   (A)   Vacating or setting the boundaries of streets, alleys or other public
places;
   (B)   Annexing or detaching territory;
   (C)   Granting or accepting easements, plats or dedications of land to
public use;
   (D)   Providing for the acquisition or conveyance of real or personal
property;
   (E)   Authorizing or directing public improvements to be made;
   (F)   Levying taxes or special assessments;
   (G)   Appropriating money;
   (H)   Granting franchises or special licenses; or
   (I)   Providing for the issuance of bonds or other instruments of
indebtedness.
§ 10.15 REPEAL OR MODIFICATION OF ORDINANCE.
   (A)   Whenever any ordinance or part of an ordinance is repealed or modified
by a subsequent ordinance, the ordinance or part of an ordinance thus repealed
or modified shall continue in force until the publication of the ordinance
repealing or modifying it to give effect thereto.
   (B)   No suit, proceedings, right, liability, fine, forfeiture or penalty
instituted, created, given, secured or accrued under any ordinance previous to
its repeal shall in any way be affected, released or discharged, but may be
prosecuted, enjoyed and recovered as fully as if the ordinance had continued in
force unless it is otherwise expressly provided.
   (C)   When any ordinance repealing a former ordinance, clause or provision
is itself repealed, the repeal shall not be construed to revive the former
ordinance, clause or provision unless it is expressly provided.
Statutory reference:
   Requirements for amendments and revisions, see Neb. RS 17-614
§ 10.16 SECTION HISTORIES; STATUTORY REFERENCES.
   (A)   A statutory cite included in the history indicates that the text of
the section reads substantially the same as the statute. Example: (Neb. RS 18-
132)
   (B)   A statutory cite set forth as a “statutory reference” following the
text of the section indicates that the reader should refer to that statute for
further information. Example:
§ 39.01 PUBLIC RECORDS AVAILABLE.
   This municipality shall make available to any person for inspection or
copying all public records unless otherwise exempted by state law.
Statutory reference:
   Inspection of public records, see Neb. RS 84-712 et seq.
§ 10.17 LOCAL CHANGES TO THIS CODE OF ORDINANCES.
   Any provision of this code of ordinances may be repealed, modified or
superseded by an ordinance passed by the City Council.
§ 10.99 GENERAL PENALTY.
   Anyone violating any of the terms and conditions of this code shall be
deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be fined in a sum of not more than
$500 for each offense, and each day’s maintenance of the same shall constitute
a separate offense.
(Prior Code, § 1-1001)
CHAPTER 11: CITY STANDARDS
Section
   
11.01   Corporate existence
   
11.02   Corporate seal
§ 11.01 CORPORATE EXISTENCE.
   The City of Crofton, Nebraska, having a population of more than 800 but less
than 5,000, is hereby declared to be a city of the second class and shall be
governed in all respects by the laws regulating cities of the second class.
(Prior Code, § 1-101)
§ 11.02 CORPORATE SEAL.
   (A)   There shall be owned by the city, in the office of the City Clerk, a
common seal of the corporation, having engraved thereon the words “City of
Crofton, Nebraska, Seal.”
   (B)   The City Clerk shall affix an impression of said seal on all papers or
documents executed by him or her in his or her official capacity.
(Prior Code, § 1-301)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-502
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
   Chapter
      
30.   ELECTED OFFICIALS; ORDINANCES
      
31.   APPOINTED CITY OFFICIALS
      
32.   ORGANIZATIONS
      
33.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
34.   FINANCE AND REVENUE
CHAPTER 30: ELECTED OFFICIALS; ORDINANCES
Section
"Mayor
   
30.01   Election; qualifications; term
   
30.02   Powers and duties
   
30.03   Vacancy
   
30.04   Succession of control
City Council
   
30.15   Election; qualifications; terms
   
30.16   President; Acting President
   
30.17   Standing committees
   
30.18   Vacancy; general provisions
   
30.19   Powers
Ordinances, Resolutions and Motions
   
30.30   Grant of power
   
30.31   Ordinances; style, title
   
30.32   Reading and passage of ordinances, resolutions, orders, bylaws
   
30.33   Certificate of publication or posting
   
30.34   Effective date; emergency ordinances
   
30.35   Suspension of rules
   
30.36   Amendments and revisions
MAYOR
§ 30.01 ELECTION; QUALIFICATIONS; TERM.
   (A)   The Mayor shall be elected as provided in the Election Act, being Neb.
RS 32-101 et seq. The Mayor shall take office on the date of the first regular
meeting of the City Council held in December following the statewide general
election. The Mayor shall be a resident and registered voter of the city.
(Neb. RS 17-107)
   (B)   The Mayor shall serve for a term of four years or until his or her
successor is elected and qualified.
(Neb. RS 32-533)
§ 30.02 POWERS AND DUTIES.
   (A)   (1)   The Mayor shall preside at all meetings of the City Council.
      (2)   (a)   The Mayor may vote on any matter that requires either a
majority vote of the City Council or a majority vote of all the elected members
of the City Council if:
            1.   The Mayor’s vote is required due to the City Council members
being equally divided; or
            2.   A majority of the City Council members or majority vote of all
the elected members cannot be reached due to the absence, vacancy or abstention
of one or more City Council members.
         (b)   For the purpose of such vote, the Mayor is deemed to be a member
of the City Council.
      (3)    The Mayor shall have superintendence and control of all the
officers and affairs of the city and shall take care that the ordinances of the
city and all laws governing cities of the second class are complied with.
(Neb. RS 17-110)
   (B)   The Mayor shall have the power to veto or sign any ordinance passed by
the City Council and to approve or veto any order, bylaw, resolution, award of
or vote to enter into any contract, or the allowance of any claim.
      (1)   If the Mayor approves the ordinance, order, bylaw, resolution,
contract or claim, he or she shall sign it, and it shall become effective.
      (2)   If the Mayor vetoes the ordinance, order, bylaw, resolution,
contract or any item or items of appropriation or claims, he or she shall
return it to the City Council stating that the measure is vetoed. The Mayor may
issue the veto at the meeting at which the measure passed or within seven
calendar days after the meeting. If the Mayor issues the veto after the
meeting, the Mayor shall notify the City Clerk of the veto in writing. The
Clerk shall notify the City Council in writing of the Mayor’s veto. Any order,
bylaw, resolution, award of or vote to enter into any contract or the allowance
of any claim vetoed by the Mayor may be passed over his or her veto by a vote
of two-thirds of the members of the Council. If the Mayor neglects or refuses
to sign any ordinance, order, bylaw, resolution, award of or vote to enter into
any contract, or the allowance of any claim, but fails to veto the measure
within the time required by this section, the measure shall become effective
without his or her signature. The Mayor may veto any item or items of any
appropriation bill or any claims bill and approve the remainder thereof, and
the item or items vetoed may be passed by the Council over the veto as in other
cases.
(Neb. RS 17-111)
   (C)   The Mayor shall, from time to time, communicate to the City Council
such information and recommend such measures as, in his or her opinion, may
tend to the improvement of the finances, the police, health, security,
ornament, comfort and general prosperity of the city.
(Neb. RS 17-112)
   (D)   The Mayor shall have the power, when he or she deems it necessary, to
require any officer of the city to exhibit his or her accounts or other papers,
and to make reports to the Council, in writing, touching any subject or matter
pertaining to his or her office.
(Neb. RS 17-113)
   (E)   The Mayor shall have such jurisdiction as may be vested in him or her
by ordinance over all places within five miles of the corporate limits of the
city for the enforcement of any health or quarantine ordinance and regulation
thereof, and shall have jurisdiction in all matters vested in him or her by
ordinance, excepting taxation, within the extraterritorial zoning jurisdiction
of the city.
(Neb. RS 17-114)
   (F)   The Mayor shall have the power to remit fines and forfeitures and to
grant reprieves and pardons for all offenses arising under the ordinances of
the city.
(Neb. RS 17-117)
   (G)   The Mayor shall hold no other elective or appointive office or
employment with the city.
   (H)   The Mayor shall sign the City Clerk’s minutes of all meetings of the
City Council, and he or she shall sign all resolutions that have been passed
and warrants for the payment of money when ordered by the Council.
   (I)   The Mayor shall have such other duties as are reposed in the Mayor by
the laws of the state or as the Council may by resolution confer upon the
Mayor.
Statutory reference:
   Restrictions on holding other office or employment, see Neb. RS 17-108.02,
32-109, 32-603 and 32-604
§ 30.03 VACANCY.
   (A)   The office of Mayor shall be vacant upon the happening of any of the
events specified in Neb. RS 32-560 except as provided in Neb. RS 32-561.
   (B)   (1)   In case of any vacancy in the office of Mayor, or in case of his
or her disability or absence, the President of the City Council shall exercise
the office of Mayor for the unexpired term until such disability is removed, or
in case of temporary absence, until the Mayor returns.
(Neb. RS 32-568)
      (2)   If the President of the Council assumes the office of Mayor for the
unexpired term, there shall be a vacancy on the Council.
(Neb. RS 17-107, 32-568)
Statutory reference:
   Additional and similar provisions, see Neb. RS 32-560 through 32-572
   Ineligibility of person subjected to recall, see Neb. RS 32-1308
§ 30.04 SUCCESSION OF CONTROL.
   In order to designate the succession of control of the city and to declare
and control a disaster or emergency when the Mayor is not present or is unable
to act as the principal executive officer of the city, then the following is
the procedure used to determine who is next in line to fulfill those duties and
responsibilities.
   (A)   If the Mayor is not present or is incapable of performing his or her
duties in order to declare a disaster or emergency and/or act as principal
executive officer in a disaster or emergency situation, then the President of
the City Council shall perform those functions and duties.
   (B)   Should the President of the Council not be present or is unable to
perform those functions and duties, then the next most senior elected official
shall perform those duties and functions.
   (C)   The line of succession for the remaining elected officials shall
follow by seniority from the date originally elected. If more than one Council
member has the same date of seniority, then the most senior in age shall assume
control.
(Prior Code, § 1-107)
CITY COUNCIL
§ 30.15 ELECTION; QUALIFICATIONS; TERMS.
   (A)   The City Council shall consist of not less than four nor more than 12
residents of the city who are registered voters.
(Neb. RS 17-103)
   (B)   All Council members shall be nominated and elected on a nonpartisan
ballot unless the city provides for a partisan ballot by ordinance.
(Neb. RS 32-557)
   (C)   If members of the Council are not elected at large:
      (1)   Unless the city elects Council members at large as provided in Neb.
RS 32-554, the city shall be divided into not less than two nor more than six
wards as provided by ordinance of the City Council. Each ward shall contain, as
nearly as practicable, an equal portion of the population;
(Neb. RS 17-102)
      (2)   Unless the city elects Council members at large as provided in Neb.
RS 32-554, each ward of the city shall have at least two Council members
elected in the manner provided in the Election Act, being Neb. RS 32-101 et
seq. No person shall be eligible to the office of Council member who is not at
the time of the election an actual resident of the ward for which he or she is
elected and a registered voter; and
(Neb. RS 17-104)
      (3)   Such wards shall be substantially equal in population as determined
by the most recent federal decennial census.
(Neb. RS 32-553)
   (D)   The term of office shall begin on the first regular meeting of the
Council in December following the statewide general election.
(Neb. RS 17-104)
   (E)   Members of the Council shall serve for terms of four years or until
their successors are elected and qualified.
(Neb. RS 32-533)
   (F)   If the city operates under a city manager plan, members of the City
Council shall be residents and registered voters of the city and shall hold no
other employment with the city. Any Council member who ceases to possess any of
the qualifications required by this section or who has been convicted of a
felony or of any public offense involving the violation of the oath of office
of such member while in office shall forthwith forfeit such office.
(Neb. RS 19-613)
Statutory reference:
   Ability to elect Council members at large or by ward, see Neb. RS 32-554
   Election Act, see Neb. RS 32-101
   Other requirements for wards, see Neb. RS 32-552 and 32-553
   Restrictions on holding other office or employment, see Neb. RS 17-108.02,
32-109, 32-603 and 32-604
§ 30.16 PRESIDENT; ACTING PRESIDENT.
   (A)   The City Council shall elect one of its own body who shall be styled
the President of the Council and who shall preside at all meetings of the
Council in the absence of the Mayor.
   (B)   In the absence of the President, the Council shall elect one of its
own body to occupy his or her place temporarily, who shall be styled Acting
President of the Council.
   (C)   The President and Acting President, when occupying the place of the
Mayor, shall have the same privileges as other members of the Council; and all
acts of the President or Acting President, while so acting, shall be as binding
upon the Council and upon the city as if done by the Mayor.
(Neb. RS 17-148)
§ 30.17 STANDING COMMITTEES.
   At the organizational meeting of the City Council, the Mayor shall appoint
members of such standing committees as the Council may create by ordinance or
resolution. The membership of such standing committees may be changed at any
time by the Mayor. The Mayor shall be an ex officio member of each standing
committee. The members of the standing committees shall serve a term of office
of one year unless reappointed.
§ 30.18 VACANCY; GENERAL PROVISIONS.
   (A)   The office of a member of the City Council shall be vacant upon the
happening of any of the events specified in Neb. RS 32-560, except as provided
in Neb. RS 32-561.
   (B)   Any vacancy on the City Council shall be filled as provided in
division (C) below.
(Neb. RS 32-568)
   (C)   (1)   (a)   Except as otherwise provided in division (C)(2) or (C)(3)
below or §
30.03, vacancies in city elective offices shall be filled by the Mayor and
Council for the balance of the unexpired term. Notice of a vacancy, except a
vacancy resulting from the death of the incumbent, shall be in writing and
presented to the Council at a regular or special meeting and shall appear as a
part of the minutes of such meeting. The Council shall at once give public
notice of the vacancy by causing to be published in a newspaper of general
circulation within the city or by posting in three public places in the city
the office vacated and the length of the unexpired term.
         (b)   The Mayor shall call a special meeting of the Council or place
the issue of filling such vacancy on the agenda at the next regular meeting, at
which time, the Mayor shall submit the name of a qualified registered voter to
fill the vacancy for the balance of the unexpired term. The regular or special
meeting shall occur upon the death of the incumbent or within four weeks after
the meeting at which such notice of vacancy has been presented. The Council
shall vote upon the nominee, and if a majority votes in favor of the nominee,
the vacancy shall be declared filled. If the nominee fails to receive a
majority of the votes, the nomination shall be rejected and the Mayor shall, at
the next regular or special meeting, submit the name of another qualified
registered voter to fill the vacancy. If the subsequent nominee fails to
receive a majority of the votes, the Mayor shall continue at that meeting to
submit the names of qualified registered voters in nomination, and the Council
shall continue to vote upon the nominations at such meeting until the vacancy
is filled. The Mayor shall cast his or her vote for or against the nominee in
case of a tie vote of the Council. All Council members present shall cast a
ballot for or against the nominee. Any member of the Council who has been
appointed to fill a vacancy on the Council shall have the same rights,
including voting, as if that person were elected.
      (2)   The Mayor and Council may, in lieu of filling a vacancy in a city
elected office as provided in division (C)(1) above, call a special city
election to fill such vacancy.
      (3)   If vacancies exist in the offices of one-half or more of the
members of the City Council, the Secretary of State shall conduct a special
city election to fill such vacancies. Candidates for such special election
shall file a candidate filing form.
(Neb. RS 32-569)
Statutory reference:
   Additional and similar provisions, see Neb. RS 32-560 through 32-572
   Ineligibility of person subjected to recall, see Neb. RS 32-1308
§ 30.19 POWERS.
   The Council shall have all powers granted under the laws of the state,
including, but not limited to, the following: power to pass ordinances to
prevent and remove nuisances; to prevent, restrain and suppress gambling and
disorderly houses; to license and regulate amusements; to establish and provide
for police protection; to prevent the spread of contagious diseases; to
regulate business; to erect, repair, construct and regulate public ways and
property; to maintain good government, public welfare and domestic tranquility;
and to enforce all ordinances by inflicting penalties upon inhabitants or other
persons for violation thereof not exceeding the amount permitted by state law
for each offense, recoverable with costs, together with enforcement by
injunction where necessary.
(Prior Code, § 1-109)
ORDINANCES, RESOLUTIONS AND MOTIONS
§ 30.30 GRANT OF POWER.
   In addition to its special powers specifically granted by law, the city
shall have the power to make all ordinances, bylaws, rules, regulations and
resolutions not inconsistent with the laws of the state as may be expedient for
maintaining the peace, good government and welfare of the city and its trade
and commerce and to enforce all ordinances by inflicting fines or penalties for
the breach thereof, not exceeding $500 for any one offense, recoverable with
costs.
(Neb. RS 17-505)
Statutory reference:
   Adoption of standard codes, see Neb. RS 18-132 and 19-922
   Prosecution in county court, see Neb. RS 25-2703
§ 30.31 ORDINANCES; STYLE, TITLE.
   (A)   Style. The style of all city ordinances shall be: “Be it ordained by
the Mayor and Council of the City of Crofton, Nebraska: ….”
(Neb. RS 17-613)
   (B)   Title. No ordinance shall contain a subject which is not clearly
expressed in the title.
(Neb. RS 17-614)
§ 30.32 READING AND PASSAGE OF ORDINANCES, RESOLUTIONS, ORDERS, BYLAWS.
   (A)   (1)   (a)   All ordinances and resolutions or orders for the
appropriation or payment of money shall require for their passage or adoption
the concurrence of a majority of all elected members of the City Council. The
Mayor may vote on any such matter if:
            1.   The Mayor’s vote is required due to the City Council members
being equally divided; or
            2.   A majority vote of all the elected members of the City Council
cannot be reached due to absence, vacancy or abstention of one or more City
Council members.
         (b)   For the purpose of such vote, the Mayor is deemed to be a member
of the City Council.
      (2)   (a)   Ordinances of a general or permanent nature shall be read by
title on three different days unless three-fourths of the City Council vote to
suspend this requirement.
         (b)   Such requirement shall not be suspended:
            1.   For any ordinance for the annexation of territory, or the
redrawing of boundaries for City Council election districts or wards; or
            2.   As otherwise provided by law.
      (3)   In case this requirement is suspended, the ordinance shall be read
by title and then moved for final passage.
      (4)   Three-fourths of the City Council may require a reading of any such
ordinance in full before enactment under either procedure set out in this
section.
(Neb. RS 17-614)
   (B)   On the passage or adoption of every bylaw or ordinance and every
resolution or order to enter into a contract by the City Council, the yeas and
nays shall be called and recorded. To pass or adopt any bylaw, ordinance or any
such resolution or order, a concurrence of a majority of the whole number of
members elected to the City Council shall be required. All appointments of the
officers by the City Council shall be made viva voce, and the concurrence of a
like majority shall be required, and the names of those, and for whom they
voted, on the vote resulting in an appointment shall be recorded. The
requirements of a roll call or viva voce vote shall be satisfied by a city
which utilizes an electronic voting device which allows the yeas and nays of
each member of the City Council to be readily seen by the public.
(Neb. RS 17-616)
Statutory reference:
   Adjustments to boundaries of election districts, see Neb. RS 17-614
§ 30.33 CERTIFICATE OF PUBLICATION OR POSTING.
   The passage, approval and publication or posting of an ordinance shall be
sufficiently proved by a certificate under the seal of the city from the City
Clerk showing that the ordinance was passed and approved, and when and in what
paper the ordinance was published, or when and by whom and where the ordinance
was posted.
(Neb. RS 17-613)
Statutory reference:
   Passage; rules and regulations, see Neb. RS 17-615
§ 30.34 EFFECTIVE DATE; EMERGENCY ORDINANCES.
   (A)   Except as provided in state law and division (B) below, an ordinance
for the government of the city which has been adopted by the City Council
without submission to the voters of the city shall not go into effect until 15
days after the passage of the ordinance.
(Neb. RS 19-3701)
   (B)   In the case of riot, infectious or contagious diseases, or other
impending danger, failure of a public utility or any other emergency requiring
its immediate operation, an ordinance shall take effect upon the proclamation
of the Mayor and the posting thereof in at least three of the most public
places in the city. The emergency ordinance shall recite the emergency, be
passed by a three-fourths vote of the City Council and be entered of record on
the City Clerk’s minutes.
(Neb. RS 17-613)
§ 30.35 SUSPENSION OF RULES.
   In the event that three-fourths of the members of the Council present vote
to dispense with the rule that ordinances of a general or permanent nature be
fully read on three different days, such ordinances may be passed by reading
the title one time when introduced, read by title a second time after the rule
has been dispensed with, read at large a third time and then put upon final
passage.
(Prior Code, § 1-403)
§ 30.36 AMENDMENTS AND REVISIONS.
   No ordinance or section thereof shall be revised or amended unless the new
ordinance contains the entire ordinance or section as revised or amended and
the ordinance or section so amended is repealed, except that an ordinance
revising all the ordinances of the city and modifications to zoning or building
districts may be adopted as otherwise provided by law.
(Neb. RS 17-614)
Statutory reference:
   Modifications to zoning or building districts, see Neb. RS 19-915
   Ordinances revising all the ordinances of the city, see Neb. RS 17-614
   Requests to detach property from city or village, see Neb. RS 17-614
CHAPTER 31: APPOINTED CITY OFFICIALS
Section
   
31.01   Appointment; terms; removal; powers; duties
   
31.02   Qualification for office
   
31.03   City Clerk
   
31.04   City Treasurer
   
31.05   City Attorney
   
31.06   Police Chief
   
31.07   Utilities Superintendent
   
31.08   Water Commissioner/Public Works Commissioner
   
31.09   Sewer Commissioner
   
31.10   Street Commissioner
   
31.11   City Engineer; special engineer
   
31.12   Zoning Administrator
   
31.13   City Code Enforcer
§ 31.01 APPOINTMENT; TERMS; REMOVAL; POWERS; DUTIES.
   (A)   (1)   The Mayor, with the consent of the City Council, may appoint
such officers as shall be required by ordinance or otherwise required by law.
Such officers may be removed from office by the Mayor.
      (2)   The terms of office for all officers, except regular police
officers, appointed by the Mayor and confirmed by the Council shall be
established by the City Council by ordinance. The ordinance shall provide that
either:
         (a)   The officers hold the office to which they have been appointed
until the end of the Mayor’s term of office and until their successors are
appointed and qualified unless sooner removed; or
         (b)   The officers hold office for one year unless sooner removed.
(Neb. RS 17-107)
   (B)   (1)   The city may enact ordinances or bylaws to regulate and
prescribe the powers and duties of officers not provided for in state law.
(Neb. RS 17-604)
      (2)   If the Mayor and City Council appoint any of the officials
specified in this chapter or any other officials, the officials shall have the
powers and duties, if any, provided in this chapter or as otherwise provided by
city ordinances and state law.
§ 31.02 QUALIFICATION FOR OFFICE.
   Each appointive officer who is required to give bond shall qualify by filing
the required bond and oath as provided in §§
33.20 and
33.21. Each appointive officer who is not required to give bond shall qualify
by filing the required oath as provided in §
33.21.
§ 31.03 CITY CLERK.
   (A)   The City Clerk shall have the custody of all laws and ordinances and
shall keep a correct journal of the proceedings of the City Council. After the
period of time specified by the State Records Administrator pursuant to the
Records Management Act, being Neb. RS 84-1201 et seq., the Clerk may transfer
the journal of the proceedings of the City Council to the State Archives of the
State Historical Society for permanent preservation. The Clerk shall also
perform such other duties as may be required by the ordinances of the city. If
the Clerk is acting as the Treasurer, he or she shall also comply with the
requirements of §
31.04(A)(3).
(Neb. RS 17-605)
   (B)   (1)   It shall be the duty of the Clerk to prepare and publish the
official proceedings of the City Council within 30 days after any meeting of
the Council. The publication shall be in a newspaper of general circulation in
the city, shall set forth a statement of the proceedings of the meeting and
shall also include the amount of each claim allowed, the purpose of the claim
and the name of the claimant, except that the aggregate amount of all payroll
claims may be included as one item. Between July 15 and August 15 of each year,
the employee job titles and the current annual, monthly or hourly salaries
corresponding to such job titles shall be published. Each job title published
shall be descriptive and indicative of the duties and functions of the
position. The charge for the publication shall not exceed the rates provided
for in Neb. RS 23-122.
(Neb. RS 19-1102)
      (2)   Publication under division (B)(1) above be made in one legal
newspaper of general circulation in the city. If no legal newspaper is
published in the city, then the publication shall be made in one legal
newspaper published or of general circulation within the county in which the
city is located. The cost of publication shall be paid out of the general funds
of the city.
(Neb. RS 19-1103)
   (C)   The Clerk shall dispose of or destroy city public records when the
records have been determined to be of no further legal, administrative, fiscal
or historical value by the State Records Administrator pursuant to the Records
Management Act. This shall not apply to the minutes of the Clerk and the
permanent ordinance and resolution books, or any other record classified as
permanent by the State Records Administrator.
(Neb. RS 18-1701)
   (D)   (1)   The Clerk shall permit any person to examine and copy the public
records in the Clerk’s custody and may charge a fee for providing copies of a
public record as provided in Neb. RS 84-712 through 84-712.09.
      (2)   The Clerk may charge a reasonable fee for certified copies of any
record in his or her office as set by resolution of the City Council.
   (E)   The Clerk shall permit no records, public papers or other documents of
the city kept and preserved in his or her office to be taken therefrom, except
by such officers of the city as may be entitled to the use of the same, but
only upon their leaving a receipt therefor, and except pursuant to Neb. RS 84-
712(2). He or she shall keep all the records of his or her office, including a
record of all licenses issued by him or her, in a blank book with a proper
index. He or she shall include as part of his or her records all petitions
under which the City Council shall order public work to be done at the expense
of the property fronting thereon, together with references to all resolutions
and ordinances relating to the same. He or she shall endorse the date and hour
of filing upon every paper or document so filed in his or her office. All such
filings made by him or her shall be properly docketed. Included in his or her
records shall be all standard codes, amendments thereto and other documents
incorporated by reference and arranged in triplicate in a manner convenient for
reference. He or she shall keep an accurate and complete account of the
appropriation of the several funds and draw, sign and attest all warrants
ordered for the payment of money on the particular fund from which the same is
payable. At the end of each month, he or she shall then make a report of the
amounts appropriated to the various funds and the amount of the warrants drawn
thereon.
   (F)   The Clerk shall deliver all warrants, ordinances and resolutions under
his or her charge to the Mayor for his or her signature. He or she shall also
deliver to officers, employees and committees all resolutions and
communications which are directed at such officers, employees or committees.
With the seal of the city, he or she shall duly attest the Mayor’s signature to
all ordinances, deeds and papers required to be attested to when ordered to do
so by the City Council.
   (G)   The Clerk shall issue and sign all licenses, permits and occupation
tax receipts authorized by law and required by the city ordinances. He or she
shall collect all occupation taxes and license money, except where some other
city officer is specifically charged with that duty. He or she shall keep a
register of all licenses granted in the city and the purpose for which they
have been issued.
   (H)   The Clerk shall keep in a book with a proper index copies of all
notices required to be published or posted by the Clerk by order of the City
Council or under the ordinances of the city. To each of the file copies of the
notices shall be attached the printer’s affidavit of publication, if the
notices are required to be published or the Clerk’s certificate under seal
where the same are required to be posted only.
   (I)   The Clerk shall receive all objections to the creation of paving
districts and other street improvements. He or she shall receive the claims of
any person against the city, and in the event that the claim is disallowed, in
part or in whole, the Clerk shall notify the claimant or his or her agent or
attorney by letter within five days after the disallowance, and the Clerk shall
then prepare transcripts on appeals of any disallowance of a claim in all
proper cases.
§ 31.04 CITY TREASURER.
   (A)   (1)   The City Treasurer shall be the custodian of all money belonging
to the city. He or she shall keep a separate account of each fund or
appropriation and the debts and credits belonging thereto. He or she shall give
every person paying money into the Treasury a receipt therefor, specifying the
date of payment and on what account paid. He or she shall also file copies of
such receipts with his or her monthly reports. The Treasurer shall, at the end
of every month, and as often as may be required, render an account to the City
Council under oath, showing the state of the Treasury at the date of such
account and the balance of money in the Treasury. He or she shall also
accompany such accounts with a statement of all receipts and disbursements,
together with all warrants redeemed and paid by him or her, which warrants,
with any and all vouchers held by him or her, shall be filed with his or her
account in the City Clerk’s office. If the Treasurer fails to render his or her
account within 20 days after the end of the month, or by a later date
established by the City Council, the Mayor may use this failure as cause to
remove the Treasurer from office.
      (2)   The Treasurer shall keep a record of all outstanding bonds against
the city showing the number and amount of each bond, for and to whom the bonds
were issued and the date upon which any bond is purchased, paid or canceled.
The Treasurer shall accompany the annual statement submitted pursuant to Neb.
RS 19-1101 with a description of the bonds issued and sold in that year and the
terms of sale, with every item of expense thereof.
      (3)   The Treasurer shall annually complete continuing education through
a program approved by the Auditor of Public Accounts, and proof of completion
of such program shall be submitted to the Auditor of Public Accounts.
(Neb. RS 17-606)
   (B)   (1)   The Treasurer shall prepare and publish annually within 60 days
after the close of the city fiscal year a statement of the receipts and
expenditures of funds of the city for the preceding fiscal year. The statement
shall also include the information required by Neb. RS 16-318(3) or 17-606(2).
Not more than the legal rate provided for in Neb. RS 33-141 shall be charged
and paid for such publication.
(Neb. RS 19-1101)
      (2)   Publication shall be made in one legal newspaper of general
circulation in the city. If no legal newspaper is published in the city, then
such publication shall be made in one legal newspaper published or of general
circulation within the county in which the city is located.
(Neb. RS 19-1103)
   (C)   (1)   All warrants upon the Treasurer shall be paid in the order of
their presentation therefor and as otherwise provided in Neb. RS 77-2201
through 77-2215.
(Neb. RS 77-2201)
      (2)   The Treasurer shall keep a warrant register, which register shall
show in columns arranged for that purpose the number, the date and the amount
of each warrant presented and registered, the particular fund upon which the
same is drawn, the date of presentation, the name and address of the person in
whose name the warrant is registered, the date of payment, the amount of
interest and the total amount paid thereon, with the date when notice to the
person in whose name such warrant is registered is mailed.
(Neb. RS 77-2202)
      (3)   The Treasurer shall make duplicate receipts for all sums which
shall be paid into his or her office, which receipts shall show the source from
which such funds are derived, and shall, by distinct lines and columns, show
the amount received to the credit of each separate fund, and whether the same
was paid in cash, in warrants or otherwise. The Treasurer shall deliver one of
the duplicates to the person making the payment and retain the other in his or
her office.
(Neb. RS 77-2209)
      (4)   The Treasurer shall daily, as money is received, foot the several
columns of the cash book and of the register and carry the amounts forward, and
at the close of each year, in case the amount of money received by the
Treasurer is insufficient to pay the warrants registered, he or she shall close
the account for that year in the register and shall carry forward the excess.
(Neb. RS 77-2210)
      (5)   The cash book, register and retained receipts of the Treasurer
shall at all times be open to the inspection of any person in whose name any
warrants are registered and unpaid.
(Neb. RS 77-2212)
   (D)   The Treasurer shall permit any person to examine and copy the public
records in the Treasurer’s custody and may charge a fee for providing copies of
a public record as provided in Neb. RS 84-712 through 84-712.09.
   (E)   The Treasurer shall keep all money belonging to the city separate and
distinct from his or her own money. He or she shall cancel all bonds, coupons,
warrants and other evidences of debt against the city whenever paid by him or
her by writing or stamping on the face thereof, “Paid by the City Treasurer,”
with the date of payment written or stamped thereon. He or she shall collect
all special taxes, allocate special assessments to the several owners and
obtain from the County Treasurer a monthly report as to the collection of
delinquent taxes.
§ 31.05 CITY ATTORNEY.
   (A)   The City Attorney shall be the legal advisor of the City Council. He
or she shall commence, prosecute and defend all suits and actions necessary to
be commenced, prosecuted or defended on behalf of the city, or that may be
ordered by the Council. When requested, he or she shall attend meetings of the
Council and give them his or her opinion upon any matters submitted to him or
her, either orally or in writing, as may be required. He or she shall draft or
review for legal correctness ordinances, contracts, franchises and other
instruments as may be required, and he or she shall perform such other duties
as may be imposed upon him or her by general law or ordinance. The Council
shall have the right to pay the City Attorney compensation for legal services
performed by him or her for it on such terms as the Council and Attorney may
agree, and to employ additional legal assistance and to pay for such legal
assistance out of the funds of the city.
(Neb. RS 17-610)
   (B)   The City Attorney shall also examine, when requested to do so by the
City Council, the ordinance records and advise and assist the City Clerk as
much as may be necessary to the end that each procedural step will be taken in
the passage of each ordinance to ensure that it will be a valid and subsisting
local law insofar as its passage and approval are concerned.
§ 31.06 POLICE CHIEF.
   (A)   The Police Chief shall direct the police work of the city and shall be
responsible for the maintenance of law and order. Unless the Mayor and City
Council provide otherwise, he or she shall act as Health Inspector and Building
Inspector.
   (B)   If the city has an agreement with the County Sheriff for law
enforcement purposes, the County Sheriff shall have all the powers and duties
of the Police Chief and city police officers as specified in the agreement.
§ 31.07 UTILITIES SUPERINTENDENT.
   (A)   The City Council shall have the power to appoint a Utilities
Superintendent supervising the city water system and sewer system. The
Utilities Superintendent shall have the general control and supervisory
authority over all the city utilities. When requested, he or she shall make a
detailed report to the Council of the condition of said water and sewer system,
all mains, pipes, hydrants, reservoirs and machinery and such improvements,
repairs and extensions thereof as he or she may think proper.
   (B)   The duties of the Utilities Superintendent will be those set forth
herein and as set forth specifically in the job description separately adopted
by the Mayor and City Council. He or she may be removed for good cause by a
two-thirds vote of the City Council.
(Prior Code, § 1-208)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-107, 17-541 and 17-543
§ 31.08 WATER COMMISSIONER/PUBLIC WORKS COMMISSIONER.
   (A)   (1)   As soon as a system of waterworks or mains or portion or
extension of any system of waterworks or water supply has been established by
the city, the Mayor shall nominate and, by and with the advice and consent of
the City Council, shall appoint any competent person, who shall be known as the
Water Commissioner of the city, and whose term of office shall be for one
fiscal year or until his or her successor is appointed and qualified. Annually
at the first regular meeting of the City Council in December, the Water
Commissioner shall be appointed as provided in this section.
      (2)   The Water Commissioner may at any time for sufficient cause be
removed by a two-thirds vote of the City Council. Any vacancy occurring in the
office of Water Commissioner by death, resignation, removal from office or
removal from the city may be filled in the manner provided in this section for
the appointment of the Commissioner.
      (3)   The Water Commissioner shall, before he or she enters upon the
discharge of his or her duties, execute a bond or provide evidence of
equivalent insurance to the city in a sum to be fixed by the Mayor and Council,
but not less than $5,000, conditioned upon the faithful discharge of his or her
duties, and such bond shall be signed by two or more good and sufficient
sureties, to be approved by the Mayor and Council or executed by a corporate
surety.
      (4)   The Water Commissioner, subject to the supervision of the Mayor and
City Council, shall have the general management and control of the system of
waterworks or mains or portion or extension of any system of waterworks or
water supply in the city.
      (5)   In a city where no Board of Public Works exists and the city has
other public utilities than its waterworks system, the Mayor and Council shall
by ordinance designate the Water Commissioner as the Public Works Commissioner,
with the authority to manage not only the system of waterworks but also other
public utilities, and all of the provisions of this division (A) applying to
the Water Commissioner shall apply to the Public Works Commissioner.
(Neb. RS 17-541)
   (B)   (1)   The Water Commissioner shall collect all money received by the
city on account of its system of waterworks and shall faithfully account for
and pay over the same to the City Treasurer, taking his or her receipt therefor
in duplicate, filing one of the same with the City Clerk.
      (2)   He or she shall make a detailed report to the City Council at least
once every six months of the condition of the water system, of all mains,
pipes, hydrants, reservoirs and machinery, and such improvements, repairs and
extension thereof as he or she may think proper. The report shall show the
amount of receipts and expenditures on account thereof for the preceding six
months. No money shall be expended for improvements, repairs or extensions of
the waterworks system except upon recommendation of the Water Commissioner.
      (3)   The Water Commissioner shall perform such other duties as may be
prescribed by ordinance.
      (4)   The Water Commissioner shall be paid such salary as the Council may
by ordinance provide, and upon his or her written recommendation, the Mayor and
Council shall employ such laborers and clerks as may to them seem necessary.
      (5)   Neither the Mayor nor any member of the Council shall be eligible
to the office of Water Commissioner during the term for which he or she was
elected.
      (6)   If the city owns public utilities other than the waterworks system
and the Water Commissioner has been designated by ordinance as the Public Works
Commissioner under the authority of division (A) above, then all provisions of
this division (B) in reference to a Water Commissioner shall apply to the
Public Works Commissioner.
(Neb. RS 17-543)
   (C)   In the event the city shall have created a Board of Public Works, the
Water Commissioner shall, subject to confirmation by the Mayor and Council, be
employed thereafter by the Board at such reasonable compensation as may be
agreed upon at the time of such employment and shall thereafter be under the
jurisdiction of the Board, any of the provisions of Neb. RS 17-501 through 17-
560 to the contrary notwithstanding. Any Water Commissioner under the
jurisdiction and control of the Board of Public Works may be removed by the
Board, after an opportunity to be heard before the Mayor and Council if he or
she shall so request, for malfeasance, misfeasance or neglect in office.
(Neb. RS 17-804)
§ 31.09 SEWER COMMISSIONER.
   (A)   The Sewer Commissioner, subject to the supervision of the Mayor and
City Council, shall have the general management and control of the sewer system
in the city.
   (B)   He or she shall collect all money received by the city on account of
its sewer system and shall faithfully account for and pay over the same to the
City Treasurer, taking his or her receipt therefor in duplicate, filing one of
the same with the City Clerk.
   (C)   He or she shall make a detailed report to the City Council at least
once every six months of the condition of the sewer system and such
improvements, repairs and extensions thereof as he or she may think proper. The
report shall show the amount of receipts and expenditures on account thereof
for the preceding six months.
   (D)   He or she shall issue permits for all connections to the sewer system
and inspect and supervise all repairs made to the system.
   (E)   The Sewer Commissioner shall perform such other duties as may be
prescribed by ordinance.
§ 31.10 STREET COMMISSIONER.
   (A)   The Street Commissioner shall, subject to the order of the Mayor and
Council, have general charge, direction and control of all works on the
streets, sidewalks, culverts and bridges of the city and shall perform such
other duties as the Council may require.
(Neb. RS 17-119)
   (B)   It shall be his or her responsibility to see that gutters and drains
in the city function properly and that they are kept in good repair.
   (C)   He or she shall, at the request of the City Council, make a detailed
report to the Council on the condition of the streets, sidewalks, culverts,
alleys and bridges of the city and shall direct its attention to such
improvements, repairs and extensions thereof as he or she may think proper.
   (D)   The Street Commissioner shall issue such permits and perform such
other duties as may be prescribed by ordinance.
Statutory reference:
   Incentive payments to street superintendents, see Neb. RS 39-2512
§ 31.11 CITY ENGINEER; SPECIAL ENGINEER.
   (A)   (1)   The City Engineer shall, when requested by the Mayor or City
Council, make estimates of the cost of labor and material which may be done or
furnished by contract with the city and make all surveys, estimates and
calculations necessary to be made for the establishment of grades, building of
culverts, sewers, electric light systems, waterworks, power plants, public
heating systems, bridges, curbing and gutters, the improvement of streets and
the erection and repair of buildings, and shall perform such other duties as
the City Council may require.
      (2)   When the city has appointed a Board of Public Works and the Mayor
and City Council have by ordinance so authorized, the Board may utilize its own
engineering staff and may hire consulting engineers for the design and
installation of extensions and improvements of the works under the jurisdiction
of the Board.
(Neb. RS 17-568.01)
   (B)   The Mayor and City Council may employ a special engineer to make, or
assist in making, any estimate necessary or to perform any other duty provided
for in Neb. RS 17-568.01. Any work executed by such special engineer shall have
the same validity and serve in all respects as though executed by the City
Engineer.
(Neb. RS 17-568)
   (C)   The City Engineer shall make a record of the minutes of his or her
surveys and of all work done for the city and, when directed by the Mayor and
City Council, shall accurately make such plats, sections, profiles and maps as
may be necessary in the prosecution of any public work, which shall be public
records and belong to the city and be turned over to his or her successor.
Statutory reference:
   Duties related to areas to be annexed, see Neb. RS 18-3301
   Duties related to sewerage systems, see Neb. RS 17-150 and 17-919
§ 31.12 ZONING ADMINISTRATOR.
   The City Clerk be and hereby is appointed as the Zoning Administrator. He or
she shall supervise the administration and compliance of the zoning laws
pursuant to the city’s comprehensive plan and zoning ordinance.
(Prior Code, § 1-213)
§ 31.13 CITY CODE ENFORCER.
   (A)   The city will employ a City Code Enforcer to enforce the ordinances
and policies of the city when a police officer is not employed by the city. He
or she will serve notice to residents when policy violations have gone
unchanged, after having been notified by the City Clerk, per Chapter 90 of this
code.
   (B)   The City of Crofton City Code Enforcer will be a part-time job and
will be paid $20 an hour.
(Ord. 12-11-23-2, passed 12-11-2023)
CHAPTER 32: ORGANIZATIONS
Section
Boards and Commissions
   
32.01   Planning Commission
   
32.02   Board of Health
Police Department
   
32.15   Duties
   
32.16   Arrest and enforcement jurisdiction
   
32.17   Officers; discipline or removal from duty
BOARDS AND COMMISSIONS
§ 32.01 PLANNING COMMISSION.
   (A)   (1)   If the City Council adopts zoning or other regulations pursuant
to Neb. RS 19-901 et seq., the Planning Commission shall consist of five, seven
or nine regular members, as specified by the City Council by ordinance, who
shall represent, insofar as is possible, the different professions or
occupations in the city and shall be appointed by the Mayor by and with the
approval of a majority vote of the members elected to the City Council. Two of
the regular members may be residents of the area over which the city is
authorized to exercise extraterritorial zoning and subdivision regulation. When
there are 500 residents in the area over which the city exercises
extraterritorial zoning and subdivision regulation, one regular member of the
Commission shall be a resident from such area. If it is determined by the City
Council that 500 residents reside in the area subject to extraterritorial
zoning or subdivision regulation and no such resident is a regular member of
the Commission, the first available vacancy on the Commission shall be filled
by the appointment of such an individual. A number of Commissioners equal to a
majority of the number of regular members appointed to the Commission shall
constitute a quorum for the transaction of any business. All regular members of
the Commission shall serve without compensation. The term of each regular
member shall be three years, except that one-third or fewer of the regular
members of the first Commission to be so appointed shall serve for terms of one
year, one-third or fewer for terms of two years and the remaining members for
terms of three years. All regular members shall hold office until their
successors are appointed. Any member may, after a public hearing before the
Council, be removed by the Mayor, with the consent of a majority vote of the
members elected to the Council, for inefficiency, neglect of duty or
malfeasance in office or other good and sufficient cause. Vacancies occurring
otherwise than through the expiration of term shall be filled for the unexpired
portion of the term by the Mayor.
      (2)   The Mayor may, with the approval of a majority vote of the elected
members of the Council, appoint one alternate member to the Planning
Commission. The alternate member shall serve without compensation. The term of
the alternate member shall be three years, and he or she shall hold office
until his or her successor is appointed and approved. The alternate member may
be removed from office in the same manner as a regular member. If the alternate
member position becomes vacant other than through the expiration of the term,
the vacancy shall be filled for the unexpired portion of the term by the Mayor
with the approval of a majority vote of the elected members of the Council. The
alternate member may attend any meeting and may serve as a voting and
participating member of the Commission at any time when less than the full
number of regular Commission members is present and capable of voting.
      (3)   A regular or alternate member of the Planning Commission may hold
any other municipal office except:
         (a)   Mayor;
         (b)   A member of the City Council;
         (c)   A member of any community redevelopment authority or limited
community redevelopment authority created under Neb. RS 18-2102.01; or
         (d) A member of any citizen advisory review committee created under
Neb. RS 18-2715.
(Neb. RS 19-926)
   (B)   The Commission shall elect its Chairperson from its members and create
and fill such other of its offices as it may determine. The term of the
Chairperson shall be one year, and he or she shall be eligible for reelection.
The Commission shall hold at least one regular meeting in each calendar
quarter, except as provided in this section. The City Council may require the
Commission to meet more frequently, and the Chairperson of the Commission may
call for a meeting when necessary to deal with business pending before the
Commission. If no business is pending before the Commission, the Chairperson
may cancel a quarterly meeting, but not more than three quarterly meetings may
be cancelled per calendar year. The Commission shall adopt rules and
regulations for the transaction of business and shall keep a record of its
resolutions, transactions, findings and determinations, which shall be a public
record.
(Neb. RS 19-927)
   (C)   No member of the Commission shall serve in the capacity of both the
Chairperson and Secretary of the Commission. The Secretary shall keep the full
and correct minutes and records of all meetings and file them with the City
Clerk, where they shall be available for public inspection during office hours.
   (D)   The City Council may provide the funds, equipment and accommodations
necessary for the work of the Commission, but the expenditures of the
Commission, exclusive of gifts, shall be within the amounts appropriated for
that purpose by the Council, and no expenditures nor agreements for
expenditures shall be valid in excess of such amounts.
(Neb. RS 19-928)
   (E)   (1)   (a)   Except as provided in Neb. RS 19-930 through 19-933, the
Planning Commission shall:
            1.   Make and adopt plans for the physical development of the city,
including any areas outside its boundaries which, in the Commission’s judgment,
bear relation to the planning of such city, and including a comprehensive
development plan as defined by Neb. RS 19-903;
            2.   Prepare and adopt such implemental means as a capital
improvement program, subdivision regulations, building codes and a zoning
ordinance in cooperation with other interested city departments; and
            3.   Consult with and advise public officials and agencies, public
utilities, civic organizations, educational institutions and citizens with
relation to the promulgation and implementation of the Comprehensive
Development Plan and its implemental programs. The Commission may delegate
authority to any such group to conduct studies and make surveys for the
Commission, make preliminary reports on its findings and hold public hearings
before submitting its final reports.
         (b)   The City Council shall not take final action on matters relating
to the Comprehensive Development Plan, capital improvements, building codes,
subdivision development, the annexation of territory or zoning until it has
received the recommendation of the Planning Commission, provided that the
Planning Commission shall make its recommendation so that it is received by the
City Council within 60 days after the Commission begins consideration of a
matter, or within such other number of days as the City Council has set by
ordinance.
         (c)   A recommendation from the Planning Commission shall not be
required for the subdivision of existing lots and blocks whenever all required
public improvements have been installed, no new dedication of public rights-of-
way or easements is involved, and such subdivision complies with the ordinance
requirements concerning minimum areas and dimensions of such lots and blocks if
the City Council has designated, by ordinance, an agent pursuant to Neb. RS 19-
916.
      (2)   (a)   The Commission may, with the consent of the City Council, in
its own name;
            1.   Make and enter into contracts with public or private bodies;
            2.   Receive contributions, bequests, gifts or grant funds from
public/private sources;
            3.   Expend the funds appropriated to it by the city;
            4.   Employ agents and employees; and
            5.   Acquire, hold and dispose of property.
         (b)   The Commission may on its own authority make arrangements
consistent with its program, conduct or sponsor special studies or planning
work for any public body or appropriate agency, receive grants, remuneration or
reimbursement for such studies or work, and at its public hearings, summon
witnesses, administer oaths and compel the giving of testimony.
      (3)   (a)   The Commission may grant conditional uses or special
exceptions to property owners for the use of their property if the City Council
has, through a zoning ordinance or special ordinance, generally authorized the
Commission to exercise such powers and has approved the standards and
procedures adopted by the Commission for equitably and judiciously granting
such conditional uses or special exceptions. The granting of a conditional use
permit or special exception shall only allow property owners to put their
property to a special use if it is among those uses specifically identified in
the zoning ordinance as classifications of uses which may require special
conditions or requirements to be met by the owners before a use permit or
building permit is authorized.
         (b)   The power to grant conditional uses or special exceptions shall
be the exclusive authority of the Commission, except that the City Council may
choose to retain for itself the power to grant conditional uses or special
exceptions for those classifications of uses specified in the zoning ordinance.
The Council may exercise such power if it has formally adopted standards and
procedures for granting such conditional uses or special exceptions in a manner
that is equitable and will promote the public interest.
         (c)   An appeal of a decision by the Commission or Council regarding a
conditional use or special exception shall be made to the District Court.
(Neb. RS 19-929)
Statutory reference:
   Other provisions on planning commissions, see Neb. RS 19-925 through 19-933
§ 32.02 BOARD OF HEALTH.
   (A)   (1)   The Board of Health shall consist of four members: the Mayor,
who shall be Chairperson, the President of the City Council and two other
members. One member shall be a physician or health care provider, if one can be
found who is willing to serve. Such physician or health care provider, if
appointed, shall be the Board’s medical advisor. If the Mayor has appointed a
Chief of Police, the Chief of Police shall serve on the Board as Secretary and
Quarantine Officer.
      (2)   A majority of the Board of Health shall constitute a quorum and
shall enact rules and regulations, which shall have the full force and effect
of law, to safeguard the health of the people of the city, may enforce them and
may provide fines and punishments for the violation of such rules and
regulations. The Board shall have the power to and shall make all needful rules
and regulations relating to matters of the sanitation of the city, including
the removal of dead animals, the sanitary condition of the streets, alleys,
vacant grounds, stockyards, cattle and hog pens, wells, cisterns, privies,
waterclosets, cesspools, stables and all buildings and places not specified
where filth, nuisances or offensive matter is kept or is liable to or does
accumulate. It may regulate, suppress and prevent the occurrence of nuisances
and enforce all laws of the state and ordinances of the city relating to
nuisances or to matters of sanitation of the city. The Board shall also have
control of hospitals, dispensaries, places for treatment of the sick and
matters relating to the same under such restrictions and provisions as may be
provided by ordinance of the city.
(Neb. RS 17-121)
   (B)   The members of the Board of Health other than the Mayor, President of
the Council and Chief of Police shall serve terms of office of the length
specified by the City Council and may be reappointed.
   (C)   The Board of Health shall reorganize at its meeting after appointments
are regularly considered by the City Council and, if necessary, select a member
to serve as Secretary. No member of the Board of Health shall hold more than
one Board of Health position. The Secretary shall keep full and correct minutes
and records of all meetings and file the same with the City Clerk, where they
shall be available for public inspection during office hours.
   (D)   The Board shall meet at such times as the City Council may designate.
Special meetings may be held upon the call of the Chairperson or any two
members of the Board of Health.
   (E)   The members of the Board of Health shall serve without compensation.
The Board of Health shall be funded by the City Council from time to time out
of the General Fund.
   (F)   The Board of Health shall regularly inspect such premises and
businesses as the City Council may direct.
   (G)   All members of the Board of Health shall be responsible for making
such reports and performing such other duties as the City Council may, from
time to time, designate.
POLICE DEPARTMENT
§ 32.15 DUTIES.
   (A)   If the Mayor and City Council have provided for the appointment of a
Police Chief, the Police Department shall consist of the Chief of Police and
such further number of regular police officers as may be duly ordered by
resolution of the Council.
   (B)   The Chief of Police shall, subject to the direction of the Mayor, have
control and management of all matters relating to the Police Department and its
officers and members and shall have the custody and control of all property and
books belonging to the Department. The Chief shall devote his or her whole time
to city affairs and the interests of the city and to the preservation of the
peace, order, safety and cleanliness thereof.
   (C)   The Department shall execute and enforce all laws and also the orders
of the Mayor. It shall be the duty of the Department to protect the rights of
persons and property. The Department shall take notice of all nuisances,
impediments, obstructions and defects in the streets, avenues, alleys, business
places and residences of the city. The Department shall execute, or cause to be
executed, the processes issued and shall cause all persons arrested to be
brought before the proper court for trial as speedily as possible. The Chief of
Police and all regular and special police officers shall become thoroughly
conversant with the laws of the city and shall see that the same are strictly
enforced and shall make sworn complaints against any person or persons for
violation of the same. It shall be the duty of every city police officer making
a lawful arrest to search all persons in the presence of some other person,
whenever possible, and to carefully keep and produce to the proper judicial
official upon trial everything found upon the person of such prisoners. All
personal effects so taken from prisoners shall be restored to them upon their
release. The Police Chief and other police officers shall file such reports as
may be required by the city ordinances and the laws of the state. No law
enforcement official shall have any interest in any establishment having a
liquor license.
   (D)   Suitable badges shall be furnished to the city police by the city. Any
police officer who loses or destroys the same shall be required to pay the
replacement costs. If a police officer leaves the city police force, he or she
shall immediately deliver his or her badge to the Police Chief.
   (E)   City police officers shall have the full power and authority to call
on any person whenever necessary to assist them in performing public duties,
and failure, neglect or refusal to render such assistance shall be deemed an
offense.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 32.16 ARREST AND ENFORCEMENT JURISDICTION.
   (A)   The police officers of the city shall have the power to arrest all
offenders against the laws of the state or of the city, by day or by night, in
the same manner as the County Sheriff and to keep such offenders in the city
prison, county jail or other place of confinement to prevent their escape until
trial can be had before the proper officer.
(Neb. RS 17-118)
   (B)   Every city law enforcement officer has the power and authority to
enforce the laws of this state and the city or otherwise perform the functions
of that office anywhere within his or her primary jurisdiction.
   (C)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      LAW ENFORCEMENT OFFICER IN NEED OF ASSISTANCE.
         (a)   A law enforcement officer whose life is in danger; or
         (b)   A law enforcement officer who needs assistance in making an
arrest and the suspect:
            1.   Will not be apprehended unless immediately arrested;
            2.   May cause injury to himself or herself or others or damage to
property unless immediately arrested; or
            3.   May destroy or conceal evidence of the commission of a crime.
      PRIMARY JURISDICTION. The geographic area within territorial limits of
the city.
   (D)   Any city law enforcement officer who is within this state, but beyond
his or her primary jurisdiction, has the power and authority to enforce the
laws of this state or any legal ordinance of any city or incorporated village,
or otherwise perform the functions of his or her office, including the
authority to arrest and detain suspects, as if enforcing the laws or performing
the functions within his or her primary jurisdiction in the following cases:
      (1)   Any city law enforcement officer, if in a fresh attempt to
apprehend a person suspected of committing a felony, may follow that person
into any other jurisdiction in this state and there arrest and detain that
person and return that person to the officer’s primary jurisdiction;
      (2)   Any city law enforcement officer, if in a fresh attempt to
apprehend a person suspected of committing a misdemeanor or a traffic
infraction, may follow that person anywhere in an area within 25 miles of the
boundaries of the officer’s primary jurisdiction and there arrest and detain
that person and return that person to the officer’s primary jurisdiction;
      (3)   Any city law enforcement officer has this enforcement and arrest
and detention authority when responding to a call in which a local, state or
federal law enforcement officer is in need of assistance; and
      (4)   If the city, under the provisions of the Interlocal Cooperation
Act, being Neb. RS 13-801 et seq. or the Joint Public Agency Act, being Neb. RS
13-2501 et seq., enters into a contract with any other city or county for law
enforcement services or joint law enforcement services, law enforcement
personnel may have this enforcement authority within the jurisdiction of each
of the participating political subdivisions if provided for in the agreement.
Unless otherwise provided in the agreement, the city shall provide liability
insurance coverage for its own law enforcement personnel as provided in Neb. RS
13-1802.
   (E)   When probable cause exists to believe that a person is operating or is
in the actual physical control of any motor vehicle, motorboat, personal
watercraft or aircraft while under the influence of alcoholic liquor or of any
drug, or otherwise in violation of Neb. RS 28-1465, 28-1466, 28-1472, 37-
1254.01, 37-1254.02, 60-4,163, 60-4,164, 60-6,196, 60-6,197, 60-6,211.01 or 60-
6,211.02, a city law enforcement officer has the power and authority to do any
of the following, or any combination thereof:
      (1)   Transport that person to a facility outside of the law enforcement
officer’s primary jurisdiction for appropriate chemical testing of the person;
      (2)   Administer outside of the law enforcement officer’s primary
jurisdiction any post-arrest test advisement to the person; or
      (3)   With respect to that person, perform other procedures or functions
outside of the law enforcement officer’s primary jurisdiction which are
directly and solely related to enforcing the laws that concern a person
operating or being in the actual physical control of any motor vehicle,
motorboat or aircraft while under the influence of alcoholic liquor or of any
other drug or otherwise in violation of Neb. RS 28-1465, 28-1466, 28-1472, 37-
1254.01, 37-1254.02, 60-4,163, 60-4,164, 60-6,196, 60-6,197, 60-6,211.01 or 60-
6,211.02.
(Neb. RS 29-215)
   (F)   If city law enforcement personnel are rendering aid in their law
enforcement capacity outside the limits of the city in the event of disaster,
emergency or civil defense emergency, or in connection with any program of
practice or training for a disaster, emergency or civil defense emergency when
that program is conducted or participated in by the State Emergency Management
Agency or with any other related training program, the law enforcement
personnel have the power and authority to enforce the laws of this state or any
legal ordinances or resolutions of the local government where they are
rendering aid or otherwise perform the functions of their office, including the
authority to arrest and detain suspects, as if enforcing the laws or performing
the functions within their primary jurisdiction. The city shall self-insure or
contract for insurance against any liability for personal injuries or property
damage that may be incurred by it or by its personnel as the result of any
movement made pursuant to this division (F).
(Neb. RS 81-829.65)
§ 32.17 OFFICERS; DISCIPLINE OR REMOVAL FROM DUTY.
   (A)   (1)   The City Council shall by ordinance adopt rules and regulations
governing the removal or discipline of any police officer, including the Chief
of Police. The ordinance shall include a procedure for making application for
an appeal, specifications on the period of time within which such application
shall be made, and provisions on the manner in which the appeals hearing shall
be conducted.
      (2)   Both the police officer and the individual imposing the
disciplinary action shall have the right at the hearing to be heard and to
present evidence to the Council for its consideration.
      (3)   Not later than 30 days following the adjournment of the meeting at
which the hearing was held, the Council shall vote to uphold, reverse or modify
the removal or disciplinary action. The failure of the Council to act within 30
days or the failure of a majority of the elected Council members to vote to
reverse or modify the removal or disciplinary action shall be construed as a
vote to uphold the removal or disciplinary action. The decision of the Council
shall be based upon its determination that, under the facts and evidence
presented at the hearing, the challenged removal or disciplinary action was
necessary for the proper management and the effective operation of the Police
Department in the performance of its duties under the statutes of the state.
      (4)   Nothing in this section shall be construed to prevent the
peremptory suspension or immediate removal from duty of an officer by the
appropriate authority, pending the hearing authorized by this division, in
cases of gross misconduct, neglect of duty or disobedience of orders.
(Neb. RS 17-107)
   (B)   (1)   Except as provided otherwise in an ordinance adopted by the
Council, the procedures specified in this division (B) shall constitute the
rules and regulations required by Neb. RS 17-107.
      (2)   No police officer, including the Chief of Police, shall be
disciplined, suspended, demoted, removed or discharged except upon written
notice stating the reasons for such disciplinary action, suspension, demotion,
removal or discharge. Such notice shall also contain a statement informing the
police officer of his or her right to a hearing before the City Council.
      (3)   Any police officer so disciplined, suspended, demoted, removed or
discharged may, within ten days after being notified of such disciplinary
action, suspension, demotion, removal or discharge, file with the City Clerk a
written demand for a hearing before the City Council. The Council shall set the
matter for hearing not less than ten nor more than 20 days after the filing of
the written demand for a hearing. The Council shall give the police officer
written notice of the hearing not less than seven days prior to the hearing.
      (4)   At the hearing, the police officer shall have the right to:
         (a)   Respond in person to the charges and to present witnesses and
documentary evidence;
         (b)   Confront and cross-examine available adverse witnesses; and
         (c)   Be represented by counsel.
CHAPTER 33: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
Meetings
   
33.01   Open to public; notice; agenda
   
33.02   Council meetings; when; quorum; votes
   
33.03   Closed sessions
   
33.04   City Council; order of business
   
33.05   City Council; parliamentary procedure
   
33.06   Change in office
Bonds and Oaths
   
33.20   Bonds; requirements
   
33.21   Oath of office; city officials
Compensation; Conflicts of Interest
   
33.35   Compensation; how fixed; limitations
   
33.36   Conflict of interest involving contracts
MEETINGS
§ 33.01 OPEN TO PUBLIC; NOTICE; AGENDA.
   (A)   The formation of public policy is public business and may not be
conducted in secret. Every meeting of a public body shall be open to the public
in order that citizens may exercise their democratic privilege of attending and
speaking at meetings of public bodies, except as otherwise provided by the
State Constitution, federal statutes and the Open Meetings Act, being Neb. RS
84-1407 et seq.
(Neb. RS 84-1408)
   (B)   (1)   Each public body shall give reasonable advance publicized notice
of the time and place of each meeting as provided in division (B)(2) below. The
notice shall be transmitted to all members of the public body and to the
public.
      (2)   The notice shall be given by:
         (a)   1.   a.   Publication in a newspaper of general circulation
within the city’s jurisdiction that is finalized for printing prior to the time
and date of the meeting;
               b.   Posting on such newspaper’s website, if available; and
               c.   Posting on a statewide website established and maintained
as a repository for such notices by a majority of state newspapers.
            2.   Such notice shall be placed in the newspaper and on the
websites by the newspaper.
         (b)   1.   a.   Posting to the newspaper’s website, if available; and
               b.   Posting on a statewide website established and maintained
as a repository for such notices by a majority of state newspapers if no
edition of a newspaper of general circulation within the city’s jurisdiction is
to be finalized for printing prior to the time and date of the meeting.
            2.   Such notice shall be placed in the newspaper and on the
websites by the newspaper.
         (c)   Posting written notice in three conspicuous public places in
such city or district. Such notice shall be posted by the city in the same
three places for each meeting.
      (3)   (a)   In case of refusal, neglect, or inability of the newspaper to
publish the notice, the city shall:
            1.   Post such notice on its website, if available;
            2.   Submit a post on a statewide website established and
maintained as a repository for such notices by a majority of state newspapers;
and
            3.   Post such notice in a conspicuous public place in such city’s
jurisdiction.
         (b)   The city shall keep a written record of such posting. The record
of such posting shall be evidence that such posting was done as required and
shall be sufficient to fulfill the requirement of publication.
      (4)   Each public body shall record the methods and dates of the notice
in its minutes.
      (5)   The notice shall contain an agenda of subjects known at the time of
the publicized notice or a statement that the agenda, which shall be kept
continually current, is readily available for public inspection at the office
of the public body during normal business hours. Agenda items shall be
sufficiently descriptive to give the public reasonable notice of the matters to
be considered at the meeting. Except for items of an emergency nature, the
agenda shall not be altered later than 24 hours before the scheduled
commencement of the meeting or 48 hours before the scheduled commencement of a
meeting of the City Council scheduled outside the corporate limits of the city.
The public body shall have the right to modify the agenda to include items of
an emergency nature only at such public meeting.
(Neb. RS 84-1411)
Statutory reference:
   Videoconferencing when emergency is declared by the Governor under the
Emergency
   Management Act, see Neb. RS 84-1411(8)
§ 33.02 COUNCIL MEETINGS; WHEN; QUORUM; VOTES.
   (A)   The meetings of the City Council shall be held at the Council chambers
or other location set by the Council by resolution. Regular meetings shall be
held on the second Thursday of the month at 6:30 p.m. Special meetings may be
called by the Mayor or by a majority of the City Council for those purposes of
which shall be submitted in writing to the Council members prior to said
meeting. The call and object of said meeting shall be entered upon the journal
by the City Clerk as well as the disposition of said meeting.
   (B)   A majority of the members of the City Council shall constitute a
quorum for the transaction of business, but a smaller number may adjourn from
day to day and compel the attendance of the absent members. At the hour
appointed for the meeting, the City Clerk shall proceed to call the roll of
members and announce whether a quorum is present. If a quorum is present, the
City Council shall be called to order by the Mayor. In the absence of the
Mayor, the Council shall have the power to appoint a Mayor pro tempore, who
shall exercise and have the powers and perform the same duties as the regular
Mayor.
(Prior Code, § 1-308) (Res. 4-4-23-1, passed 4-4-2023)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-105 and 17-106
§ 33.03 CLOSED SESSIONS.
   (A)   (1)   Any public body may hold a closed session by the affirmative
vote of a majority of its voting members if a closed session is clearly
necessary for the protection of the public interest or for the prevention of
needless injury to the reputation of an individual and if that individual has
not requested a public meeting. The subject matter and the reason necessitating
the closed session shall be identified in the motion to close.
      (2)   Closed sessions may be held for, but shall not be limited to, such
reasons as:
         (a)   Strategy sessions with respect to collective bargaining, real
estate purchases, pending litigation or litigation which is imminent as
evidenced by communication of a claim or threat of litigation to or by the
public body;
         (b)   Discussion regarding deployment of security personnel or
devices;
         (c)   Investigative proceedings regarding allegations of criminal
misconduct; or
         (d)   Evaluation of the job performance of a person when necessary to
prevent needless injury to the reputation of a person and if that person has
not requested a public meeting.
      (3)   Nothing in this section shall permit a closed meeting for
discussion of the appointment or election of a new member to any public body.
   (B)   The vote to hold a closed session shall be taken in open session. The
entire motion, the vote of each member on the question of holding a closed
session, and the time when the closed session commenced and concluded shall be
recorded in the minutes. If the motion to close passes, then the presiding
officer, immediately prior to the closed session, shall restate on the record
the limitation of the subject matter of the closed session. The public body
holding such a closed session shall restrict its consideration of matters
during the closed portions to only those purposes set forth in the motion to
close as the reason for the closed session. The meeting shall be reconvened in
open session before any formal action may be taken. For the purpose of this
section, FORMAL ACTION means a collective decision or a collective commitment
or promise to make a decision on any question, motion, proposal, resolution,
order or ordinance or formation of a position or policy, but shall not include
negotiating guidance given by members of the public body to legal counsel or
other negotiators in closed sessions authorized under division (A)(2)(a) above.
   (C)   Any member of any public body shall have the right to challenge the
continuation of a closed session if the member determines that the session has
exceeded the reason stated in the original motion to hold a closed session or
if the member contends that the closed session is neither clearly necessary for
the protection of the public interest or the prevention of needless injury to
the reputation of an individual. Such challenge shall be overruled only by a
majority vote of the members of the public body. The challenge and its
disposition shall be recorded in the minutes.
   (D)   Nothing in this section shall be construed to require that any meeting
be closed to the public.
(Neb. RS 84-1410)
§ 33.04 CITY COUNCIL; ORDER OF BUSINESS.
   All meetings of the City Council shall be open to the public. Promptly at
the hour set by law on the day of each regular meeting, the members of the City
Council, the City Clerk, the Mayor and such other city officials that may be
required shall take their regular stations in the City Hall, and the business
of the city shall be taken up for consideration and disposition in the
following order:
   (A)   Roll call;
   (B)   Reading and approval of the minutes of the previous meeting;
   (C)   Consideration of petitions and other communications;
   (D)   Reports of officers, boards and committees;
   (E)   Unfinished business of the preceding meeting;
   (F)   Introduction of ordinances and resolutions; first reading;
   (G)   Second reading of ordinances;
   (H)   Third reading of ordinances;
   (I)   Final passage of ordinances;
   (J)   New business;
   (K)   Miscellaneous business;
   (L)   Appropriations and consideration of claims; and
   (M)   Adjournment.
(Prior Code, § 1-309)
§ 33.05 CITY COUNCIL; PARLIAMENTARY PROCEDURE.
   Unless the City Council provides otherwise, the rules of parliamentary
procedure specified in this section shall apply to meetings of the City
Council. The Mayor shall preserve order during meetings of the City Council and
shall decide all questions of order, subject to an appeal to the Council. When
any person is called to order, he or she shall be seated until the point is
decided. When the Mayor is putting the question, no person shall leave the
meeting room. Every person present, previous to speaking, shall rise from his
or her seat and address the presiding officer, and while speaking, shall
confine his or her comments to the question. When two or more persons rise at
once, the Mayor shall recognize the one who spoke first. All resolutions or
motions shall be reduced to writing before being acted upon if requested by the
City Clerk or any member of the Council. Every member of the Council who is
present when a question is voted upon shall cast his or her vote unless excused
by a majority of the members of the Council present. No motion shall be put or
debated unless seconded. When seconded, it shall be stated by the Mayor before
being debatable. In all cases where a motion or resolution is entered on the
minutes, the name of the member of the Council making the motion or resolution
shall be entered also. After each vote, the “yeas” and “nays” shall be taken
and entered in the minutes. Before the vote is actually taken, any resolution,
motion or proposed ordinance may be withdrawn from consideration by the sponsor
with the consent of the member of the Council seconding the resolution, motion
or ordinance. When, in the consideration of an ordinance, different times or
amounts are proposed, the question shall be put on the largest sum or the
longest time. A question to reconsider shall be in order when made by a member
voting with the majority, but the motion to reconsider must be made before the
expiration of the third regular meeting after the initial consideration of the
question. When any question is under debate, no motion shall be made,
entertained or seconded except the previous question, a motion to table and to
adjourn. Each of those motions shall be decided without debate. Any of the
rules of the Council for meetings may be suspended by a two-thirds vote of the
members present. In all cases in which provisions are not made by these rules,
Robert’s Rules of Order is the authority by which the Council shall decide all
procedural disputes that may arise.
§ 33.06 CHANGE IN OFFICE.
   (A)   The Mayor and City Council shall meet at the time and place of the
first regular meeting in December in each election year, and the outgoing
officers and the outgoing members of the Council shall present their reports.
Upon the outgoing Council having completed its business, the outgoing members
of the Council shall surrender their offices to the incoming members, and the
outgoing officers shall thereupon each surrender to their successors in office
all property, records, papers and moneys belonging to the same.
   (B)   The newly elected members of the Council and those continuing in
office shall convene immediately after the prior Council adjourns and proceed
to organize themselves for the ensuing year. The Mayor shall call the meeting
to order. The Clerk shall report to the Council the names of all Council
members-elect who have qualified for their respective offices. The Council
shall examine the credentials of its members and any other elective officers of
the city to see that each has been duly and properly elected and to see that
such oaths and bonds as are required have been given. The Clerk’s report shall
be spread upon the minutes of the meeting preceding the roll call. After
ascertaining that all Council members and officers are duly qualified and after
the Clerk has called the roll, the Council shall elect a President of the
Council. The Mayor shall nominate his or her candidates for appointive offices
in which the terms of incumbents are expired and call for a vote on approval of
the candidates. The Mayor shall then proceed with the regular order of
business.
BONDS AND OATHS
§ 33.20 BONDS; REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   The city may enact ordinances or bylaws to require from all officers
and servants, elected or appointed, bonds and security or evidence of
equivalent insurance for the faithful performance of their duties. The city may
pay the premium for such bonds or insurance coverage.
(Neb. RS 17-604)
   (B)   (1)   All official bonds of officers of the city shall be in form
joint and several and made payable to the city in such penalty as the City
Council may fix.
      (2)   In place of the individual bonds required to be furnished by
municipal officers, a schedule, position, blanket bond or undertaking or
evidence of equivalent insurance, may be given by municipal officers, or a
single corporate surety fidelity, schedule, position or blanket bond or
undertaking, or evidence of insurance coverage covering all the officers,
including officers required by law to furnish an individual bond or
undertaking, may be furnished. The municipality may pay the premium for the
bond or insurance coverage. The bond or insurance coverage shall be, at a
minimum, an aggregate of the amounts fixed by law or by the City Council, and
with such terms and conditions as may be required.
(Neb. RS 11-104)
      (3)   The penalty amount on any bond shall not fall below the legal
minimum, when one has been set by the state, for each particular official.
   (C)   (1)   Official bonds, with the oath endorsed thereon, shall be filed
in the City Clerk’s office within the following time:
         (a)    Of all officers elected at any general election, following
receipt of their election certificate and not later than ten days before the
first Thursday after the first Tuesday in January next succeeding the election;
         (b)   Of all appointed officers, within 30 days after their
appointment; and
         (c)   Of officers elected at any special election and city officers,
within 30 days after the canvass of the votes of the election at which they
were chosen.
      (2)   The filing of the bond with the oath endorsed thereon does not
authorize a person to take any official action prior to the beginning of his or
her term of office pursuant to Nebraska Constitution Article XVII § 5.
(Neb. RS 11-105)
   (D)   All official bonds of city officers shall be executed by the principal
named in such bonds and by at least two sufficient sureties, who shall be
freeholders of the county in which such bonds are given, or any official bond
of a city officer may be executed by the officer as principal and by a
guaranty, surety, fidelity or bonding company as surety, or by two or more such
companies. Only such companies as are legally authorized to transact business
in this state shall be eligible to suretyship on the bond of a city officer.
(Neb. RS 11-109)
   (E)   The City Clerk shall carefully record and preserve the bonds in his or
her office and shall give certified copies thereof, when required, under the
seal of his or her office, and shall be entitled to receive for the same the
usual fee allowed by law for certified copies of records in other cases.
(Neb. RS 11-110)
   (F)   (1)   The approval of each official bond shall be endorsed upon such
bond by the officer approving the same, and no bond shall be filed and recorded
until so approved.
(Neb. RS 11-111)
      (2)   No bond shall be deemed to be given or complete until the approval
of the City Council and all sureties are endorsed in writing on the instrument
by the Mayor and City Clerk pursuant to the approval of the City Council.
   (G)   All official bonds shall obligate the principal and sureties for the
faithful discharge of all duties required by law of such principal and shall
inure to the benefit of any persons injured by a breach of the conditions of
such bonds.
(Neb. RS 11-112)
   (H)   No official bond shall be rendered void by reason of any informality
or irregularity in its execution or approval.
(Neb. RS 11-113)
   (I)   No city official shall be taken as security on the bond of any
administrator, executor or other officer from whom, by law, bond is or may be
required.
(Neb. RS 11-114)
   (J)   If any person elected or appointed to any office neglects to have his
or her official bond executed and approved as provided by law and filed for
record within the time limited by this section, the City Clerk shall
immediately issue an order to such person to show cause why he or she has
failed to properly file such bond and why his or her office should not be
declared vacant.
      (1)   If such person properly files the official bond within ten days of
the issuance of the show-cause order for appointed officials or before the date
for taking office for elected officials, such filing shall be deemed to be in
compliance with this section.
      (2)   If such person does not file the bond within ten days of the
issuance of such order for appointed officials or before the date for taking
office for elected officials and sufficient cause is not shown within that
time, his or her office shall thereupon ipso facto become vacant, and such
vacancy shall thereupon immediately be filled by election or appointment as the
law may direct in other cases of vacancy in the same office.
(Neb. RS 11-115)
   (K)   Any person appointed to fill a vacancy, before entering upon the
duties of the office, must give a bond corresponding in substance and form with
the bond required of the officer originally elected or appointed, as herein
provided.
(Neb. RS 11-116)
   (L)   When the incumbent of an office is reelected or reappointed, he or she
shall qualify by taking the oath and giving the bond as above directed, but
when such officer has had public funds or property in his or her control, his
or her bond shall not be approved until he or she has produced and fully
accounted for such funds and property. When it is ascertained that the
incumbent of an office holds over by reason of the nonelection or
nonappointment of a successor or of the neglect or refusal of the successor to
qualify, he or she shall qualify anew within ten days from the time at which
his or her successor, if elected, should have qualified.
(Neb. RS 11-117)
   (M)   No person shall be surety for the same officer for more than two
successive terms of the same office, but this provision shall not apply to
incorporated surety companies.
(Neb. RS 11-118)
   (N)   If the sureties on the official bond of any appointed officer of the
city, in the opinion of the City Council, become insufficient, the Council may,
by resolution, fix a reasonable time within which the officer may give a new
bond or additional sureties as directed. If the officer fails, refuses or
neglects to give a new bond or additional sureties to the satisfaction and
approval of the Council, the office shall, by such failure, refusal or neglect,
become vacant and it shall be the duty of the Council to appoint a competent
and qualified person to fill the office.
§ 33.21 OATH OF OFFICE; CITY OFFICIALS.
   (A)   All officials of the village, whether elected or appointed, except
when a different oath is specifically provided herein, shall before entering
upon their respective duties take and subscribe the following oath, which shall
be endorsed upon their respective bonds.
“I, ______________________________, do solemnly swear that I will support the
constitution of the United States and the constitution of the State of
Nebraska, against all enemies foreign and domestic; that I will bear true faith
and allegiance to the same; that I take this obligation freely and without
mental reservation or for the purpose of evasion; and that I will faithfully
and impartially perform the duties of the office of ____________________,
according to law and to the best of my ability. And I do further swear that I
do not advocate nor am I a member of any political party or organization that
advocates the overthrow of the government of the United States or of this state
by force or violence; and that during such time as I am in this position I will
not advocate nor become a member of any political party or organization that
advocates the overthrow of the government of the United States or of this state
by force or violence. So help me God.”
   (B)   If any such officer is not required to give bond, the oath shall be
filed with the Village Clerk-Treasurer.
(Neb. RS 11-101)
COMPENSATION; CONFLICTS OF INTEREST
§ 33.35 COMPENSATION; HOW FIXED; LIMITATIONS.
   (A)   The officers and employees of the city shall receive such compensation
as the Mayor and Council shall fix by ordinance.
(Neb. RS 17-108)
   (B)   The city may enact ordinances or bylaws to regulate and prescribe the
compensation of officers not provided for in state law.
(Neb. RS 17-604)
   (C)   No officer shall receive any pay or perquisites from the city other
than his or her salary. The City Council shall not pay or appropriate any money
or other valuable thing to any person not an officer for the performance of any
act, service or duty the doing or performance of which shall come within the
proper scope of the duties of any officer of the city.
(Neb. RS 17-611)
   (D)   (1)   The salary of any elective officer shall not be increased or
diminished during the term for which he or she shall have been elected, except
when there has been a combination and merger of offices, except that when there
are officers elected to the Council or any other board or commission having
more than one member, and the terms of one or more members commence and end at
different times, the compensation of all members of such council, board or
commission may be increased or diminished at the beginning of the full term of
any member thereof.
      (2)   No person who shall have resigned or vacated any office shall be
eligible to the same during the time for which he or she was elected if, during
the same time, the emoluments thereof were increased.
(Neb. RS 17-612)
§ 33.36 CONFLICT OF INTEREST INVOLVING CONTRACTS.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      BUSINESS ASSOCIATION.
         (a)   A business:
            1.   In which the individual is a partner, limited liability
company member, director or officer; or
            2.   In which the individual or a member of the individual’s
immediate family is a stockholder of closed corporation stock worth $1,000 or
more at fair market value, or which represents more than a 5% equity interest,
or is a stockholder of publicly traded stock worth $10,000 or more at fair
market value, or which represents more than 10% equity interest.
         (b)   An individual who occupies a confidential professional
relationship protected by law shall be exempt from this definition. This
definition shall not apply to publicly traded stock under a trading account if
the filer reports the name and address of the stockbroker.
(Neb. RS 49-1408)
      IMMEDIATE FAMILY. A child residing in an individual’s household, a spouse
of an individual or an individual claimed by that individual or that
individual’s spouse as a dependent for federal income tax purposes.
(Neb. RS 49-1425)
      OFFICER.
         (a)   Includes:
            1.   A member of any board or commission of the city which spends
and administers its own funds who is dealing with a contract made by such board
or commission; or
            2.   Any elected city official.
         (b)   OFFICER does not mean volunteer firefighters or ambulance
drivers with respect to their duties as firefighters or ambulance drivers.
   (B)   (1)   Except as provided in Neb. RS 49-1499.04 or 70-624.04, no
officer may have an interest in any contract to which his or her governing
body, or anyone for its benefit, is a party. The existence of such an interest
in any contract shall render the contract voidable by decree of a court of
competent jurisdiction as to any person who entered into the contract or took
assignment of the contract with actual knowledge of the prohibited conflict. An
action to have a contract declared void under this section may be brought by
the County Attorney, governing body or any resident within the jurisdiction of
the governing body and shall be brought within one year after the contract is
signed or assigned. The decree may provide for the reimbursement of any person
for the reasonable value of all money, goods, material, labor or services
furnished under the contract to the extent the governing body has benefited
thereby.
      (2)   The prohibition in this division (B) shall apply only when the
officer or his or her parent, spouse or child:
         (a)   Has a business association with the business involved in the
contract; or
         (b)   Will receive a payment, fee or commission as a result of the
contract.
   (C)   Division (B) above does not apply if the contract is an agenda item
approved at a meeting of the governing body and the interested officer:
      (1)   Makes a declaration on the record to the governing body responsible
for approving the contract regarding the nature and extent of his or her
interest prior to official consideration of the contract;
      (2)   Does not vote on the matters of granting the contract, making
payments pursuant to the contract, or accepting the performance of work under
the contract, or similar matters relating to the contract, except that if the
number of members of the governing body declaring an interest in the contract
would prevent the body, with all members present, from securing a quorum on the
issue, then all members may vote on the matter; and
      (3)   Does not act for the governing body which is a party to the
contract as to inspection or performance under the contract in which he or she
has an interest.
   (D)   The receiving of deposits, cashing of checks and buying and selling of
warrants and bonds of indebtedness of any such governing body by a financial
institution shall not be considered a contract for the purpose of this section.
The ownership of less than 5% of the outstanding shares of a corporation shall
not constitute an interest within the meaning of this section.
   (E)   If an officer’s parent, spouse or child is an employee of the
officer’s governing body, the officer may vote on all issues of the contract
which are generally applicable to all employees, or all employees within a
classification, and do not single out his or her parent, spouse or child for
special action.
   (F)   Neb. RS 49-14,102 does not apply to contracts covered by this section.
(Neb. RS 49-14,103.01)
   (G)   (1)   (a)   The person charged with keeping records for the governing
body shall maintain separately from other records a ledger containing the
information listed in divisions (G)(1)(b)1. through (G)(1)(b)5. below about
every contract entered into by the governing body in which an officer of the
body has an interest and for which disclosure is made pursuant to division (C)
above.
         (b)   This information shall be kept in the ledger for five years from
the date of the officer’s last day in office and shall include:
            1.   The names of the contracting parties;
            2.   The nature of the interest of the officer in question;
            3.   The date that the contract was approved by the governing body;
            4.   The amount of the contract; and
            5.   The basic terms of the contract.
      (2)   The information supplied relative to the contract shall be provided
not later than ten days after the contract has been signed by both parties. The
ledger kept pursuant to this division (G) shall be available for public
inspection during the normal working hours of the office in which it is kept.
(Neb. RS 49-14,103.02)
   (H)   An open account established for the benefit of any governing body with
a business in which an officer has an interest shall be deemed a contract
subject to this section. The statement required to be filed by division (G)
above shall be filed within ten days after the account is opened. Thereafter,
the person charged with keeping records for the governing body shall maintain a
running account of amounts purchased on the open account. Purchases made from
petty cash or a petty cash fund shall not be subject to this section.
(Neb. RS 49-14,103.03)
   (I)   Notwithstanding divisions (A) through (H) above, the governing body
may prohibit contracts over a specific dollar amount in which an officer of the
governing body may have an interest.
(Neb. RS 49-14,103.05)
   (J)   The governing body may exempt from divisions (A) through (H) above
contracts involving $100 or less in which an officer of that body may have an
interest.
(Neb. RS 49-14,103.06)
Statutory reference:
   Other provisions on conflicts of interest, see Neb. RS 18-305 through 18-312
and 49-1499.03 through 49-14,103
   Penalty for violation of restrictions on contracts, see Neb. RS 49-14,103.04
CHAPTER 34: FINANCE AND REVENUE
Section
General Provisions
   
34.01   Annual audit; financial statements
   
34.02   Contracts and purchases; bidding and other requirements
   
34.03   Orders or warrants for money
   
34.04   Claims and accounts payable
   
34.05   Prepaid approval of payroll
   
34.06   Special assessment fund
   
34.07   Sinking funds; gifts of money or property
   
34.08   Deposit of funds
   
34.09   Investment and use of surplus funds
Annual Budget
   
34.20   Fiscal year
   
34.21   Budget procedures
   
34.22   Proposed budget statement; contents; availability; correction
   
34.23   Proposed budget statement; hearing; adoption; certification of tax
amount
   
34.24   Adopted budget statement; filing; certification of tax amount
   
34.25   Transfer of funds
Tax Levies
   
34.40   All-purpose levy; extraordinary levies; allocation; abandonment
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 34.01 ANNUAL AUDIT; FINANCIAL STATEMENTS.
   (A)   (1)   For the purpose of this division (A), the following definitions
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
         ACCOUNTANT. A duly licensed public accountant or certified public
accountant who otherwise is not an employee of or connected in any way with the
city.
         ANNUAL AUDIT REPORT. The written report of the accountant and all
appended statements and schedules relating thereto presenting or recording the
findings of an examination or audit of the financial transactions, affairs or
financial condition of the city and its proprietary functions for the fiscal
year immediately prior to the making of the ANNUAL REPORT.
         FISCAL YEAR. The fiscal year for the city, or the fiscal year which is
established in Neb. RS 18-2804 for a proprietary function if different than the
city fiscal year.
(Neb. RS 19-2902)
      (2)   (a)   The City Council shall cause an audit of the city’s accounts
to be made by a recognized independent and qualified accountant as
expeditiously as possible following the close of the fiscal year and to cover
all financial transactions and affairs of the city for that preceding fiscal
year. The audit shall be made on a cash or accrual method at the discretion of
the City Council. The audit shall be completed and the annual audit report made
by the accountant shall be submitted within six months after the close of the
fiscal year in any event, unless an extension of time is granted by a written
resolution adopted by the City Council.
         (b)   If the city owns or operates any type of public utility or other
enterprise which substantially generates its own revenue, that phase of the
affairs of the city shall be audited separately from other functions of the
city, and the result shall appear separately in the annual audit report made by
the accountant to the city and such audit shall be on an accrual basis and
shall contain statements and materials which conform to generally accepted
accounting principles. For the utilities operated through the Board of Public
Works, the City Council may provide for an entirely separate audit, on an
accrual basis, of such operations and report and by a different accountant than
the one making the general audit.
(Neb. RS 19-2903)
      (3)   The annual audit report shall set forth, insofar as possible, the
financial position and results of financial operations for each fund or group
of accounts of the city. When the accrual method is selected for the annual
audit report, the report shall be in accordance with generally accepted
accounting principles. The annual audit report shall also include the
professional opinion of the accountant with respect to the financial
statements, or, if an opinion cannot be expressed, a declaration that the
accountant is unable to express such an opinion with an explanation of the
reasons why he or she cannot do so.
(Neb. RS 19-2904)
      (4)   At least three copies of such annual audit report shall be properly
signed and attested by the accountant; two copies shall be filed with the City
Clerk, and one copy shall be filed with the Auditor of Public Accounts. The
annual audit report filed, together with any accompanying comment or
explanation, shall become a part of the public records of the City Clerk and
shall at all times thereafter be open and subject to public inspection.
(Neb. RS 19-2905)
   (B)   The City Council shall provide and file with the City Clerk not later
than August 1 of each year financial statements showing the city’s actual and
budgeted figures for the most recently completed fiscal year.
(Neb. RS 13-606)
Statutory reference:
   Other provisions on audits, Neb. RS 19-2906 through 19-2909
§ 34.02 CONTRACTS AND PURCHASES; BIDDING AND OTHER REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Except as provided in Neb. RS 18-412.01 for a contract with a public
power district to operate, renew, replace or add to the electric distribution,
transmission or generation system of the city, no contract for enlargement or
general improvements, such as water extensions, sewers, public heating systems,
bridges, work on streets or any other work or improvement, when the cost of the
enlargement or improvement is assessed to the property, costing over $30,000
shall be made unless it is first approved by the City Council.
   (B)   Except as provided in Neb. RS 18-412.01, before the City Council makes
any contract in excess of $30,000 for enlargements or general improvements,
such as water extensions, sewers, public heating systems, bridges, work on
streets or any other work or improvement when the cost of the enlargement or
improvement is assessed to the property, an estimate of the cost shall be made
by the City Engineer and submitted to the City Council. In advertising for bids
as provided in divisions (C) and (E) below, the City Council may publish the
amount of the estimate.
   (C)   Advertisements for bids shall be required for any contract costing
over $30,000 entered into:
      (1)   For enlargements or general improvements, such as water extensions,
sewers, public heating systems, bridges, work on streets or any other work or
improvement when the cost of the enlargement or improvement is assessed to the
property; or
      (2)   For the purchase of equipment used in the construction of the
enlargements or general improvements.
   (D)   A city electric utility may enter into a contract for the enlargement
or improvement of the electric system or for the purchase of equipment used for
the enlargement or improvement without advertising for bids if the price is:
      (1)   Thirty thousand dollars or less;
      (2)   Sixty thousand dollars or less and the city electric utility has
gross annual revenue from retail sales in excess of $1,000,000;
      (3)   Ninety thousand dollars or less and the city electric utility has
gross annual revenue from retail sales in excess of $5,000,000; or
      (4)   One hundred and twenty thousand dollars or less and the city
electric utility has gross annual revenue from retail sales in excess of
$10,000,000.
   (E)   The advertisement provided for in division (C) above shall be
published at least seven days prior to the bid closing in a legal newspaper in
or of general circulation in the city. In case of a public emergency resulting
from infectious or contagious diseases, destructive windstorms, floods, snow,
war or an exigency or pressing necessity or unforeseen need calling for
immediate action or remedy to prevent a serious loss of or serious injury or
damage to life, health or property, estimates of costs and advertising for bids
may be waived in the emergency ordinance authorized by Neb. RS 17-613 when
adopted by a three-fourths vote of the City Council and entered of record.
   (F)   If, after advertising for bids as provided in this section, the City
Council receives fewer than two bids on a contract or if the bids received by
the City Council contain a price which exceeds the estimated cost, the City
Council may negotiate a contract in an attempt to complete the proposed
enlargements or general improvements at a cost commensurate with the estimate
given.
   (G)   If the materials are of such a nature that, in the opinion of the
manufacturer and with the concurrence of the City Council or Board of Public
Works, no cost can be estimated until the materials have been manufactured or
assembled to the specific qualifications of the city, the City Council or Board
of Public Works may authorize the manufacture and assemblage of those materials
and may thereafter approve the estimated cost expenditure when it is provided
by the manufacturer.
(Neb. RS 17-568.01)
   (H)   Any city bidding procedure may be waived by the City Council or Board
of Public Works:
      (1)   When materials or equipment are purchased at the same price and
from the same seller as materials or equipment which have formerly been
obtained pursuant to the state bidding procedure in Neb. RS 81-145 through 81-
161.06;
      (2)   When the contract is negotiated directly with a sheltered workshop
pursuant to Neb. RS 48-1503; or
      (3)   When required to comply with any federal grant, loan or program.
(Neb. RS 17-568.02)
   (I)   (1)   Notwithstanding any other provisions of law or a home rule
charter, a city which has established, by an interlocal agreement with any
county, a joint purchasing division or agency may purchase personal property
without competitive bidding if the price for the property has been established
by the federal General Services Administration or the materiel division of the
Department of Administrative Services.
      (2)   For the purpose of this division (I), the following definitions
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
         PERSONAL PROPERTY. Includes, but is not limited to, supplies,
materials and equipment used by or furnished to any officer, office,
department, institution, board or other agency.
         PURCHASING or PURCHASE. The obtaining of personal property by sale,
lease or other contractual means.
(Neb. RS 18-1756)
Statutory reference:
   Requirements for public lettings, see Neb. RS 73-101 et seq.
§ 34.03 ORDERS OR WARRANTS FOR MONEY.
   (A)   The Mayor and City Council shall have no power to appropriate, issue
or draw any order or warrant on the City Treasurer for money unless the same
has been appropriated or ordered by ordinance, or the claim for the payment of
which such order or warrant is issued has been allowed according to the
provisions of §
34.04, and funds for the class or object out of which such claim is payable
have been included in the adopted budget statement or transferred according to
law.
(Neb. RS 17-708)
   (B)   (1)   All warrants drawn upon the City Treasurer must be signed by the
Mayor and countersigned by the City Clerk, stating the particular fund to which
the same is chargeable, the person to whom payable and for what particular
object.
      (2)   No money shall be otherwise paid than upon such warrants so drawn.
Each warrant shall specify the amount included in the adopted budget statement
for such fund upon which it is drawn and the amount already expended of such
fund.
(Neb. RS 17-711)
§ 34.04 CLAIMS AND ACCOUNTS PAYABLE.
   (A)   (1)   All liquidated and unliquidated claims and accounts payable
against the city shall:
         (a)   Be presented in writing;
         (b)   State the name and address of the claimant and the amount of the
claim; and
         (c)   Fully and accurately identify the items or services for which
payment is claimed or the time, place, nature and circumstances giving rise to
the claim.
      (2)   As a condition precedent to maintaining an action for a claim,
other than a tort claim as defined in Neb. RS 13-903, the claimant shall file
such claim within 90 days of the accrual of the claim in the office of the City
Clerk.
      (3)   The City Clerk shall notify the claimant or his or her agent or
attorney by letter mailed to the claimant’s address within five days if the
claim is disallowed by the City Council.
      (4)   No costs shall be recovered against the city in any action brought
against it for any claim, or for any claim allowed in part, which has not been
presented to the City Council to be audited unless the recovery is for a
greater sum than the amount allowed with the interest due.
(Neb. RS 17-714)
   (B)   Upon the allowance of claims by the City Council, the order for their
payment shall specify the particular fund or appropriation out of which they
are payable as specified in the adopted budget statement, and no order or
warrant shall be drawn in excess of 85% of the current levy for the purpose for
which it is drawn, unless there is sufficient money in the Treasury at the
credit of the proper fund for its payment; provided, that if there exists, at
the time such warrant is drawn, obligated funds from the federal government or
the state, or both from the federal government and the state, for the general
purpose or purposes of such warrant, then such warrant may be drawn in excess
of 85% of the current levy for the purpose for which it is drawn to the
additional extent of 100% of such obligated federal or state funds. No claim
shall be audited or allowed unless an order or warrant for the payment thereof
may legally be drawn.
(Neb. RS 17-715)
§ 34.05 PREPAID APPROVAL OF PAYROLL.
   (A)   No claims shall be paid before authorization from the Council at its
first meeting of the month.
   (B)   Only the employee payroll payments will be pre-approved by the Council
to be paid prior to the Council meeting.
(Ord. 4-4-23, passed 4-4-2023)
§ 34.06 SPECIAL ASSESSMENT FUND.
   All money received on special assessments shall be held by the City
Treasurer as a special fund, to be applied to the payment of the improvement
for which the assessment was made, and this money shall be used for no other
purpose whatever unless to reimburse the city for money expended for any such
improvement.
(Neb. RS 17-710)
§ 34.07 SINKING FUNDS; GIFTS OF MONEY OR PROPERTY.
   (A)   The city is hereby empowered to receive money or property by donation,
bequest, gift, devise or otherwise for the benefit of any one or more of the
public purposes for which sinking funds are established by this section, as
stipulated by the donor. Title to any money or property so donated shall vest
in the City Council, or in its successors in office, who shall become the
owners thereof in trust to the uses of the sinking fund or funds. In the event
of a donation of real estate, the City Council may manage such real estate as
in the case of real estate donated to the city for city library purposes under
the provisions of Neb. RS 51-215 and 51-216.
(Neb. RS 19-1301)
   (B)   The City Council, subject to all the limitations set forth in this
section, shall have the power to levy a tax of not to exceed $0.105 on each
$100 in any one year upon the taxable value of all the taxable property within
the city for a term of not to exceed ten years, in addition to the amount of
tax which may be annually levied for the purposes of the adopted budget
statement of the city, for the purpose of establishing a sinking fund for the
construction, purchase, improvement, extension, original equipment or repair,
not including maintenance, of any one or more of the following public
improvements, including acquisition of any land incident to the making thereof:
city libraries; city auditoriums or community houses for social or recreational
purposes; city halls; city public libraries, auditoriums or community houses in
a single building; city swimming pools; city jails; city fire stations,
together with firefighting equipment or apparatus; city parks; city cemeteries;
city medical buildings, together with furnishings and equipment; or city
hospitals. The city shall not be authorized to levy the tax or to establish the
sinking fund as provided in this division (B) if, having bonded indebtedness,
such city has been in default in the payment of interest thereon or principal
thereof for a period of ten years prior to the date of the passage of the
resolution providing for the submission of the proposition for establishment of
the sinking fund as required in division (C) below.
(Neb. RS 19-1302)
   (C)   Before any sinking fund or funds are established or before any annual
tax is levied for any such planned city improvements mentioned in division (B)
above by the city, the City Council shall declare its purpose by resolution to
submit to the qualified electors of the city at the next general city election
the proposition to provide the city with the specific city improvement planned
under this section. The resolution of submission shall, among other things, set
forth a clear description of the improvement planned, the estimated cost
according to the prevailing costs, the amount of annual levy over a definite
period of years, not exceeding ten years, required to provide such cost, and
the specific name or designation for the sinking fund sought to be established
to carry out the planned improvement, together with a statement of the
proposition for placement upon the ballot at the election. Notice of the
submission of the proposition, together with a copy of the official ballot
containing the proposition, shall be published in its entirety three successive
weeks before the day of the election in a legal newspaper in or of general
circulation in the city or, if no legal newspaper is in or of general
circulation in the city, in a legal newspaper in or of general circulation in
the county in which the city is located. No such sinking fund shall be
established unless the same has been authorized by a majority or more of the
legal votes of the city cast for or against the proposition. If less than a
majority of the legal votes favor establishment of the sinking fund, the
planned improvement shall not be made, no annual tax shall be levied therefor,
and no sinking fund or sinking funds shall be established in connection
therewith, but such resolution of submission shall immediately be repealed. If
the proposition shall carry at such election in the manner prescribed in this
division (C), the City Council and its successors in office shall proceed to do
all things authorized under such resolution of submission but never
inconsistent with this section. The election provided for under this section
shall be conducted as provided under the Election Act, being Neb. RS 32-101 et
seq.
(Neb. RS 19-1303)
   (D)   All funds received by the City Treasurer, by donation or by tax levy,
as hereinbefore provided shall, as they accumulate, be immediately invested by
the Treasurer, with the written approval of the City Council, in the manner
provided in §
34.09. Whenever investments of such sinking fund or funds are made, as
aforesaid, the nature and character of the same shall be reported to the City
Council, and the investment report shall be made a matter of record by the City
Clerk in the proceedings of the City Council. The sinking fund, or sinking
funds, accumulated under the provisions of this section shall constitute a
special fund, or funds, for the purpose or purposes for which the same was
authorized and shall not be used for any other purpose unless authorized by 60%
of the qualified electors of the city voting at a general election favoring
such change in the use of the sinking fund or sinking funds. The question of
the change in the use of the sinking fund or sinking funds, when it fails to
carry, shall not be resubmitted in substance for a period of one year from and
after the date of such election.
(Neb. RS 19-1304)
Statutory reference:
   Additional levy limitations, see Neb. RS 17-702
   Investment in warrants, see Neb. RS 77-2337
§ 34.08 DEPOSIT OF FUNDS.
   (A)   (1)   The City Treasurer shall deposit, and at all times keep on
deposit, for safekeeping in banks, capital stock financial institutions or
qualifying mutual financial institutions of approved and responsible standing,
all money collected, received or held by him or her as City Treasurer. These
deposits shall be subject to all regulations imposed by law or adopted by the
City Council for the receiving and holding thereof. The fact that a
stockholder, director or other officer of the bank, capital stock financial
institution or qualifying mutual financial institution is also serving as
Mayor, a member of the City Council, as a member of the Board of Public Works
or as any other officer of the city shall not disqualify the bank, capital
stock financial institution or qualifying mutual financial institution from
acting as a depository for the city funds.
      (2)   The City Council shall require from all banks, capital stock
financial institutions or qualifying mutual financial institutions a bond in
such penal sum as may be the maximum amount on deposit at any time, less the
amount insured or guaranteed by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation or,
in lieu thereof, security given as provided in the Public Funds Deposit
Security Act, being Neb. RS 77-2386 et seq., to secure the payment of all such
deposits and accretions. The City Council shall approve this bond or giving of
security. The City Treasurer shall not be liable for any loss of any money
sustained by reason of the failure of any such depository so designated and
approved.
(Neb. RS 17-607)
   (B)   The insurance afforded to depositors in banks, capital stock financial
institutions or qualifying mutual financial institutions through the Federal
Deposit Insurance Corporation shall be deemed and construed to be a surety bond
or bonds to the extent that the deposits are insured or guaranteed by that
corporation, and for deposits so insured or guaranteed, no other surety bond or
bonds or other security shall be required.
(Neb. RS 77-2362)
   (C)   (1)   Neb. RS 77-2366 shall apply to deposits in capital stock
financial institutions.
      (2)   Neb. RS 77-2365.01 shall apply to deposits in qualifying mutual
financial institutions.
(Neb. RS 17-607 and 77-2362)
Statutory reference:
   Other provisions on deposits of public funds, see Neb. RS 77-2363 and 77-
2364
   Public Funds Deposit Security Act, see Neb. RS 77-2386
§ 34.09 INVESTMENT AND USE OF SURPLUS FUNDS.
   (A)   When the City Treasurer holds funds of the city in excess of the
amount required for maintenance or set aside for betterments and improvements,
the Mayor and City Council may, by resolution, direct and authorize the
Treasurer to invest the surplus funds in the outstanding bonds or registered
warrants of the city, bonds and debentures issued either singly or collectively
by any of the 12 federal land banks, the 12 intermediate credit banks or the 13
banks for cooperatives under the supervision of the Farm Credit Administration,
or in interest-bearing bonds or the obligations of the United States. The
interest on such bonds or warrants shall be credited to the fund out of which
the bonds or warrants were purchased.
(Neb. RS 17-608)
   (B)   All income received by the city from public utilities and from the
payment and collection of water taxes, rents, rates or assessments shall be
applied to the payment of running expenses, interest on bonds or money borrowed
and the erection and construction of public utilities; should there be any
surplus, it shall be annually created into a sinking fund for the payment of
public utility bonds or for improvements of the works, or into the General Fund
as the Council may direct. The surplus remaining, if any, may, if the Council
so directs, be invested in interest-bearing bonds or obligations of the United
States.
(Neb. RS 17-540)
   (C)   The Mayor and City Council may, by resolution, direct and authorize
the Treasurer to dispose of the surplus electric light, water or gas funds, or
the funds arising from the sale of electric light, water or natural gas
distribution properties, by the payment of outstanding electric light, water or
gas distribution bonds or water warrants then due. The excess, if any, after
such payments may be transferred to the General Fund of the city.
(Neb. RS 17-609)
   (D)   Any surplus funds arising out of the operation of any system of
waterworks, power plant, ice plant, gas plant, sewerage, heating or lighting
plant, or distribution system by the Board of Public Works, or by the City
Council where any of such utilities are not being operated by such a Board, may
be invested, if not invested pursuant to the provisions of any other law upon
the subject, in like manner and subject to the same conditions as the
investment of similar funds of cities of the first class, as provided in Neb.
RS 16-691.01.
(Neb. RS 17-803)
   (E)   (1)   Whenever the city has accumulated a surplus of any fund in
excess of its current needs or has accumulated a sinking fund for the payment
of its bonds and the money in such sinking fund exceeds the amount necessary to
pay the principal and interest of any such bonds which become due during the
current year, the City Council may invest any such surplus in excess of current
needs or such excess in its sinking fund in certificates of deposit, in time
deposits and in any securities in which the State Investment Officer is
authorized to invest pursuant to the State Capital Expansion Act, being Neb. RS
72-1260 et seq. and the State Funds Investment Act, being Neb. RS 72-1237 et
seq. and as provided in the authorized investment guidelines of the State
Investment Council in effect on the date the investment is made. The State
Investment Officer shall, upon request, furnish a copy of current authorized
investment guidelines of the State Investment Council.
      (2)   Nothing in division (E)(1) above shall be construed to authorize
investments in venture capital or to expand the investment authority of a local
government investment pool under the Public Entities Pooled Investment Act,
Neb. RS 77-23,109 et seq.
(Neb. RS 77-2341)
ANNUAL BUDGET
§ 34.20 FISCAL YEAR.
   The fiscal year of the city and any public utility of the city commences on
October 1 and extends through the following September 30, except as provided in
the Municipal Proprietary Function Act, being Neb. RS 18-2801 et seq.
(Neb. RS 17-701)
§ 34.21 BUDGET PROCEDURES.
   The budget instruction manual prepared by the Auditor of Public Accounts is
incorporated by reference for the purpose of proper budget preparation.
§ 34.22 PROPOSED BUDGET STATEMENT; CONTENTS; AVAILABILITY; CORRECTION.
   (A)   (1)   The City Council shall annually or biennially prepare a proposed
budget statement on forms prescribed and furnished by the Auditor of Public
Accounts. The proposed budget statement shall be made available to the public
prior to publication of the notice of the hearing on the proposed budget
statement pursuant to §
34.23.
      (2)   A proposed budget statement shall contain the following
information, except as provided by state law:
         (a)   For the immediately preceding fiscal year or biennial period,
the revenue from all sources, including motor vehicle taxes, other than revenue
received from personal and real property taxation, allocated to the funds and
separately stated as to each such source: the unencumbered cash balance at the
beginning and end of the year or biennial period; the amount received by
taxation of personal and real property; and the amount of actual expenditures;
         (b)   For the current fiscal year or biennial period, actual and
estimated revenue from all sources, including motor vehicle taxes, allocated to
the funds and separately stated as to each such source: the actual unencumbered
cash balance available at the beginning of the year or biennial period; the
amount received from personal and real property taxation; and the amount of
actual and estimated expenditures, whichever is applicable. This statement
shall contain the cash reserve for each fiscal year or biennial period and
shall note whether or not the reserve is encumbered. The cash reserve
projections shall be based upon the actual experience of prior years or
biennial periods. The cash reserve shall not exceed 50% of the total budget
adopted exclusive of capital outlay items;
         (c)   For the immediately ensuing fiscal year or biennial period, an
estimate of revenue from all sources, including motor vehicle taxes, other than
revenue to be received from the taxation of personal and real property,
separately stated as to each such source: the actual or estimated unencumbered
cash balances, whichever is applicable, to be available at the beginning of the
year or biennial period; the amounts proposed to be expended during the year or
biennial period; and the amount of cash reserve, based on actual experience of
prior years or biennial period, which cash reserve shall not exceed 50% of the
total budget adopted exclusive of capital outlay items;
         (d)   A statement setting out separately the amount sought to be
raised from the levy of a tax on the taxable value of real property:
            1.   For the purpose of paying the principal or interest on bonds
issued or authorized to be issued by the City Council or the legal voters of
the political subdivision; and
            2.   For all other purposes.
         (e)   A uniform summary of the proposed budget statement, including
each proprietary function fund included in a separate proprietary budget
statement prepared pursuant to the Municipal Proprietary Function Act, and a
grand total of all funds maintained by the City Council.
      (6)   A list of the proprietary functions which are not included in the
budget statement. These proprietary functions shall have a separate budget
statement which is approved by the City Council as provided in the Municipal
Proprietary Function Act, being Neb. RS 18-2801 et seq.
   (B)   The actual or estimated unencumbered cash balance required to be
included in the budget statement by this section shall include deposits and
investments of the city as well as any funds held by the County Treasurer for
the city and shall be accurately stated on the proposed budget statement.
   (C)   The city shall correct any material errors in the budget statement
detected by the Auditor of Public Accounts or by other sources.
(Neb. RS 13-504)
   (D)   The estimated expenditures plus the required cash reserve for the
ensuing fiscal year or biennial period, less all estimated and actual
unencumbered balances at the beginning of the year or biennial period, and less
the estimated income from all sources, including motor vehicle taxes, other
than taxation of personal and real property, shall equal the amount to be
received from taxes, and that amount shall be shown on the proposed budget
statement pursuant to this section. The amount to be raised from taxation of
personal and real property, as determined above, plus the estimated revenue
from other sources, including motor vehicle taxes, and the unencumbered
balances shall equal the estimated expenditures, plus the necessary required
cash reserve, for the ensuing year or biennial period.
(Neb. RS 13-505)
§ 34.23 PROPOSED BUDGET STATEMENT; HEARING; ADOPTION; CERTIFICATION OF TAX
AMOUNT.
   (A)   (1)   The City Council shall each year or biennial period conduct a
public hearing on its proposed budget statement. Such hearing shall be held
separately from any regularly scheduled meeting of the governing body and shall
not be limited by time.
      (2)   Notice of the place and time of the hearing, together with a
summary of the proposed budget statement, shall be published four calendar days
prior to the date set for hearing in a newspaper of general circulation within
the city’s jurisdiction. For the purposes of such notice, the four calendar
days shall include the day of publication but not the day of the hearing. When
the total operating budget, not including reserves, does not exceed $10,000 per
year or $20,000 per biennial period, the proposed budget summary may be posted
at the City Council’s principal headquarters. At such hearing, the governing
body shall make at least three copies of the proposed budget statement
available to the public and shall make a presentation outlining key provisions
of the proposed budget statement, including, but not limited to, a comparison
with the prior year’s budget. Any member of the public desiring to speak on the
proposed budget statement shall be allowed to address the governing body at the
hearing and shall be given a reasonable amount of time to do so.
   (B)   After the hearing, the proposed budget statement shall be adopted, or
amended and adopted as amended, and a written record shall be kept of the
hearing. The amount to be received from personal and real property taxation
shall be certified to the levying board after the proposed budget statement is
adopted or is amended and adopted as amended. The certification of the amount
to be received from personal and real property taxation shall specify
separately the amount to be applied to the payment of principal or interest on
bonds issued or authorized to be issued by the City Council or the legal voters
of the political subdivision and the amount to be received for all other
purposes.
   (C)   If the adopted budget statement reflects a change from that shown in
the published proposed budget statement, a summary of the changes shall be
published within 20 calendar days after its adoption in the manner provided in
this section, but without provision for hearing, setting forth the items
changed and the reasons for the changes.
   (D)   Upon approval by the City Council, the budget shall be filed with the
Auditor of Public Accounts. The Auditor may review the budget for errors in
mathematics, improper accounting and noncompliance with the State Budget Act,
being Neb. RS 13-501 et seq. or Neb. RS 13-518 through 13-522. If the Auditor
detects such errors, he or she shall immediately notify the Council of such
errors. The Council shall correct any such error as provided in state law.
Warrants for the payment of expenditures provided in the budget adopted under
this section shall be valid notwithstanding any errors or noncompliance for
which the Auditor has notified the Council.
(Neb. RS 13-506)
   (E)   When a levy increase has been authorized by vote of the electors, the
adopted budget statement shall indicate the amount of the levy increase.
(Neb. RS 13-507)
§ 34.24 ADOPTED BUDGET STATEMENT; FILING; CERTIFICATION OF TAX AMOUNT.
   (A)   (1)   After publication and hearing on the proposed budget statement
and within the time prescribed by law, the City Council shall file with and
certify to the levying board or boards on or before September 30 of each year,
or September 30 of the final year of a biennial period, and file with the
Auditor of Public Accounts a copy of the adopted budget statement which
complies with Neb. RS 13-518 through 13-522, if applicable, together with the
amount of the tax required to fund the adopted budget, setting out separately:
         (a)   The amount to be levied for the payment of principal or interest
on bonds issued or authorized to be issued by the City Council or the legal
voters of the political subdivision; and
         (b)   The amount to be levied for all other purposes.
      (2)   Proof of publication shall be attached to the statements.
   (B)   If the prime rate published by the Federal Reserve Board is 10% or
more at the time of the filing and certification required under this section,
the City Council, in certifying the amount required, may make allowance for
delinquent taxes not exceeding 5% of the amount required, plus the actual
percentage of delinquent taxes for the preceding tax year or biennial period,
and for the amount of estimated tax loss from any pending or anticipated
litigation which involves taxation and in which tax collections have been or
can be withheld or escrowed by court order. For the purpose of this section,
ANTICIPATED LITIGATION shall be limited to the anticipation of an action being
filed by a taxpayer who or which filed a similar action for the preceding year
or biennial period which is still pending. Except for such allowances, the City
Council shall not certify an amount of tax more than 1% greater or lesser than
the amount determined under §
34.22.
   (C)   The City Council shall use the certified taxable values as provided by
the County Assessor pursuant to Neb. RS 13-509 for the current year in setting
or certifying the levy. The City Council may designate one of its members to
perform any duty or responsibility required of the Council by this section.
(Neb. RS 13-508)
§ 34.25 TRANSFER OF FUNDS.
   (A)   Whenever during the current fiscal year it becomes apparent to the
City Council that due to unforeseen emergencies, there is temporarily
insufficient money in a particular fund to meet the requirements of the adopted
budget of expenditures for that fund, the Council may by a majority vote,
unless otherwise provided by state law, transfer money from other funds to such
fund.
   (B)   No expenditure during any fiscal year shall be made in excess of the
amounts indicated in the adopted budget statement, except as authorized by
state law.
   (C)   Any officer or officers of the City Council who obligate funds
contrary to the provisions of this section shall be guilty of an offense.
(Neb. RS 13-510) Penalty, see §
10.99
TAX LEVIES
§ 34.40 ALL-PURPOSE LEVY; EXTRAORDINARY LEVIES; ALLOCATION; ABANDONMENT.
   (A)   Notwithstanding provisions in the statutes of the state and this code
to the contrary, for any fiscal year, the City Council may decide to certify to
the County Clerk for collection one all-purpose levy, required to be raised by
taxation, for all city purposes instead of certifying a schedule of levies for
specific purposes added together. Subject to the limits of state law, the all-
purpose levy shall not exceed an annual levy of $1.05 on each $100 upon the
taxable valuation of all the taxable property in the city. Otherwise-authorized
extraordinary levies to service and pay bonded indebtedness of the city may be
made by the city in addition to such all-purpose levy.
(Neb. RS 19-1309)
   (B)   If the method provided in division (A) above is followed in city
financing, the city shall allocate the amount so raised to the several
departments of the city in its annual budget and appropriation ordinance, or in
other legal manner, as the City Council deems wisest and best.
(Neb. RS 19-1310)
   (C)   If the city elects to follow the method provided in division (A)
above, it shall be bound by that election during the ensuing fiscal year but
may abandon such method in succeeding fiscal years.
(Neb. RS 19-1311)
   (D)   If it is necessary to certify the amount to county officers for
collection, the same shall be certified as a single amount for General Fund
purposes.
(Neb. RS 19-1312)
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
   Chapter
      
50.   UTILITIES GENERALLY
      
51.   SOLID WASTE
      
52.   WATER
      
53.   SEWER
      
54.   NATURAL GAS
CHAPTER 50: UTILITIES GENERALLY
Section
   
50.01   Application for city utilities; former customers
 
   
50.99   Penalty
§ 50.01 APPLICATION FOR CITY UTILITIES; FORMER CUSTOMERS.
   The full amount of any outstanding account for utilities, water, sewer,
garbage, will be paid in full before services can be connected at a new
residence in the city. A deposit of $100 will be paid at the signing of the new
application for utility service in the city.
(Res. 11-13-23-1, passed 11-13-2023)
§ 50.99 PENALTY.
   Anyone violating any of the terms and conditions of this title shall be
deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be fined in a sum of not more than
$500 for each offense. Each day’s maintenance of the same shall constitute a
separate offense.
(Prior Code, § 6-601)
CHAPTER 51: SOLID WASTE
Section
   
51.01   Regulations
   
51.02   Rates
   
51.03   Disposal and responsibility
   
51.04   Contract for disposal and hauling
   
51.05   Bills
   
51.06   Deposit fee
   
51.07   Landfill
   
51.08   Independent contractors
   
51.09   Hauling own wastes
   
51.10   Depositing or accumulation of substances detrimental to health
prohibited
 
   
51.99   Penalty
§ 51.01 REGULATIONS.
   The city will, by contract, provide weekly curbside collection of the normal
household and commercial garbage and refuse from all residences and businesses
within the city.
   (A)   These collections are to be made on a specific day of each week unless
weather or other adverse conditions make it impossible for the collector to
perform its task on that specific day, in which case it will be collected on
the following day or as soon thereafter as conditions permit. Collections will
be made during normal working hours or from sunrise to sunset, whichever is the
greatest length of time.
   (B)   Residents shall have the refuse ready for collection at the street
curbside in approved metal or plastic containers with lids secured or properly
tied plastic containers. Additional pickup at any one residence shall be
contracted for directly with the collector on an individual basis at
established rates. No lawn clippings shall be accepted for curbside collection
and all residents will be obligated to make their own arrangements for disposal
of lawn clippings.
   (C)   Residents will be responsible for litter or spillage prior to
collection. The collection contractor shall be responsible for litter or
spillage after collection, and all refuse collected by the contractor shall be
delivered to and deposited in a state licensed landfill or approved recycling
plant site.
   (D)   The power to fix rates for furnishing city services, including water,
sewer and sanitation services, both residential and commercial, shall be vested
in the City Council, and such utility rates will be presumed lawful unless
clearly shown to be confiscatory.
   (E)   Designation of residential and commercial sanitation accounts shall be
initially determined by the designated contract agency and thereafter
periodically reviewed, amended and approved by the City Council in its sole
discretion.
   (F)   Commercial owners, or their designated agents or employees, shall have
refuse ready for collection at designated street or alley pick up sites in
approved metal or plastic containers with lids or disposable plastic bags,
properly tied and secured until pickup.
(Prior Code, § 6-501)
§ 51.02 RATES.
   Each residential and commercial account will be charged at such rate as may
be adopted by the City Council from time to time for refuse collection. The
established rate will be included as an integral part of the city utility bill
and will be collected in the same manner as the sewer use fees in the month
immediately following the month of service. The City Council may establish rate
classification guidelines to distinguish commercial and residential accounts
and may establish and amend from time to time such rules and regulations as may
be needed to comply with state or federal solid waste management requirements
or regulations promulgated under the Environmental Protection Act, being 40
C.F.R. §§ 1500 et seq. and Neb. RS 81-1501 et seq.
(Prior Code, § 6-502) (Res. 8-14-2023, passed 8-14-2023)
§ 51.03 DISPOSAL AND RESPONSIBILITY.
   No person shall dispose of any refuse, garbage or rubbish except in the
manner provided in this chapter. The owner or occupant of the premises shall be
responsible for the disposal of the refuse, garbage or rubbish.
(Prior Code, § 6-503) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.04 CONTRACT FOR DISPOSAL AND HAULING.
   The City Council may enter into a contract or contracts with persons or
firms for the hauling and disposition of garbage.
(Prior Code, § 6-504)
§ 51.05 BILLS.
   Garbage bills shall be due and payable monthly at the office of the City
Clerk, in the same manner and on the same date as water service bills are
collected. The same collection procedures, fees and delinquent bills that apply
to water bills would also apply to garbage bills. The city may cut off garbage
service for unpaid garbage bills in the same manner as water service charges
are collected.
(Prior Code, § 6-505)
§ 51.06 DEPOSIT FEE.
   The City Council shall be authorized to establish and amend, from time to
time, a utility deposit fee to be collected by the City Clerk and credited to
any residential or commercial account to ensure the payment of all utility
rates, including water service, sewer service and sanitation services.
(Prior Code, § 6-506)
§ 51.07 LANDFILL.
   The city landfill shall be closed from and after May 1, 1990, to all dumping
of trash, refuse, garbage, appliances, construction debris, animal matter or
putrescible or hazardous waste. It shall be open to the dumping of tree limbs,
grass clippings, leaves and branches.
(Prior Code, § 6-507)
§ 51.08 INDEPENDENT CONTRACTORS.
   (A)   Definition. For the purpose of this section, the following definition
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      INDEPENDENT CONTRACTORS. Any person that independently contracts with the
public for hire to collect, haul or dispose of wastes.
(Prior Code, § 6-508)
   (B)   Permit.
      (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person to collect and/or transport
garbage, refuse, rubbish or waste for hire without first obtaining a permit
from the City Clerk’s office. If the applicant’s equipment proposed to be used
is approved by the Board of Health, the City Clerk shall issue such permit
following approval by the City Council. Permits authorized to be issued and the
cost thereof shall be a garbage permit, which shall entitle the permittee to
collect garbage, refuse and rubbish. The permit shall cover the one-year period
between January 1 of any year and January 1 of the following year and shall be
$1 per year, plus a $1 fee per vehicle or conveyance or any fraction thereof,
no part of which is refundable.
      (2)   If any permittee under this chapter violates any of the provisions
of this chapter, in addition to the prosecution of such permittee for a
misdemeanor, the City Council may, by certified mail, summon the permittee to
appear before the City Council and show cause why his or her permit to collect
and transport garbage, refuse, rubbish and waste or any other permits held by
him or her as provided by this chapter, should not be revoked. The City
Council, after holding such hearing, shall take such action as it deems
necessary and proper, which action may include the suspension or revocation of
the permit.
(Prior Code, § 6-509)
   (C)   Sanitary requirements. All garbage and refuse vehicles and conveyances
shall be frequently cleaned and disinfected so as to prevent any menace to the
public welfare, health and safety.
(Prior Code, § 6-510)
   (D)   Inspections. Periodic inspections shall be made of all independent
contractors by the Board of Health to ascertain whether the collection
apparatus is maintained in a clean and sanitary manner and if the methods of
the collection services are performed in a manner so as to:
      (1)   Prevent littering of private or public premises;
      (2)   Prevent destruction of private property; and
      (3)   Ensure that the contents of containers are removed.
(Prior Code, § 6-511)
Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.09 HAULING OWN WASTES.
   The provisions of this chapter shall not be construed so as to prevent a
person from collecting and transporting his or her own garbage, refuse and
waste materials in his or her own vehicle from the residence, business or
commercial property in which he or she lives, owns or operates within the city,
to an approved sanitary landfill site, transfer station and/or recycling
center, provided:
   (A)   The approved sanitary landfill, transfer station and/or recycling
center is recognized and licensed by the State Department of Health, State
Department of Environmental Control and/or the Federal Environmental Protection
Agency; and
   (B)   The vehicle, wagon, truck, automobile, trailer or other conveyance
used in the transportation of such garbage shall be completely covered and
secured so as to prevent the garbage, refuse and waste material from being
blown away from or jarred off such conveyance.
(Prior Code, § 6-512)
§ 51.10 DEPOSITING OR ACCUMULATION OF SUBSTANCES DETRIMENTAL TO HEALTH
PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to deposit, or permit the deposit or
accumulation of any garbage, refuse of any kind or article or thing which is
detrimental to health or from which obnoxious or offensive odors arise, on the
streets, alleys or public grounds or on any private premises, including
enclosures in which livestock is kept within said city.
(Prior Code, § 1-803) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
50.99.
   (B)   Any person who violates §
51.10 and shall fail to remove such objectionable substances or otherwise
comply with the orders of the Board of Health with reference thereto within 24
hours from the receipt of written notice thereof, upon conviction shall be
fined in a sum not to exceed $500 for each offense, and the offensive matter
shall be ordered removed by or at the expense of the defendant. Each 24-hour
failure to comply with the orders of the Board of Health shall constitute a
separate and distinct offense.
(Prior Code, § 1-803)
CHAPTER 52: WATER
Section
General Provisions
   
52.01   Definitions
   
52.02   Operating and funding
   
52.03   Consumer application
   
52.04   Water contract
   
52.05   Installation procedure
   
52.06   Nonresident installation expense
   
52.07   Repairs
   
52.08   Landlord’s responsibility
   
52.09   Prohibition of lead pipes, solder and flux
   
52.10   Single premises
   
52.11   Restricted use; liability of city
   
52.12   Fire hydrants
   
52.13   Pollution
   
52.14   Mandatory hookup
   
52.15   Water service contracts
   
52.16   Destruction of property
   
52.17   Complaints
   
52.18   Inspections
   
52.19   Rates; fees; collections
   
52.20   Water bills
   
52.21   Lien
   
52.22   Watering of paved portions of streets, alley and parking areas
prohibited
   
52.23   Licensed plumber
Wells and Other Underground Facilities
   
52.35   Drilling and operation without permit unlawful
   
52.36   Procedure to obtain permit
   
52.37   Distance from municipal water sources
   
52.38   Violation and abatement
Backflow Prevention Devices
   
52.50   Policy and purpose
   
52.51   Definitions
   
52.52   Cross-connections prohibited
   
52.53   Prohibition on auxiliary water system
   
52.54   Survey and investigations
   
52.55   Where protection is required
   
52.56   Type of protection required
   
52.57   Backflow prevention devices
   
52.58   Installation
   
52.59   Testing
   
52.60   Authorized representation
   
52.61   Appeals
   
52.62   Violations
   
52.63   Conflicts with other applicable codes
 
   
52.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 52.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   MAIN. Any pipe other than a supply or service pipe that is used for the
purpose of carrying water to, and disbursing the same, in the city.
   SEPARATE PREMISES. More than one consumer procuring water from the same
service or supply pipe. The second premises may be a separate dwelling,
apartment, building or structure used for a separate business.
   SERVICE PIPE. Any pipe extending from the shut-off, stop box or curb cock at
or near the lot line to and beyond the property line of the consumer to the
location on the premises where the water is to be disbursed.
   SUPPLY PIPE. Any pipe tapped into a main and extending from there to a point
at or near the lot line of the consumer’s premises where the shut-off, stop box
or curb cock is located.
(Prior Code, § 6-102)
§ 52.02 OPERATING AND FUNDING.
   (A)   The city owns and operates the City Water Department through the
Utilities Superintendent. The Utilities Superintendent shall have the direct
management and control of the City Water Department and shall faithfully carry
out the duties of his or her office.
   (B)   The Utilities Superintendent shall have the authority to make rules
and regulations for the sanitary and efficient management of the Water
Department, subject to the supervision and review of the City Council.
   (C)   The City Council shall set the rates to be charged for services
rendered by ordinance and shall file a copy of the rates in the office of the
City Clerk for public inspection at any reasonable time.
(Prior Code, § 6-101)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-531, 17-534 and 19-1305
§ 52.03 CONSUMER APPLICATION.
   (A)   Every person or persons desiring a supply of water must make
application therefor to the City Clerk upon the blanks to be furnished by him
or her for that purpose. The applicant shall be required to accompany his or
her application with a deposit, said fee to be set from time to time by
resolution of the City Council. Water may not be supplied to any house or
private service pipe except upon the order of the Utilities Superintendent.
   (B)   The Department shall not supply water service to any person outside
the corporate limits without special permission from the City Council;
provided, that the entire cost of laying mains, service pipe and supply pipe
shall be paid by the consumer.
   (C)   Nothing herein shall be construed to obligate the city to provide
water service to nonresidents.
(Prior Code, § 6-103)
§ 52.04 WATER CONTRACT.
   (A)   The city, through its water system, shall furnish water to persons
within its corporate limits whose premises abut a street or alley in which a
commercial main now is or may hereafter be laid. The city may furnish water to
persons within its corporate limits whose premises do not abut a street or
alley in which a city commercial main is now or may hereafter be laid, and may
also furnish water to persons whose premises are situated outside the corporate
limits of the city, as and when, according to law, the City Council may see fit
to do so.
   (B)   The rules, regulations and water rates hereinafter named in this
chapter shall be considered a part of every application hereafter made for
water service and shall be considered a part of the contract between every
consumer now or hereafter served. Without further formality, the making of
application on the part of any applicant or the use of consumption of water
service by present consumers thereof and the furnishing of water service to
said consumer shall constitute a contract between the consumer and the city, to
which said contract both parties are bound.
   (C)   If the consumer shall violate any of the provisions of said contract
or any reasonable rules and regulations that the City Council may hereafter
adopt, the Utilities Superintendent or his or her agent may cut off or
disconnect the water service form the building or premises or place of such
violation. No further connection for water service to said building, premises
or place shall again be made, save or except by order of said Utilities
Superintendent or his or her agent.
(Prior Code, § 6-104) Penalty, see §
52.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-537
§ 52.05 INSTALLATION PROCEDURE.
   In making excavations in streets, alleys or sidewalks for the purpose of
installing pipe or making repairs, the paving, stones and earth must be removed
and deposited in a manner that will occasion the least inconvenience to the
public and provide for adequate drainage. No person shall leave an excavation
made in the street, alley or sidewalk open at any time without a barricade.
After service pipes are laid, the streets, alleys and sidewalks shall be
restored to good condition. If the excavation in any street, alley or sidewalk
is left open or unfinished for a period of 24 hours or more, the Utilities
Superintendent shall have the duty to finish or correct the work, and all
expenses so incurred shall be charged to the consumer. All installations or
repairs of pipes require two inspections by the Utilities Superintendent. The
first inspection shall be made when connections or repairs are completed and
before the pipes are covered. The second inspection shall be made after the
first work is completed and the service is restored. It is the consumer’s
responsibility to notify the Utilities Superintendent at the time the work is
ready for each inspection. All installation shall be done under the supervision
of and strictly in accordance with the terms established by the Utilities
Superintendent.
(Prior Code, § 6-105) Penalty, see §
52.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-537
§ 52.06 NONRESIDENT INSTALLATION EXPENSE.
   Applicants for water service whose property is situated outside the
corporate limits of the city shall pay tap or connection fees in such sum as
the Mayor and City Council shall, in each case, fix; provided, however, that
nothing herein shall be construed to obligate the city to furnish water service
to nonresidents unless it is able to do so without overloading its pumps,
machinery or other equipment.
(Prior Code, § 6-106)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 19-2701
§ 52.07 REPAIRS.
   Repairs to the service pipe and supply pipe shall be made at the expense of
the consumer, while expenses to the main shall be made by the city.
(Prior Code, § 6-107)
§ 52.08 LANDLORD’S RESPONSIBILITY.
   In the event of rental units, the renter shall be primarily responsible for
payment of all water usage charges, but in the event he or she fails or
neglects to pay the same, the landlord shall be responsible for such charges,
and, in the event the renter fails to pay any water usage charges due to the
city and vacates the premises, the water service to such premises shall be
discontinued until the landlord makes payment of the delinquent water bills.
(Prior Code, § 6-108)
§ 52.09 PROHIBITION OF LEAD PIPES, SOLDER AND FLUX.
   (A)   Any pipe, solders or flux used in the installation or repair of any
residential or nonresidential facility which is connected to the public water
supply system shall be lead free.
   (B)   For the purpose of this section, LEAD FREE shall mean:
      (1)   Solders and flux, not more than 0.2% lead; and
      (2)   Pipe and pipe fittings, not more than 8% lead.
   (C)   All new lines shall have check valves installed, and such installation
shall be inspected and approved by the Utilities Superintendent. The Utilities
Superintendent shall have the authority to refuse to turn on the city water on
any premises until the plumbing has been made to comply with all statutory
sections.
(Prior Code, § 6-112) Penalty, see §
52.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 71-5301
§ 52.10 SINGLE PREMISES.
   No consumer shall supply water to other families or allow them to take water
from his or her premises, nor after water is supplied into a building shall any
person make or employ a plumber or other person to make a tap or connection
with the pipe upon the premises for alteration, extension or attachment without
the written permission of the Utilities Superintendent.
(Prior Code, § 6-113) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.11 RESTRICTED USE; LIABILITY OF CITY.
   The City Council or the Utilities Superintendent may order a reduction in
the use of water or shut off the water on any premises in the event of a water
shortage due to fire or other good and sufficient cause. The city shall not be
liable for any damages caused by shutting off the supply of water of any
consumer while the system or any part thereof is undergoing repairs or when
there is a shortage of water due to circumstances over which the city has no
control.
(Prior Code, § 6-114)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-537
§ 52.12 FIRE HYDRANTS.
   All hydrants for the purpose of extinguishing fires are hereby declared to
be public hydrants, and it shall be unlawful for any person other than members
of the City Fire Department under the orders of the Fire Chief or the Assistant
Fire Chief to open or attempt to open any of the hydrants and draw water from
the same, or in any manner to interfere with the hydrants.
(Prior Code, § 6-115) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.13 POLLUTION.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to pollute or attempt to pollute any
stream or source of water for the supply of the City Water Department.
(Prior Code, § 6-120) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.14 MANDATORY HOOKUP.
   All persons whose property abuts a water main that is now or hereafter may
be laid shall be required, upon notice of the City Council, to hook up with the
city water system.
(Prior Code, § 6-121)
§ 52.15 WATER SERVICE CONTRACTS.
   Contracts for water service are not transferable. Any person wishing to
change from one location to another shall make a new application and sign a new
contract. If any consumer shall sell, dispose or remove from the premises where
service is furnished, or if said premises is destroyed by fire or other
casualty, he or she shall at once inform the Utilities Superintendent who shall
cause the water service to be shut off from said premises. If the consumer
should fail to give such notice, he or she shall be charged for all water used
on said premises until the Utilities Superintendent is otherwise advised of
such circumstances.
(Prior Code, § 6-116)
§ 52.16 DESTRUCTION OF PROPERTY.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to willfully or carelessly break, injure
or deface any building, machinery, apparatus, fixture, attachment or
appurtenance of the City Water Department. No person may deposit anything in a
stop box or commit any act tending to obstruct or impair the intended use of
any of the above mentioned property without the written permission of the
Utilities Superintendent.
(Prior Code, § 6-118) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.17 COMPLAINTS.
   Any consumer feeling himself or herself aggrieved by reason of any
controversy with the Superintendent may appear before the City Council and
present his or her grievance. Any consumer who considers himself or herself
aggrieved by being required to pay the charge demanded for the use of water or
for the resumption of water service after the same shall have been shut off,
shall pay such charge under protest, in which event the City Clerk shall write
on the receipt given such customer the words “Paid under Protest.” Such
consumer may then present his or her verified claim in the manner provided for
presenting claims to the City Council for a refund of the amount so paid under
protest. Such claims shall then be considered by the City Council in the same
manner as other claims against the city.
(Prior Code, § 6-119)
§ 52.18 INSPECTIONS.
   The Utilities Superintendent, or his or her duly authorized agents, shall
have free access, at any reasonable time, to all parts of each premises and
building to, or in which, water is delivered for the purpose of examining the
pipes, fixtures and other portions of the system to ascertain whether there is
any disrepair or unnecessary waste of water.
(Prior Code, § 6-117)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-537
§ 52.19 RATES; FEES; COLLECTIONS.
   The City Council has the power and authority to fix by ordinance the rates
to be paid by the water consumers for the use of water from the Water
Department. All such fees shall be on file for public inspection at the office
of the City Clerk. The City Clerk shall bill the consumers and collect all
money received by the city on the account of the Water Department. He or she
shall faithfully account for and pay to the City Treasurer all revenue
collected by him or her, making his or her receipt therefor in duplicate,
keeping one and filing the other in the Water Department’s official records.
(Prior Code, § 6-109)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-540
§ 52.20 WATER BILLS.
   (A)   The water usage shall be calculated on the last day of each calendar
month and the water usage charge paid to the office of the City Clerk within
the first ten days of the next calendar month. Any water usage payment not
received within ten days shall be deemed delinquent. Upon being deemed
delinquent as herein defined, the City Clerk shall give written notice to the
consumer of such delinquency and shall demand payment immediately.
   (B)   In the event the bill is not paid within ten days after the sending of
said notice, it shall be discretionary with the Utilities Superintendent to cut
off service at any time; provided, if the delinquent consumer is a known
welfare recipient, it shall be the duty of the City Clerk to notify the
consumer and the County Welfare Department by certified mail of the proposed
termination.
   (C)   The Utilities Superintendent shall assess an additional fee, set by
resolution of the City Council and on file at the office of the City Clerk, in
the event that water is shut off to compensate the city for the additional
hookup necessary to again provide water service to the delinquent customer.
   (D)   Th meter fee shall be $3.50.
(Prior Code, § 6-110)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-542 70-1605
§ 52.21 LIEN.
   (A)   In addition to all other remedies, if a consumer shall for any reason
remain indebted to the city for water service furnished, such amount due,
together with any rents and charges in arrears, shall be considered a
delinquent water rent which is hereby declared to be a lien upon the real
estate for which the same was used. The City Clerk shall notify in writing, or
cause to be notified in writing, all owners of premises or their agents
whenever their tenants or lessees are 60 days or more delinquent in the payment
of water rent.
   (B)   It shall be the duty of the Utilities Superintendent on June 1 of each
year to report to the City Council a list of all unpaid accounts due for water
together with a description of the premises upon which the same was used. The
report shall be examined and, if approved by the City Council, shall be
certified by the City Clerk to the County Clerk to be collected as a special
tax in the manner provided by law.
(Prior Code, § 6-111)
§ 52.22 WATERING OF PAVED PORTIONS OF STREETS, ALLEY AND PARKING AREAS
PROHIBITED.
   City water users shall not permit the sprinkling of water on the paved
portion of any street, alley or parking area.
(Prior Code, § 6-140)
§ 52.23 LICENSED PLUMBER.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any plumber or pipefitter to do any work upon
any of the pipes or appurtenances of the system of waterworks, or to make any
connection with or extension of the supply pipes of any consumer taking water
from said system. In addition, no plumber shall do any work upon the service
pipe or any other portion of the plumbing system of any premises either within
or without a building in an amount of $50 or more without first securing a
permit from the Utilities Superintendent to do such work.
   (B)   All plumbing shall be done in the manner required by the City Plumbing
Code or according to acceptable plumbing practices of the area. Said plumber
shall be at all times subject to the inspection and approval of the plumbing
inspector, and it shall be further unlawful to cover or conceal willfully any
defective or unsatisfactory plumbing work.
(Prior Code, § 6-141) Penalty, see §
52.99
WELLS AND OTHER UNDERGROUND FACILITIES
§ 52.35 DRILLING AND OPERATION WITHOUT PERMIT UNLAWFUL.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, corporation or other legal entity to
drill and/or operate any of the following facilities within the corporate
limits of the city without first having obtained the proper permit from the
City Council: potable water well or any other well; cesspool; dumping grounds;
feedlot; livestock pasture or corral; chemical product storage facility;
petroleum product storage facility; pit toilet; sanitary landfill; septic tank;
sewage treatment plant; sewage wet well.
(Prior Code, § 6-122) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.36 PROCEDURE TO OBTAIN PERMIT.
   In order to obtain a permit to drill and/or operate any of the facilities
listed in §
52.35, the owner of property on which the proposed facility is to be located
must make application on the proper form provided by the City Council. Such
application must be presented to the City Council at any regular or special
meeting. After reviewing the application of any person desiring to drill or
operate any of the above described facilities, then the City Council must
approve or deny said permit.
(Prior Code, § 6-123)
§ 52.37 DISTANCE FROM MUNICIPAL WATER SOURCES.
   Under no circumstances shall the City Council approve any permit to drill or
operate any of the below described facilities within the indicated number of
feet from the city water wells.
Absorption or disposal field for waste 500 feet
Any other well                         1,000 feet
Cesspool                               500 feet
Chemical product storage facility      500 feet
Dumping grounds                        500 feet
Feedlot or feedlot runoff              500 feet
Livestock pasture or corral            500 feet
Petroleum product storage facility     500 feet
Pit toilet                             500 feet
Potable water well                     1,000 feet
Sanitary landfill                      500 feet
Septic tank                            500 feet
Sewage lagoon                          1,000 feet
Sewage treatment plant                 500 feet
Sewage wet well                        500 feet
 
(Prior Code, § 6-124)
§ 52.38 VIOLATION AND ABATEMENT.
   In the event any of the above described facilities are installed or operated
without first having obtained a permit from the city and/or within a designated
number of feet from the city water supply, then such facilities shall be deemed
a nuisance and the City Council shall abate such facility as a public nuisance
pursuant to §
90.02.
(Prior Code, § 6-125)
BACKFLOW PREVENTION DEVICES
§ 52.50 POLICY AND PURPOSE.
   (A)   Purpose. The purpose of this subchapter is:
      (1)   To protect the public potable water supply system of the city from
the possibility of contamination or pollution within the consumer’s internal
distribution system or private water system contaminants or pollutants which
could backflow through the service connection into the public potable water
supply system;
      (2)   To promote the elimination, containment, isolation or control of
existing cross-connections actual or potential, between the public or
consumer’s potable water systems and nonpotable water systems, plumbing
fixtures and industrial process systems; and
      (3)   To provide for the maintenance of a continuing program of cross-
connection control which will systematically and effectively prevent the
contamination or pollution of all potable water systems.
   (B)    Application. These backflow/backsiphonage prevention regulations
shall apply to all premises served by the public potable water system of the
city.
   (C)   Policy.
      (1)   These backflow/backsiphonage prevention regulations will be
reasonably interpreted. It is the city’s intent to recognize the varying
degrees of hazard and to apply the principle that the degree of protection
shall be commensurate with the degree of hazard.
      (2)   The City Water Department shall be primarily responsible for
protection of the public potable water distribution system from contamination
or pollution due to backflow or contaminants or pollutants through the water
service connection. The cooperation of all consumers is required to implement
and maintain the program to control cross-connections. The consumer is
responsible for preventing contamination of the water system within the
consumer’s own premises.
(Prior Code, § 6-126)
§ 52.51 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AIR GAP SEPARATION. The unobstructed vertical distance through the free
atmosphere between the lowest opening from any pipe or faucet supplying water
to a tank, plumbing fixture or other device and the overflow level rim of the
receptacle. An approved air gap shall be at least double the diameter of the
supply pipe, measured vertically, above the top of the rim of the receptacle
and in no case less than one inch.
   APPROVED TESTER. A person qualified to make inspections; to test and repair
backflow prevention/cross-connection control devices; and who is approved by
the city.
   AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE. Any person designated by the city to administer
this subchapter. Unless designated by the City Council, the AUTHORIZED
REPRESENTATIVE shall be the Utilities Superintendent or any other person he or
she may delegate.
   AUXILIARY WATER SYSTEM. Any water source system that may be available to the
building or premises, other than the public water supply.
   BACKFLOW. The flow other than the intended direction of flow of any foreign
liquids, gases or substances into the water distribution system.
   BACKFLOW PREVENTION DEVICE. Any device, method or type of construction
intended to prevent backflow into a potable water system; provided, that
backflow preventers have been tested and approved by a reputable testing
laboratory.
   BACKSIPHONAGE. The flowing back of water or other foreign liquids, gases or
substances into the water distribution system due to negative pressure in the
piping of the water distribution system.
   CONSUMER. The owner or person in control of any premises supplied by or in
any manner connected to a public water supply system.
   CONTAINMENT. Protection of the public water supply by installing a cross-
connection control device or air gap separation on the main service line to a
facility, or as an installation within equipment handling potentially hazardous
materials.
   CONTAMINATION. An impairment of the quality of the water by sewage, process
fluids or other wastes to a degree which could cause an actual hazard to the
public health through poisoning or through spread of disease by exposure.
   CROSS-CONNECTION. Any physical link between a potable water supply and any
other substance, fluid or source which makes possible contamination of the
potable water supply due to the reversal of flow of the water in the piping or
distribution system.
   DEGREE OF HAZARD. An evaluation of the potential risk to the public health
and the adverse effect of the hazard upon the potable water system.
 
      (1)   HAZARD, HEALTH. Any condition, device or practice in the water
supply system and its operation which could create or may create a danger to
the health and well-being of the water consumer.
      (2)   HAZARD, PLUMBING. A plumbing type cross-connection in a consumer’s
potable water system that has not been properly protected by a vacuum breaker,
air gap separator or backflow prevention device.
      (3)   HAZARD, POLLUTIONAL. An actual or potential threat to the physical
properties of the water system or to the potability of the public or consumer’s
potable water system but which would constitute a nuisance or be aesthetically
objectionable or could cause damage to the system or its appurtenances, but
would not be dangerous to health.
      (4)   HAZARD, SYSTEM. An actual or potential threat of severe damage to
the physical properties of the public potable water system or the consumer’s
potable water system, or of a pollution or contamination which would have a
protracted effect on the quality of the potable water in the system.
   ISOLATION. Protection of a facility service line by installing a cross-
connection control device or air gap separation on an individual fixture,
appurtenance or system.
   POLLUTION. The presence in water of any foreign substances (organic,
inorganic or biological) that degrades its quality so as to constitute a hazard
or impair the usefulness of the water to a degree which does not create an
actual hazard to the public health but which does adversely and unreasonably
affect such waters for domestic use.
   PUBLIC POTABLE WATER SYSTEM. Any publicly or privately owned water system
supplying water to the general public which is satisfactory for drinking,
culinary and domestic purposes and meets the requirements of the State
Department of Health.
   SERVICE CONNECTION. The terminal end of a service line from the public water
system. If a meter is installed at the end of the service, then the SERVICE
CONNECTION means the downstream end of the meter.
   WATER DEPARTMENT. The Water Department of the City of Crofton, Nebraska.
(Prior Code, § 6-127)
§ 52.52 CROSS-CONNECTIONS PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No water service connection shall be installed or maintained to any
premises where actual or potential cross-connections to the public water supply
system may exist unless such actual or potential cross-connections are abated
or controlled to the satisfaction of the city and as required by the laws and
regulations of the State Department of Health or its authorized representative.
   (B)   No connection shall be installed or maintained whereby an auxiliary
water supply may enter a public water supply system.
   (C)   No water service connection shall be installed or maintained to any
premises in which the plumbing system, facilities and fixtures have not been
constructed and installed using acceptable plumbing practices considered by the
City Water Department as necessary for the protection of health and safety.
(Prior Code, § 6-128) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.53 PROHIBITION ON AUXILIARY WATER SYSTEM.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to maintain any auxiliary water supply
system which is physically connected to the public potable water system in any
manner.
(Prior Code, § 6-129) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.54 SURVEY AND INVESTIGATIONS.
   (A)   The consumer’s premises shall be open at all reasonable times to the
city or its authorized representative for the conduct of surveys and
investigations of water use practices within the consumer’s premises to
determine whether there are actual or potential cross-connections to the
consumer’s water system.
   (B)   On request by the city or its authorized representative, the consumer
shall conduct periodic surveys and furnish requested information on water use
practices within the premises and in the consumer’s water system to determine
whether there are actual or potential cross-connections. The consumer shall
provide the survey results to the city or its authorized representative.
(Prior Code, § 6-130)
§ 52.55 WHERE PROTECTION IS REQUIRED.
   (A)   An approved backflow prevention device shall be installed between the
service connection and the point of potential backflow into a consumer’s water
supply system when in the judgment of the Superintendent a health, plumbing,
pollution or system hazard exists.
   (B)   An approved air gap separation or backflow prevention device shall be
installed at the service connection or within any premises where, in the
judgment of the Water Department, the nature and extent of activities on the
premises, or the materials used in connection with the activities, or materials
stored on the premises, would present an immediate and dangerous hazard to
health should a cross-connection occur, even though such cross-connection may
not exist at the time the backflow prevention device is required to be
installed. This includes, but is not limited to, the following:
      (1)   Premises having internal cross-connections which are not
correctable, or intricate plumbing arrangements which make it impractical to
determine whether or not cross-connections exist;
      (2)   Premises where entry is restricted so that inspections for cross-
connections cannot be made with sufficient frequency or at sufficiently short
notice to assure the cross-connections do not exist;
      (3)   Premises having a repeated history of cross-connections being
established or re-established;
      (4)   Premises which, due to the nature or the enterprise therein, are
subject to recurring modification or expansion;
      (5)   Premises on which any substance is handled under pressure so as to
permit entry into the public water supply system or where a cross-connection
could reasonably be expected to occur. This shall include the handling of
process waters and cooling waters; and
      (6)   Premises where toxic or hazardous materials are handled such that
if a backsiphonage or backpressure should occur, a serious health hazard may
result.
   (C)   The following types of facilities fall into one or more of the
categories or premises where an approved air gap separation or approved
backflow prevention device may be required by the city or its authorized
representative or the State Department of Health to protect the public water
supply, and such must be installed at these facilities unless all hazardous or
potentially hazardous conditions have been eliminated or corrected by other
methods to the satisfaction of the city or its authorized representative and
the State Department of Health:
      (1)   Agricultural chemical facilities;
      (2)   Hospitals, mortuaries, dental clinics, nursing and convalescent
homes, medical buildings;
      (3)   Premises having water recirculating systems as used for boilers or
cooling systems;
      (4)   Bulk water loading facilities;
      (5)   Car washes, automobile servicing facilities;
      (6)   Chill water systems;
      (7)   Feedlots;
      (8)   Fire suppression systems;
      (9)   Hazardous waste storage and disposal sites;
      (10)   Irrigation and lawn sprinkler systems;
      (11)   Laundries and dry cleaning;
      (12)   Beauty salons, barbershops, massage parlors, health clubs;
      (13)   Schools;
      (14)   Sewage treatment plants, sewage pumping stations or stormwater
pumping stations;
      (15)   Testing laboratories, film laboratories, film development
facilities;
      (16)   Food or beverage processing plants;
      (17)   Chemical or petroleum processing and storage plants;
      (18)   Packing houses;
      (19)   Premises having radioactive materials, such as laboratories,
industries and hospitals;
      (20)   Veterinary establishments, kennels, feedyards, stables, rodeo
grounds, stockyards, pet grooming salons;
      (21)   Properties with any of the following conditions:
         (a)   Livestock waterers and tank fillers;
         (b)   Use of hose aspirators for spraying chemicals;
         (c)   Swimming pools, hot tubs and spas;
         (d)   Faucets, hydrants and hose bibs with hose threads;
          (e)   Plumbing fixtures with faucet mouth below rim;
         (f)   Water softeners and home water treatment systems;
         (g)   Heat pumps;
         (h)   Heat exchangers using coils or water jackets;
         (i)   Soft drink dispenser and bar carbonators;
         (j)   Commercial type flush valve urinals and toilets;
         (k)   Bidet or sitz bath; and
         (l)   Trough urinal.
      (22)   Other commercial or industrial facilities which may constitute
potential cross-connection.
(Prior Code, § 6-131)
§ 52.56 TYPE OF PROTECTION REQUIRED.
   The type of protection required under this subchapter shall depend on the
degree of hazard that exists as follows.
   (A)   An approved air gap shall be installed where the potable water supply
system may be contaminated with any substance that could cause a severe health
hazard.
   (B)   An approved air gap separation or an approved backflow prevention
device shall be installed where the public potable water system may be
contaminated with a substance that could cause a health hazard.
   (C)   An approved air gap separation or an approved backflow prevention
device shall be installed where the public potable water system may be polluted
with substances that could cause a pollutional hazard not dangerous to health.
   (D)   An approved air gap separation or approved backflow prevention device
or check valve or vacuum breaker or other pressure release system shall be
installed where the public potable water system may be contaminated from
connection to a sprinkler system. No annual testing of the sprinkler system is
required.
(Prior Code, § 6-132)
§ 52.57 BACKFLOW PREVENTION DEVICES.
   Any approved backflow prevention device required by this subchapter shall be
of a model or construction approved by the city or its authorized
representative and the State Department of Health.
    (A)   Air gap separation to be approved shall be at least twice the
diameter of the supply pipe, measured vertically above the top rim of the
vessel, but in no case less than one inch.
   (B)   Double check valve assemblies or reduced pressure principal backflow
prevention devices shall appear on the current list of approved backflow
prevention devices established by the State Department of Health, unless the
device was installed at the time this subchapter was passed and complies with
required inspection, maintenance and performance standards.
   (C)   Any backflow preventer which does not meet current protection
standards shall be replaced with an approved backflow preventer at the
customer’s expense.
(Prior Code, § 6-133)
§ 52.58 INSTALLATION.
   (A)   Backflow prevention devices required by this subchapter shall be
installed at a location and in a manner approved by the city or its authorized
representative. All devices shall be installed at the expense of the consumer.
   (B)   Backflow prevention devices installed at the service connection shall
be located on the consumer’s side of the water meter (if one is installed) or
as close to the meter as is reasonably practical, and in any event, prior to
any other connection.
   (C)   Backflow prevention devices shall be conveniently accessible for
maintenance and testing, protected from freezing, and where no part of the
device will be submerged or subject to flooding by any fluid. All devices shall
be installed according to manufacturer’s recommendations.
(Prior Code, § 6-134)
§ 52.59 TESTING.
   Backflow and backsiphonage prevention devices designed to be tested shall be
tested for proper operation annually or when necessary in the opinion of the
city or its authorized representative. Actual testing shall be at the expense
of the consumer. Any required maintenance or repairs shall be at the expense of
the consumer and subject to the approval of the city. If testing shall require
entry into the premises, the city’s authorized representative shall give notice
setting forth a proposed date and time to the consumer at least ten days in
advance by first-class mail. If the consumer cannot make the appointment, the
consumer shall contact the city’s authorized representative to arrange another
date and time.
(Prior Code, § 6-135)
§ 52.60 AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATION.
   The authorized representative shall have the authority to issue any order
consistent with the provisions of this subchapter in order to protect the
public health and safety. Any order of the authorized representative shall be
in writing and shall clearly state the nature of the order, compliance
requirements and set a reasonable date by which compliance must be met. All
orders will be mailed by certified mail with return receipt requested and/or
personal service by the City Police Department.
(Prior Code, § 6-136)
§ 52.61 APPEALS.
   (A)   In the event that it is claimed that the true intent and meaning of
this subchapter has been wrongfully interpreted by the authorized
representative; that the time allowed for compliance with any order of the
authorized representative is too short; or that conditions peculiar to a
particular premises make it unreasonably difficult to meet the literal
requirements prescribed by this subchapter, the owner may file a written notice
of appeal with the City Clerk within ten days after the decision or order of
the authorized representative has been made. The City Council shall hear all
appeals and shall have the power and authority, when appealed to, to modify the
decision or order of the authorized representative. Such a decision shall be
final, subject only to any remedy which the aggrieved party may have at law or
equity.
   (B)   Appeals shall be in writing and shall state the reason for the appeal.
(Prior Code, § 6-137)
§ 52.62 VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   The city or its authorized representative shall deny or discontinue
the water service to any premises or any consumer wherein any backflow
prevention device required by this subchapter is not installed, tested and
maintained in a manner acceptable to the city or its authorized representative,
or if it is found that the backflow prevention device has been removed or
bypassed, or if an unprotected cross-connection exists.
   (B)   Water service to such premises shall not be restored until the
consumer is in compliance with this subchapter to the satisfaction of the city
or its authorized representative.
(Prior Code, § 6-138) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.63 CONFLICTS WITH OTHER APPLICABLE CODES.
   The provisions of this subchapter shall be read as concurrent provisions
with the most current edition of the Uniform Plumbing Code and the rules and
regulations of the State Department of Health. In the event of conflicting
provisions, the most restrictive shall apply.
(Prior Code, § 6-139)
§ 52.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
50.99.
   (B)   Any person who shall violate or refuse to comply with the enforcement
of any of the provisions of §§
52.50 through
52.63 shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be fined no less than
$25 for each offense. A new violation shall be deemed to have been committed
every 24 hours of such failure to comply.
(Prior Code, § 6-138)
CHAPTER 53: SEWER
Section
General Provisions
   
53.001   Definitions
   
53.002   Operation and funding
   
53.003   Sewer contract
   
53.004   Service hookup fees
   
53.005   Service contracts
   
53.006   Service to nonresidents
   
53.007   Unlawful deposit and discharge of wastes
   
53.008   Cesspools, privies and septic tanks prohibited
   
53.009   Mandatory hookup
   
53.010   Licensed plumber required
   
53.011   Uniform Plumbing Code adopted
Private Sewage Disposal
   
53.025   When applicable
   
53.026   Permit required; fee
   
53.027   Permit; when effective; inspections
   
53.028   Specifications
   
53.029   Maintenance
   
53.030   Additional requirements
   
53.031   Public sewer availability
Building Sewer Installation
   
53.045   Permit required
   
53.046   Classification; permit application, fee
   
53.047   Expense
   
53.048   Single premises
   
53.049   Use of existing sewers
   
53.050   Construction codes
   
53.051   Unlawful connection
   
53.052   Inspections
   
53.053   Excavations
Wastewater Facilities
   
53.065   Stormwater, surface water, groundwater, cooling water and process
water
   
53.066   Harmful and obstructive substances
   
53.067   Specific prohibitions as determined by Utilities Superintendent
   
53.068   Control of discharge rate or use fee surcharge
   
53.069   Grease, oil and sand interceptors
   
53.070   Maintenance by owner
   
53.071   Control manholes and sampling stations
   
53.072   Special exceptions permitted
   
53.073   Destruction of property
Administration and Enforcement
   
53.085   Compliance with chapter; inspections
   
53.086   Complaints
   
53.087   Sewer use charges; classification and rates
   
53.088   Lien
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 53.001 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BIOLOGICAL OXYGEN DEMAND. Includes the quantity of oxygen utilized in the
biochemical oxidation of organic matter under standard laboratory procedure in
five days at 20°C, expressed in parts per million by weight.
   BUILDING DRAIN. The part of the lowest horizontal piping of a drainage
system which receives the discharge from soil, waste and other drainage pipes
inside the walls of the building and conveys it to the building sewer,
beginning five feet outside the inner face of the building wall.
   BUILDING SEWER. The extension from the building drain to the public sewer or
other place of disposal.
   COMBINED SEWER. A sewer receiving both surface runoff and sewage.
   GARBAGE. Solid wastes from the domestic and commercial preparation, cooking
and dispensing of food, and from the handling, storage and sale of produce.
   INDUSTRIAL MAINTENANCE. The liquid wastes from industrial manufacturing
processes, trade or business as distinct from sanitary sewage.
   NATURAL OUTLET. Any outlet into a watercourse, pond, ditch, lake or other
body of surface or groundwater.
   OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE. All expenditures for materials, labor, utilities
and other items which are necessary for managing and maintaining the sewage
works to achieve the capacity and performance for which such works were
designed and constructed.
   pH. Includes the logarithm of the reciprocal of the weight of hydrogen ions
in grams per liter of solution.
   PROPERLY SHREDDED GARBAGE. The wastes from the preparation, cooking and
dispensing of food that have been shredded to such a degree that all particles
will be carried freely under the flow conditions normally prevailing in public
sewers, with no particle greater than one-half inch in any dimension.
   PUBLIC SEWER. A sewer in which all owners of abutting properties have equal
rights and is controlled by public authority.
   REPLACEMENT. Expenditures for obtaining and installation equipment,
accessories or appurtenances which are necessary to maintain the capacity and
performance for which such works were designed and constructed. The term
OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE includes REPLACEMENT.
   SANITARY SEWER. Includes a sewer which carries sewage and to which
stormwaters, surface waters and groundwaters are not intentionally admitted.
   SEWAGE. Includes a combination of the water-carried wastes from residences,
business buildings, institutions and industrial establishments together with
such groundwaters, surface waters and stormwaters as may be present.
   SEWAGE TREATMENT PLANT. Any arrangement of devices and structures used for
treating sewage.
   SEWAGE WORKS. All facilities for collecting, pumping, treating and disposing
of sewage.
   SLUG. Any discharge of water, sewage or industrial waste which in
concentration of any given constituent or in quantity of flow exceeds for any
period of duration longer than 15 minutes more than five times the average 24-
hour concentration or flows during normal operation.
   STORM SEWER. A sewer which carries stormwaters and surface waters and
drainage, but excludes sewage and industrial wastes, other than unpolluted
cooling water.
   SUSPENDED SOLIDS. Includes solids that either float on the surface of, or
are in suspension in, water, sewage or other liquids and are removable by
laboratory filtering.
   WATERCOURSE. A channel in which a flow of water occurs, either continuously
or intermittently.
(Prior Code, § 6-301)
§ 53.002 OPERATION AND FUNDING.
   (A)   The city owns the sewer system and operates the same through the
Utilities Superintendent. The City Council, for the purpose of defraying the
cost of management and of the sewer system, may each year levy a tax not
exceeding the maximum limit prescribed by state law on the actual valuation of
all real estate and personal property within the corporate limits that is
subject to taxation. The revenue from said tax shall be known as the Sewer
Maintenance Fund.
   (B)   The Utilities Superintendent shall have the direct management and
control of the Sewer Department and shall faithfully carry out the duties of
his or her office. The Utilities Superintendent shall have the authority to
adopt rules and regulations for the sanitary and efficient management of the
Department subject to the supervision and review of the City Council.
(Prior Code, § 6-302)
§ 53.003 SEWER CONTRACT.
   (A)   The city, through the Sewer Department, shall furnish sewer services
to persons within its corporate limits whose premises abut a street or alley in
which a commercial main is now or may hereafter be laid. The city may also
furnish sewer service to persons whose premises are situated outside the
corporate limits of the city, as and when, according to law, the City Council
may see fit to do so.
   (B)   The rules, regulations and sewer rental rates hereinafter named in
this chapter shall be considered a part of every application hereafter made for
sewer service and shall be considered a part of the contract between every
customer now or hereafter served. Without further formality, the making of the
application on the part of any applicant or the use of sewer service by present
customers thereof shall constitute a contract between the customer and the city
to which said contract both parties are bound.
   (C)   If the customer shall violate any of the provisions of said contract
or any reasonable rules and regulations that the City Council may hereafter
adopt, the Utilities Superintendent or his or her agent may cut off or
disconnect the sewer service from the building or premises of such violation.
No further connection for sewer service to said building or premises shall
again be made save or except by order of the Superintendent or his or her
agent.
(Prior Code, § 6-303)
§ 53.004 SERVICE HOOKUP FEES.
   (A)   There is hereby established a sewer and water hookup fee of $175 for
residential users residing within the corporate limits of the city and $1,250
for users residing outside of the corporate limits of the city. The Mayor and
City Council shall establish hookup fees for commercial services based upon the
use of the sewer service by the applicant and the size of pipe necessary to
service such commercial application.
   (B)   All applications for commercial sewer and water services shall be
filed with the City Clerk who shall present such application to the City
Council at the next regular or special Council meeting, at which time the
hookup fee for such commercial establishment shall be established by the Mayor
and City Council.
(Prior Code, § 6-304)
§ 53.005 SERVICE CONTRACTS.
   Contracts for sewer service are not transferable. Any person wishing to
change from one location to another shall make a new application and sign a new
contract. If any customer shall sell, dispose or remove from the premises where
service is furnished, or if said premises is destroyed by fire or other
casualty, he or she shall at once inform the Utilities Superintendent who shall
cause the sewer service to be shut off from said premises. If the customer
should fail to give notice, he or she shall be charged for that period of time
until the Utilities Superintendent is otherwise advised of such circumstances.
(Prior Code, § 6-305)
§ 53.006 SERVICE TO NONRESIDENTS.
   Any person whose premises is located outside the corporate limits of the
city and who desires to install a house or building sewer that will be
connected with the city sewer system, shall file a written application with the
City Clerk for a permit for such connection and setting forth the name of the
owner, occupant or lessee of the premises, the use to which the premises is
devoted and such other information as the City Council may require. The City
Council may approve or deny such application in their absolute discretion. If
they approve the application, they may do so by attaching whatever conditions
to such approval as they determine necessary.
(Prior Code, § 6-339)
§ 53.007 UNLAWFUL DEPOSIT AND DISCHARGE OF WASTES.
   (A)   Unlawful deposit of wastes. It shall be unlawful for any person to
place, deposit or permit to be deposited in any unsanitary manner on public or
private property within the city or in any area under the jurisdiction of said
city, any human or animal excrement, garbage or other objectionable waste.
(Prior Code, § 6-306)
   (B)   Unlawful discharge of wastes. It shall be unlawful to discharge to any
natural outlet within the city or in any area under the jurisdiction of said
city, any sewage or other polluted waters, except where suitable treatment has
been provided in accordance with subsequent provisions of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 6-307)
Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 53.008 CESSPOOLS, PRIVIES AND SEPTIC TANKS PROHIBITED.
   Except as hereinafter provided, it shall be unlawful to construct or
maintain any privy, privy vault, septic tank, cesspool or other facility
intended or used for the disposal of sewage.
(Prior Code, § 6-308) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 53.009 MANDATORY HOOKUP.
   The owner of all houses, buildings or properties used for human employment,
recreation or other purposes, situated within the city and abutting on any
street, alley or right-of-way in which there is now located or may be located a
public sanitary or combined sewer of the city, is hereby required at his or her
expense to install suitable toilet facilities therein and to connect such
facilities directly with the proper public sewer in accordance with the
provisions of this chapter within 90 days after date of official notice to do
so; provided, that said public sewer is within 100 feet of the property line.
(Prior Code, § 6-309)
§ 53.010 LICENSED PLUMBER REQUIRED.
   (A)   Generally. It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to
engage in or conduct the business of sewer connection and house drainage,
excavate any trenches for sewer pipe, open, uncover or in any manner make
connection with or lay any sewer drain, or attach to, modify or repair any
appurtenances without complying with the rules and regulations of the Utilities
Superintendent; provided, that nothing herein shall be construed to apply to
persons, firm or corporation under special contract with the city for the
construction, extension or repair of the city sewer system.
(Prior Code, § 6-341)
   (B)   Plumber’s liability. The licensed plumber or drainlayer who connects
with the public sewer shall be held responsible for any damage he or she may
cause to the sewers or the public ways and property. He or she shall restore to
the complete satisfaction of the Utilities Superintendent all streets that he
or she has excavated and make good any settlement of the ground or pavement
caused by his or her excavation.
(Prior Code, § 6-342)
Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 53.011 UNIFORM PLUMBING CODE ADOPTED.
   There is hereby adopted by the city for the purpose of establishing rules
and regulations for the construction and alteration of plumbing fixtures, that
certain plumbing code known as the Uniform Plumbing Code, published by the
International Conference of Building Officials, Chapters 10, 11 and 12, 2018
edition, of which not less than two copies have been and are now filed in the
office of the City Building Inspector, and the same is hereby adopted and
incorporated as fully as if set out at length herein. All of the provisions of
said code shall be controlling in the construction of all plumbing contained
within the city.
(Prior Code, § 6-345)
PRIVATE SEWAGE DISPOSAL
§ 53.025 WHEN APPLICABLE.
   Where a public sanitary or combined sewer is not available under the
provisions of §
53.009, the building sewer shall be connected to a private sewage disposal
system complying with the provisions of this subchapter. At such time as a
public sewer becomes available to a property served by a private wastewater
disposal system, as provided in §
53.008, a direct connection shall be made to the public sewer in compliance
with this subchapter, and any septic tanks, cesspools and similar private
wastewater disposal facilities shall be cleaned of sludge and filled with
suitable material.
(Prior Code, § 6-310)
§ 53.026 PERMIT REQUIRED; FEE.
   Before commencement of construction of a private sewage disposal system, the
owner shall first obtain a written permit signed by the Sewer Superintendent.
The application for such permit shall be made on a form furnished by the city,
which the applicant shall supplement by any plans, specifications and other
information as is deemed necessary by the Superintendent. A permit and
inspection fee of $40 shall be paid to the city at the time the application is
filed.
(Prior Code, § 6-311)
§ 53.027 PERMIT; WHEN EFFECTIVE; INSPECTIONS.
   A permit for a private sewage disposal system shall not become effective
until the installation is completed to the satisfaction of the Sewer
Superintendent. He or she shall be allowed to inspect the work at any stage of
construction and, in any event, the applicant for the permit shall notify the
Superintendent when the work is ready for final inspection and before any
underground portions are covered. The inspection shall be made within 48 hours
of the receipt of notice by the Superintendent.
(Prior Code, § 6-312)
§ 53.028 SPECIFICATIONS.
   The type, capacities, location and layout of a private sewage disposal
system shall comply with all recommendations of the Department of Environmental
Control. No permit shall be issued for any private sewage disposal system
employing subsurface soil absorption facilities when the area of the lot is
less than 5,000 square feet. No septic tank or cesspool shall be permitted to
discharge to any natural outlet.
(Prior Code, § 6-313)
§ 53.029 MAINTENANCE.
   The owner shall operate and maintain the private sewage disposal facilities
in a sanitary manner at all times, at no expense to the city.
(Prior Code, § 6-314)
§ 53.030 ADDITIONAL REQUIREMENTS.
   No statement contained in this subchapter shall be construed to interfere
with any additional requirements that may be imposed by the health officer.
(Prior Code, § 6-315)
§ 53.031 PUBLIC SEWER AVAILABILITY.
   When a public sewer becomes available, the building sewer shall be connected
to said sewer within 60 days and the private sewage disposal system shall be
cleaned of sludge and filled with clean bank run gravel or dirt.
(Prior Code, § 6-316)
BUILDING SEWER INSTALLATION
§ 53.045 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   No unauthorized person shall uncover, make any connections with or opening
into, use, alter or disturb any public sewer or appurtenance thereof without
first obtaining a written permit from the Superintendent.
(Prior Code, § 6-317)
§ 53.046 CLASSIFICATION; PERMIT APPLICATION, FEE.
   (A)   There shall be two classes of building sewer permits:
      (1)   For residential and commercial service; and
      (2)   For service to establishments producing industrial wastes.
   (B)   In either case, the owner or his or her agent shall make application
on a special form furnished by the city. The permit application shall be
supplemented by any plans, specifications or other information considered
pertinent in the judgment of the Sewer Superintendent. A permit and inspection
fee of $40 for a residential or commercial building sewer permit and $40 for an
industrial building sewer permit shall be paid to the city at the time the
application is filed.
(Prior Code, § 6-318)
§ 53.047 EXPENSE.
   All costs and expense incident to the installation and connection of the
building sewer shall be borne by the owner. The owner shall indemnify the city
from any loss or damage that may directly or indirectly be occasioned by the
installation of the building sewer.
(Prior Code, § 6-319)
§ 53.048 SINGLE PREMISES.
   A separate and independent building sewer shall be provided for every
building, except where one building stands at the rear of another on an
interior lot and no private sewer is available or can be constructed to the
rear building through an adjoining alley, court, yard or driveway, the building
sewer from the front building may be extended to the rear building and the
whole considered as one building sewer.
(Prior Code, § 6-320)
§ 53.049 USE OF EXISTING SEWERS.
   Old building sewers may be used in connection with new buildings only when
they are found, on examination and test by the Superintendent, to meet all
requirements of this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 6-321)
§ 53.050 CONSTRUCTION CODES.
   (A)   The size, slope, alignment, materials of construction of a building
sewer, and the methods to be used in excavating, placing of the pipe, jointing,
testing and backfilling the trench, shall all conform to the requirements of
the building and plumbing code or other applicable rules and regulations of the
city. In the absence of code provisions or in amplification thereof, the
materials and procedures set forth in appropriate specifications of the
A.S.T.M. and W.P.C.F. Manual of Practice No. 9 shall apply.
   (B)   Whenever possible, the building sewer shall be brought to the building
at an elevation below the basement floor. In all buildings in which any
building drain is too low to permit gravity flow to the public sewer, sanitary
sewage carried by such building drain shall be lifted by an approved means and
discharged to the building sewer.
   (C)   (1)   The connection of the building sewer into the public sewer shall
conform to the requirements of the building and plumbing code or other
applicable rules and regulations of the city, or the procedures set forth in
appropriate specifications of the A.S.T.M. and the W.P.C.F. Manual of Practice
No. 9.
      (2)   All such connections shall be made gastight and watertight and
verified by proper testing. Any deviation from the prescribed procedures and
materials must be approved by the Superintendent before installation.
(Prior Code, § 6-322)
§ 53.051 UNLAWFUL CONNECTION.
   No person shall make connection of roof downspouts, interior and exterior
foundation drains, areaway drains or other sources of surface runoff or
groundwater to a building sewer or building drain which in turn is connected
directly or indirectly to a public sanitary sewer.
(Prior Code, § 6-323) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 53.052 INSPECTIONS.
   The applicant for the building sewer permit shall notify the Superintendent
when the building sewer is ready for inspection and connection to the public
sewer. The connection and testing shall be made under the supervision of the
Superintendent or his or her representative.
(Prior Code, § 6-324)
§ 53.053 EXCAVATIONS.
   All excavations for building sewer installation shall be adequately guarded
with barricades and lights so as to protect the public from hazard. Streets,
sidewalks, parkways and other public property disturbed in the course of the
work shall be restored in a manner satisfactory to the city.
(Prior Code, § 6-325)
WASTEWATER FACILITIES
§ 53.065 STORMWATER, SURFACE WATER, GROUNDWATER, COOLING WATER AND PROCESS
WATER.
   (A)   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged any stormwater,
surface water, groundwater, roof runoff, subsurface drainage, including
interior and exterior foundation drains, uncontaminated heating or cooling
water or unpolluted industrial waters to any sanitary sewer.
   (B)   Stormwater and all other unpolluted drainage shall be discharged to
such sewers as are specifically designated as storm sewers, or to a natural
outlet approved by the Superintendent. Industrial cooling water or unpolluted
process water may be discharged, on approval of the Superintendent, to a storm
sewer or natural outlet.
(Prior Code, § 6-326) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 53.066 HARMFUL AND OBSTRUCTIVE SUBSTANCES.
   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged any of the following
described waters or wastes to any public sewers:
   (A)   Any gasoline, benzene, naphtha, fuel oil or other flammable or
explosive liquid, solid or gas;
   (B)   Any waters or wastes containing toxic or poisonous solids, liquids or
gases in sufficient quantity, either singly or by interaction with other wastes
to injure or interfere with any waste treatment process, constitute a hazard to
humans or animals, create a public nuisance or create any hazard in the
receiving waters of the wastewater treatment plant;
   (C)   Any waters or wastes having a pH lower than 5.5, or having any other
corrosive property capable of causing damage or hazard to structures, equipment
and personnel of the sewage works;
   (D)   Solid or viscous substances in quantities or of such size capable of
causing obstruction to the flow in sewers, or other interference with the
proper operation of the sewage facilities such as, but not limited to, ashes,
cinders, sand, mud, straw, shavings, metal, glass, rags, feathers, tar,
plastics, wood, unground garbage, whole blood, paunch manure, hair and
fleshings, entrails and paper dishes, cups, milk containers and the like,
either whole or ground by garbage grinders;
   (E)   (1)   Any waters or wastes having a five-day BOD greater than 300
parts per million by weight, containing more than 350 parts per million by
weight of suspended solids or having an average daily flow greater than 2% of
the average sewage flow of the city, shall be subject to the review of the
Superintendent. Where necessary in the opinion of the Superintendent, the owner
shall provide, at his or her expense, such preliminary treatment as may be
necessary to reduce the biochemical oxygen demand to 300 parts per million by
weight, reduce the suspended solids to 350 parts per million by weight or
control the quantities and rates of discharge of such waters or wastes; and
      (2)   Plans, specifications and other pertinent information relating to
proposed preliminary treatment facilities shall be submitted for the approval
of the Superintendent and no construction of such facilities shall be commenced
until said approval are obtained in writing.
(Prior Code, § 6-327) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 53.067 SPECIFIC PROHIBITIONS AS DETERMINED BY UTILITIES SUPERINTENDENT.
   (A)   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged the following
described substances, materials, waters or wastes if it appears likely in the
opinion of the Superintendent that such wastes can harm either the sewers,
sewage treatment process or equipment, have an adverse effect on the receiving
stream, or can otherwise endanger life, limb, public property or constitute a
nuisance. In forming his or her opinion as to the acceptability of these
wastes, the Superintendent will give consideration to such factors as the
quantities of subject wastes in relation to flows and velocities in the sewers,
materials of construction of the sewers, nature of the sewage treatment
process, capacity of the sewage treatment plant and other pertinent factors.
   (B)   The substances prohibited are:
      (1)   Any liquid or vapor having a temperature higher than 150°F (65°C);
      (2)   Any water or waste containing fats, wax, grease or oils, whether
emulsified or not, in excess of 100 mg/l or containing substances which may
solidify or become viscous at temperatures between 32° and 150°F (0° and 65°C);
      (3)   Any garbage that has not been properly shredded. The installation
and operation of any garbage grinder equipped with a motor three-fourths
horsepower or greater shall be subject to the review and approval of the
Superintendent;
      (4)   Any waters or wastes containing strong acid iron pickling wastes or
concentrated plating solutions whether neutralized or not;
      (5)   Any water or wastes containing iron, chromium, copper, zinc and
similar objectionable or toxic substances; or wastes exerting an excessive
chlorine requirement, to such degree that any such material received in the
composite sewage at the sewage treatment works exceeds the limits established
by the Superintendent for such materials;
 
      (6)   Any waters or wastes containing phenols or other taste- or odor-
producing substances in such concentrations exceeding limits which may be
established by the Superintendent as necessary, after treatment of the
composite sewage, to meet the requirements of state, federal or other public
agencies of jurisdiction for such discharge to the receiving waters;
      (7)   Any radioactive wastes or isotopes of such half-life or
concentration as may exceed limits established by the Superintendent in
compliance with applicable state or federal regulations;
      (8)   Any waters or wastes having a pH in excess of 9.5;
      (9)   Materials which exert or cause:
         (a)   Unusual concentrations of inert suspended solids (such as, but
not limited to, Fuller’s earth, lime slurries and lime residues) or of
dissolved solids (such as, but not limited to, sodium chloride or sodium
sulfate);
         (b)   Excessive discoloration (such as, but not limited to, dye wastes
and vegetable tanning solutions);
         (c)   Unusual BOD, chemical oxygen demand or chlorine requirements in
such quantities as to constitute a significant load on the sewage treatment
works; and
         (d)   Unusual volume of flow or concentration of wastes constituting
“slugs” as defined herein.
      (10)   Waters or wastes containing substances which are not amenable to
treatment or reduction by the sewage treatment processes employed or are
amenable to treatment only to such degree that the sewage treatment plant
effluent cannot meet the requirements of other agencies having jurisdiction
over discharge to the receiving waters.
(Prior Code, § 6-328) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 53.068 CONTROL OF DISCHARGE RATE OR USE FEE SURCHARGE.
   (A)   If any waters or wastes are discharged or are proposed to be
discharged to the public sewers, which waters contain the substances or possess
the characteristics enumerated in §
53.067, and which in the judgment of the Superintendent may have a deleterious
effect upon the sewage works, processes, equipment or receiving waters or which
otherwise create a hazard to life to constitute a public nuisance, the
Superintendent may:
      (1)   Reject the wastes;
      (2)   Require pretreatment to an acceptable condition for discharge to
the public sewers;
 
      (3)   Require control over the quantities and rates of discharge; and/or
      (4)   Require payment to cover the added cost of handling and treating
the wastes not covered by existing taxes or sewer charges under the provisions
of §
53.072.
   (B)   If the Superintendent permits the pretreatment or equalization of
waste flows, the design and installation of the plants and equipment shall be
subject to the review and approval of the Superintendent and subject to the
requirements of all applicable codes, ordinances and laws.
(Prior Code, § 6-329)
§ 53.069 GREASE, OIL AND SAND INTERCEPTORS.
   Grease, oil and sand interceptors shall be provided when, in the opinion of
the Superintendent, they are necessary for the proper handling of liquid wastes
containing grease in excessive amounts, or any flammable wastes, sand or other
harmful ingredients; except that such interceptors shall not be required for
private living quarters or dwelling units. All interceptors shall be of a type
and capacity approved by the Superintendent and shall be located as to be
readily and easily accessible for cleaning and inspection.
(Prior Code, § 6-330)
§ 53.070 MAINTENANCE BY OWNER.
   Where preliminary treatment or flow-equalizing facilities are provided for
any waters or wastes, they shall be maintained continuously in satisfactory and
effective operation by the owner at his or her expense.
(Prior Code, § 6-331)
§ 53.071 CONTROL MANHOLES AND SAMPLING STATIONS.
   (A)   When required; installation and maintenance. When required by the
Superintendent, the owner of any property serviced by a building sewer carrying
industrial wastes shall install a suitable control manhole together with such
necessary meters and other appurtenances in the building sewer to facilitate
observation, sampling and measurement of the wastes. Such manhole, when
required, shall be accessibly and safely located and shall be constructed in
accordance with plans approved by the Superintendent. The manhole shall be
installed by the owner at his or her expense and shall be maintained by him or
her so as to be safe and accessible at all times.
(Prior Code, § 6-332)
   (B)   Method. All measurements, tests and analyses of the characteristics of
waters and wastes to which reference is made in this subchapter shall be
determined in accordance with the latest edition of Standards Methods for the
Examination of Water and Wastewater, published by the American Public Health
Association, and shall be determined at the control manhole provided, or upon
suitable samples taken at said control manhole. In the event no special manhole
has been required, the control manhole shall be considered to be the nearest
downstream manhole in the public sewer to the point at which the building sewer
is connected. Sampling shall be carried out by customarily accepted methods to
reflect the effect of constituents upon the sewage works and to determine the
existence of hazards to life, limb and property. (The particular analyses
involved will determine whether a 24-hour composite of all outfalls of a
premises is appropriate or whether a grab sample or samples should be taken.
Normally, but not always, BOD and suspended solids analyses are obtained from
24-hour composites of all outfalls, whereas pHs are determined from periodic
grab samples.)
(Prior Code, § 6-333)
§ 53.072 SPECIAL EXCEPTIONS PERMITTED.
   No statement contained in this subchapter shall be construed as preventing
any special agreement or arrangement between the city and any industrial
concern whereby an industrial waste of unusual strength or character may be
accepted by the city for treatment, subject to payment therefor, by the
industrial concern.
(Prior Code, § 6-334)
§ 53.073 DESTRUCTION OF PROPERTY.
   No person or persons shall maliciously, willfully or negligently break,
damage, destroy, uncover, deface or tamper with any structure, appurtenance or
equipment which is part of the wastewater facilities. Any person or persons
violating this provision shall be subject to immediate arrest under charge of
disorderly conduct.
(Prior Code, § 6-335) Penalty, see §
50.99
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
§ 53.085 COMPLIANCE WITH CHAPTER; INSPECTIONS.
   (A)   Inspections. The Superintendent and other duly authorized employees of
the city bearing proper credentials and identification shall be permitted to
enter all properties for the purposes of inspection, observation, measurement,
sampling and testing systems in accordance with the provisions of this chapter.
The Superintendent or his or her representatives shall have no authority to
inquire into any processes including metallurgical, chemical, oil, refining,
ceramic, paper or other industries beyond that point having a direct bearing on
the kind and source of discharge to the sewers or waterways or facilities for
waste treatment.
(Prior Code, § 6-336)
   (B)   Injury liability. While performing the necessary work on private
properties referred to in division (A) above, the Superintendent or duly
authorized employees of the city shall observe all safety rules applicable to
the premises established by the company, and the company shall be held harmless
for injury or death to the city employees, and the city shall indemnify the
company against loss or damage to its property by city employees and against
liability claims and demands for personal injury or property damage asserted
against the company and growing out of the gauging and sampling operation,
except as such may be caused by negligence or failure of the company to
maintain safe conditions as required in §
53.071(A).
(Prior Code, § 6-337)
   (C)   Easements. The Superintendent and other duly authorized employees of
the city bearing proper credentials and identification shall be permitted to
enter all private properties through which the city holds a duly negotiated
easement for the purposes of, but not limited to, inspection, observation,
measurement, sampling, repair and maintenance of any portion of the sewage
works lying within said easement. All entry and subsequent work, if any, on
said easement shall be done in full accordance with the terms of the duly
negotiated easement pertaining to the private property involved.
(Prior Code, § 6-338)
§ 53.086 COMPLAINTS.
   (A)   Any consumer feeling himself or herself aggrieved by reason of any
controversy with the Superintendent may appear before the City Council and
present his or her grievance. Any consumer who considers himself or herself
aggrieved by being required to pay the charge demanded for the use of the sewer
or for the resumption of sewer service after the same shall have been shut off,
shall pay such charge under protest, in which event the City Clerk shall write
on the receipt given such customer the words, “Paid Under Protest.”
   (B)   Such consumer may then present his or her verified claim in the manner
provided for presenting claims to the City Council for a refund of the amount
so paid under protest. Such claims shall then be considered by the City Council
in the same manner as other claims against the city.
(Prior Code, § 6-340)
§ 53.087 SEWER USE CHARGES; CLASSIFICATION AND RATES.
   (A)   For the purpose of paying the costs of maintenance of the sanitary
sewer system, including the wastewater treatment plant of the city, the Mayor
and City Council shall establish, from time to time, by resolution, rates and
charges for sewer service in said city. Furthermore, the Mayor and Council in
such rate resolution may also establish a user classification system for the
users of the system. Such rate resolution shall be on file in the City Clerk’s
office and shall be available during all regular business hours for public
inspection.
   (B)   Any user which discharges any substance which, singly or by
interaction with other substances, causes identifiable increases in the cost of
operation, maintenance or replacement of the treatment works, shall pay for
such increased costs. The charge to each such user will be as determined by the
responsible plant operation personnel and approved by the City Council.
(Prior Code, § 6-343)
§ 53.088 LIEN.
   In addition to all other remedies, if a customer shall for any reason remain
indebted to the city for sewer service furnished, such amount due, together
with any rents and charges in arrears shall be considered a delinquent sewer
rent which is hereby declared to be a lien upon the real estate for which the
same was furnished. The City Clerk shall notify in writing or cause to be
notified in writing, all owners of premises or their agents whenever their
tenants or lessees are 90 days or more delinquent in the payment of sewer rent.
Any time after a 90-day delinquency, the City Council may direct the City Clerk
to certify to the County Clerk any delinquent sewer charges to be collected as
a special tax in the manner provided by law.
(Prior Code, § 6-344)
CHAPTER 54: NATURAL GAS
Section
   
54.01   Adoption of Natural Gas Regulation Act
   
54.02   Gas rate collection fee
§ 54.01 ADOPTION OF NATURAL GAS REGULATION ACT.
   The provisions of Article 46, Chapter 19 of the Municipal Natural Gas
Regulation Act, being Neb. RS 66-1801 et seq. and any supplement thereto and
any amendments made thereto, except as otherwise provided for in this chapter,
are hereby adopted by this reference thereto and made a part hereof as fully as
if set forth at length herein, except as otherwise hereinafter provided.
(Prior Code, § 6-401)
§ 54.02 GAS RATE COLLECTION FEE.
   A fee of $300 be and hereby is imposed for each rate filing by the city gas
supplier.
(Prior Code, § 6-402)
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
   Chapter
      
70.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
71.   TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
      
72.   PARKING REGULATIONS
      
73.   RECREATIONAL VEHICLES
      
74.   TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
CHAPTER 70: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
70.01   Definitions
   
70.02   Regulation of highways; police powers
   
70.03   Prohibitions on operation of vehicles
   
70.04   Enforcement of rules and laws
   
70.05   Failure or refusal to obey order
   
70.06   Authorized emergency vehicles; privileges
   
70.07   Traffic officers
 
   
70.99   Penalty
§ 70.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this title, the following definitions and the other
definitions in Neb. RS 60-606 through 60-676 shall apply unless the context
clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ALLEY. A highway intended to provide access to the rear or side of lots or
buildings and not intended for the purpose of through vehicular traffic.
(Neb. RS 60-607)
   AUTHORIZED EMERGENCY VEHICLE. Such Fire Department vehicles, police
vehicles, rescue vehicles and ambulances as are publicly owned, such other
publicly or privately owned vehicles as are designated by the Director of Motor
Vehicles and such publicly owned military vehicles of the National Guard as are
designated by the Adjutant General pursuant to Neb. RS 55-133.
(Neb. RS 60-610)
   BUSINESS DISTRICT. The territory contiguous to and including a highway when,
within any 600 feet along such highway, there are buildings in use for business
or industrial purposes, including, but not limited to, hotels, banks, office
buildings, railroad stations or public buildings which occupy at least 300 feet
of frontage on one side or 300 feet collectively on both sides of a highway.
(Neb. RS 60-613)
   HIGHWAY. The entire width between the boundary limits of any street, road,
avenue, boulevard or way which is publicly maintained when any part thereof is
open to the use of the public for the purposes of vehicular travel.
(Neb. RS 60-624)
   MANUAL. The Manual on Uniform Traffic Control Devices adopted by the
Department of Transportation pursuant to Neb. RS 60-6,118.
(Neb. RS 60-631)
   MOTOR VEHICLE. Every self-propelled land vehicle not operated upon rails,
except bicycles, mopeds, self-propelled chairs used by persons who are disabled
and electric personal assistive mobility devices.
(Neb. RS 60-638)
   PEACE OFFICER. The Police Chief or other chief law enforcement official, any
city police officer or any other person authorized to enforce city ordinances.
With respect to directing traffic only, PEACE OFFICER shall also include any
person authorized to direct or regulate traffic.
(Neb. RS 60-646)
   RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT. The territory contiguous to and including a highway
not comprising a Business District when the property on such highway, for a
distance of 300 feet or more, is in the main improved with residences or
residences and buildings in use for business.
(Neb. RS 60-654)
   ROADWAY. The portion of a highway improved, designed or ordinarily used for
vehicular travel, exclusive of the berm or shoulder. If a highway includes two
or more separate roadways, the term ROADWAY shall refer to any such roadway
separately but not to all such roadways collectively.
(Neb. RS 60-656)
   SCHOOL CROSSING ZONE. The area of a roadway designated to the public by the
State Department of Transportation or City Council as a school crossing zone
through the use of a sign or traffic control device as specified by the City
Council in conformity with the Manual but does not include any area of a
freeway. A SCHOOL CROSSING ZONE starts at the location of the first sign or
traffic control device identifying the school crossing zone and continues until
a sign or traffic control device indicates that the school crossing zone has
ended.
(Neb. RS 60-658.01)
   SHOULDER. The part of the highway contiguous to the roadway and designed for
the accommodation of stopped vehicles, for emergency use and for lateral
support of the base and surface courses of the roadway.
(Neb. RS 60-661)
   TRAFFIC. Pedestrians, ridden or herded animals, and vehicles and other
conveyances, either singly or together, while using any highway for the
purposes of travel.
(Neb. RS 60-669)
   TRAFFIC CONTROL DEVICE. Any sign, signal, marking or other device not
inconsistent with the state’s Rules of the Road placed or erected by the
authority of the City Council or any official having jurisdiction for the
purpose of regulating, warning or guiding traffic.
(Neb. RS 60-670)
   TRAFFIC CONTROL SIGNAL. Any signal, whether manually, electrically or
mechanically operated, by which traffic is alternately directed to stop and
permitted to proceed.
(Neb. RS 60-671)
   TRAFFIC INFRACTION. The violation of any provision of the state’s Rules of
the Road or of any law, ordinance, order, rule or regulation regulating traffic
which is not otherwise declared to be a misdemeanor or a felony or, in this
title, an offense.
(Neb. RS 60-672)
   VEHICLE. Every device in, upon or by which any person or property is or may
be transported or drawn upon a highway, except devices moved solely by human
power or used exclusively upon stationary rails or tracks.
(Neb. RS 60-676)
§ 70.02 REGULATION OF HIGHWAYS; POLICE POWERS.
   (A)   The City Council, with respect to highways under its jurisdiction and
within the reasonable exercise of the police power, may:
      (1)   Regulate or prohibit stopping, standing or parking;
      (2)   Regulate traffic by means of peace officers or traffic control
devices;
      (3)   Regulate or prohibit processions or assemblages on the highways;
      (4)   Designate highways or roadways for use by traffic moving in one
direction;
      (5)   Establish speed limits for vehicles in public parks;
      (6)   Designate any highway as a through highway or designate any
intersection as a stop or yield intersection;
      (7)   Restrict the use of highways as authorized in §
70.03;
      (8)   Regulate the operation of bicycles and require the registration and
inspection of such, including the requirement of a registration fee;
      (9)   Regulate the operation of electric personal assistive mobility
devices;
      (10)   Regulate or prohibit the turning of vehicles or specified types of
vehicles;
      (11)   Alter or establish speed limits authorized in the state’s Rules of
the Road;
      (12)   Designate no-passing zones;
      (13)   Prohibit or regulate the use of controlled-access highways by any
class or kind of traffic, except those highways which are a part of the state
highway system;
      (14)   Prohibit or regulate the use of heavily traveled highways by any
class or kind of traffic it finds to be incompatible with the normal and safe
movement of traffic, except that such regulations shall not be effective on any
highway which is part of the state highway system unless authorized by the
Department of Transportation;
      (15)   Establish minimum speed limits as authorized in the Rules;
      (16)   Designate hazardous railroad grade crossings as authorized in the
Rules;
      (17)   Designate and regulate traffic on play streets;
      (18)   Prohibit pedestrians from crossing a roadway in a Business
District or any designated highway, except in a crosswalk as authorized in the
Rules;
      (19)   Restrict pedestrian crossings at unmarked crosswalks as authorized
in the Rules;
      (20)   Regulate persons propelling push carts;
      (21)   Regulate persons upon skates, coasters, sleds and other toy
vehicles;
      (22)   (a)   Notwithstanding any other provision of law, adopt and
enforce an ordinance or resolution prohibiting the use of engine brakes on the
national system of interstate and defense highways that has a grade of less
than five degrees within its jurisdiction.
         (b)   For the purpose of this division (A)(22), the following
definition shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
            ENGINE BRAKE. A device that converts a power-producing engine into
a power-absorbing air compressor, resulting in a net energy loss.
      (23)   Adopt and enforce such temporary or experimental regulations as
may be necessary to cover emergencies or special conditions; and
      (24)   Adopt other traffic regulations, except those as are prohibited by
state law or contrary to state law.
   (B)   The City Council shall not erect or maintain any traffic control
device at any location so as to require the traffic on any state highway or
state-maintained freeway to stop before entering or crossing any intersecting
highway unless approval in writing has first been obtained from the Department
of Transportation.
   (C)   No ordinance or regulation enacted under division (A)(4), (A)(5), (A)
(6), (A)(7), (A)(10), (A)(11), (A)(12), (A)(13), (A)(14), (A)(16), (A)(17) or
(A)(19) above shall be effective until traffic control devices giving notice of
such local traffic regulations are erected upon or at the entrances to such
affected highway, or part thereof affected, as may be most appropriate.
(Neb. RS 60-680)
§ 70.03 PROHIBITIONS ON OPERATION OF VEHICLES.
   (A)   (1)   The City Council may by ordinance or resolution prohibit the
operation of vehicles upon any highway or impose restrictions as to the weight
of vehicles, for a total period not to exceed 180 days in any one calendar
year, when operated upon any highway under the jurisdiction of and for the
maintenance of which the City Council is responsible whenever any such highway,
by reason of deterioration, rain, snow or other climatic condition, will be
seriously damaged or destroyed unless the use of vehicles thereon is prohibited
or the permissible weight thereof reduced.
      (2)   The City Council shall erect or cause to be erected and maintained
signs designating the provisions of the ordinance or resolution at each end of
that portion of any highway affected thereby, and the ordinance or resolution
shall not be effective until such signs are erected and maintained.
   (B)   The City Council may also, by ordinance or resolution, prohibit the
operation of trucks or other commercial vehicles or impose limitations as to
the weight thereof on designated highways, which prohibitions and limitations
shall be designated by appropriate signs placed on such highways.
(Neb. RS 60-681)
§ 70.04 ENFORCEMENT OF RULES AND LAWS.
   (A)   All peace officers are hereby specifically directed and authorized,
and it shall be deemed and considered a part of the official duties of each of
such officers, to enforce the provisions of the state’s Rules of the Road and
this title, including the specific enforcement of maximum speed limits, and any
other state or city law regulating the operation of vehicles or the use of the
highways.
   (B)   To perform the official duties imposed by this section, peace officers
shall have the power:
      (1)   To make arrests upon view and without warrant for any violation
committed in their presence of any of the provisions of the Motor Vehicle
Operator’s License Act, being Neb. RS 60-401 et seq. or this title or of any
other law regulating the operation of vehicles or the use of the highways, if
and when designated or called upon to do so as provided by law;
      (2)   To make arrests upon view and without warrant for any violation
committed in their presence of any provision of the laws of this state relating
to misdemeanors or felonies or of similar city ordinances if and when
designated or called upon to do so as provided by law;
      (3)   At all times to direct all traffic in conformity with the law or,
in the event of a fire or other emergency or in order to expedite traffic or
ensure safety, to direct traffic as conditions may require;
      (4)   When in uniform, to require the driver of a vehicle to stop and
exhibit his or her operator’s license and registration certificate issued for
the vehicle and submit to an inspection of such vehicle and the license plates
and registration certificate for the vehicle and to require the driver of a
motor vehicle to present the vehicle within five days for the correction of any
defects revealed by such motor vehicle inspection as may lead the inspecting
officer to reasonably believe that such motor vehicle is being operated in
violation of the statutes of the state, the rules and regulations of the
Director of Motor Vehicles or any city ordinance or regulation;
      (5)   To inspect any vehicle of a type required to be registered
according to law in any public garage or repair shop or in any place where such
a vehicle is held for sale or wrecking;
      (6)   To serve warrants relating to the enforcement of the laws
regulating the operation of vehicles or the use of the highways; and
      (7)   To investigate traffic accidents for the purpose of carrying on a
study of traffic accidents and enforcing motor vehicle and highway safety laws.
(Neb. RS 60-683)
Statutory reference:
   Motor Vehicle Operator’s License Act, see Neb. RS 60-462
§ 70.05 FAILURE OR REFUSAL TO OBEY ORDER.
   (A)   Any person who knowingly fails or refuses to obey any lawful order of
any peace officer who is controlling or directing traffic shall be guilty of a
traffic infraction.
   (B)   Any person who knowingly fails to obey any lawful order of a peace
officer shall be guilty of an offense whenever such order is given in
furtherance of the apprehension of a person who has violated the state’s Rules
of the Road or this title or of a person whom such officer reasonably believes
has violated the Rules or this title.
(Neb. RS 60-6,110) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.06 AUTHORIZED EMERGENCY VEHICLES; PRIVILEGES.
   (A)   Subject to the conditions stated in the state’s Rules of the Road and
this title, the driver of an authorized emergency vehicle, when responding to
an emergency call, when pursuing an actual or suspected violator of the law or
when responding to, but not when returning from, a fire alarm may:
      (1)   Stop, park or stand, irrespective of the provisions of the Rules
and this title, and disregard regulations governing the direction of movement
or turning in specified directions; and
      (2)   Except for wreckers towing disabled vehicles and highway
maintenance vehicles and equipment:
         (a)   Proceed past a steady red indication, a flashing red indication
or a stop sign, but only after slowing down as may be necessary for safe
operation; and
         (b)   Exceed the maximum speed limits so long as he or she does not
endanger life, limb or property.
   (B)   Except when operated as a police vehicle, the exemptions granted in
division (A) above shall apply only when the driver of such vehicle, while in
motion, sounds an audible signal by bell, siren or exhaust whistle as may be
reasonably necessary and when such vehicle is equipped with at least one
lighted light displaying a red light visible under normal atmospheric
conditions from a distance of 500 feet to the front of such vehicle.
   (C)   The exemptions granted in division (A) above shall not relieve the
driver from the duty to drive with due regard for the safety of all persons,
nor shall such provisions protect such driver from the consequences of his or
her reckless disregard for the safety of others.
   (D)   Authorized emergency vehicles operated by police and fire departments
shall not be subject to the size and weight limitations of Neb. RS 60-6,288
through 60-6,290 and 60-6,294.
(Neb. RS 60-6,114)
§ 70.07 TRAFFIC OFFICERS.
   (A)   The City Council or the city police may at any time detail officers,
to be known as “traffic officers,” at street intersections.
   (B)   All traffic officers shall be vested with the authority to regulate
and control traffic at the intersections to which they are assigned. It shall
be their duty to direct the movement of traffic and prevent congestion and
accidents.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person to violate any order or signal of
any such traffic officer notwithstanding the directive of a stop sign or signal
device that may have been placed at any such intersection.
Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.99 PENALTY.
   Any person, firm, association or corporation violating any of the provisions
of this traffic code for which no other penalty is imposed shall, upon
conviction, be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor, and be fined in a sum of not
more than $500 for each offense, and each day’s maintenance of the same shall
constitute a separate offense.
(Prior Code, § 3-501)
CHAPTER 71: TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
71.01   Right-of-way; stop and yield signs
   
71.02   Interference with traffic control devices or railroad signs or signals
   
71.03   Truck routes
   
71.04   Turning generally; U-turns
   
71.05   Signs; signals
   
71.06   Stop signs
   
71.07   Position of vehicle on highway
   
71.08   Stops; mandatory
Speed Limits
   
71.20   Speed zones
   
71.21   Reduced speed zones
   
71.22   Speed; electronic detection
Requirements and Prohibitions
   
71.35   Engine braking
   
71.36   Backing
   
71.37   Driving in sidewalk space
   
71.38   Funeral processions
   
71.39   Following distance
   
71.40   Glass; pointed objects
   
71.41   Quiet zones; unnecessary noise
   
71.42   Careless driving
   
71.43   Reckless driving
   
71.44   Littering
   
71.45   Driving abreast
   
71.46   Riding outside vehicle
   
71.47   Crowding; front seat
   
71.48   Muffler
   
71.49   Loads
 
   
71.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 71.01 RIGHT-OF-WAY; STOP AND YIELD SIGNS.
   (A)   The City Council may provide for preferential right-of-way at an
intersection and indicate such by stop signs or yield signs erected by such
authorities.
   (B)   (1)   Except when directed to proceed by a peace officer or traffic
control signal, every driver of a vehicle approaching an intersection where a
stop is indicated by a stop sign shall stop at a clearly marked stop line, or
shall stop, if there is no such line, before entering the crosswalk on the near
side of the intersection, or if no crosswalk is indicated, at the point nearest
the intersecting roadway where the driver has a view of approaching traffic on
the intersecting roadway before entering the intersection.
      (2)   After having stopped, such driver shall yield the right-of-way to
any vehicle which has entered the intersection from another highway or which is
approaching so closely on such highway as to constitute an immediate hazard if
such driver moved across or into such intersection.
   (C)   (1)   The driver of a vehicle approaching a yield sign shall slow to a
speed reasonable under the existing conditions and, if required for safety to
stop, shall stop at a clearly marked stop line or shall stop, if there is no
such line, before entering the crosswalk on the near side of the intersection,
or if no crosswalk is indicated, at the point nearest the intersecting roadway
where the driver has a view of approaching traffic on the intersecting roadway.
      (2)   After slowing or stopping, such driver shall yield the right-of-way
to any vehicle in the intersection or approaching on another highway so closely
as to constitute an immediate hazard if such driver moved across or into such
intersection.
(Neb. RS 60-6,148) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.02 INTERFERENCE WITH TRAFFIC CONTROL DEVICES OR RAILROAD SIGNS OR SIGNALS.
   No person shall, without lawful authority, attempt to or in fact alter,
deface, injure, knock down or remove any traffic control device, any railroad
sign or signal or any part of such a device, sign or signal.
(Neb. RS 60-6,129) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.03 TRUCK ROUTES.
   (A)   The City Council may, by resolution, designate certain streets in the
city restricting traffic for vehicles weighing in excess of ten tons, and it
shall be unlawful for persons operating vehicles to travel on streets other
than those designated for such vehicles, except to travel to and from their
personal residence and/or to pick up or deliver goods, wares or merchandise;
and in these events, the operator of such vehicle shall return to such truck
routes as soon as possible in traveling through or about the city.
   (B)   The City Council shall cause notices to be posted or shall erect signs
indicating the streets so designated as restricted routes.
(Prior Code, § 3-102) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.04 TURNING GENERALLY; U-TURNS.
   (A)   U-turns. No vehicle shall be turned so as to proceed in the opposite
direction, except at a street intersection.
(Prior Code, § 3-104)
   (B)   Turning; signals. A signal of intention to turn right or left shall be
given continuously during not less than the last 50 feet traveled by the
vehicle before turning. The signals herein required shall be given either by
means of the hand and arm, or by a signal device of a type approved by the
Department of Roads.
(Prior Code, § 3-105)
   (C)   Turning; generally.
      (1)   Vehicles turning to the right into an intersecting street shall
approach such intersection in the lane of traffic nearest to the right-hand
side of the highway and must turn the corner as near the right-hand curb as
possible to keep between the curb to the right and the center of the
intersection of the two streets.
      (2)   The driver of a vehicle intending to turn to the left shall
approach such centerline of the highway, and in turning shall pass as near as
possible to the center of the intersection, passing as closely as practicable
to the right thereof before turning such vehicle to the left.
      (3)   For the purpose of this division (C), the CENTER OF THE
INTERSECTION shall mean the meeting point of the medial lines of the highways
intersecting one another.
(Prior Code, § 3-106)
   (D)   Turning; cautious. The operator of a vehicle shall, before stopping,
turning or changing the course of such vehicle, see that there is sufficient
space to make such movement in safety. If any pedestrian might be affected by
such movement, the operator shall give a clearly audible signal by sounding the
horn, and whenever the operation of any other vehicle may be affected by such
movement, he or she shall give some other unmistakable signal to the driver of
all other vehicles of his or her intention to make such movement.
(Prior Code, § 3-107)
§ 71.05 SIGNS; SIGNALS.
   The City Council may, by resolution, provide for the placing of stop signs,
restricted parking or other signs, signals, standards or mechanical devices in
any street or alley for the purpose of regulating or prohibiting traffic and
parking thereon. Such resolution shall describe the portion of the street or
alley wherein traffic is to be regulated or prohibited; the regulation or
prohibition; the location where such sign, signal, standard or mechanical
device shall be placed; and the hours when such regulation or prohibition shall
be effective. It shall be unlawful for any person to fail, neglect or refuse to
comply with such regulation or prohibition. The placement of such regulatory
sign shall be prima facie evidence of the restricting resolution.
(Prior Code, § 3-115) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.06 STOP SIGNS.
   Every person operating any vehicle shall, upon approaching any stop sign
erected in accordance with ordinances prescribed heretofore, cause such vehicle
to come to a complete stop with the front wheels of said vehicle parallel with
said stop sign.
(Prior Code, § 3-116)
§ 71.07 POSITION OF VEHICLE ON HIGHWAY.
   (A)   Generally. Upon all highways of sufficient width, the driver of a
vehicle shall drive the same on the right half of the roadway. In passing or
meeting other vehicles, drivers shall give each other at least one half of the
main traveled portion of the roadway.
(Prior Code, § 3-110)
   (B)   Passing. A vehicle shall not be driven to the left of the centerline
of the highway in overtaking or passing another vehicle proceeding in the same
direction, unless such left side is clearly visible and free from oncoming
traffic for a sufficient distance to permit such overtaking and passing to be
made in safety.
(Prior Code, § 3-111)
§ 71.08 STOPS; MANDATORY.
   (A)   All vehicles, before crossing a sidewalk, emerging from a garage,
alley, filling station or other place, shall come to a complete stop, and after
giving sufficient warning shall proceed slowly and with extreme caution while
crossing such sidewalk or leaving such garage, alley, filling station or other
place.
   (B)   For the purpose of this section, SLOWLY shall be construed to mean
such rate of speed as is reasonable and proper under the circumstances and the
condition of the street and traffic thereon.
(Prior Code, § 3-114)
SPEED LIMITS
§ 71.20 SPEED ZONES.
   (A)   No person shall operate a motor vehicle within the city limits at a
speed greater than 20 mph in the Business District or 25 mph in the Residential
District of the city.
   (B)   No person shall operate a motor vehicle on the state highways within
the city limits at a speed greater than 35 mph. The Department of Roads and
local authorities may erect and maintain suitable signs along highways under
their respective jurisdictions in such number and at such location as they
shall deem necessary to give adequate notice of the speed limits upon such
highways.
(Prior Code, § 3-117)
§ 71.21 REDUCED SPEED ZONES.
   (A)   No person shall drive a vehicle on a highway at a speed greater than
is reasonable and prudent under the conditions and having regard to the actual
and potential hazards then existing. Any person shall drive at a safe and
appropriate speed when approaching and crossing an intersection or railroad
grade crossing, when approaching and going around a curve, when approaching a
hill crest, when traveling upon any narrow or winding roadway and when special
hazards exist with respect to pedestrians or other traffic or by reason of
weather or highway conditions.
   (B)   The maximum speed limits set forth in this section may be altered as
set forth in Neb. RS 60-6,187 or 60-6,190.
   (C)   The Department of Transportation and local authorities may erect and
maintain suitable signs along highways under their respective jurisdictions in
such number and at such locations as they shall deem necessary to give adequate
notice of the speed limit upon such highways.
   (D)   For the purpose of this section, VEHICLE shall mean every device in,
upon or by which any person or property is or may be transported or drawn upon
a highway, excepting devices moved by human power or used exclusively upon
stationary rails or tracks.
(Ord. 2-12-24, passed 2-12-2024) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.22 SPEED; ELECTRONIC DETECTION.
   (A)   The speed of any motor vehicle within the city may be determined by
the use of radio microwaves or other electronic device. The results of such
determinations shall be accepted as prima facie evidence of the speed of such
motor vehicle in any court or legal proceedings where the speed of the motor
vehicle is at issue.
   (B)   The driver of any such motor vehicle may be arrested without a warrant
under the authority herein granted if the arresting officer is in uniform or
displays his or her badge of authority; provided, that such officer shall have
observed the recording of the speed of such motor vehicle by the radio
microwaves or other electronic device, or had received a radio message from the
officer who observed the speed of the motor vehicle recorded by the radio
microwaves or other electronic device.
   (C)   In the event of an arrest based on such a message, such radio message
must have been dispatched immediately after the speed of the motor vehicle had
been recorded and must include a description of the vehicle and the recorded
speed.
(Prior Code, § 3-124)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 60-6,192
REQUIREMENTS AND PROHIBITIONS
§ 71.35 ENGINE BRAKING.
   It shall be unlawful for any person within the city limits of the city to
make or cause to be made loud or disturbing noises with any mechanical device
operated by compressed air and used for purposes of assisting braking on any
semi-tractor; provided, however, it shall be permitted to use engine brakes in
an emergency situation. Proper notices shall be posted by the city notifying
the public of such prohibition.
(Prior Code, § 3-103) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.36 BACKING.
   Before backing, ample warning shall be given and while backing, unceasing
vigilance must be exercised not to injure those behind. The driver of a parked
vehicle about to back shall give moving vehicles the right-of-way.
(Prior Code, § 3-112)
§ 71.37 DRIVING IN SIDEWALK SPACE.
   No motor vehicle, including motorcycles or scooters, except for snow removal
purposes, shall be driven on any sidewalk or within any sidewalk space, except
a permanent or temporary driveway.
(Prior Code, § 3-113) Penalty, see §
71.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 60-6,178
§ 71.38 FUNERAL PROCESSIONS.
   No vehicle, except police vehicles or fire department vehicles when
responding to emergency calls or orders in their several departments,
ambulances responding to emergency calls or vehicles carrying United States
mail shall be driven through a funeral possession or cortege except with the
permission of a police officer.
(Prior Code, § 3-118) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.39 FOLLOWING DISTANCE.
   (A)   Generally. The operator of a vehicle shall not follow another vehicle
more closely than is reasonable and prudent, having due regard for the speed of
the vehicles and the traffic and condition of the street.
(Prior Code, § 3-119)
   (B)   Fire apparatus. The driver of any vehicle shall not follow any fire
apparatus traveling in response to a fire alarm closer than 500 feet, or drive
into or park such vehicle within the block where said fire apparatus has
stopped in answer to a fire alarm.
(Prior Code, § 3-120)
Penalty, see §
71.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 60-6,183
§ 71.40 GLASS; POINTED OBJECTS.
   No person shall throw, cast, lay or place upon any street any thorns, nails,
tacks, glass, bottles, window glass or other articles made of or containing
glass, and in case of an accident causing the breaking of any glass upon any
street, the owner or person in charge of such glass or the person responsible
for such breakage shall at once remove or cause the same to be removed from the
street.
(Prior Code, § 3-121) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.41 QUIET ZONES; UNNECESSARY NOISE.
   All streets or portions thereof lying within 300 feet of any hospital,
nursing home or school, and which have been declared to be “quiet zones” by the
City Council shall be respected as such by all drivers, and no driver of any
vehicle shall, within such zones, make any unnecessary noise, sound the horn or
other warning device of such vehicle, except in an emergency or permit their
automobile radio to be heard beyond the confines of their automobile. It shall
be unlawful for any person in any part of said city to make, or cause to be
made, any unnecessary noise with any signal device, or to use the same except
as a road signal.
(Prior Code, § 3-123) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.42 CARELESS DRIVING.
   (A)   No person shall operate a vehicle on any highway, street or alley
within the city in such a manner as to endanger the safety of others, disregard
the property of others and/or cause immoderate wear and damage to any street or
alley in the city.
   (B)   Any person so operating a motor vehicle within the city limits of the
city shall be deemed guilty of careless driving. It shall be prima facie
evidence that a person has operated a motor vehicle in such a careless manner
if he or she has operated such vehicle in a manner contrary to the duly
published rules and regulations of the State Department of Roads governing the
use of state highways.
(Prior Code, § 3-125) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.43 RECKLESS DRIVING.
   (A)   Generally. Any person who drives a motor vehicle in such manner as to
indicate an indifferent or wanton disregard for the safety of persons or
property shall be deemed to be guilty of reckless driving.
(Prior Code, § 3-126)
   (B)   Willful. Any person who drives a motor vehicle in such a manner as to
indicate a willful disregard for the safety of persons or property shall be
deemed to be guilty of willful, reckless driving and shall be punished as
provided by statute.
(Prior Code, § 3-127)
Penalty, see §
71.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 60-6,213 and 60-6,214 through 6-6,218
§ 71.44 LITTERING.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to drop, cause to be left, upon any city
highway, street or alley, except at places designated by the City Council, any
rubbish, debris or waste, and any person so doing shall be guilty of littering.
(Prior Code, § 3-132) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.45 DRIVING ABREAST.
   Two or more vehicles shall not be driven abreast except when passing, or
when traversing a multi-lane or one-way street; provided, that motorcycles may
be driven no more than two abreast in a single lane.
(Prior Code, § 3-133) Penalty, see §
71.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 60-6,139 and 60-6,308
§ 71.46 RIDING OUTSIDE VEHICLE.
   No person shall permit any other person to ride on the running board, hood,
top or fenders of any motor vehicle, nor shall any person ride on the running
board, hood, top or fenders of any motor vehicle.
(Prior Code, § 3-134) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.47 CROWDING; FRONT SEAT.
   Front seat occupancy of any automobile while the same is in the process of
being started or in motion within the corporate limits shall be limited to one
driver and not more than two persons over the age of 12 years. It shall be
unlawful for any person to operate a motor vehicle upon any street when such
person has in his or her lap or in his or her embrace another person, package
or other encumbrance which prevents the free and unhampered operation of such
vehicle.
(Prior Code, § 3-135) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.48 MUFFLER.
   Every motor vehicle operated within this city shall be provided with a
muffler in good working order to prevent excessive or unusual noise. It shall
be unlawful to use a “muffler cut-out” on any motor vehicle upon any streets;
provided, that the provisions of this section shall not apply to authorized
emergency vehicles.
(Prior Code, § 3-136) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.49 LOADS.
   (A)   Projecting. When any vehicle shall be loaded in such a manner that any
portion of the load extends more than four feet beyond the rear of the bed or
the body of such vehicles, a red flag shall be carried by day and red light
after sunset on such load.
(Prior Code, § 3-137)
   (B)   Spilling. All vehicles used for carrying coal, earth, sand, gravel,
rock, asphalt, tar or any similar substance shall be so constructed as to
prevent the sifting or spilling of any of the contents.
(Prior Code, § 3-138)
§ 71.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
70.99.
   (B)   Any person violating any provision of §
71.21 for which penalty is not otherwise provided for under the laws of the
state or the prior ordinances of the city shall be deemed guilty of a
misdemeanor, and, upon conviction thereof, shall be fined in any sum not
exceeding $100.
(Ord. 2-12-24, passed 2-12-2024)
CHAPTER 72: PARKING REGULATIONS
Section
   
72.01   Regulation or prohibition authorized
   
72.02   General prohibitions; exceptions
   
72.03   Obstructing street, intersection or entrance
   
72.04   Intersections
   
72.05   Alleys
   
72.06   Truck parking, loading and unloading
   
72.07   Vehicles over 30 feet in length
   
72.08   Display or repair of vehicle
   
72.09   Maximum time limits
   
72.10   Parallel, angle and center parking
   
72.11   Unattended motor vehicle
   
72.12   Painting of curbs
   
72.13   Parking for handicapped or disabled persons
§ 72.01 REGULATION OR PROHIBITION AUTHORIZED.
   (A)   The City Council, with respect to highways under its jurisdiction and
within the reasonable exercise of the police power, may regulate or prohibit
stopping, standing or parking.
(Neb. RS 60-680)
   (B)   If the City Council regulates or prohibits stopping, standing or
parking all vehicles or a particular kind or class of vehicles on a highway or
a portion of a highway, no person shall stop, stand or park a vehicle subject
to such regulation or prohibition on the highway or portion thereof longer than
a period of time necessary to load and unload freight or passengers.
Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 72.02 GENERAL PROHIBITIONS; EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   Except when necessary to avoid conflict with other traffic or when in
compliance with law or the directions of a peace officer or traffic control
device, no person shall:
      (1)   Stop, stand or park any vehicle:
         (a)   On the roadway side of any vehicle stopped or parked at the edge
or curb of a street;
         (b)   On a sidewalk;
         (c)   Within an intersection;
         (d)   On a crosswalk;
         (e)   Between a safety zone and the adjacent curb, or within 30 feet
of points on the curb immediately opposite the ends of a safety zone unless the
City Council indicates a different length by signs or markings;
         (f)   Alongside or opposite any street excavation or obstruction when
stopping, standing or parking would obstruct traffic;
         (g)   Upon any bridge or other elevated structure over a highway or
within a highway tunnel;
         (h)   On any railroad track; or
         (i)   At any place where official signs prohibit stopping.
      (2)   Stand or park a vehicle, whether occupied or not, except
momentarily to pick up or discharge a passenger or passengers:
         (a)   In front of a public or private driveway;
         (b)   Within 15 feet of a fire hydrant;
         (c)   Within 20 feet of a crosswalk at an intersection;
         (d)   Within 30 feet of any flashing signal, stop sign, yield sign or
other traffic control device located at the side of a roadway;
         (e)   Within 20 feet of the driveway entrance to any fire station, and
on the side of a street opposite the entrance to any fire station within 75
feet of such entrance when such is properly signposted; or
         (f)   At any place where official signs prohibit standing.
      (3)   Park a vehicle, whether occupied or not, except temporarily for the
purpose of and while actually engaged in loading or unloading merchandise or
passengers:
         (a)   Within 50 feet of the nearest rail of a railroad crossing; or
         (b)   At any place where official signs prohibit parking.
   (B)   No person shall move a vehicle not lawfully under his or her control
into any such prohibited area or away from a curb such a distance as shall be
unlawful.
(Neb. RS 60-6,166) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 72.03 OBSTRUCTING STREET, INTERSECTION OR ENTRANCE.
   No person shall, except in case of an accident or emergency, stop any
vehicle in any location where stopping will obstruct any street, intersection
or entrance to an alley or public or private drive.
Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 72.04 INTERSECTIONS.
   Except when necessary to avoid conflict with other traffic, or when in
compliance with law or the directions of a peace officer or a traffic control
device, no person shall park a vehicle or leave a vehicle standing for any
purpose, except momentarily to load or discharge passengers, within 25 feet of
the intersection of curblines, or if none, then within 15 feet of the
intersection of property lines, or where the curblines are painted red or
another color specified by the City Council in order to indicate such
prohibition.
Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 72.05 ALLEYS.
   (A)   No person shall park a vehicle with any portion thereof projecting
into any alley entrance.
   (B)   (1)   No person shall park a vehicle in any alley, except for the
purpose of loading or unloading during the time necessary to load or unload,
which shall not exceed the maximum limit of one-half hour.
      (2)   Every vehicle while loading or unloading in an alley shall be
parked in such manner as will cause the least obstruction possible to traffic
in the alley.
Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 72.06 TRUCK PARKING, LOADING AND UNLOADING.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the operator of any truck with an overall
length of more than 20 feet to park or stop such vehicle on a street within the
Business District except to load or unload when loading or unloading in an
alley is impossible, and then only for the period of time reasonably necessary
to load or unload.
   (B)   If the City Council provides truck parking areas adjoining or adjacent
to the Business District, all truck operators shall use such parking areas for
all parking purposes.
   (C)   Except in an area provided for by the City Council by resolution, it
shall be unlawful for the operator of any truck, including an oil tanker, to
park or stop for any period of time within the limits of any street outside the
Business District except for the purpose of loading or unloading the cargo
thereof in the ordinary course of business.
Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 72.07 VEHICLES OVER 30 FEET IN LENGTH.
   (A)   (1)   No person shall park a vehicle a length of 30 feet or more,
except temporarily during daylight hours, on the city streets.
      (2)   For the purpose of this section, “a length of 30 feet or more”
shall be measured from the rear bumper to the front portion of any vehicle. If
a trailer is attached, a combined length shall be used. If a trailer is
disconnected, the length of the trailer shall be used.
   (B)   Whenever any police officer shall find a vehicle parked on the city
streets in violation of this section, such officer may remove or have such
vehicle removed or require the driver or the person in charge of such vehicle
to move the vehicle to a position off of the city streets.
   (C)   The owner lawfully entitled to possession of such vehicle shall be
charged with the reasonable costs of removal and storage, payable before such
vehicle is released. Any such towing or storage fee shall become a security
interest in the vehicle prior to all other claims.
(Prior Code, § 3-317) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 72.08 DISPLAY OR REPAIR OF VEHICLE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to park upon any highway or public place
within the city any vehicle displayed for sale. Except when necessary due to a
breakdown or other emergency, no person shall adjust or repair, or race the
motor of, any motor vehicle or motorcycle while standing on the highways of the
city. No person or employee connected with a garage or repair shop shall use
sidewalks or highways in the vicinity of the garage or shop for the purpose of
working on vehicles of any description.
Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 72.09 MAXIMUM TIME LIMITS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to park or leave unattended any motor
vehicle upon a public street or the city for more than 48 consecutive hours,
except where a different maximum time limit is posted.
(Prior Code, § 3-315) Penalty, see §
70.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 60-680
§ 72.10 PARALLEL, ANGLE AND CENTER PARKING.
   (A)   Except as otherwise provided in this section, any vehicle stopped or
parked upon a two-way roadway where parking is permitted shall be so stopped or
parked with the right-hand wheels parallel to and within 12 inches of the
right-hand curb or edge of such roadway. No vehicle shall be parked upon a
roadway when there is a shoulder adjacent to the roadway which is available for
parking.
   (B)   Except when otherwise provided by the City Council, every vehicle
stopped or parked upon a one-way roadway shall be so stopped or parked parallel
to the curb or edge of such roadway, in the direction of authorized traffic
movement, with its right-hand wheels within 12 inches of the right-hand curb or
edge of the roadway or its left-hand wheels within 12 inches of the left-hand
curb or edge of such roadway.
   (C)   The City Council may permit angle or center parking on any roadway,
except that angle or center parking shall not be permitted on any federal-aid
highway or on any part of the state highway system unless the Director-State
Engineer has determined that such roadway is of sufficient width to permit
angle or center parking without interfering with the free movement of traffic.
   (D)   The City Council may prohibit or restrict stopping, standing or
parking on highways under its jurisdiction and erect and maintain proper and
adequate signs thereon. No person shall stop, stand or park any vehicle in
violation of the restrictions stated on such signs.
(Neb. RS 60-6,167)
   (E)   Where stalls are designated either on the curb or pavement, vehicles
shall be parked within those stalls.
   (F)   Vehicles must not be parked at any curb in such a position as to
prevent another vehicle already parked at the curb from moving away.
Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 72.11 UNATTENDED MOTOR VEHICLE.
   No person having control or charge of a motor vehicle shall allow such
vehicle to stand unattended on a highway without first doing the following:
   (A)   Stopping the motor of such vehicle;
   (B)   Except for vehicles equipped with motor starters that may be actuated
without a key, locking the ignition, removing the key from the ignition;
   (C)   Effectively setting the brakes thereon; and
    (D)   When standing upon any roadway, turning the front wheels of such
vehicle to the curb or side of such roadway.
(Neb. RS 60-6,168) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 72.12 PAINTING OF CURBS.
   (A)   The curb space within 15 feet in either direction of a fire hydrant
shall be painted to indicate that parking is prohibited in such area.
   (B)   If the City Council adopts a resolution regulating or prohibiting the
parking or stopping of vehicles at the curb on highways in front of certain
facilities or at certain locations, the curbs adjacent to any such facility or
location shall be painted in such manner as directed by the City Council to
indicate such regulation or prohibition.
   (C)   It shall be the duty of the City Council or its agent to cause the
curb space to be painted and to keep the same painted as provided in this
chapter or as specified by the City Council. The marking or designating of
portions of highways where the parking of vehicles is prohibited or limited
shall be done only by the city through its proper officers, at the direction of
the City Council. No person shall paint the curb of any highway or in any
manner set aside, or attempt to prevent the parking of vehicles in, any highway
or part thereof, except at such places where the parking of vehicles is
prohibited by the provisions of this chapter or by a resolution adopted by the
City Council.
Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 72.13 PARKING FOR HANDICAPPED OR DISABLED PERSONS.
   (A)   The Mayor and City Council may, by resolution, designate parking
spaces for the exclusive use of paraplegics or other handicapped persons whose
vehicles display the distinguishing license plates issued by the state or, as
certified by the Mayor and City Council, where vehicles display the
identification card used by the city.
   (B)   Whenever such parking spaces are so designated by the Mayor and City
Council, they shall be indicated by blue paint either on the curb or edge of
the paved portion of the street adjacent to each space and by a sign consisting
of a profile view of a wheelchair with occupant in white on a blue background.
   (C)   It shall be the duty of the City Clerk, upon approval of the Mayor and
City Council, to issue a permit to physically handicapped persons who have
reached school age and persons who drive a motor vehicle for a visually
handicapped person which will entitle the holder thereof to park in those
spaces herein provided.
   (D)   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      PHYSICALLY HANDICAPPED PERSONS. Persons using crutches, canes, walkers,
wheelchairs or having definite walking problems, including, but not limited to,
amputees and those persons who have respiratory problems which incapacitate
their walking ability.
      VISUALLY HANDICAPPED PERSON. Persons using the white cane or seeing eye
dog.
   (E)   The permit shall be on a suitable card containing the letter “H” and
an identifying number on the front of the card. The name, address, phone
number, date of birth and the age of the party to whom issued shall appear on
the reverse side.
   (F)   All permits authorized under this section shall be issued for a period
of one year. Permits shall be renewable annually on January 1. A permit may be
reissued upon a change of address by the holder.
   (G)   Permits issued under this section shall not be transferable and shall
be used only by the party to whom issued. Use by any other party shall be cause
for suspension of such permit for a period of six months. At the expiration of
such period, a suspended permit may be renewed.
   (H)   When reserved parking spaces, so designated as provided herein, are
posted as a tow-away zone, any vehicle parked in such a space and not
displaying proper identification may be removed and anyone violating the
provisions of this section shall be subject to a fine of not less than $50 nor
more than $100.
   (I)   The owner or persons in lawful possession of an off-street parking
facility may provide reserved parking spaces for handicapped persons as
provided herein and may, after notifying the city law enforcement officials,
cause the removal of any vehicle in violation of this section.
(Prior Code, § 3-318) Penalty, see §
70.99
CHAPTER 73: RECREATIONAL VEHICLES
Section
   
73.01   Clinging to motor vehicles
   
73.02   Bicycles
   
73.03   Motorcycles
   
73.04   Snowmobiles
 
   
73.99   Penalty
§ 73.01 CLINGING TO MOTOR VEHICLES.
   No person riding upon any bicycle, coaster, roller skates, sled, skis or toy
vehicle shall attach the same or himself or herself to any moving vehicle upon
any roadway, and it shall be unlawful for the driver of any vehicle to suffer
or permit any person riding upon any bicycle, coaster, roller skates, sled,
skis or toy vehicle to cling to or attach himself or herself or his or her
bicycle, coaster, roller skates, sled, skis or toy vehicle to such vehicle so
driven and operated by him or her.
(Prior Code, § 3-402) Penalty, see §
73.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 60-6,316
§ 73.02 BICYCLES.
   (A)   No person shall ride or propel a bicycle on a street or other public
highway of this city with another person on the handlebars or in any position
in front of the operator.
   (B)   No bicycle shall be operated faster than is reasonable and proper, but
every bicycle shall be operated with reasonable regard to the safety of the
operator and any other persons upon the streets and public highways.
   (C)   Persons riding bicycles shall observe all traffic signs and stop at
all stop signs.
   (D)   Any person who operates a bicycle upon a street or highway shall not
ride more than single file, except on parts of streets or highways set aside
for the exclusive use of bicycles.
   (E)   (1)   Any person who operates a bicycle upon a roadway at less than
the normal speed of traffic at the time and place and under conditions then
existing shall ride as near to the right-hand curb or right-hand edge of the
roadway as practicable except when:
         (a)   Overtaking and passing another bicycle or vehicle proceeding in
the same direction;
         (b)   Preparing for a left turn onto a private road or driveway or at
an intersection;
         (c)   Reasonably necessary to avoid conditions that make it unsafe to
continue along the right-hand curb or right-hand edge of the roadway, including
fixed or moving objects, stopped or moving vehicles, bicycles, pedestrians,
animals or surface hazards;
         (d)   Riding upon a lane of substandard width which is too narrow for
a bicycle and vehicle to travel safely by side within the lane; or
         (e)   Lawfully operating a bicycle on the paved shoulders of a highway
included in the state highway system as provided in Neb. RS 60-6,142.
      (2)   Any person who operates a bicycle upon a roadway with a posted
speed limit of 35 mph or less on which traffic is restricted to one direction
of movement and which has two or more marked traffic lanes may ride as near to
the left-hand curb or left-hand edge of the roadway as practicable. Whenever a
person operating a bicycle leaves the roadway to ride on the paved shoulder or
leaves the paved shoulder to enter the roadway, the person shall clearly signal
his or her intention and yield the right-of-way to all other vehicles.
   (F)   No person shall park a bicycle on any sidewalk unless a bicycle stand
is located on said sidewalk.
   (G)   No person shall operate a bicycle on the sidewalks within the Business
District.
(Prior Code, § 3-401) Penalty, see §
73.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 60-6,315, 60-6,317 and 60-6,318
§ 73.03 MOTORCYCLES.
   (A)   Operation.
      (1)   Any person who operates a motorcycle shall have all of the rights
and shall be subject to all of the duties applicable to the driver of any other
vehicle under this chapter.
      (2)   Any person who operates a motorcycle shall ride only upon a
permanent and regular seat attached thereto and shall not carry any other
person, nor shall any other person ride on a motorcycle unless such motorcycle
is designed to carry more than one person, in which event a passenger may ride
upon the permanent and regular seat if designed for two persons, or upon
another seat firmly attached to the motorcycle to the rear or side of the
operator.
      (3)   Any person shall ride upon a motorcycle only while sitting astride
the seat, facing forward.
      (4)   No person shall operate a motorcycle while carrying any package,
bundle or other article which prevents him or her from keeping both hands on
the handlebars.
      (5)   No operator shall carry any person, nor shall any person ride, in a
position that will interfere with the operation or control of the motorcycle or
the view of the operator.
      (6)   A motorcycle shall be entitled to full use of a traffic lane of any
highway, and no vehicle shall be driven in such a manner as to deprive any
motorcycle of the full use of such land. This division (A)(6) shall not apply
to motorcycles operated two abreast in a single lane.
      (7)   The operator of a motorcycle shall not overtake and pass in the
same lane occupied by the vehicle being overtaken.
      (8)   No person shall operate a motorcycle between lanes of traffic or
between adjacent lines or rows of vehicles.
      (9)   Motorcycles shall not be operated more than two abreast in a single
lane.
      (10)   Divisions (A)(7) and (A)(8) above shall not apply to police
officers in the performance of their official duties.
(Prior Code, § 3-403)
   (B)   Lights. No person shall ride a motorcycle upon the streets, alleys or
highways from one half hour after sunset to one half hour before sunrise,
unless the same shall be equipped with at least one and not more than two
headlights, plainly visible from the front and with a light on the rear
exhibiting a red light visible under normal atmospheric conditions from a
distance of at least 500 feet to the rear thereof; provided, said lamps shall
comply with the requirements and limitations of the statutes of the state.
(Prior Code, § 3-404)
Penalty, see §
73.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 60-6,306 through 60-6,308
§ 73.04 SNOWMOBILES.
   (A)   Equipment.
      (1)   Every snowmobile operated within the city shall be registered with
the state as required by law. No snowmobile shall be operated upon a public
street or highway unless it is equipped with at least one head lamp, one tail
lamp, reflector material of a minimum area of 16 square inches mounted on each
side forward of the handle bars, and with brakes as prescribed by the
Department of Motor Vehicles.
      (2)   All laws applying to the operation of other motor vehicles shall
apply to snowmobiles, except those relating to required equipment and those
which, by their nature, have no application.
(Prior Code, § 3-405)
   (B)   Unlawful acts. It shall be deemed a misdemeanor for any person to
allow a snowmobile, either owned or operated by him or her, to be operated:
      (1)   Within the congested area of the city unless said snowmobile is
engaged in responding to an emergency;
      (2)   At a rate of speed greater than reasonable or proper under the
surrounding circumstances;
      (3)   In a careless, reckless or negligent manner so as to endanger
person or property;
      (4)   Without a lighted headlight and taillight when such would be
required by conditions;
      (5)   In any tree nursery or planting in a manner which damages or
destroys growing stock; and/or
      (6)   Upon any private lands without first having obtained permission of
the owner, lessee or operator of such lands.
(Prior Code, § 3-406)
   (C)   On public lands. Snowmobiles shall be prohibited upon the public lands
owned by the city except where allowed by resolution of the City Council.
(Prior Code, § 3-407)
   (D)   Enforcement. Any peace officer, including a conservation officer, may
enforce the provisions relating to snowmobiles.
(Prior Code, § 3-408)
Penalty, see §
73.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 60-6,343, 60-6,335, 60-6,337 and 60-6,338
§ 73.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
70.99.
   (B)   Any person convicted of violating any rule or regulation dealing with
snowmobiles shall be punished by a fine of not more than $500.
(Prior Code, § 3-408)
CHAPTER 74: TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
Section
   
I.   Speed zones
SCHEDULE I. SPEED ZONES.
   Except when a special hazard exists that requires lower speed for compliance
with §
71.21, no person shall drive a vehicle in excess of the following limits within
the corporate limits of the city.
 
Location                                      Speed Limit Ord. No. Ord. Passed
State Highway N-12 from the west corporate
limits (530 feet west of the junction with N- 35 mph      2-12-24  2-12-2024
121) to the east corporate limits (E Second
Street)
State Highway N-121 from the function with N-
12 to the north corporate limits (at Iowa     55 mph      2-12-24  2-12-2024
Street)
 
Penalty, see §
70.99
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
90.   NUISANCES
      
91.   ANIMALS
      
92.   FIRE PREVENTION AND PROTECTION
CHAPTER 90: NUISANCES
Section
   
90.01   Definition
   
90.02   Abatement procedure
 
   
90.99   Penalty
§ 90.01 DEFINITION.
   (A)   General definition. For the purpose of this subchapter, the following
definition shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      NUISANCE. Consists of doing any unlawful act, or omitting to perform a
duty, or suffering or permitting any condition or thing to be or exist, which
act, omission, condition or thing either:
         (a)   Injures or endangers the comfort, repose, health or safety of
others;
         (b)   Offends decency;
         (c)   Is offensive to the senses;
         (d)   Unlawfully interferes with, obstructs, tends to obstruct or
renders dangerous for passage any stream, public park, parkway, square, street
or highway in the city;
         (e)   In any way renders other persons insecure in life or the use of
property; or
         (f)   Essentially interferes with the comfortable enjoyment of life
and property or tends to depreciate the value of the property of others.
   (B)   Specific definition. The maintaining, using, placing, depositing,
leaving or permitting of any of the following specific acts, omissions, places,
conditions and things are hereby declared to be NUISANCES:
      (1)   Any odorous, putrid, unsound or unwholesome grain, meat, hides,
skins, feathers, vegetable matter or the whole or any part of any dead animal,
fish or fowl;
      (2)   Privies, vaults, cesspools, dumps, pits or like places which are
not securely protected from flies or rats, or which are foul or malodorous;
      (3)   Filthy, littered or trash-covered cellars, houseyards, barnyards,
stableyards, factory yards, mill yards, vacant areas in the rear of stores,
granaries, vacant lots, houses, buildings or premises;
      (4)   Animal manure in any quantity which is not securely protected from
flies and the elements, or which is kept or handled in violation of any
ordinance of the city;
      (5)   Liquid household waste, human excreta, garbage, butcher’s trimmings
and offal, parts of fish or any waste vegetable or animal matter in any
quantity; provided, that nothing herein contained shall prevent the temporary
retention of waste in receptacles in a manner provided by the health officer of
the city, nor the dumping of non-putrefying waste in a place and manner
approved by the health officer;
      (6)   Tin cans, bottles, glass, cans, ashes, small pieces of scrap iron,
wire metal articles, bric-a-brac, broken stone or cement, broken crockery,
broken glass, broken plaster and all trash or abandoned material, unless the
same be kept in covered bins or galvanized iron receptacles;
      (7)   Trash, litter, rags, accumulations of barrels, boxes, crates,
packing crates, mattresses, bedding, excelsior, packing hay, straw or other
packing material, lumber not neatly piled, scrap iron, tin or other metal not
neatly piled, old automobiles or parts thereof or any other waste materials
when any of the articles or materials create a condition in which flies or rats
may breed or multiply, or which may be a fire danger, or which are so unsightly
as to depreciate property values in the vicinity thereof;
      (8)   Any unsightly buildings, billboards or other structures, or any
old, abandoned or partially destroyed buildings or structures, or any buildings
or structures commenced and left unfinished, which buildings, billboards or
other structures are either a fire hazard, a menace to the public health or
safety, or are so unsightly as to depreciate the value of property in the
vicinity thereof;
      (9)   All places used or maintained as junk yards, or dumping grounds, or
for the wrecking and disassembling of automobiles, trucks, tractors or
machinery of any kind, or for the storing or leaving of worn-out, wrecked or
abandoned automobiles, trucks, tractors or machinery of any kind, or of any of
the parts thereof, or for the storing or leaving of any machinery or equipment
used by contractors or builders or by other persons, which places are kept or
maintained so as to essentially interfere with the comfortable enjoyment of
life or property by others, or which are so unsightly as to tend to depreciate
property values in the vicinity thereof;
      (10)   Stagnant water permitted or maintained on any lot or piece of
ground;
      (11)   Stockyards, granaries, mills, pig pens, cattle pens, chicken pens
or any other place, building or enclosure in which animals or fowl of any kind
are confined or on which is stored tankage or any other animal or vegetable
matter, or on which any animal or vegetable matter, including grain, is being
processed when the places in which the animals are confined, or the premises on
which the vegetable or animal matter is located, are maintained and kept in
such a manner that foul and noxious odors are permitted to emanate therefrom to
the annoyance of inhabitants of the city or are maintained and kept in such a
manner as to be injurious to the public health;
      (12)   Weed or grass growth that is more than eight inches in height.
Weeds shall include, but not be limited to, bindweed, puncture vine, leafy
spurge, Canada thistle, perennial peppergrass, Russian knapweed, Johnson grass,
nodding or musk thistle, quack grass, perennial sow thistle, horse nettle, bull
thistle, buckthorn, hemp plant and ragweed; and
      (13)   All other things specifically designated as nuisances elsewhere in
this code.
Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.02 ABATEMENT PROCEDURE.
   (A)   The owner or occupant of any real estate within the corporate limits
or extraterritorial zoning jurisdiction of the city shall keep such real estate
free of nuisances. Except to the extent that conflicting procedures are
otherwise provided, the procedures in this section shall apply to the abatement
of nuisances.
   (B)   Upon determination by the Board of Health or designated official that
the owner or occupant of any such real estate has failed to keep the real
estate free of nuisances, notice to abate and remove such nuisances and notice
of the right to a hearing before the City Council and the manner in which it
may be requested shall be given to each owner or owner’s duly authorized agent
and to the occupant, if any, by personal service or by certified mail. If
notice by personal service or certified mail is unsuccessful, notice shall be
given by publication in a newspaper of general circulation in the city or by
conspicuously posting the notice on the real estate upon which the nuisance is
to be abated and removed. The notice shall describe the condition as found by
the Board of Health or designated official and state that the condition has
been declared a nuisance and must be remedied at once.
   (C)   If, within five days after receipt of such notice or publication or
posting, whichever is applicable, the owner or occupant of the real estate does
not request a hearing with the city or fails to comply with the order to abate
and remove the nuisance, the city may have such work done.
   (D)   If, within five days after receipt of such notice or publication or
posting, whichever is applicable, the owner or occupant requests in writing a
hearing with the City Council, the Council shall fix a time and place at which
a hearing will be held. Notice of the hearing shall be given by personal
service or certified mail and require the owner or occupant to appear before
the Council to show cause why such condition should not be found to be a
nuisance and remedied. The notice shall be given not less than seven nor more
than 14 days before the time of the hearing. Upon the date fixed for the
hearing and pursuant to the notice, the Council shall hear all objections made
by the owner or occupant and shall hear evidence submitted by the Board of
Health or designated official. If, after consideration of all the evidence, the
City Council finds that the condition is a nuisance, it shall, by resolution,
order and direct the owner or occupant to remedy the nuisance at once. If the
owner or occupant refuses or neglects to promptly comply with the order to
abate and remove the nuisance, the Council may have such work done.
   (E)   The costs and expenses of any such work shall be paid by the owner. If
unpaid for two months after such work is done, the city may either:
      (1)   Levy and assess the costs and expenses of the work upon the real
estate so benefited as a special assessment in the same manner as other special
assessments for improvements are levied and assessed; or
      (2)   Recover in a civil action the costs and expenses of the work upon
the real estate and the adjoining streets and alleys.
Statutory reference:
   Authority to regulate and abate nuisances, see Neb. RS 18-1720
   Nuisances prohibited, see Neb. RS 28-1321
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-563
   Zoning jurisdiction, Neb. RS 17-1001
§ 90.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   In the event that the owner or occupant of said premises fails to
correct and eliminate said nuisance pursuant to the notice, he or she shall be
deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be fined in
a sum of not more than $500. Each day’s violation after the expiration of the
15 days’ notice shall be a separate offense and may be prosecuted as such.
(Prior Code, § 2-603)
   (B)   Anyone violating any of the terms and conditions of any of this
chapter shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be fined in a sum not
more than $500 for each offense. Each day’s maintenance of the same shall
constitute a separate offense.
(Prior Code, § 2-701)
CHAPTER 91: ANIMALS
Section
General Provisions
   
91.01   Definitions
   
91.02   Running at large; tethering
   
91.03   Killing, poisoning and injuring
   
91.04   Impoundment
   
91.05   Interference with police
   
91.06   Animal shelter
   
91.07   Kennels
   
91.08   Snakes, exotic animals, domestic farm animals
   
91.09   Fowl; running at large
Rabies
   
91.20   Vaccination required; cost; exemptions
   
91.21   Post-incident management
   
91.22   Animal pound; impoundment; release; fees
   
91.23   Proclamation of danger
Dogs
   
91.35   License and tax required; exemption; tags
   
91.36   Removal of collar, harness or tags
   
91.37   Liability of owner
   
91.38   Barking and chasing; complaints
   
91.39   Dangerous dogs
   
91.40   Fighting dogs
 
   
91.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 91.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ANIMAL. Any vertebrate member of the animal kingdom other than an uncaptured
wild creature.
   ANIMAL CONTROL OFFICER. Any person authorized by law or employed or
appointed for the purpose of aiding in the enforcement of this chapter or any
other law or ordinance relating to the licensing, control, seizure or
impoundment of animals.
   OWNER. Any person who owns, possesses, keeps, harbors or has charge, custody
or control of an animal or permits an animal to habitually remain or be lodged
or fed within his or her house, store, building, enclosure, yard, lot, grounds
or premises. OWNER does not include any veterinarian or kennel operator
temporarily maintaining on his or her premises an animal owned by another
person for not more than 30 days.
   RUN AT LARGE. Not being under the actual control of the owner by means of:
      (a)   A leash, cord, chain or other suitable means of physical restraint
which is securely fastened or tethered in a manner sufficient to keep the
animal on the premises where tethered;
      (b)   A leash, cord, chain or other suitable means of physical restraint
of six feet or less in length physically held by the owner;
      (c)   Being confined within cage, receptacle, enclosed vehicle, fenced
enclosure or shelter; or
      (d)   Being within the real property limits of the owner and in the
owner’s presence and under direct and effective voice or other control.
§ 91.02 RUNNING AT LARGE; TETHERING.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the owner of any cow, hog, horse, mule,
sheep, goat, dog, chicken, turkey, goose or other animal, except a cat, to
permit the animal to run at large at any time on any of the public ways and
property or the property of another in the city or to be tethered or staked out
in such a manner so as to allow the animal to reach or pass into any public way
or property or any property of another. The owner of a cat may permit the cat
to run at large within the corporate limits, subject to any restrictions or
prohibitions otherwise imposed by the City Council.
   (B)   Any animal found running at large or tethered or staked out in
violation of this section is a public nuisance and may be impounded or
destroyed as provided in this chapter. Nothing in this section shall be
construed to permit anyone to own an animal in the corporate limits of the city
that is prohibited by the City Council.
Penalty, see §
91.99
Statutory reference:
   Authority to regulate, see Neb. RS 17-526 and 17-547
   Fine for permitting collarless dog to run at large, see Neb. RS 54-607
§ 91.03 KILLING, POISONING AND INJURING.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to kill, administer or cause to be
administered poison of any sort to, or in any manner injure, maim or destroy,
or attempt to injure, maim or destroy, any animal or to place any poison or
poisoned food where it is accessible to an animal, except that:
   (A)   This section shall not apply to any law enforcement officer or animal
control officer acting within his or her power and duty;
   (B)   This section shall not apply if the animal is vicious, dangerous or
showing characteristics of rabies and cannot be captured without danger to the
persons attempting to effect a capture of the animal; and
   (C)   Any owner of a dog that he or she wishes to be destroyed may place the
dog in an animal pound or shelter or with a licensed veterinarian to be
humanely destroyed and disposed of according to the provisions in this chapter
or other provisions of law.
Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.04 IMPOUNDMENT.
   (A)   This section shall apply to the impoundment of animals to which §
91.22 does not apply.
   (B)   Any animal found in violation of the provisions of this chapter shall
be impounded. All impounded domestic animals shall be given proper care,
treatment and maintenance.
   (C)   Notice of the impoundment of all animals, including any significant
marks of identification, shall be posted at the pound and at the office of the
City Clerk within 24 hours after impoundment as public notification of
impoundment. Notice of the impoundment of any licensed dog shall also be mailed
to the owner listed on the license application by regular United States mail to
the address listed on the application.
   (D)   Each impounded domestic animal shall be kept and maintained at the
pound for a period of not less than five days after public notice has been
given unless reclaimed earlier by the owner. The owner may reclaim the animal
during the period of impoundment by payment of any general impoundment and
daily board fees set by resolution of the City Council and on file in the
office of the City Clerk, except that in addition, an unusual or other
nondomesticated or wild animal shall only be released upon condition that the
owner shall immediately remove the animal from the city or destroy it. A
diseased animal may be released upon a determination that the health and safely
of the public is no longer threatened. The owner of any released animal shall
be required to comply with any licensing and rabies vaccination requirements
applicable to such animal within 72 hours after release.
   (E)   (1)   If the animal is unclaimed at the end of the required waiting
period after public notice has been given, the animal control officer may
destroy and dispose of the animal in a humane manner in accordance with the
applicable rules and regulations, except that if, in the judgment of the
officer, a suitable home can be found for the animal, the animal shall be
turned over to the person who can provide such home and the new owner shall be
required to pay all fees and meet all applicable licensing and vaccinating
requirements.
      (2)   The city shall acquire legal title to any unlicensed dog or any
other animal impounded in the animal shelter for a period longer than the
required waiting period after giving notice. The owner of the animal shall
remain liable for payment of the fees established by the City Council.
Statutory reference:
   Authority to establish pens and pounds, see Neb. RS 17-548 and 71-4408
   Authority to impound and sell animals, see Neb. RS 17-526 and 17-547
§ 91.05 INTERFERENCE WITH POLICE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to hinder, delay or interfere with any
police officer or animal control officer who is performing any duty enjoined
upon that person by the provisions of this chapter or to break open, or in any
manner directly or indirectly aid, counsel, or advise the breaking open, of the
animal shelter, any ambulance wagon or any other vehicle used for the
collecting or conveying of animals to the shelter.
Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.06 ANIMAL SHELTER.
   The animal shelter shall be safe, suitable and conveniently located for the
impounding, keeping and destruction of animals. Said shelter shall be sanitary,
ventilated and lighted.
(Prior Code, § 2-321)
§ 91.07 KENNELS.
   (A)   Definition. For the purpose of this section, the following definition
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      KENNEL. Any lot or parcel of land or place where more than three dogs or
more than three cats over the age of 12 weeks are confined, treated, boarded,
housed or cared for, and shall include any lot or parcel of land or place where
a person, corporation or other entity engages in, conducts, manages or
maintains a veterinary business, regardless of the number of animals treated,
kept, confined or boarded.
(Prior Code, § 2-401)
   (B)   Nuisance. It is hereby declared that it is and shall be a nuisance for
any person, corporation, partnership or other entity to maintain, keep, conduct
or operate any kennel within the zoning limits of the city without first
obtaining a license therefor.
(Prior Code, § 2-402)
   (C)   License required. It is unlawful for any person, corporation,
partnership or other entity to maintain, keep, conduct or operate any kennel
within the zoning limits of the city without first obtaining a license
therefor.
(Prior Code, § 2-403)
   (D)   Application. Any person or legal entity seeking a kennel license shall
make written application to the City Council. Such application shall state in
detail the type, number and gender of animals to be held in such kennel,
describe the kennel facility in detail and provide such other information as
may be required by the City Council. Such application shall also have attached
thereto the consent of all property owners or occupants of lands or lots
adjoining the land upon which the proposed kennel is to be located. In the
event that the City Council determines that such kennel would not constitute a
nuisance, it shall issue such license on such terms and conditions as it deems
appropriate. Such license shall be on an annual basis and may be revoked after
notice and hearing for violation of any term or condition of the issuance of
the license. The annual license fee shall be $50 and the license shall not be
issued until such fee is paid.
(Prior Code, § 2-404)
   (E)   Kennel regulations. Every place used as a kennel shall be kept in a
clean and sanitary condition and no refuse or waste material shall be allowed
to remain thereon for more than 24 hours. All animals shall be humanely treated
and any animal having any disease shall be properly isolated and treated.
(Prior Code, § 2-405)
Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.08 SNAKES, EXOTIC ANIMALS, DOMESTIC FARM ANIMALS.
   (A)   Prohibition. It is hereby determined unlawful for any person to keep,
maintain or confine any snakes, exotic animals or domestic farm animals within
the corporate limits of the city or within one mile thereof except as
hereinafter provided.
(Prior Code, § 2-501)
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      DOMESTIC FARM ANIMAL. Any horse, sheep, mule, cow, goat, swine or
offspring thereof or any other livestock generally raised for commercial sale.
      EXOTIC ANIMAL. Any llama, zebra, buffalo or other animal other than a
domestic farm animal or dog, weighing more than 50 pounds.
(Prior Code, § 2-502)
   (C)   Exemptions; license, application. It shall be lawful to keep and
maintain domestic farm animals in enclosed or fenced areas on private property
with the prior consent and approval of the City Council. Any person desiring to
maintain domestic animals on property owned or controlled by them within the
city shall make application to the City Clerk for a license to do so. The City
Clerk shall present such application at the next regular or special meeting of
the City Council, and the City Council may permit the keeping of such animals
within the corporate limits of the city upon such terms and conditions as they
determine best.
(Prior Code, § 2-503)
Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.09 FOWL; RUNNING AT LARGE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to allow poultry, chickens, turkeys,
geese or any other fowl to run at large within the corporate limits. Such fowl
may be maintained within the city if the same are confined in cages inside an
enclosed building.
(Prior Code, § 2-504) Penalty, see §
91.99
RABIES
§ 91.20 VACCINATION REQUIRED; COST; EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   Every domestic animal in the city shall be vaccinated against rabies
with a licensed vaccine and revaccinated at intervals specified by rules and
regulations adopted and promulgated by the Department. Young domestic animals
shall be initially vaccinated at the age specified in the rules and
regulations. Unvaccinated domestic animals acquired or moved into the city
shall be vaccinated within 30 days after purchase or arrival unless under the
age for initial vaccination.
   (B)   (1)   Except as provided in division (B)(3) below, every hybrid animal
in the city shall be vaccinated against rabies and shall be revaccinated at
intervals specified by the rules and regulations adopted and promulgated by the
Department. A young hybrid animal shall be initially vaccinated at the age
specified in such rules and regulations. An unvaccinated hybrid animal acquired
or moved into the city shall be vaccinated within 30 days after purchase or
arrival unless under the age for initial vaccination.
      (2)   The rabies vaccine used to vaccinate a hybrid animal pursuant to
this section shall be sold only to licensed veterinarians.
      (3)   An owner of a hybrid animal in the city prior to the date of
development of a licensed vaccine determined scientifically to be reliable in
preventing rabies in a hybrid animal shall have one year after such date to
comply with this section.
(Neb. RS 71-4402)
   (C)   The cost of rabies vaccination shall be borne by the owner of the
domestic or hybrid animal.
(Neb. RS 71-4404)
   (D)   (1)   The provisions of this subchapter, with respect to vaccination,
shall not apply to any domestic or hybrid animal owned by a person temporarily
remaining within the city for less than 30 days, to any domestic or hybrid
animal brought into the city for field trial or show purposes, or to any
domestic or hybrid animal brought into the city for hunting purposes for a
period of less than 30 days. Such domestic or hybrid animals shall be kept
under strict supervision of the owner. It shall be unlawful to bring any
domestic or hybrid animal into the city which does not comply with the animal
health laws and import rules and regulations of the state which are applicable
to domestic or hybrid animals.
      (2)   Domestic or hybrid animals assigned to a research institution or a
similar facility shall be exempt from this subchapter.
(Neb. RS 71-4405)
Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.21 POST-INCIDENT MANAGEMENT.
   Any domestic animal which has bitten any person or caused an abrasion of the
skin of any person shall be subjected to post-incident management as provided
in the rules and regulations adopted and promulgated by the Department.
(Neb. RS 71-4406) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.22 ANIMAL POUND; IMPOUNDMENT; RELEASE; FEES.
   (A)   (1)   The rabies control authority may authorize an animal pound or
pounds or may enter into a cooperative agreement with a licensed veterinarian
for the establishment and operation of a pound.
      (2)   Any dog or hybrid of the family Canidae found outside the owner’s
premises whose owner does not possess a valid certificate of rabies vaccination
and valid rabies vaccination tag for the dog or hybrid of the family Canidae
shall be impounded. The rabies control authority may require the impoundment of
domestic or hybrid animals other than dogs or hybrids of the family Canidae.
All impounded domestic or hybrid animals shall be given proper care, treatment
and maintenance. Each impounded domestic or hybrid animal shall be kept and
maintained at the pound for a period of not less than 72 hours unless reclaimed
earlier by the owner.
      (3)   Notice of the impoundment of all animals, including any significant
marks of identification, shall be posted at the pound as public notification of
impoundment. Any unvaccinated domestic or hybrid animal may be reclaimed by its
owner during the period of impoundment by payment of prescribed pound fees and
by complying with the rabies vaccination requirement of this subchapter within
72 hours of release. Any vaccinated domestic or hybrid animal impounded because
its owner has not presented a valid certificate of rabies vaccination and a
valid rabies vaccination tag for the domestic or hybrid animal may be reclaimed
by its owner by furnishing proof of rabies vaccination and payment of all
impoundment fees prior to release.
      (4)   At the expiration of impoundment, a domestic or hybrid animal may
be claimed by payment of the established pound fees and by compliance with the
rabies vaccination requirement of this subchapter within 72 hours of release.
If the domestic or hybrid animal is unclaimed at the end of five days, the
authorities may dispose of the domestic or hybrid animal in accordance with
applicable laws or rules and regulations.
(Neb. RS 71-4408)
   (B)   Impoundment fees shall be paid by the owner. Fees for impoundment at
public facilities shall be established by the rabies control authority.
(Neb. RS 71-4411)
§ 91.23 PROCLAMATION OF DANGER.
   Whenever, in its opinion, the danger to the public safety from a species of
rabid animals is great or imminent, the City Council shall issue a proclamation
ordering all owners of any such species to muzzle the animal or to confine it
for a period of not less than 30 days or more than 90 days from the date of the
proclamation or until the danger is passed. The animal may be harbored by any
good and sufficient means in a house, garage or yard on the premises on which
the owner may reside. Upon issuance of a proclamation, all owners of any such
species shall muzzle or confine the animal as provided in this section.
Penalty, see §
91.99
DOGS
§ 91.35 LICENSE AND TAX REQUIRED; EXEMPTION; TAGS.
   (A)   Any owner of a dog over the age of six months within the city shall,
within 30 days after acquisition of the dog, acquire a license for the dog
annually by or before May 1 of each year. Licenses shall be issued by the City
Clerk upon payment of a license tax in the amount established by the City
Council, plus the $1 fee required under Neb. RS 54-603(3). It shall be unlawful
for the owner of a dog to wrongfully and knowingly license an unspayed female
dog as a male or spayed female dog if the Council has established different
license taxes for such dogs.
   (B)   The tax shall be delinquent from and after May 10. The owner of any
dog brought into or harbored within the corporate limits subsequent to May 1 of
any year shall be liable for payment of the dog tax, and such tax shall be
delinquent if not paid within ten days thereafter. The license shall not be
transferable, and no refund will be allowed in case of death, sale or other
disposition of the licensed dog.
   (C)   The owner shall state, at the time the application is made and upon
printed forms provided for such purpose, his or her name and address and the
name, breed, color and sex of each dog owned by him or her. A certificate of
rabies vaccination, effective for the ensuing year of the license, shall be
presented when application for a license is made, and no license or tag shall
be issued until the certificate is shown.
   (D)   Every service animal shall be licensed as required by this section,
but no license tax shall be charged. Upon the retirement or discontinuance of
the animal as a service animal, the owner of the animal shall be liable for the
payment of the required license tax.
(Neb. RS 54-603)
   (E)   (1)   Upon payment of the license tax, the Clerk shall issue to the
owner of the dog a license certificate and a metallic tag, which shall be valid
until April 30 following such licensing. The Clerk shall issue tags of a
suitable design that are different in appearance each year.
      (2)   The metallic tag and the rabies tag shall be properly attached to
the collar or harness of the dog. It shall be unlawful for the owner of any dog
to permit or allow such dog to wear any licensing identification other than the
metallic tag issued by the Clerk.
      (3)   If a license tag is lost, upon satisfactory evidence that the
original tag was issued in accordance with the provisions of this section, the
Clerk shall issue a duplicate or new tag for the balance of the year for which
the license tax has been paid and shall charge and collect a fee established by
the City Council for each duplicate or new tag so issued.
   (F)   All license taxes, fees and other collections shall be credited to the
General Fund of the city, except as otherwise provided by Neb. RS 54-603.
Penalty, see §
91.99
Statutory reference:
   Authority to impose license tax, require rabies certificate and destroy
unlicensed dogs, see Neb. RS 17-526, 54-603 and 71-4412
§ 91.36 REMOVAL OF COLLAR, HARNESS OR TAGS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to remove, or cause to be removed, the
collar, harness, metallic license tag or rabies tag from any dog without the
consent of the owner of the dog.
Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.37 LIABILITY OF OWNER.
   It shall be unlawful for the owner to allow a dog to injure or destroy any
real or personal property of any description belonging to another person. The
owner of the dog, in addition to the usual judgment upon conviction, may be
made to be liable to the person injured in an amount equal to the value of the
damage sustained.
Penalty, see §
91.99
Statutory reference:
   Authority to guard against injuries or annoyances, see Neb. RS 17-526
   Statutory liability for damages, see Neb. RS 54-601, 54-602 and 54-606
§ 91.38 BARKING AND CHASING; COMPLAINTS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the owner to allow a dog to annoy or disturb
any neighborhood or person by loud, continued or frequent barking, howling or
yelping or to habitually bark at or chase pedestrians, drivers or owners of
horses or vehicles while they are on any public sidewalks, streets or alleys in
the city.
   (B)   Upon the written complaint of two or more affected persons from
different households, filed within any 30-day period with the City Clerk or
animal control officer, that any dog owned by the person named in the complaint
is an annoyance or disturbance, or otherwise violates the provisions of this
section, the city police or animal control officer shall investigate the
complaint and, if in his or her opinion the situation warrants, notify the
owner to silence and restrain the dog.
   (C)   The provisions of this section shall not be construed to apply to any
city animal shelter.
Penalty, see §
91.99
Statutory reference:
   Authority to guard against annoyances, see Neb. RS 17-526
§ 91.39 DANGEROUS DOGS.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      ANIMAL CONTROL AUTHORITY. An entity authorized to enforce the animal
control laws of the city and includes any local law enforcement agency or other
agency designated by the city to enforce the animal control laws of the city.
      ANIMAL CONTROL OFFICER. Any individual employed, appointed or authorized
by an animal control authority for the purpose of aiding in the enforcement of
this section or any other law or ordinance relating to the licensing of
animals, control of animals or seizure and impoundment of animals, and includes
any state or local law enforcement or other employee whose duties, in whole or
in part, include assignments that involve the seizure and impoundment of any
animal.
      DANGEROUS DOG.
         (a)   Any dog that, according to the records of the animal control
authority:
            1.   Has killed a human being;
            2.   Has inflicted injury on a human being that requires medical
treatment;
            3.   Has killed a domestic animal without provocation; or
            4.   Has been previously determined to be a potentially dangerous
dog by an animal control authority, the owner has received notice of such
determination from an animal control authority or an animal control officer,
and the dog inflicts an injury on a human being that does not require medical
treatment, injures a domestic animal or threatens the safety of humans or
domestic animals.
         (b)   A dog shall not be defined as a DANGEROUS DOG if the individual
was tormenting, abusing or assaulting the dog at the time of the injury or has,
in the past, been observed or reported to have tormented, abused or assaulted
the dog.
         (c)   A dog shall not be defined as a DANGEROUS DOG if the injury,
damage or threat was sustained by an individual who, at the time, was
committing a willful trespass as defined in Neb. RS 20-203, 28-520 or 28-521,
was committing any other tort upon the property of the owner of the dog, was
tormenting, abusing or assaulting the dog, or has, in the past, been observed
or reported to have tormented, abused or assaulted the dog, or was committing
or attempting to commit a crime.
         (d)   A dog shall not be defined as a DANGEROUS DOG if the dog is a
police animal as defined in Neb. RS 28-1008.
      DOMESTIC ANIMAL. A cat, a dog or livestock. LIVESTOCK includes buffalo,
deer, antelope, fowl and any other animal in any zoo, wildlife park, refuge,
wildlife area or nature center intended to be on exhibit.
      MEDICAL TREATMENT. Treatment administered by a physician or other
licensed healthcare professional that results in sutures or surgery or
treatment for one or more broken bones.
      OWNER. Any person, firm, corporation, organization, political subdivision
or department possessing, harboring, keeping or having control or custody of a
dog.
      POTENTIALLY DANGEROUS DOG.
         (a)   Any dog that, when unprovoked:
            1.   Inflicts an injury on a human being that does not require
medical treatment;
            2.   Injures a domestic animal; or
            3.   Chases or approaches a person upon streets, sidewalks or any
public grounds in a menacing fashion or apparent attitude of attack.
         (b)   Any specific dog with a known propensity, tendency or
disposition to attack when unprovoked, to cause injury or to threaten the
safety of humans or domestic animals.
(Neb. RS 54-617)
   (B)   (1)   A dangerous dog that has been declared as such shall be spayed
or neutered and implanted with a microchip identification number by a licensed
veterinarian within 30 days after such declaration. The cost of both procedures
is the responsibility of the owner of the dangerous dog. Written proof of both
procedures and the microchip identification number shall be provided to the
animal control authority after the procedures are completed.
      (2)   No owner of a dangerous dog shall permit the dog to go beyond the
property of the owner unless the dog is restrained securely by a chain or
leash.
      (3)   Except as provided in division (B)(4) below or for a reasonable
veterinary purpose, no owner of a dangerous dog shall transport such dog or
permit such dog to be transported to another county, city or village in this
state.
      (4)   An owner of a dangerous dog may transport such dog or permit such
dog to be transported to another county, city or village in this state for the
purpose of permanent relocation of the owner if the owner has obtained written
permission prior to such relocation from the animal control authority of the
county, city or village in which the owner resides and from the county, city or
village in which the owner will reside. Each animal control authority may grant
such permission based upon a reasonable evaluation of both the owner and the
dog, including if the owner has complied with the laws of this state and of the
county, city or village in which he or she resides with regard to dangerous
dogs after the dog was declared dangerous. An animal control authority shall
not grant permission under this section if the county, city or village has an
ordinance or resolution prohibiting the relocation of dangerous dogs. After the
permanent relocation, the animal control authority of the county, city or
village in which the owner resides shall monitor the owner and such dog for a
period of at least 30 days, but not to exceed 90 days, to ensure the owner’s
compliance with the laws of this state and of such county, city or village with
regard to dangerous dogs. Nothing in this division (B)(4) shall permit the
rescindment of the declaration of dangerous dog.
(Neb. RS 54-618)
   (C)   (1)   No person, firm, partnership, limited liability company or
corporation shall own, keep or harbor, or allow to be in or on any premises
occupied by him, her or it or under his, her or its charge or control, any
dangerous dog without such dog being confined so as to protect the public from
injury.
      (2)   (a)   While unattended on the owner’s property, a dangerous dog
shall be securely confined, in a humane manner, indoors or in a securely
enclosed and locked pen or structure suitably designed to prevent the entry of
young children and to prevent the dog from escaping. The pen or structure shall
have secure sides and a secure top. If the pen or structure has no bottom
secured to the sides, the sides shall be embedded into the ground at least one
foot. The pen or structure shall also protect the dog from the elements. The
pen or structure shall be at least ten feet from any property line of the
owner.
         (b)   The owner of a dangerous dog shall post warning signs on the
property where the dog is kept that are clearly visible from all areas of
public access and that inform persons that a dangerous dog is on the property.
Each warning sign shall be not less than ten inches by 12 inches and shall
contain the words “warning” and “dangerous animal” in high-contrast lettering
at least three inches high on a black background.
(Neb. RS 54-619)
   (D)   (1)   Any dangerous dog may be immediately confiscated by an animal
control officer if the owner is in violation of this section. The owner shall
be responsible for the reasonable costs incurred by the animal control
authority for the care of a dangerous dog confiscated by an animal control
officer or for the destruction of any dangerous dog if the action by the animal
control authority is pursuant to law and if the owner violated this section.
(Neb. RS 54-620)
      (2) In addition to any other penalty, a court may order the animal
control authority to dispose of a dangerous dog in an expeditious and humane
manner.
(Neb. RS 54-621)
   (E)   If a dangerous dog of an owner with a prior conviction under this
section attacks or bites a human being or domestic animal, in addition to any
other penalty, the dangerous dog shall be immediately confiscated by an animal
control authority, placed in quarantine for the proper length of time, and
thereafter destroyed in an expeditious and humane manner.
(Neb. RS 54-623)
Penalty, see §
91.99
Statutory reference:
   Owner felony liability; serious bodily injury second offense, see Neb. RS
54-622.01
   Prior conviction; ownership of dangerous dog prohibited for ten years after,
see Neb. RS 54-623
§ 91.40 FIGHTING DOGS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, by agreement or otherwise, to set dogs
to fighting or by any gesture or word to encourage the same to fight. Any
person convicted of violating this section shall be fined in any sum not
exceeding that permitted by state law.
(Prior Code, § 2-316) Penalty, see §
91.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-526
§ 91.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Anyone harboring any livestock as described in §
91.08(B) or permitting fowl to run at large shall be deemed guilty of a
misdemeanor and shall be fined in a sum of not more than $500, and each day’s
maintenance as described in §
91.08(A) shall be determined as a separate offense and may be prosecuted as
such.
(Prior Code, § 2-505)
CHAPTER 92: FIRE PREVENTION AND PROTECTION
Section
General Provisions
   
92.01   Fire Prevention Code
   
92.02   Fire Code enforcement
   
92.03   Lawful entry
   
92.04   Violation notice
   
92.05   Poisonous or flammable gas
   
92.06   Smoking in public places
   
92.07   Prohibited fuels
   
92.08   Burning prohibited
   
92.09   Stoves, furnaces and chimneys
   
92.10   Preservation of property
   
92.11   Power of arrest
   
92.12   Fire investigation
   
92.13   Driving over hose
   
92.14   Traffic
   
92.15   False alarm
   
92.16   Pedestrians
   
92.17   Fire equipment
   
92.18   Interference
   
92.19   Obstruction
   
92.20   Assistance
   
92.21   Open burning ban; waiver
Hazardous and Explosive Material
   
92.35   Storage
   
92.36   Bullets
   
92.37   Blasting permits
   
92.38   Registration
Fireworks
   
92.50   Use, sale, possession of fireworks
   
92.51   Firework detonation after midnight prohibited
   
92.52   Firework detonation in Fire Zone prohibited
 
   
92.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 92.01 FIRE PREVENTION CODE.
   The rules and regulations promulgated by the office of the State Fire
Marshal relating to fire prevention are incorporated by reference into this
code and made a part of this chapter as though spread at large herein, together
with all subsequent amendments thereto. Three copies of the Fire Prevention
Code shall be on file with the City Clerk and shall be available for public
inspection at any time that the city office is open for business.
(Prior Code, § 7-101)
§ 92.02 FIRE CODE ENFORCEMENT.
   It shall be the duty of all city officials to enforce the incorporated Fire
Code provisions, and all infractions shall be immediately brought to the
attention of the City Council.
(Prior Code, § 7-102)
§ 92.03 LAWFUL ENTRY.
   It shall be the duty of the owner, lessee or occupant of any building or
structure, except the interiors of private dwellings, to allow the fire
inspector, as designated by the City Council, to inspect the structure for
purposes of ascertaining and enumerating all conditions therein that are likely
to cause fire, or any other violations of the provisions of the city ordinances
affecting the hazard of fire.
(Prior Code, § 7-103)
§ 92.04 VIOLATION NOTICE.
   It shall be the duty of the owner, lessee or occupant of any building or
structure that was lawfully inspected as herein prescribed, and who receives
written or verbal notice of a violation of any of the provisions of the city
ordinances, to correct the condition within five days of the date of receipt of
such notice.
(Prior Code, § 7-104)
§ 92.05 POISONOUS OR FLAMMABLE GAS.
   Any person, firm or corporation desiring to store or keep any form of
poisonous or flammable gas in the city for any period of time must first get
permission from the City Council. The Council shall require the name of the
gas, the place of storage and the amount of gas stored. It shall then be the
duty of the City Council to prescribe such rules, regulations and precautionary
actions as it may deem necessary.
(Prior Code, § 7-105)
§ 92.06 SMOKING IN PUBLIC PLACES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to ignite a lighter, strike a match or
indulge in the smoking of tobacco on or in any building or structure where
public gatherings take place within the corporate limits while any
entertainment, program, show, amusement, game, exhibition or other spectacle to
which the general public is invited is in progress, or while patrons thereof
are finding or leaving seats and standing room; provided, that the foregoing
shall not be construed to apply to banquets, dinners or entertainments held in
any of the aforesaid buildings or structures where food is served and the
entertainment takes place incidental thereto or in connection therewith.
(Prior Code, § 7-106) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.07 PROHIBITED FUELS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to permit or allow crank case drainings,
oil or other flammable substances, other than wood, to be burned in a homemade
stove.
(Prior Code, § 7-107) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.08 BURNING PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to set a fire of any kind, either
contained fires, such as garbage and other refuse in barrels, or open burning
of any kind.
(Prior Code, § 7-108) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.09 STOVES, FURNACES AND CHIMNEYS.
   All furnaces, stoves and other heating devices shall be installed at a
proper distance from combustible materials and portions of the building. Any
combustible materials or portions of the building that are dangerously close to
such heating devices shall be protected by non-combustible material. This
section shall apply both to existing structures and those which may hereafter
be erected.
(Prior Code, § 7-109)
§ 92.10 PRESERVATION OF PROPERTY.
   Any police officer or official of the rural fire district shall have the
power during the time of a fire to cause the removal of any private or public
property whenever it shall become necessary to do so for the preservation of
such property from fire, to prevent the spreading of fire or to protect
adjoining property. Said officials may direct the removal of any building,
erection, fence or any part thereof for the purpose of checking the progress of
any fire. The official in charge of the firefighting effort shall have the
power to blow up, or cause to be blown up, with powder or otherwise, any
building or erection during the progress of a fire for the purpose of
extinguishing or halting the same.
(Prior Code, § 7-110)
§ 92.11 POWER OF ARREST.
   The City Police Chief or rural Fire Department Chief shall have the power
during the time of a fire and after its extinguishment to arrest any suspected
arsonist or any person hindering or resisting the firefighting effort.
(Prior Code, § 7-111)
§ 92.12 FIRE INVESTIGATION.
   It shall be the duty of the City Police Department and the State Fire
Marshal to investigate, or cause to be investigated, the cause, origin and
circumstances of every fire occurring in the city in which property has been
destroyed or damaged when the damage exceeds $500. All fires of unknown origin
shall be reported, and such officers shall especially make an investigation and
report as to whether such fire was the result of carelessness, accident or
design. The officer making the investigation of fires occurring within the city
shall immediately notify the State Fire Marshal and shall, within one week of
the occurrence of the fire, furnish him or her with a written statement of all
the facts relating to the cause and origin of the fire and such further
information as he or she may call for.
(Prior Code, § 7-112)
§ 92.13 DRIVING OVER HOSE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to drive a vehicle over any unprotected
hose of the Fire Department unless authorized to do so by the Fire Department.
(Prior Code, § 7-113) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.14 TRAFFIC.
   Every vehicle within 500 feet of the fire station which is already
stationary when the fire alarm shall have been sounded must remain so for a
period of five minutes after the sounding of the fire alarm. No vehicle shall
follow, approach or park closer than 500 feet to any fire vehicle or to any
fire hydrant to which a hose is connected. Nothing herein shall be construed to
apply to vehicles carrying doctors, members of the Fire Department or emergency
vehicles.
(Prior Code, § 7-114) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.15 FALSE ALARM.
   It shall be unlawful for any person intentionally, and without good and
reasonable cause, to raise any false alarm of fire.
(Prior Code, § 7-115) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.16 PEDESTRIANS.
   It shall be unlawful for any pedestrian to enter or remain in any street
after a fire alarm shall have sounded until the fire trucks shall have
completely passed.
(Prior Code, § 7-116) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.17 FIRE EQUIPMENT.
   It shall be unlawful for any person except the Fire Chief and the members of
the Fire Department to molest, destroy, handle or in any other way to interfere
with the use and storage of any of the fire trucks and other apparatus
belonging to the Fire Department.
(Prior Code, § 7-117) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.18 INTERFERENCE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person or persons to hinder or obstruct the
Fire Chief or other members of the Fire Department in the performance of their
duty.
(Prior Code, § 7-118) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.19 OBSTRUCTION.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to obstruct the use of any fire hydrant,
or have or place any material within 15 feet of said hydrant. Any vehicle or
material found as an obstruction may be immediately removed by the Fire Chief
or any member of the Fire Department at the risk, cost and expense of the owner
or claimant.
(Prior Code, § 7-119) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.20 ASSISTANCE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to refuse to aid in extinguishing a fire
or to assist in the removal and protection of property after the command of the
Fire Chief or Assistant Fire Chief.
(Prior Code, § 7-120) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.21 OPEN BURNING BAN; WAIVER.
   (A)   There shall be an open burning ban on all bonfires, outdoor rubbish
fires and fires for the purpose of clearing land.
   (B)   (1)   The Fire Chief may waive an open burning ban under division (A)
above for an area under the City Fire Department’s jurisdiction by issuing an
open burning permit to a person requesting permission to conduct open burning.
The permit issued by the Fire Chief to a person desiring to conduct open
burning shall at a minimum contain:
         (a)   The name and telephone number of the landowner;
         (b)   The burn location;
         (c)   The date and beginning and ending time of the burn;
         (d)   A description of the material to be burned; and
         (e)   The name and telephone number of the person responsible for the
burn.
      (2)   The local Fire Department may have additional requirements for a
burn to be permitted. The permit shall contain the signature, written or
electronic, of the local Fire Chief. The State Fire Marshal shall provide a
sample form with the minimum requirements on the website of the State Fire
Marshal.
   (C)   The Fire Chief may waive the open burning ban in the City Fire
Department’s jurisdiction when conditions are acceptable to the Chief. Anyone
intending to burn in that jurisdiction when the open burning ban has been
waived shall notify the Fire Chief of his or her intention to burn prior to
starting the burn.
   (D)   The Fire Chief may adopt standards listing the conditions acceptable
for issuing a permit to conduct open burning under division (B) above.
   (E)   The Fire Department may charge a fee not to exceed $10 for each such
permit issued. This fee shall be remitted to the City Council for inclusion in
the general funds allocated to the Fire Department. These funds shall not
reduce the tax requirements for the Fire Department. No such fee shall be
collected from any state or political subdivision to which such a permit is
issued to conduct open burning under division (B) above in the course of that
state’s or political subdivision’s official duties.
(Neb. RS 81-520.01) Penalty, see §
92.99
HAZARDOUS AND EXPLOSIVE MATERIAL
§ 92.35 STORAGE.
   Dynamite and other explosives shall be stored in a proper receptacle made of
concrete, metal or stone, which shall be closed at all times except when
actually in use. Such receptacle shall not be located in any room where there
is a flame or flammable materials.
(Prior Code, § 7-201)
§ 92.36 BULLETS.
   Cartridges, shells and percussion caps shall be kept in their original
containers away from flame, flammable materials and high explosives.
(Prior Code, § 7-202)
§ 92.37 BLASTING PERMITS.
   Any person wishing to discharge high explosives within the city must secure
a permit from the City Council and shall discharge such explosives in
conformance with such directives and precautions as may be prescribed under the
direction and supervision of the Fire Chief.
(Prior Code, § 7-203)
§ 92.38 REGISTRATION.
   Any person keeping or storing dynamite, nitroglycerin, gun powder or other
high explosives in any quantity shall register such information as the City
Council may require with the City Clerk, who shall forward such information to
the Fire Chief.
(Prior Code, § 7-204)
FIREWORKS
§ 92.50 USE, SALE, POSSESSION OF FIREWORKS.
   The use, sale, offer for sale and possession of permissible fireworks in the
city as defined by Neb. RS 28-1241 shall be governed and regulated by Neb. RS
28-1241 through 28-1252, including any and all amendments thereto, together
with any rules and regulations adopted by the State Fire Marshal for the
enforcement of Neb. RS 28-1241 through 28-1252.
(Prior Code, § 7-301)
§ 92.51 FIREWORK DETONATION AFTER MIDNIGHT PROHIBITED.
   No fireworks of any kind shall be detonated between the hours of 12:00 a.m.
and 7:00 a.m.
(Prior Code, § 7-302)
§ 92.52 FIREWORK DETONATION IN FIRE ZONE PROHIBITED.
   No fireworks of any kind shall be detonated in any designated fire zone
within the city.
(Prior Code, § 7-303)
§ 92.99 PENALTY.
   Any person who shall violate or refuse to comply with the enforcement of any
of the provisions of this chapter, whether set forth at full length herein or
incorporated by reference, shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and fined in
a sum of not more than $500. Each day’s maintenance of the same shall
constitute a separate offense.
(Prior Code, § 7-401)
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
110.   BUSINESS LICENSING
      
111.   TRAILERS AND TRAILER COURTS
      
112.   ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
CHAPTER 110: BUSINESS LICENSING
Section
Nonresident Salespersons
   
110.01   Registration
   
110.02   Exceptions
   
110.03   Duty to carry and display permit
   
110.04   Hours of solicitation
Salvage Yards
   
110.15   Definition
   
110.16   Permit
   
110.17   Nuisance
Plumbers
   
110.30   Definition
   
110.31   Procedure to obtain license
   
110.32   Renewal of licenses
   
110.33   Term of license
   
110.34   Fees
NONRESIDENT SALESPERSONS
§ 110.01 REGISTRATION.
   Any nonresident salesperson, not having a regularly maintained route on a
weekly basis, intending to sell or attempting to sell at retail any
merchandise, magazines, books or other items of value or attempting to take
orders or subscriptions for the same within the corporate limits of the city
shall, prior to making any attempt to sell such items, register with the City
Clerk. The City Clerk shall require satisfactory evidence of identification,
including photographs, product to be sold, principal place of business,
employer’s name and address, telephone numbers, address if employed and such
other additional evidence necessary for identification and location. Upon
registration, the City Clerk shall have authority to issue a salesperson’s
permit to such salesperson. There shall be a charge of $10 per day per
salesperson to be paid at the time such permit is issued by the Clerk. Said
permit shall be valid for three days from date of issuance. The Clerk may also
require written satisfactory recommendation or approval from the Better
Business Bureau or such other organization as to said salesperson, his or her
product and business prior to issuing such permit. All registration fees
collected by the Clerk shall be credited by the Treasurer to the General Fund
of the city.
(Prior Code, § 4-201)
§ 110.02 EXCEPTIONS.
   The provisions of §
110.01 shall not extend to individuals calling on retail merchants in corporate
limits of the city for the purpose of taking orders or selling of merchandise
for resale by such merchants, or to any persons selling produce raised on their
property.
(Prior Code, § 4-202)
§ 110.03 DUTY TO CARRY AND DISPLAY PERMIT.
   The salesperson permit as herein provided shall at all times be carried on
the person of said salesperson and shall be displayed by the salesperson upon
the request of any citizen of the city or any police officer of the city.
(Prior Code, § 4-203)
§ 110.04 HOURS OF SOLICITATION.
   It shall be unlawful for any solicitor, salesperson or peddler to solicit
any individual between the hours of 5:00 p.m. and 9:00 a.m. unless they have a
previous appointment with the resident or residents of the premises solicited.
(Prior Code, § 4-204) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-134
SALVAGE YARDS
§ 110.15 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   SALVAGE YARD. Any business where junk, scrap iron and metals such as gold,
silver, brass, copper or tin; old machinery or parts thereof; car bodies and
unusable parts of motor vehicles; old tires or scrap rubber; rags, bones,
paper; wreckage from old buildings; used or secondhand lumber; used or
secondhand building materials or discarded material which may be treated or
prepared so as to be used again in some form, are purchased, sold or exchanged.
(Prior Code, § 4-301)
§ 110.16 PERMIT.
   (A)   No person shall engage in the principal business of a salvage yard
without a permit, which permit shall be issued by the City Clerk upon payment
to the City Council of a permit fee of $100, which permit shall be good for one
year only. The permit year shall be from May 1 to April 30 of each year. Such
permit may be revoked by the City Council if any of the provisions of this
subchapter are violated by the permittee. No more than one permit shall be
granted to the same person during one permit year. Permits may be renewed after
review by the City Board of Health.
   (B)   No person to whom a permit shall have been granted under the
provisions of this subchapter shall do business in more than one place under
one permit. Every permit shall state the place and legal description of the
real estate where such business is to be carried on, which shall be the place
where junk is to be stored either inside or outside any building located
thereon and include the office building of said business. The storage of junk
or doing business upon any real estate other than that described in the permit
shall be considered a violation of the terms of this subchapter. In case a
permittee at the time of the issuance of the permit shall have any junk stored
upon any real estate other than the particular real estate described in the
permit, he or she shall remove the same therefrom within 30 days after the
issuance of the permit.
(Prior Code, § 4-302) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 110.17 NUISANCE.
   It is hereby determined to be a public nuisance for any person to operate
any junk business within the corporate limits of the city contrary to any of
the provisions set forth above. The operation of such junk business contrary to
the terms of this subchapter is hereby determined to be a nuisance and may be
enjoined pursuant to §
90.02.
(Prior Code, § 4-303) Penalty, see §
10.99
PLUMBERS
§ 110.30 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   LICENSED PLUMBER. Any person to whom a plumber’s license has been duly
issued or renewed, as hereinafter provided, which has not been revoked or
terminated by lapse of time.
(Prior Code, § 6-201)
§ 110.31 PROCEDURE TO OBTAIN LICENSE.
   (A)   Any person wishing to obtain a license as a plumber shall file in the
office of the City Clerk a written application asking to become a licensed
plumber and stating his or her willingness to be governed in all respects by
the ordinances of said city and all rules and regulations now in effect or
hereafter to be adopted by said city concerning its utility systems.
   (B)   Such application shall be presented by the City Clerk to the City
Council at its next meeting thereafter held, and upon the City Council being
satisfied of the business capacity, qualifications and good reputation of the
applicant and of his or her worthiness to receive a license, and upon his or
her payment to the City Clerk of a license fee of $5 and his or her filing with
the City Clerk of a bond with corporate surety to be approved by the City
Council in the penal sum of $2,000, conditioned upon his or her indemnifying
and keeping harmless the city from all liability for any damage arising from
any negligence or unskilled act in doing or protecting his or her work, or from
any unfaithful or inadequate work done in pursuance of his or her license, and
conditioned upon his or her restoring the streets, alleys, sidewalks and
pavements over the pipes he or she may lay, and filling all excavations made by
him or her so as to leave said streets, alleys, sidewalks and pavements in as
good condition as he or she found them, and keeping and maintaining the same in
good order to the satisfaction of the City Council for the period of one year
next thereafter, and that he or she will pay all fines that may be imposed upon
him or her for a violation of any of the ordinances, rules and regulations
adopted by this city and in force during the term of his or her license, said
Council may grant to such applicant a license to be issued by the City Clerk,
authorizing the applicant to engage in business as a licensed plumber in said
city for and during the then current municipal year. Said license and bond
shall cover all employees of the applicant.
(Prior Code, § 6-202)
§ 110.32 RENEWAL OF LICENSES.
   Any license granted as provided in §
110.31 may be renewed from year to year at the option of the City Council, on
application therefor, upon payment of the license fee of $5 for the year and
the renewal of applicant’s bond.
(Prior Code, § 6-203)
§ 110.33 TERM OF LICENSE.
   The term of each license or renewal may be revoked at any time, at the
option of the City Council.
(Prior Code, § 6-204)
§ 110.34 FEES.
   The City Clerk shall pay over to the City Treasurer all license fees
collected pursuant to this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 6-205)
CHAPTER 111: TRAILERS AND TRAILER COURTS
Section
   
111.01   Definitions
   
111.02   Permit required
   
111.03   Permit renewal
   
111.04   Assigning permit prohibited
   
111.05   Permit revocation
   
111.06   Unit spaces
   
111.07   Drainage
   
111.08   Plumbing facilities
   
111.09   Waste disposal
   
111.10   Electrical supply
   
111.11   Unlawful parking
   
111.12   Conversion
   
111.13   Exceptions
   
111.14   Liability
   
111.15   Inspections
§ 111.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   COURT. Any tract of land upon which are located two or more trailers or
other temporary enclosures used for living purposes, whether a charge is made
or not.
   TRAILER. Any vehicle commonly designated as such, also called “mobile home,”
and constructed to permit occupancy for sleeping, advertising or business
purposes, and so designed that it is or may be mounted on wheels and used as a
conveyance on the public ways, and does not comply with the city building code.
   UNIT SPACE. The ground space that is actually set aside in a trailer court
for the occupancy by and use of a trailer or other temporary dwelling.
(Prior Code, § 4-401)
§ 111.02 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to establish a trailer court
within the city or within one-half mile beyond the corporate limits until he or
she shall first obtain a permit for such purpose from the City Council. The
City Clerk shall provide permit application forms, which shall require:
      (1)   The name and address of the applicant;
      (2)   The name and residence of the proposed manager of the premises;
      (3)   The location and size of the court and a plat of the court showing
the number and location of each unit space;
      (4)   The water service available; the toilet or sewer facilities
available;
      (5)   The proposed means of disposing of garbage;
      (6)   The electrical current sources available; and
      (7)   The type of buildings proposed to be erected thereon.
   (B)   Upon receipt of any such permit application, the City Clerk shall
furnish the Mayor with a copy of said application. The Mayor shall then examine
the premises involved and the proposed unit spaces for the purpose of
determining whether the proposed court will violate any of the provisions of
the municipal code or the laws of the state. The Mayor’s findings shall then be
submitted in writing to the City Council.
   (C)   The City Council at its next regular meeting shall consider such
application and, if the members find that all of the provisions of this chapter
are complied with, shall issue a permit for the operation of the trailer court.
In the event that any of the provisions of this chapter shall not be provided
for in such permit application, then such trailer court permit shall not be
issued until the City Council receives assurances that all provisions of this
chapter shall be complied with.
   (D)   In the event that all of the terms and conditions of this chapter have
been complied with and the City Council votes to permit such trailer court to
exist, then the City Clerk shall issue a permit to such applicant, which permit
shall be for a one-year period, to be renewed annually.
(Prior Code, § 4-402) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.03 PERMIT RENEWAL.
   (A)   The annual fee for such permit shall be set by resolution of the City
Council and shall be on file at the office of the City Clerk. The same
procedure shall apply for the renewal of a permit as was heretofore prescribed
for the issuance of a permit.
   (B)   No permit shall be issued for any period longer than one year.
(Prior Code, § 4-403)
§ 111.04 ASSIGNING PERMIT PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful to assign or transfer without the written consent of
the City Clerk and the authorization of the City Council any permit issued by
the city for the purpose of allowing the operation of a trailer court.
(Prior Code, § 4-404) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.05 PERMIT REVOCATION.
   Any permit granted under the provisions of this chapter shall be subject to
revocation at any time by the City Council. Notice shall be served by the City
Clerk upon the person holding such permit, setting forth the manner in which
the owner or operator of the court has failed to comply with the provisions of
this chapter and allowing him or her an opportunity for a hearing before the
City Council at a day and hour therein specified. Said hearing shall be held
not less than three days after the personal service of said notice. The owner
or operator shall then be required to show cause why said permit should not be
revoked. Any owner or operator allowed an appearance under the provisions
herein shall have the right to be represented by counsel.
(Prior Code, § 4-405)
§ 111.06 UNIT SPACES.
   Each trailer home shall be located on a site not less than 1,000 square
feet. No trailer home shall be parked closer than five feet to the lot lines of
the trailer court without the permission of the City Council; provided, that
nothing herein shall be construed to allow any trailer to be parked or located
in such a manner as to obstruct the traffic on or the use of any public way or
public property, and in the event that the lot line is adjacent to the public
ways and property, the trailer shall be parked not less than ten feet
therefrom. Each unit space shall abut a driveway of not less than 20 feet in
width and shall have unobstructed access to a public street or alley. There
shall be an open space of at least ten feet between the ends of the trailers
located thereon, and there shall be on each trailer space an additional parking
space for one vehicle for each unit in said court.
(Prior Code, § 4-406) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.07 DRAINAGE.
   Every trailer court shall be located on a well-drained area and the premises
of such shall be properly graded so as to prevent the accumulation of stagnant
water thereon.
(Prior Code, § 4-407)
§ 111.08 PLUMBING FACILITIES.
   The owner or operator of a trailer court shall make available connections
with the sewer system for the trailer homes thereon unless other arrangements
are agreed to in writing by the City Council.
(Prior Code, § 4-408)
§ 111.09 WASTE DISPOSAL.
   For garbage and refuse collection, tight receptacles of the type permitted
for use within the city shall be provided for each unit space within the
trailer court.
(Prior Code, § 4-409)
§ 111.10 ELECTRICAL SUPPLY.
   Each unit space within the trailer court shall be provided with an
electrical service outlet installed and maintained in accordance with the
current issue of the National Electrical Code.
(Prior Code, § 4-410)
§ 111.11 UNLAWFUL PARKING.
   (A)   It shall hereafter be unlawful for any person to place, allow to be
placed or occupy for any purpose a trailer home within the city or one-half
mile beyond the corporate limits unless the same shall be located within the
boundaries of a duly established trailer court.
   (B)   Modular homes shall not be subject to this prohibition if they have
their towing tongue and axles removed and are placed on a permanent concrete or
concrete block foundation.
(Prior Code, § 4-411) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.12 CONVERSION.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to remove the wheels or
transporting device from any trailer or to otherwise affix said trailer to the
ground without first obtaining a written permit from the City Council;
provided, that the trailer so converted shall be subject to all rules and
regulations prescribed herein for other habitable dwellings.
   (B)   Applications for such permits shall be made through the City Clerk.
(Prior Code, § 4-412) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.13 EXCEPTIONS.
   Nothing in this chapter shall be construed to prohibit the storage of any
trailer home for any length of time when said trailer is not used for living or
business purposes, nor shall it apply to any trailer homes located within the
city at the time of the passage of this chapter; provided, that in the event
that such trailer is moved to a different location, all the provisions of this
chapter shall become immediately applicable thereto.
(Prior Code, § 4-413)
§ 111.14 LIABILITY.
   The owner of the property upon which any trailer or trailer court is located
shall be primarily liable for any violations of the provisions of this chapter
and shall also be primarily liable for the cost of any and all utility services
provided by the city to the owner or occupant of a trailer located thereon.
(Prior Code, § 4-414)
§ 111.15 INSPECTIONS.
   It shall be the duty of the owner, manager or occupants of any public
trailer court to allow any city officials to enter upon the premises for the
purpose of inspection at any reasonable time.
(Prior Code, § 4-415)
CHAPTER 112: ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
Section
General Provisions
   
112.01   Definitions
   
112.02   Sale or gift to minor or mentally incompetent person prohibited
   
112.03   Consumption in public places or places open to the public;
restrictions
Licenses Required
   
112.15   Manufacture, sale, delivery and possession; general prohibitions;
exceptions
   
112.16   Licenses; city powers and duties
   
112.17   Licensed premises; inspections
   
112.18   License renewal; city powers and duties
   
112.19   Display of license
   
112.20   Citizen complaints
   
112.21   Form for citizen complaint
   
112.22   Complaint initiated by City Council
   
112.23   Occupation tax for liquor licenses
   
112.24   Prerequisites to delivery of license
Retail Establishments
   
112.35   Access to dwellings
   
112.36   Sanitary conditions
   
112.37   Hours of sale
   
112.38   Credit sales prohibited
   
112.39   Spiking beer
   
112.40   Change of premises
   
112.41   Gambling
   
112.42   Sale for resale
   
112.43   Transportation of liquor of retail licensees
   
112.44   No delivery after closing hours
   
112.45   Conduct prohibited on licensed premises
   
112.46   Advertisements and sales
   
112.47   Premises open to view
 
   
112.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 112.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the definitions found in Neb. RS 53-103.01
through 53-103.51 shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires
a different meaning.
§ 112.02 SALE OR GIFT TO MINOR OR MENTALLY INCOMPETENT PERSON PROHIBITED.
   No person shall sell, furnish, give away, dispose of, exchange or deliver,
or permit the sale, gift or procuring of, any alcoholic liquors to or for any
minor, or to any person who is mentally incompetent.
(Neb. RS 53-180) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.03 CONSUMPTION IN PUBLIC PLACES OR PLACES OPEN TO THE PUBLIC;
RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   Except when the State Liquor Control Commission has issued a license
as provided in Neb. RS 53-186(2) or as provided in Neb. RS 60-6,211.08, it is
unlawful for any person to consume alcoholic liquor upon property owned or
controlled by the state or any governmental subdivision thereof unless
authorized by the governing bodies having jurisdiction over such property.
(Neb. RS 53-186)
   (B)   (1)   It is unlawful for any person owning, operating, managing or
conducting any bottle club, dance hall, restaurant, café or club, or any place
open to the general public, to permit or allow any person to consume alcoholic
liquor upon the premises except as permitted by a license issued for such
premises pursuant to the State Liquor Control Act, being Neb. RS 53-101 et seq.
      (2)   It is unlawful for any person to consume alcoholic liquor in any
dance hall, restaurant, café or club, or any place open to the general public,
except as permitted by a license issued for such premises pursuant to the Act.
      (3)   This division (B) does not apply to a retail licensee while
lawfully engaged in the catering of alcoholic beverages or to limousines or
buses operated under Neb. RS 60-6,211.08.
(Neb. RS 53-186.01)
Penalty, see §
112.99
LICENSES REQUIRED
§ 112.15 MANUFACTURE, SALE, DELIVERY AND POSSESSION; GENERAL PROHIBITIONS;
EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   No person shall manufacture, bottle, blend, sell, barter, transport,
deliver, furnish or possess any alcoholic liquor for beverage purposes except
as specifically provided in this chapter and the State Liquor Control Act,
being Neb. RS 53-101 et seq.
   (B)   Nothing in this chapter shall prevent:
      (1)   The possession of alcoholic liquor legally obtained as provided in
this chapter or the Act for the personal use of the possessor and his or her
family or guests;
      (2)   (a)   The making, transport and delivery of wine, cider, beer,
mead, perry or other alcoholic liquor by a person from fruits, vegetables,
honey or grains, or the product thereof, by simple fermentation and without
distillation:
            1.   If made solely for the use of the maker and his or her family
and guests if such alcoholic liquor is not sold or offered for sale; or
             2.   If made without a permit for an exhibition, festival or
tasting competition, including exhibitions, festivals or tasting competitions
that are for nonprofit organizations, such as fundraising events, legally
conducted under the Act, if such alcoholic liquor is not sold or offered for
sale.
         (b)   Alcoholic liquor served pursuant to division (B)(2)(a) above
shall clearly be identified as alcoholic liquor that was manufactured under an
exception to the rules and regulations of the Commission by signage, and the
location of the manufacturer shall be available upon request. Free or reduced
admission to the exhibition, festival or tasting competition shall not be
considered a sale of the alcoholic liquor.
      (3)   Any duly licensed practicing physician or dentist from possessing
or using alcoholic liquor in the strict practice of his or her profession, any
hospital or other institution caring for the sick and diseased persons from
possessing and using alcoholic liquor for the treatment of bona fide patients
of that hospital or other institution, or any drug store employing a licensed
pharmacist from possessing or using alcoholic liquor in the compounding of
prescriptions of licensed physicians;
      (4)   The possession and dispensation of alcoholic liquor by an
authorized representative of any religion on the premises of a place of worship
for the purpose of conducting any bona fide religious rite, ritual or ceremony;
      (5)   Persons who are 16 years old or older from carrying alcoholic
liquor from licensed establishments when they are accompanied by a person not a
minor;
      (6)   Persons who are 16 years old or older from handling alcoholic
liquor containers and alcoholic liquor in the course of their employment;
      (7)   Persons who are 16 years old or older from removing and disposing
of alcoholic liquor containers for the convenience of the employer and
customers in the course of their employment;
      (8)   Persons who are 16 years old or older from completing a transaction
for the sale of alcoholic liquor in the course of their employment if they are
not handling or serving alcoholic liquor; or
      (9)   Persons who are 19 years old or older from serving or selling
alcoholic liquor in the course of their employment.
(Neb. RS 53-168.06)
Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.16 LICENSES; CITY POWERS AND DUTIES.
   (A)   The City Council is authorized to regulate by ordinance, not
inconsistent with the State Liquor Control Act, being Neb. RS 53-101 et seq.,
the business of all retail, bottle club, craft brewery and microdistillery
licensees carried on within the corporate limits of the city.
(Neb. RS 53-134.03)
   (B)   During the period of 45 days after the date of receipt by mail or
electronic delivery of such application from the State Liquor Control
Commission, notice and a copy of an application for a new license to sell
alcoholic liquor at retail, a craft brewery license or a microdistillery
license, the City Council may make and submit to the Commission recommendations
relative to the granting or refusal to grant the license to the applicant.
(Neb. RS 53-131)
   (C)   The City Council, with respect to licenses within the corporate limits
of the city, has the following powers, functions and duties with respect to
retail, bottle club, craft brewery and microdistillery licenses:
      (1)   To cancel or revoke for cause retail, craft brewery or
microdistillery licenses to sell or dispense alcoholic liquor or bottle club
licenses issued to persons for premises within its jurisdiction, subject to the
right of appeal to the State Liquor Control Commission;
      (2)   (a)   To enter or to authorize any law enforcement officer to
enter, at any time upon any premises licensed under the State Liquor Control
Act, being Neb. RS 53-101 et seq. to determine whether any provision of the
Act, any rule or regulation adopted and promulgated pursuant to the Act, or any
ordinance, resolution, rule or regulation adopted by the City Council has been
or is being violated, and at that time, examine the premises of the licensee in
connection with such determination.
         (b)   Any law enforcement officer who determines that any provision of
the Act, any rule or regulation adopted and promulgated pursuant to the Act, or
any ordinance, resolution, rule or regulation adopted by the local governing
body has been or is being violated shall report such violation in writing to
the Executive Director of the Commission:
            1.   Within 30 days after determining that such violation has
occurred;
            2.   Within 30 days after the conclusion of an ongoing police
investigation; or
            3.   Within 30 days after the verdict in a prosecution related to
such an ongoing police investigation if the prosecuting attorney determines
that reporting such violation prior to the verdict would jeopardize such
prosecution, whichever is later.
      (3)   To receive a signed complaint from any citizen within its
jurisdiction that any provision of the Act, any rule or regulation adopted and
promulgated pursuant to the Act, or any ordinance, resolution, rule or
regulation relating to alcoholic liquor has been or is being violated and to
act upon these complaints in the manner provided in the Act;
      (4)   To receive retail, bottle club, craft brewery and microdistillery
license fees as provided in Neb. RS 53-124 and 53-124.01 and pay the same,
after the license has been delivered to the applicant, to the City Treasurer;
      (5)   To examine or cause to be examined any applicant or any retail,
bottle club, craft brewery or microdistillery licensee upon whom notice of
cancellation or revocation has been served as provided in the Act, to examine
or cause to be examined the books and records of any applicant or licensee,
except as otherwise provided for bottle club licensees under state law, and to
hear testimony and to take proof for its information in the performance of its
duties. For the purpose of obtaining any of the information desired, the City
Council may authorize its agent or attorney to act on its behalf;
      (6)   To cancel or revoke on its own motion any license if, upon the same
notice and hearing as provided in §
112.20, it determines that the licensee has violated any of the provisions of
the State Liquor Control Act, being Neb. RS 53-101 et seq. or any valid and
subsisting ordinance, resolution, rule or regulation duly enacted, adopted and
promulgated relating to alcoholic liquor. The order of cancellation or
revocation may be appealed to the Commission within 30 days after the date of
the order by filing a notice of appeal with the Commission. The Commission
shall handle the appeal in the manner provided for hearing on an application in
Neb. RS 53-133;
      (7)   Upon receipt from the Commission of the notice and copy of the
application as provided in Neb. RS 53-131, to fix a time and place for a
hearing at which the City Council shall receive evidence, either orally or by
affidavit, from the applicant and any other person bearing upon the propriety
of the issuance of a license. Notice of the time and place of the hearing shall
be published in a legal newspaper in or of general circulation in the city one
time not less than seven, and not more than 14, days before the time of the
hearing. The notice shall include, but not be limited to, a statement that all
persons desiring to give evidence before the City Council in support of or in
protest against the issuance of the license may do so at the time of the
hearing. The hearing shall be held not more than 45 days after the date of
receipt of the notice from the Commission, and after the hearing, the City
Council shall cause to be recorded in the minute record of its proceedings a
resolution recommending either issuance or refusal of the license. The City
Clerk shall mail to the Commission by first-class mail, postage prepaid, a copy
of the resolution which shall state the cost of the published notice, except
that failure to comply with this provision shall not void any license issued by
the Commission. If the Commission refuses to issue such a license, the cost of
publication of the notice shall be paid by the Commission from the security for
costs;
      (8)   To review and authorize an application by a retail, bottle club,
craft brewery, farm winery or microdistillery licensee for a temporary
expansion of its licensed premises within the jurisdiction of the local
governing body to an immediately adjacent area owned or leased by the licensee
or to an immediately adjacent street, parking lot or alley, not to exceed 50
days for calendar year 2020 and, for each calendar year thereafter, not to
exceed 15 days per calendar year as provided in Neb. RS 53-123.12 and 53-129;
and
      (9)   To review and authorize an application by a craft brewery, farm
winery or microdistillery licensee that holds a promotional farmers market
special designated license for a permit to use such promotional farmers market
special designated license to sell or dispense alcoholic liquor, which the
holder is licensed to produce, at a farmers market within the jurisdiction of
the local governing body as provided in Neb. RS 53-124.17. The local governing
body shall electronically notify the Commission within five days after
authorization of any permit pursuant to this division (C).
(Neb. RS 53-134)
   (D)   (1)   When the State Liquor Control Commission mails or delivers to
the City Clerk a retail, craft brewery or microdistillery license issued or
renewed by the Commission, the Clerk shall deliver the license to the licensee
upon receipt from the licensee of proof of payment of:
         (a)   The license fee if, by the terms of Neb. RS 53-124, the fee is
payable to the City Treasurer;
         (b)   Any fee for publication of the notice of hearing before the City
Council upon the application for the license;
         (c)   The fee for publication of the notice of renewal, if applicable,
as provided in Neb. RS 53-135.01; and
         (d)   Occupation taxes, if any, imposed by the city, except that Class
J retail licensees shall not be subject to occupation taxes.
      (2)   Notwithstanding any ordinance or charter power to the contrary, the
city shall not impose an occupation tax on the business of any person, firm or
corporation licensed under the State Liquor Control Act and doing business
within the corporate limits of the city in any sum which exceeds two times the
amount of the license fee required to be paid under the Act to obtain that
license.
(Neb. RS 53-132)
§ 112.17 LICENSED PREMISES; INSPECTIONS.
   (A)   The City Council shall cause frequent inspection to be made on the
premises of all retail licensees and bottle club licensees. If it is found that
any such licensee is violating any provision of this chapter, the State Liquor
Control Act, being Neb. RS 53-101 et seq. or the rules and regulations of the
State Liquor Control Commission, or is failing to observe in good faith the
purposes of this chapter or the Act, the license may be suspended, canceled or
revoked after the licensee is given an opportunity to be heard in his or her
defense.
   (B)   The City Council may inspect a charter bus providing service under a
certificate of public convenience and necessity granted by the Public Service
Commission when the owner or operator of the charter allows the consumption of
alcoholic liquor in the charter bus by an individual who is 21 years of age or
older so long as the inspection is performed when the bus has stopped for the
purpose of allowing passengers to embark or disembark.
(Neb. RS 53-116.01)
§ 112.18 LICENSE RENEWAL; CITY POWERS AND DUTIES.
   (A)   A retail or bottle club license issued by the State Liquor Control
Commission and outstanding may be automatically renewed by the Commission in
the absence of a written request by the City Council to require the licensee to
submit an application for renewal. Any licensed retail premises located in an
area which is annexed to the city shall file a formal application for a
license, and while the application is pending, the licensee may continue all
license privileges until the original license expires or is canceled or
revoked. If that license expires within 60 days following the annexation date
of the area, the license may be renewed by order of the Commission for not more
than one year.
(Neb. RS 53-135)
   (B)   The City Clerk shall cause to be published in a legal newspaper in or
of general circulation in the city, one time between January 10 and January 30
of each year, individual notice in the form prescribed by law of the right of
automatic renewal of each retail liquor and beer license within the city,
except that notice of the right of automatic renewal of Class C licenses shall
be published between the dates of July 10 and July 30 of each year. If written
protests to the issuance of automatic renewal of a license are filed in the
office of the City Clerk by three or more residents of the city on or before
February 10, or August 10 for Class C licenses, the City Council shall hold a
hearing to determine whether continuation of the license should be allowed.
Upon the conclusion of any hearing required by this section, the City Council
may request a licensee to submit an application as provided in Neb. RS 53-135.
(Neb. RS 53-135.01)
§ 112.19 DISPLAY OF LICENSE.
   Every licensee under the State Liquor Control Act, being Neb. RS 53-101 et
seq. shall cause his or her license to be framed and hung in plain view in a
conspicuous place on the licensed premises.
(Neb. RS 53-148) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.20 CITIZEN COMPLAINTS.
   (A)   Any five residents of the city shall have the right to file a
complaint with the City Council stating that any retail licensee or bottle club
licensee subject to the jurisdiction of the City Council has been or is
violating any provision of the State Liquor Control Act, being Neb. RS 53-101
et seq. or the rules or regulations issued pursuant to the Act.
   (B)   The complaint shall be in writing in the form prescribed by the City
Council and shall be signed and sworn to by the parties complaining.
   (C)   The complaint shall state the particular provision, rule or regulation
believed to have been violated and the facts in detail upon which belief is
based.
   (D)   If the City Council is satisfied that the complaint substantially
charges a violation and that from the facts alleged there is reasonable cause
for that belief, it shall set the matter for hearing within ten days from the
date of the filing of the complaint and shall serve notice upon the licensee of
the time and place of the hearing and of the particular charge in the
complaint.
   (E)   The complaint shall in all cases be disposed of by the City Council
within 30 days from the date the complaint was filed by resolution thereof,
which resolution shall be deemed the final order for the purpose of appeal to
the State Liquor Control Commission as provided in Neb. RS 53-1,115.
(Neb. RS 53-134.04)
§ 112.21 FORM FOR CITIZEN COMPLAINT.
   The following form is hereby prescribed for the use of residents of this
city desiring to complain to the Mayor and the City Council that any licensee
is violating any provision of the State Liquor Control Act, being Neb. RS 53-
101 et seq., regulations prescribed by the State Liquor Control Commission or
any provision of this section.
 
To the Mayor and City Council of the City of Crofton, Nebraska.
 
The undersigned respectfully state:
 
1. That they are each residents of the City of Crofton, Nebraska.
 
2. That they believe that          , the holder of a Class          license in the aforesaid
city, has violated Section          of (check one or more)
 
          The Nebraska Liquor Control Act.
 
          The regulations prescribed by the Nebraska Liquor Control Commission.
 
          The Municipal Code of the City of Crofton, Nebraska.
 
3.   That the aforesaid belief is based on the following facts, to-wit:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   
 
STATE OF NEBRASKA   )
) ss
COUNTY OF                 )
 
Subscribed in my presence and sworn to before me by                            ,                  ,              ,                and              , this            day of              ,               .
 
My commission expires          .
 
                        
   Notary Public
 
(Prior Code, § 4-109)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 53-134.04
§ 112.22 COMPLAINT INITIATED BY CITY COUNCIL.
   (A)   The Mayor and City Council may on their own motion, by resolution, fix
the time and place for a hearing on whether or not a licensee has violated any
section of the State Liquor Control Act, being Neb. RS 53-101 et seq., the
regulations of the State Liquor Control Commission or this chapter, which
resolution shall state the section or sections in question.
   (B)   Said resolution shall be served in the same manner and within the same
time as the initial resolution mentioned in §
112.20, and, insofar as possible, the procedure shall be the same as is
provided in that section.
(Prior Code, § 4-111)
§ 112.23 OCCUPATION TAX FOR LIQUOR LICENSES.
   (A)   Occupation taxes for these arid similar retail establishments shall be
as follows.
 
Retailer of alcoholic liquors, package only $150
Retailer of alcoholic liquors, Type C       $250
Retailer of beer only, off-sale             $25
Retailer of beer only, on-sale              $25
 
   (B)   (1)   The amount of such liquor license fee and occupation tax set
forth above shall be deposited with the City Treasurer at the time the
application for license is made, whether such application be filed with the
City Clerk or the State Liquor Control Commission, and the City Treasurer shall
hold such occupation tax as a trust fund until the application is finally
passed on, and if the application is refused and license denied, then the
amount thereof shall be returned to the applicant without interest.
      (2)   The occupation tax year shall commence on May 1 of each year and
shall end on April 30 the next succeeding year; provided, that during any
license year no license shall be issued, unless the occupation tax for the full
license year shall have been deposited with the City Treasurer as hereinabove
provided, regardless of the time when the application for license shall be
made, and no reduction shall be made in the amount of the occupation tax,
regardless of the time when the application for license shall have been made
and regardless of the time when such license is issued.
    (C)   (1)   The City Treasurer shall credit such occupation tax fees to the
General Fund of the city.
      (2)   Upon the failure of any such applicant to pay such occupation tax
as provided for by this section, it shall be mandatory upon the Mayor and City
Council to pass a resolution denying the application for a license, or
requesting the Liquor Control Commission to deny such application and such
resolution shall state the reason therefore and shall be forwarded to the State
Liquor Control Commission.
(Prior Code, § 4-107)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-525
§ 112.24 PREREQUISITES TO DELIVERY OF LICENSE.
   Retail licenses issued or renewed by the State Liquor Control Commission for
licensees within this city shall be delivered to said licensee by the City
Clerk, but he or she shall not deliver any such license to a licensee who does
not exhibit receipts showing payment of the occupation tax levied under §
112.23, payment of the license fee, payment of the publication fee for giving
notice of the hearing before the City Council on any application for license
and, if a renewal, payment of the publication fee of the automatic renewal
notice provided for in this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 4-112)
RETAIL ESTABLISHMENTS
§ 112.35 ACCESS TO DWELLINGS.
   Except in the case of hotels and clubs, no alcoholic liquor shall be
manufactured or sold at retail or wholesale upon any premises which has any
access which leads from the premises to any other portion of the same building
or structure used for dwelling or lodging purposes and permitted to be used or
kept accessible for use by the public. This section does not prevent any
connection between the premises and such other portion of the building or
structure which is used only by the licensee, his or her family or personal
guests.
(Neb. RS 53-178) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.36 SANITARY CONDITIONS.
   It shall be unlawful to open for public use any retail liquor establishment
that is not in a clean and sanitary condition. Toilet facilities shall be
adequate and convenient for customers and patrons. The licensed premises shall
be subject to any health inspections the City Council or the city police may
make or cause to be made. All applications for liquor licenses shall be viewed
in part from the standpoint of the sanitary conditions, and a report concerning
the sanitary conditions shall be made at all hearings concerning the
application for or renewal of a liquor license.
Penalty, see §
112.99
Statutory reference:
   Authority to regulate licensed premises, see Neb. RS 53-134.03
   State sanitary rules and regulations authorized, see Neb. RS 53-118
§ 112.37 HOURS OF SALE.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any licensed person or persons or their
agents to sell any alcoholic beverages within the city except during the hours
provided herein.
Hours of Sale
Alcoholic Liquors (except beer and wine)
Hours of Sale
Alcoholic Liquors (except beer and wine)
Secular days
Off-sale 6:00 a.m. to 2:00 a.m.
On-sale  6:00 a.m. to 2:00 a.m.
Sundays
Off-sale 6:00 a.m. to 2:00 a.m.
On-sale  6:00 a.m. to 2:00 a.m.
Beer and Wine
Secular days
Off-sale 6:00 a.m. to 2:00 a.m.
On-sale  6:00 a.m. to 2:00 a.m.
Sundays
Off-sale 6:00 a.m. to 2:00 a.m.
On-sale  6:00 a.m. to 2:00 a.m.
 
   (B)   No person or persons shall consume any alcoholic beverages on licensed
premises for a period of time longer than 15 minutes after the time fixed
herein for stopping the sale of alcoholic beverages on said premises.
   (C)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      OFF-SALE. Alcoholic beverages sold at retail in the original container
for consumption off the premises of the licensed establishment.
      ON-SALE. Alcoholic beverages sold by the drink for consumption on the
premises of the licensed establishment.
   (D)   Nothing in this section shall be construed to prohibit licensed
premises from being open for other business on days and hours during which the
sale or dispensing of alcoholic beverages is prohibited by this section.
(Prior Code, § 4-105) (Ord. 325, passed 8-4-2014) Penalty, see §
112.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 53-179
§ 112.38 CREDIT SALES PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No person shall sell or furnish alcoholic liquor at retail to any
person on credit, on a passbook, on an order on a store, in exchange for any
goods, wares or merchandise, or in payment for any services rendered, and if
any person extends credit for any such purpose, the debt thereby attempted to
be created shall not be recoverable at law.
   (B)   Nothing in this section shall prevent the following:
      (1)   Any club holding a Class C license from permitting checks or
statements for alcoholic liquor to be signed by members or the bona fide guests
of members and charged to the accounts of such members or guests in accordance
with the bylaws of such club;
      (2)   Any hotel or restaurant holding a retail license from permitting
checks or statements for liquor to be signed by regular guests residing at such
hotel or eating at such restaurant and charged to the accounts of such guests;
or
      (3)   Any licensed retailer engaged in the sale of wine or distilled
spirits from issuing tasting cards to customers.
(Neb. RS 53-183) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.39 SPIKING BEER.
   It shall be unlawful for any person or persons who own, manage or lease any
premises in which the sale of alcoholic beverages is licensed, to serve or
offer for sale any beer to which there has been added any alcohol, or permit
any person to add alcohol to any beer on the licensed premises of such
licensee.
(Prior Code, § 4-116) Penalty, see §
112.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 53-174
§ 112.40 CHANGE OF PREMISES.
   Any retailer licensee desiring to transfer his or her license from one
premises to another shall file a written request for permission to do so with
the City Clerk and shall also file with said Clerk a sworn statement showing
that the premises to which removal is to be made comply with all respects with
the requirements of the State Liquor Control Act, being Neb. RS 53-101 et seq.,
as amended. The City Clerk shall present said application and statement to the
Mayor and City Council at their next meeting, and they shall, by resolution,
approve or disapprove the transfer. If they approve the transfer, the approval
thereof shall be endorsed on the license by the Mayor and attested by the City
Clerk.
(Prior Code, § 4-117)
§ 112.41 GAMBLING.
   Unless sanctioned by state law, no licensee in this city holding a license
covering premises open to the public for the sale of intoxicating liquor or
beer shall directly or indirectly permit gambling on or in the licensed
premises; nor shall he or she permit the operation or possession of any pay-off
gambling device, slot machine or punchboard, mechanical or otherwise, whether
pay-off is in cash or merchandise, in, on or about the licensed premises.
(Prior Code, § 4-118)
§ 112.42 SALE FOR RESALE.
   No retail licensee in this city shall engage, directly or indirectly, in any
transaction including or conspiring as to the resale of any liquors owned by
him or her as a licensee, nor shall such licensee so permit the sale or
delivery of any such liquors in such quantities as would place a reasonable-
minded person on notice that such liquor might be intended for resale.
(Prior Code, § 4-119) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.43 TRANSPORTATION OF LIQUOR OF RETAIL LICENSEES.
   No retail licensee in this city shall permit the transportation of alcoholic
liquor from his or her licensed premises for storage purposes in any manner for
any purpose, or to any location other than has been expressly authorized in
writing by the Commission.
(Prior Code, § 4-120) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.44 NO DELIVERY AFTER CLOSING HOURS.
   No retail licensee in this city operating premises open to the public shall
act as retainer or keeper of liquor for customers or other persons for the
purpose of delivering or disposing of such liquor after closing hours as
provided by state law, ordinance or resolution or on days when sales are
prohibited.
(Prior Code, § 4-121) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.45 CONDUCT PROHIBITED ON LICENSED PREMISES.
   No licensee in this city shall engage in, allow or suffer in or upon the
licensed premises any disturbances, lewdness, immoral activities or displays,
brawls or unnecessary noise, or allow, permit or suffer the licensed premises
to be used in such a manner as to create public censure or become a nuisance,
public or private.
(Prior Code, § 4-123) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.46 ADVERTISEMENTS AND SALES.
   (A)   Advertising by licensees in this city shall not contain
misrepresentation or misleading statements, and no sales shall be promoted or
made by any licensee by unlawful means.
   (B)   Alcoholic liquors shall not be offered, delivered or disposed of by
any licensee as a prize.
(Prior Code, § 4-124) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.47 PREMISES OPEN TO VIEW.
   In premises within this city in which the sale of alcoholic liquor for
consumption upon the premises is licensed, other than as a restaurant, hotel or
club, no screen, blind, curtain, partition, article or thing shall be permitted
in the windows or upon the door of such premises which shall prevent a clear
view into the interior of such licensed premises from the street, road or
sidewalk at all times, and no booth, screen, partition or other obstruction nor
any arrangements of lights or lighting shall be permitted in or about the
interior of such licensed premises which shall prevent a full view of the
entire interior of such licensed premises from the street, road or sidewalk.
All rooms where liquor is sold for consumption upon the premises shall be
continuously lighted during business hours by natural or artificial white light
so that all parts of the interior of the premises shall be clearly visible.
(Prior Code, § 4-127)
§ 112.99 PENALTY.
   Any and all persons violating any of the provisions of this chapter for
which penalty is not therein provided shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor
and, upon conviction thereof, shall be fined in a sum of not more than $500 for
each offense. Each day’s maintenance of the same shall constitute a separate
offense.
(Prior Code, § 4-501)
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
   Chapter
      
130.   OFFENSES AGAINST PROPERTY AND PERSONS
      
131.   OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC ORDER
      
132.   OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC JUSTICE AND ADMINISTRATION
      
133.   OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC HEALTH AND SAFETY
      
134.   OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC MORALS
      
135.   CURFEW
CHAPTER 130: OFFENSES AGAINST PROPERTY AND PERSONS
Section
   
130.01   Criminal mischief
   
130.02   Criminal trespass
   
130.03   Malicious destruction of property
   
130.04   Malicious mischief
   
130.05   Window peeping
   
130.06   Stalking and harassment
§ 130.01 CRIMINAL MISCHIEF.
   (A)   A person commits criminal mischief if he or she:
      (1)   Damages the property of another intentionally or recklessly;
      (2)   Intentionally tampers with the property of another so as to
endanger persons or property; or
      (3)   Intentionally or maliciously causes another to suffer pecuniary
loss by deception or threat.
   (B)   Criminal mischief is an offense:
      (1)   If the actor intentionally or maliciously causes a pecuniary loss
of $500 or more, but less than $5,000; or
      (2)   If the actor intentionally, maliciously, or recklessly causes a
pecuniary loss in an amount of less than $500, or if his or her action results
in no pecuniary loss.
(Neb. RS 28-519) Penalty, see § 130.99
§ 130.02 CRIMINAL TRESPASS.
   (A)   (1)   A person commits first degree criminal trespass if:
         (a)   He or she enters or secretly remains in any building or occupied
structure, or any separately secured or occupied portion thereof, knowing that
he or she is not licensed or privileged to do so; or
         (b)   He or she enters or remains in or on a public power
infrastructure facility knowing that he or she does not have the consent of a
person who has the right to give consent to be in or on the facility.
      (2)   For the purpose of this section, PUBLIC POWER INFRASTRUCTURE
FACILITY means a power plant, an electrical station or substation, or any other
facility which is used by a public power supplier as defined in Neb. RS 70-2103
to support the generation, transmission or distribution of electricity and
which is surrounded by a fence or is otherwise enclosed.
(Neb. RS 28-520)
   (B)   (1)   A person commits second degree criminal trespass if, knowing
that he or she is not licensed or privileged to do so, he or she enters or
remains in any place as to which notice against trespass is given by:
         (a)   Actual communication to the actor;
         (b)   Posting in a manner prescribed by law or reasonably likely to
come to the attention of intruders; or
         (c)   Fencing or other enclosure manifestly designed to exclude
intruders, except as otherwise provided in division (A) above.
      (2)   A person commits second degree criminal trespass if, knowing that
he or she is not licensed or privileged to do so, he or she intentionally
causes an electronic device, such as an unmanned aircraft, to enter into, upon
or above the property of another, including such property owned by such person
and leased or rented to another, with the intent to observe another person
without his or her consent in a place of solitude or seclusion.
      (3)   For the purpose of this section, UNMANNED AIRCRAFT means an
aircraft, including an aircraft commonly known as a drone, which is operated
without the possibility of direct human intervention from within or on the
aircraft.
(Neb. RS 28-521)
Penalty, see § 130.99
§ 130.03 MALICIOUS DESTRUCTION OF PROPERTY.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, wantonly or maliciously, in any manner
to molest, injure or destroy any property of another in this city.
(Prior Code, § 2-105) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 130.04 MALICIOUS MISCHIEF.
   (A)   It shall be deemed a misdemeanor for any person to willfully destroy,
mutilate, deface, injure or remove any tomb, monument, gravestone, structure or
thing of value which is located upon any government property, cemetery or
property of historic value.
   (B)   Any such offender shall be liable, in an action for trespassing in the
name of the beneficial holder of said property, for all damages which arise
from the commission of such unlawful act.
(Prior Code, § 2-106)
§ 130.05 WINDOW PEEPING.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to maliciously or stealthily go upon the
premises of another in said city and look or peep into any window, door or
other opening in any building located thereon which is occupied as a place of
abode, or to go upon the premises of another for the purpose of looking or
peeping into any window, door or other opening in any building thereon which is
occupied as a place of abode.
(Prior Code, § 2-110) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 130.06 STALKING AND HARASSMENT.
   (A)   It is the intent of the village to enact laws dealing with stalking
offenses which will protect victims from being willfully harassed,
intentionally terrified, threatened or intimidated by individuals who
intentionally follow, detain, stalk or harass them or impose any restraint on
their personal liberty and which will not prohibit constitutionally protected
activities.
   (B)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      COURSE OF CONDUCT. A pattern of conduct composed of a series of acts over
a period of time, however short, evidencing a continuity of purpose, including
a series of acts of following, detaining, restraining the personal liberty of
or stalking the person or telephoning, contacting or otherwise communicating
with the person.
      DATING RELATIONSHIP. Frequent, intimate associations primarily
characterized by the expectation of affectional or sexual involvement but does
not include a casual relationship or an ordinary association between persons in
a business or social context.
      FAMILY OR HOUSEHOLD MEMBER. A spouse or former spouse of the victim,
children of the victim, a person presently residing with the victim or who has
resided with the victim in the past, a person who had a child in common with
the victim, other persons related to the victim by consanguinity or affinity,
or any person presently involved in a dating relationship with the victim or
who has been involved in a dating relationship with the victim.
      HARASS. To engage in a knowing and willful course of conduct directed at
a specific person which seriously terrifies, threatens or intimidates the
person and which serves no legitimate purpose.
      SUBSTANTIALLY CONFORMING CRIMINAL VIOLATION. A guilty plea, a nolo
contendere plea, or a conviction for a violation of any federal law or law of
another state or any county, city or village ordinance of this state or another
state substantially similar to Neb. RS 28-311.03. Substantially conforming is a
question of law to be determined by the court.
(Neb. RS 28-311.02)
CHAPTER 131: OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC ORDER
Section
   
131.01   Disorderly conduct
   
131.02   Disturbing the peace
   
131.03   Excessive noise control
   
131.04   Disturbing an assembly
§ 131.01 DISORDERLY CONDUCT.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to engage in conduct or behavior which
disturbs the peace and good order of the city by clamor or noise, intoxication,
drunkenness, fighting or using obscene or profane language in the streets or
other public places or otherwise violating the public peace by indecent or
disorderly conduct or lewd or lascivious behavior.
Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Authority to prevent disorderly conduct, see Neb. RS 17-129
   Authority to regulate noise, riots, and routs, see Neb. RS 17-556
§ 131.02 DISTURBING THE PEACE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person intentionally to disturb the peace and
quiet of any person, family or neighborhood.
(Neb. RS 28-1322) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 131.03 EXCESSIVE NOISE CONTROL.
   It is hereby determined to be unlawful to operate industrial equipment,
heavy machinery, jack hammer and other industrial equipment emitting loud noise
or to race automobile engines within the city between the hours of 8:00 p.m.
and 7:00 a.m. in such a manner so as to disturb the comfort, repose, peace and
quiet of residents of the city unless such activity has been approved in
advance by the City Council.
(Prior Code, § 2-103) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 131.04 DISTURBING AN ASSEMBLY.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to disturb, interrupt or interfere with
any lawful assembly of people, whether religious or otherwise, by loud and
unnecessary noise, threatening behavior or indecent and shocking behavior. Any
person or persons so disturbing an assembly shall be deemed to be guilty of a
misdemeanor and fined in accord with state statute.
(Prior Code, § 2-108) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 132: OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC JUSTICE AND ADMINISTRATION
Section
   
132.01   Impersonating a peace officer
   
132.02   Refusing to aid a peace officer
§ 132.01 IMPERSONATING A PEACE OFFICER.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to falsely pretend to be a peace officer
and perform any act in that pretended capacity.
(Neb. RS 28-610) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 132.02 REFUSING TO AID A PEACE OFFICER.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, upon a request by a person known to him
or her to be a peace officer, unreasonably to refuse or fail to aid the peace
officer in:
   (A)   Apprehending any person charged with or convicted of any offense
against any of the laws of this state or city;
   (B)   Securing the offender when apprehended; or
   (C)   Conveying the offender to the jail of the county or of this city.
(Neb. RS 28-903) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 133: OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC HEALTH AND SAFETY
Section
General Provisions
   
133.01   Appliances in yard
   
133.02   Littering
   
133.03   Drinking on public property; open beverage container
   
133.04   Abandoned automobiles
Weapons Offenses
   
133.15   Discharge of firearms
   
133.16   Slingshots, air guns, BB guns
 
   
133.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 133.01 APPLIANCES IN YARD.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to permit a refrigerator, icebox,
freezer or any other dangerous appliance to be in the open and accessible to
children, whether on private or public property, unless the person first
removes all doors and makes the same reasonably safe.
Penalty, see §
133.99
Statutory reference:
   Authority to prohibit nuisances within zoning jurisdiction, see Neb. RS 18-
1720
§ 133.02 LITTERING.
   (A)   Any person who deposits, throws, discards or otherwise disposes of any
litter on any public or private property or in any waters commits the offense
of littering unless:
      (1)   The property is an area designated by law for the disposal of that
type of material and the person is authorized by the proper public authority to
so use the property; or
      (2)   The litter is placed in a receptacle or container installed on the
property for that purpose.
   (B)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      LITTER. Includes all waste material susceptible of being dropped,
deposited, discarded or otherwise disposed of by any person upon any property
in the state, but does not include wastes of primary processes of farming or
manufacturing.
      WASTE MATERIAL. Any material appearing in a place or in a context not
associated with that material’s function or origin.
   (C)   Whenever litter is thrown, deposited, dropped or dumped from any motor
vehicle or watercraft in violation of this section, the operator of the motor
vehicle or watercraft commits the offense of littering.
(Neb. RS 28-523) Penalty, see §
133.99
§ 133.03 DRINKING ON PUBLIC PROPERTY; OPEN BEVERAGE CONTAINER.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE.
         (a)   Beer, ale, porter, stout and other similar fermented beverages,
including sake or similar products, of any name or description, containing 0.5%
or more of alcohol by volume, brewed or produced from malt, wholly or in part
or from any substitute therefor;
         (b)   Wine of not less than 0.5% alcohol by volume; or
         (c)   Distilled spirits, which is that substance known as ethyl
alcohol, ethanol or spirits of wine in any form, including all dilutions and
mixtures thereof from whatever source or by whatever process produced.
         (d)   ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE does not include trace amounts not readily
consumable as a beverage.
      HIGHWAY. A road or street, including the entire area within the right-of-
way.
      LIMOUSINE. A luxury vehicle used to provide prearranged passenger
transportation on a dedicated basis at a premium fare that has a seating
capacity of at least five and not more than 14 persons behind the driver, with
a physical partition separating the driver seat from the passenger compartment.
LIMOUSINE does not include taxicabs, hotel or airport buses or shuttles, or
buses.
      OPEN ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE CONTAINER. Except as provided in Neb. RS 53-
123.04(3) and 53-123.11(1)(c), any bottle, can or other receptacle:
         (a)   That contains any amount of alcoholic beverage; and
         (b)   1.   That is open or has a broken seal; or
            2.   The contents of which are partially removed.
      PASSENGER AREA. The area designed to seat the driver and passengers while
the motor vehicle is in operation and any area that is readily accessible to
the driver or a passenger while in their seating positions, including any
compartments in the area. PASSENGER AREA does not include the area behind the
last upright seat of the motor vehicle if the area is not normally occupied by
the driver or a passenger and the motor vehicle is not equipped with a trunk.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this section, it is unlawful for any
person in the passenger area of a motor vehicle to possess an open alcoholic
beverage container while the motor vehicle is located in a public parking area
or on any highway in this city.
   (C)   Except as provided in §
112.03 or division (D) above, it is unlawful for any person to consume an
alcoholic beverage:
      (1)   In a public parking area or on any highway in this city; or
      (2)   Inside a motor vehicle while in a public parking area or on any
highway in this city.
   (D)   (1)   This section does not apply to persons who are passengers of,
but not drivers of, a limousine or bus being used in a charter or special party
service as defined by the rules and regulations adopted and promulgated by the
State Public Service Commission and subject to Neb. RS Chapter 75, Article 3.
      (2)   Such passengers may possess open alcoholic beverage containers and
may consume alcoholic beverages while such limousine or bus is in a public
parking area or on any highway in this city if:
         (a)   The driver of the limousine or bus is prohibited from consuming
alcoholic liquor; and
         (b)   Alcoholic liquor is not present in any area that is readily
accessible to the driver while in the driver’s seat, including any compartments
in such area.
(Neb. RS 60-6,211.08)
Penalty, see §
133.99
§ 133.04 ABANDONED AUTOMOBILES.
   (A)   Generally.
      (1)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
         ABANDONED VEHICLE. A motor vehicle shall be deemed to be an abandoned
vehicle if left unattended:
            1.   With no number plates affixed thereto, for more than six hours
on any public property;
            2.   For more than 24 hours on any public property, except a
portion thereof on which parking is legally permitted;
            3.   For more than 48 hours, after the parking of such vehicle
shall have become illegal if left on a portion of public property on which
parking is legally permitted; and/or
            4.   For more than seven days on private property if left initially
without the permission of the owner, or after permission of the owner shall be
terminated.
         PRIVATE PROPERTY. Any private property, whether owner, tenant,
occupant, lessee or otherwise.
         PUBLIC PROPERTY. Any public right-of-way, street, highway, alley, park
or other city-owned property.
      (2)   No person, firm, partnership, association, corporation or
organization of any kind shall abandon any vehicle, as defined by Neb. RS 60-
1901, within the city.
      (3)   No person in charge or control of any private property, whether as
owner, tenant, occupant, lessee or otherwise, shall allow any partially
dismantled, nonoperating, wrecked, junked or discarded vehicle to remain on
such property longer than seven continuous days. Any vehicle described in this
division (A)(3) shall be deemed to be an abandoned vehicle for purposes of this
section.
      (4)   Vehicles in an enclosed building, appropriate storage pound or
depository licensed by the city, or owned and being restored or repaired, with
satisfactory progress being shown by the controller of the real property where
said vehicle is located, is specifically hereby excluded from this division
(A). This section shall not apply to the premises for which a permit to operate
a junkyard has been obtained, nor shall it apply to the premises where a
licensed motor vehicle dealer or a farm implement dealer conducts a business.
It shall not apply to racing vehicles which are stored on licensed trailers.
(Prior Code, § 3-201)
   (B)   Enforcement. The city police shall remove or cause to be removed any
abandoned vehicle. Such vehicle shall be impounded until lawfully claimed or
disposed of, as provided in division (D) below; provided, that any such
abandoned vehicle which is located on private property shall not be removed or
impounded until the city police have given written notice of intent to remove
said abandoned vehicle ten days prior thereto to the property owner upon whose
property said abandoned vehicle is located. The city police may enter upon
private property at all reasonable hours for the purpose of inspecting such
abandoned vehicle, posting notice thereon and/or removing or impounding such
abandoned vehicle. It shall be unlawful for any person to prevent the city
police from entering on private property for the purpose of carrying out their
duties. Neither the owner, lessee, occupant of the premises from which any
abandoned vehicle shall be removed, nor the city shall be liable for any loss
or damage to such abandoned vehicle which occurs during its removal, while in
the possession of the city or as a result of any subsequent disposition.
(Prior Code, § 3-202)
   (C)   Notice.
      (1)   Except for vehicles automatically becoming the property of the city
as set forth in division (E) below, the Board shall make an inquiry concerning
the last registered owner of such abandoned vehicle as follows:
         (a)   Abandoned vehicles with numbered plates affixed, to the
jurisdiction which issued said plates; or
         (b)   Abandoned vehicles with no numbered plates affixed, to the
Department of Motor Vehicles.
      (2)   The city police shall notify the last registered owner, if any,
that the vehicle in question has been recovered as an abandoned vehicle and
that, if unclaimed, it will be sold at public auction after five days from the
date that such notice was mailed. If the agency described in divisions (C)(1)
(a) and (C)(1)(b) above also notifies the city police that a lien or mortgage
exists, such notice shall also be sent to the lien holder or mortgagee. Any
person claiming such vehicle shall be required to pay the cost of its removal
and storage. In the event the owner does not appear within the time prescribed
herein, or in the event that the owner cannot be determined, such abandoned
vehicle shall be disposed of as hereinafter provided.
(Prior Code, § 3-203)
   (D)   Disposition. The city police shall sell said abandoned vehicle at
public auction to the highest bidder within 60 days from the date that title to
an abandoned vehicle is vested in the city as provided for in division (E)
below. Such sale and the time and place thereof shall be advertised for one
week in a newspaper of general circulation in the city. Any proceeds from the
sale of an abandoned vehicle, less any expenses incurred by the city, shall be
held by the city without interest for the benefit of the owner of such
abandoned vehicle for a period of two years. If not claimed within such two-
year period, such proceeds shall be paid into the General Fund of the city.
(Prior Code, § 3-204)
   (E)   Transfer of title. If an abandoned vehicle at the time of abandonment
has no numbered plates of the current year affixed and is of a wholesale value
of $2,500 or less, taking into consideration the vehicle’s condition as
determined by the city police, title shall immediately vest in the city and the
city police is not required to follow division (C) above. With respect to those
abandoned vehicles governed by division (C) above, title to such vehicles, if
unclaimed, shall vest in the city five days from the date the notice referred
to therein is mailed or, if the last registered owner cannot be determined,
when notice of that fact is received by the city police. Upon the sale of an
abandoned vehicle at auction, the city shall furnish the purchaser with the
requisite affidavit to provide to the County Clerk where the vehicle was last
registered that said vehicle was abandoned and became the property of the city
prior to the sale.
(Prior Code, § 3-205)
Penalty, see §
133.99
WEAPONS OFFENSES
§ 133.15 DISCHARGE OF FIREARMS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, except an officer of the law in the
discharge of official duty, to fire or discharge any gun, pistol or other
fowling piece within the city, except that nothing in this section shall be
construed to apply to officially sanctioned public celebrations if the persons
so discharging firearms have written permission from the City Council.
Penalty, see §
133.99
Statutory reference:
   Authority to regulate, see Neb. RS 17-556
§ 133.16 SLINGSHOTS, AIR GUNS, BB GUNS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to discharge a slingshot, air gun, BB
gun or the like loaded with rock or other dangerous missiles at any time or
under any circumstances within the city.
Penalty, see §
133.99
§ 133.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person who violates any of the prohibitions or provisions of §
133.04 shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor. Penalties for such violation
shall not exceed $500 and/or imprisonment for a time not to exceed three
months, in the discretion of the court.
(Prior Code, § 3-206)
CHAPTER 134: OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC MORALS
Section
   
134.01   Prostitution
   
134.02   Gambling
   
134.03   Indecent exposure; public urination; obscene material
§ 134.01 PROSTITUTION.
   (A)   Except as provided in division (C) below, any person who performs,
offers or agrees to perform any act of sexual contact or sexual penetration, as
those terms are defined in Neb. RS 28-318, with any person not his or her
spouse in exchange for money or other thing of value commits the offense of
prostitution.
   (B)   It is an affirmative defense to prosecution under this section that
such person was a trafficking victim as defined in Neb. RS 28-830.
   (C)   (1)   If the law enforcement officer determines, after a reasonable
detention for investigative purposes, that a person suspected of or charged
with a violation of division (A) above is:
         (a)   A person engaging in those acts as a direct result of being a
trafficking victim as defined in Neb. RS 28-830, such person shall be immune
from prosecution for a prostitution offense; or
         (b)   A person under 18 years of age, such person shall be immune from
prosecution for a prostitution offense under this section and shall be subject
to temporary custody under Neb. RS 43-245 et seq. and further disposition under
the State Juvenile Code.
      (2)   A law enforcement officer who takes a person under 18 years of age
into custody under this section shall immediately report an allegation of a
violation of Neb. RS 28-831 to the Department of Health and Human Services,
which shall commence an investigation within 24 hours under the Child
Protection and Family Safety Act, being Neb. RS 28-710 et seq.
(Neb. RS 28-801) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 134.02 GAMBLING.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the definitions found in Neb. RS 28-
1101 shall be used.
   (B)   A person commits the offense of promoting gambling if he or she
knowingly:
      (1)   Advances or profits from any unlawful gambling activity by:
         (a)   Engaging in bookmaking;
         (b)   Receiving, in connection with any unlawful gambling scheme or
enterprise, any amount of money played in the scheme or enterprise in any one
day; or
         (c)   Betting something of value in an amount of $500 or more with one
or more persons in one day.
(Neb. RS 28-1102 and 28-1103)
      (2)   Participates in unlawful gambling as a player by betting less than
$500 in any one day.
(Neb. RS 28-1104)
   (C)   (1)   A person commits the offense of possession of a gambling device
if he or she manufactures, sells, transports, places, possesses or conducts or
negotiates any transaction affecting or designed to affect ownership, custody
or use of any gambling device knowing that it shall be used in the advancement
of unlawful gambling activity.
      (2)   The owner or operator of a retail establishment who is not a
manufacturer, distributor or seller of mechanical amusement devices as defined
under the Mechanical Amusement Device Tax Act, being Neb. RS 77-3001 et seq.
shall have an affirmative defense to possession of a gambling device described
in division (C)(1) above if the device bears an unexpired mechanical amusement
device decal as required by such Act. However, such affirmative defense may be
overcome if the owner or operator had actual knowledge that operation of the
device constituted unlawful gambling activity at any time such device was
operated on the premises of the retail establishment.
      (3)   Notwithstanding any other provisions of this division (C), any
mechanical game or device classified by the federal government as an illegal
gambling device and requiring a federal gambling device tax stamp as required
by the Internal Revenue Service in its administration of 26 U.S.C. §§ 4461 and
4462, amended July 1, 1965, by Pub. Law No. 89-44, is hereby declared to be
illegal.
(Neb. RS 28-1107)
   (D)   In any prosecution under this section, it shall be an affirmative
defense that the writing, paper, instrument or article possessed by the
defendant was neither used nor intended to be used in the advancement of an
unlawful gambling activity.
(Neb. RS 28-1108)
   (E)   Proof of possession of any gambling device shall be prima facie
evidence of possession thereof with knowledge of its contents and character.
(Neb. RS 28-1109)
   (F)   It shall be no defense to a prosecution under any provision of this
section relating to gambling that the gambling is conducted outside this city
and is not in violation of the laws of the jurisdiction in which it is
conducted.
(Neb. RS 28-1110)
   (G)   In addition to any other penalty, a sentencing court may order that
any money, securities, negotiable instruments, firearms, conveyances or
electronic communications devices as defined in Neb. RS 28-833, or any
equipment, components, peripherals, software, hardware or accessories related
to electronic communications devices, or any gambling devices, be forfeited as
a part of the sentence imposed if it finds by clear and convincing evidence
adduced at a separate hearing in the same prosecution, conducted pursuant to
Neb. RS 28-1601, that any or all such property was derived from, used or
intended to be used to facilitate a violation of this section.
(Neb. RS 28-1111)
   (H)   In any prosecution for an offense defined in this section, when the
defendant’s status as a player constitutes an excusing condition, the fact that
the defendant was a player shall constitute an affirmative defense.
(Neb. RS 28-1112)
   (I)   Nothing in this section shall be construed to:
      (1)   Apply to or prohibit wagering on the results of horseraces by the
parimutuel or certificate method when conducted by licensees within the
racetrack enclosure at licensed horserace meetings;
      (2)   Prohibit or punish the conducting or participating in any bingo,
lottery by the sale of pickle cards, lottery, raffle or gift enterprise when
conducted in accordance with the State Bingo Act being Neb. RS 9-201 et seq.,
the State Lottery Act being Neb. RS 9-801 et seq., County and City Lottery Act
being Neb. RS 9-601 et seq., the Lottery and Raffle Act being Neb. RS 9-401 et
seq., the State Pickle Card Lottery Act being Neb. RS 9-301 et seq., the State
Small Lottery and Raffle Act being Neb. RS 9-501 et seq. or Neb. RS 9-701; or
      (3)   Apply to or prohibit the operation of games of chance, whether
using a gambling device or otherwise, by authorized gaming operators within
licensed racetrack enclosures or the participation or playing of such games of
chance, whether participated in or played using a gambling device or otherwise,
by individuals 21 years of age or older within licensed racetrack enclosures as
provided in the State Racetrack Gaming Act, being Neb. RS 9-1201 et seq.
(Neb. RS 28-1113)
   (J)   In any prosecution under this section in which it is necessary to
prove the occurrence of a sporting event, a published report of its occurrence
in any daily newspaper, magazine or other periodically printed publication of
general circulation shall be admissible in evidence and shall constitute prima
facie evidence of the occurrence of the event.
(Neb. RS 28-1117)
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 134.03 INDECENT EXPOSURE; PUBLIC URINATION; OBSCENE MATERIAL.
   It shall be unlawful for any person within this city to make an indecent
exposure of his or her person (in the case of a male, such indecent exposure
would consist of public exhibit of his genitals, and in the case of a female,
indecent exposure would be public exposure of her nipples and/or genitals); to
urinate or defecate in public view; to commit any indecent or lewd act; or to
sell or offer for sale, or to dispense of in any manner any obscene, lewd or
indecent book, picture or other publication or thing; to exhibit or perform any
indecent, immoral, lewd or obscene play or other representation; or in any
public place to write, draw or make any profane, obscene, indecent or lewd
work, sentence, figure or design.
(Prior Code, § 2-114) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 135: CURFEW
Section
   
135.01   Curfew hours
   
135.02   Curfew hours extended
   
135.03   Violation; parental liability
   
135.04   Enforcement; police authorization
 
   
135.99   Penalty
§ 135.01 CURFEW HOURS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person under the age of 16 years to loiter,
idle, wander, stroll, play or be in or upon the public streets, public places
and public buildings, places of amusement and entertainment, vacant buildings,
vacant lots or otherwise operate any bicycle or other vehicle, in, upon, over
or through the streets of other public places of the city between the hours of
11:00 p.m. of any day until the hour of 5:00 a.m. of the following day, or for
any person age 16 years to 18 years of age to loiter, idle, wander, stroll,
play or be in or upon the public streets, public places and public buildings,
places of amusement and entertainment, vacant buildings, vacant lots or
otherwise operate any bicycle or other vehicle, in, upon, over or through the
streets of other public places of the city between the hours of 1:00 a.m. of
any day until the hour of 5:00 a.m.; unless such person is accompanied by a
parent, guardian or other adult person having the legal care and custody of
said minor person or unless the minor person is upon an emergency errand or
legitimate business, directed by his or her parents, guardian or legal
custodian, except as hereinafter provided.
(Prior Code, § 2-201) Penalty, see §
135.99
§ 135.02 CURFEW HOURS EXTENDED.
   Nothing herein contained shall prohibit said minor persons from attending
special school functions or adult supervised entertainment conducted by any
school, church or fraternal organization, which continue beyond the curfew
hours as set out in §
135.01. In all such cases the hours herein prohibited shall be extended for
those minors attending said special social function or entertainment one hour
after the closing of said special function.
(Prior Code, § 2-202)
§ 135.03 VIOLATION; PARENTAL LIABILITY.
   It shall be unlawful for the parent, guardian or other adult person, having
the care and custody of minors under the age of 16 years to allow or permit
said minor person to do any of the acts or things prohibited by §§
135.01 or
135.02.
(Prior Code, § 2-203) Penalty, see §
135.99
§ 135.04 ENFORCEMENT; POLICE AUTHORIZATION.
   Every member of the police force, while on duty, shall be authorized to
detain any such minor willfully violating the provisions of this chapter and,
upon apprehension of said minor, shall forthwith notify by telephone or other
appropriate means the parents or legal guardians or person in custody of said
minor child.
(Prior Code, § 2-204)
§ 135.99 PENALTY.
   Any violation of the foregoing provisions of this chapter shall constitute a
misdemeanor and shall be punishable by a warning for the first offense, a fine
of $10 for the second offense, and a third and any subsequent violation shall
constitute a violation of §
135.03, and a complaint shall be filed against the parents of said child for
violation of such section.
(Prior Code, § 2-205)
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
   Chapter
      
150.   BUILDING REGULATIONS
      
151.   PUBLIC WAYS AND PROPERTY
      
152.   TREES
      
153.   FLOOD DAMAGE PREVENTION
      
154.   ZONING AND SUBDIVISIONS
CHAPTER 150: BUILDING REGULATIONS
Section
Building Permits and Regulation
   
150.01   Requirement
   
150.02   Limitation
   
150.03   Duplicate to County Assessor
   
150.04   Excavations and exposures; barricades and lights
   
150.05   Minimum yard requirements; exception
   
150.06   Permit fee
   
150.07   Variance not permitted
   
150.08   Bond requirement
   
150.09   Building without permit; nuisance
   
150.10   Appeal from decision
Lighting and Thermal Efficiency Standards
   
150.25   Purpose
   
150.26   Definitions
   
150.27   Standard; applicability
   
150.28   Exemptions
   
150.29   Request for alternative building system; approval
   
150.30   Inspections; investigations
   
150.31   Building plans; submission for approval
   
150.32   Fees
   
150.33   Architect or engineer
Moving of Buildings
   
150.45   Definition
   
150.46   Permit required
   
150.47   Application
   
150.48   Interference
   
150.49   Duties of permittee
   
150.50   No general license
Building Inspector
   
150.65   Power and authority
   
150.66   Right of entry
 
   
150.99   Penalty
BUILDING PERMITS AND REGULATIONS
§ 150.01 REQUIREMENT.
   Any person desiring to commence or proceed to erect, construct, repair,
enlarge, demolish or relocate any building or dwelling, or cause the same to be
done, shall file with the City Clerk an application for a building permit. The
application shall be in writing on a form to be furnished by the City Clerk for
that purpose. Every such application shall set forth the legal description of
the land upon which the construction or relocation is to take place, the nature
of the use or occupancy, the principal dimensions, the estimated cost, the
names of the owner, architect and contractor, and such other information as may
be requested thereon. The application, plans and specifications so filed with
the City Clerk shall be checked and examined by the City Council, and if they
are found to be in conformity with the requirements of this chapter and all
other ordinances applicable thereto, the City Council shall authorize the City
Clerk to issue the applicant a permit upon payment of a permit fee as set by
the Council by resolution. Whenever there is a discrepancy between permit
application procedures contained herein and those contained in any building
code adopted by reference, the provisions contained herein shall govern.
Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.02 LIMITATION.
   If the work for which a permit has been issued shall not have begun within
six months of the date thereof, or if the construction is discontinued for a
period of six months, the permit shall be void. Before work can be resumed, a
new permit shall be obtained in the same manner and form as an original permit.
Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.03 DUPLICATE TO COUNTY ASSESSOR.
   Whenever a building permit is issued for the erection, alteration or repair
of any building within the city’s corporate limits or extraterritorial zoning
jurisdiction, if the improvement is $2,500 or more, a duplicate of the permit
shall be issued to the County Assessor.
(Neb. RS 18-1743)
§ 150.04 EXCAVATIONS AND EXPOSURES; BARRICADES AND LIGHTS.
   Any owner, tenant or lessee causing the construction, demolition or moving
of any building or improvement within the city shall protect all excavations,
exposures, open basements, building materials and debris by suitable barricades
or guards by day and by warning lights at night. The failure, neglect or
refusal of the owner, tenant or lessee to erect and maintain such protections
shall constitute a violation of this section, and the Building Inspector or
other city law enforcement authority may stop all work upon the buildings and
improvements until suitable protections are erected and maintained in the
required manner.
Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.05 MINIMUM YARD REQUIREMENTS; EXCEPTION.
   (A)   No principal structure or accessory use building shall be constructed
closer than ten feet from the owner’s property line without the approval of the
City Council.
   (B)   All building permit applications which propose building closer than
ten feet of the property line shall be accompanied by the written consent of
the adjacent property owner who is affected by the request for permission to
build closer than ten feet of the property line, and no building permit shall
be approved by the City Council without such written consent.
(Prior Code, § 8-404)
§ 150.06 PERMIT FEE.
   The City Clerk shall, at the time of filing the application for the issuance
of any permit as aforesaid, charge and collect in advance a fee of $40. Said
fee shall be the property of the city and shall be paid over to the City
Treasurer for credit to the General Fund of the city.
(Prior Code, § 8-405)
§ 150.07 VARIANCE NOT PERMITTED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to whom a permit to construct or repair
a building within the corporate limits of the city is issued, as provided in
this subchapter, to vary in any manner from the plans and specifications
submitted to the City Council in the construction or repair authorized, so that
such construction or repair shall not conform to the ordinances of the city.
(Prior Code, § 8-406) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.08 BOND REQUIREMENT.
   It shall be the duty of the owner, lessee or tenant intending the
destruction of any building or improvement to post a $1,000 cash bond with the
City Clerk prior to such destruction. This bond will be refunded upon payment
of all damages to city property occasioned by such destruction and any cleanup
work resulting from such destruction. In the event that a nuisance remains on
the building permit site for more than six months after the issuance of the
building permit, then the bond shall be forfeited and shall be applied to
offset the cleanup by the city.
(Prior Code, § 8-409)
§ 150.09 BUILDING WITHOUT PERMIT; NUISANCE.
   Every building or other structure hereafter erected, remodeled or moved into
or within said city without a permit therefor, as herein required, or which is
not constructed, remodeled or located in accordance with the permit granted and
issued therefor, shall be deemed and considered to be a public nuisance and may
be abated or removed by the city at the expense of the owner.
(Prior Code, § 8-410)
§ 150.10 APPEAL FROM DECISION.
   In the event that it is claimed that the true intent and meaning of this
chapter has been wrongly interpreted by the Building Inspector; the time
allowed for compliance with any order of the Building Inspector is too short;
or conditions peculiar to a particular building make it unreasonably difficult
to meet the literal requirements prescribed by this chapter and the Building
Inspector, the owner, his or her agent or the occupant may file a notice of
appeal within ten days after the decision or order of the Building Inspector
has been made. The City Council shall sit and act as the Board of Appeals and
shall have the power and authority, when appealed to, to modify the decision or
order of the Building Inspector. Such a decision shall be final, subject only
to any remedy which the aggrieved person may have at law or equity.
Applications for review shall be in writing and shall state the reasons why the
variance should be made. A variance shall be granted only where it is evident
that reasonable safety and sanitation is assured and may include conditions not
generally specified by this subchapter to achieve that end. A copy of any
variance so granted shall be sent to the applicant.
(Prior Code, § 8-411)
LIGHTING AND THERMAL EFFICIENCY STANDARDS
§ 150.25 PURPOSE.
   The city finds that there is a present and continuing need to provide for
the development and implementation of minimum lighting and thermal efficiency
standards for buildings to ensure coordination with federal policy under the
Energy Conservation Standards for New Buildings Act of 1976, being 42 U.S.C. §§
6801 et seq., to promote the conservation of our dwindling energy resources and
to provide for the public health, safety and welfare.
(Prior Code, § 8-101)
§ 150.26 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ADDITION. Any construction added to an existing building which will increase
the floor area of that building by 5% or more.
   ARCHITECT or ENGINEER. Any person registered pursuant to Neb. RS 81-3404 and
81-3422.
   BUILDING. Any structure which utilizes or will utilize a heating system,
cooling system or domestic hot water system, including new or renovated
buildings and additions, but not including any structure which has a
consumption of traditional energy sources for all purposes not exceeding the
energy equivalent of one watt per square foot.
   FLOOR AREA. The total area of a building, expressed in square feet, which is
within the exterior face of the shell of the structure that is heated or
cooled.
   PRIME CONTRACTOR. The person, persons, entity or entities who has a contract
with the owner and is the one responsible for the overall construction of any
building or the installation of any component which affects the energy
efficiency of the building. PRIME CONTRACTOR shall also mean a property owner
who performs the work of a prime contractor.
   RENOVATION. Alterations on an existing building which will cost more than
50% of the replacement cost of such building at the time work is commenced, or
which was not previously heated or cooled for which a heating or cooling system
is now proposed, except that the restoration of historic buildings shall not be
included.
   RESIDENTIAL BUILDING. A building three stories or less that is used
primarily as one or more dwelling units.
   STANDARD. Standard 90-75 of the American Society of Heating, Refrigeration
and Air-Conditioning Engineers, Inc., as it existed on April 23, 1980.
   TRADITIONAL ENERGY SOURCES. Electricity, petroleum-based fuels, uranium,
coal and all nonrenewable forms of energy.
(Prior Code, § 8-102)
§ 150.27 STANDARD; APPLICABILITY.
   The new standard shall apply to:
   (A)   New residential buildings on which construction is initiated on or
after April 1, 1981; and
   (B)   All other new buildings, or renovations of or additions to any
existing buildings, on which construction is initiated on or after January 1,
1982.
(Prior Code, § 8-103)
§ 150.28 EXEMPTIONS.
   The following shall be exempt from this chapter:
   (A)   Any building which has a peak design rate of energy usage for all
purposes of less than one watt, or three and four-tenths British Thermal Units
per hour, per square foot of floor area;
   (B)   Any building which is neither heated nor cooled;
   (C)   Any building or portion thereof which is owned by the United States of
America;
   (D)   Any mobile home as defined by Neb. RS 71-4603;
   (E)   Any manufactured housing unit as defined by Neb. RS 71-1557(1);
   (F)   Any building listed on the National Register of Historic Places; and
   (G)   All residential buildings shall be exempt from lighting efficiency
standards.
(Prior Code, § 8-104)
§ 150.29 REQUEST FOR ALTERNATIVE BUILDING SYSTEM; APPROVAL.
   (A)   Any person who owns or constructs a building to which this subchapter
applies may request that an alternative building system, technique, equipment,
design or building material be found equivalent to the standard.
   (B)   The Building Inspector shall make such determination if he or she
finds that the proposed alternative would not result in energy consumption
greater than would result from the strict application of the standard. If the
Building Inspector fails to approve or disapprove the request within 60 days
from the date of filing, it shall be considered approved.
(Prior Code, § 8-105)
§ 150.30 INSPECTIONS; INVESTIGATIONS.
   (A)   The Building Inspector or any person designated by him or her shall
conduct inspections and investigations necessary to enforce the standard and
may, at reasonable hours, enter into any building and upon any premises within
its jurisdiction for the purpose of examination to determine compliance with
this subchapter. Inspections shall be conducted only after permission has been
granted by the owner or occupant, or after a warrant has been issued pursuant
to Neb. RS 29-830 through 29-835.
   (B)   During construction, the Building Inspector or person designated shall
make periodic inspections to assure compliance with this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 8-106)
§ 150.31 BUILDING PLANS; SUBMISSION FOR APPROVAL.
   (A)   (1)   Prior to the construction of, renovation of or addition to any
building covered by this subchapter, the prime contractor shall file sufficient
plans and specification with the Building Inspector to enable him or her to
make a determination whether such building will comply with the standard.
      (2)   The Building Inspector shall, within 30 days of the filing, approve
or disapprove the plans and specifications. If disapproved, the reasons shall
be set forth in writing to the prime contractor.
   (B)   If the Building Inspector determines that such construction,
renovation or addition will comply with the standard, he or she shall issue a
written permit which the prime contractor shall display in a conspicuous place
on the premises where construction work is to be done. No construction,
renovation or addition shall commence until a permit is issued and displayed as
required by this section.
(Prior Code, § 8-107)
§ 150.32 FEES.
   The person filing the application for a permit shall, at the time of such
filing, submit an application fee of $40.
(Prior Code, § 8-108)
§ 150.33 ARCHITECT OR ENGINEER.
   (A)   If an architect or engineer is retained, the architect or engineer
shall place his or her state registration seal on all construction drawings,
which shall indicate that the design meets the standard. The prime contractor
shall certify that he or she will build in accordance with the construction
documents prepared by the architect or engineer.
   (B)   This certification must accompany the building plans submitted to the
Chief Building Inspector for approval.
(Prior Code, § 8-109)
MOVING OF BUILDINGS
§ 150.45 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BUILDING. A structure designated, built or occupied as a shelter or roofed
enclosure for persons, animals or property and used for residential, business,
mercantile, storage, industrial, institutional, assembly, educational or
recreational purposes. A structure with less than the following dimensions
shall not fall within this definition: 12 feet wide, 24 feet long, 15 feet
high.
(Prior Code, § 8-201)
§ 150.46 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   No person shall move any building over, along or across any highway, street
or alley in the city without first obtaining a permit from the City Clerk.
(Prior Code, § 8-202) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.47 APPLICATION.
   Any person seeking issuance of a permit hereunder shall file an application
for such permit with the City Clerk.
   (A)   Form. The application shall be made in writing upon forms provided by
the City Clerk and shall be filed in the office of the City Clerk.
   (B)   Contents. The application shall set forth:
      (1)   A description of the building proposed to be moved, giving street
number, construction materials, dimensions, number of rooms and condition of
exterior and interior;
      (2)   A legal description of the lot from which the building is to be
moved, giving the lot, block and tract number, if located in the city;
      (3)   A legal description of the lot to which the proposed such building
be removed, giving lot, block and tract number, if located in the city;
      (4)   The portion of the lot to be occupied by the building when moved;
      (5)   The highways, streets and alleys over, along or across which the
building is proposed to be moved;
      (6)   Proposed moving date and hours; and
      (7)   Any additional information which the City Clerk shall find
necessary to a fair determination of whether a permit should be issued.
   (C)   Accompanying papers.
       (1)   Tax certificate. The owner of the building to be moved shall file
with the application sufficient evidence that the building and lot from which
it is to be removed are free of any entanglements and that all taxes and any
city charge against the same are paid in full.
      (2)   Certificate of ownership or entitlement. The applicant, if other
than the owner, shall file with the application a written statement of bill of
sale signed by the owner, or other sufficient evidence, that he or she is
entitled to move the building.
      (3)   Liability policy. The applicant shall file with the application a
certificate of insurance providing coverage for both personal injury and
property damage which might occur during the moving of said building. The
minimum amount of coverage allowable shall be $10,000 property damage coverage
and $10,000 personal injury coverage. The City Council may require coverage in
greater amounts if they deem it to be necessary.
   (D)   Fee. The application shall be accompanied by a permit fee in the
amount of $25 which shall be paid over by the City Clerk to the City Treasurer,
who shall credit it to the General Fund.
(Prior Code, § 8-203)
§ 150.48 INTERFERENCE.
   (A)   Whenever it shall be necessary for any permittee in moving a building
to interfere with any electric, telephone or telegraph poles or wires, the
public service company or companies owning, using or operating such poles or
wire shall, upon such notice as is provided in their respective franchises, or
if no provisions for notice is made therein, then upon 48 hours’ notice, be
present and assist, or, if necessary, remove such poles and wires; and the
expense of said removal, as estimated, shall be paid in advance by applicant,
unless it is otherwise provided in said companies’ franchises.
   (B)   Whenever the moving of any building necessitates interference with any
water main or sewer main belonging to the city, notice in writing of the time
and route of such building moving operations shall be given to the Building
Inspector of the city, who shall proceed in behalf of the City Marshal as the
managing officers or public service companies are required to proceed in the
premises on behalf of the companies.
   (C)   The notice herein provided for shall be given to said city official or
public service company or companies, as the case may be, by the licensed house
mover.
(Prior Code, § 8-204)
§ 150.49 DUTIES OF PERMITTEE.
   Every permittee under this subchapter shall:
   (A)   Use designated streets. Move a building only over streets designated
for such use in the written permit;
   (B)   Notify of revised moving time. Notify the City Clerk in writing of a
desired change in moving date and hours as proposed in the application;
   (C)   Notify of damage. Notify the City Clerk in writing of any and all
damage done to property belonging to the city within 24 hours after the damage
or injury has occurred;
   (D)   Display lights. Cause red lights to be displayed during the night time
on every side of the building, while standing on the street, in such a manner
as to warn the public of the obstruction, and shall at all times erect and
maintain barricades across the streets in such a manner as to protect the
public from damage or injury by reason of the removal of the building;
   (E)   Street occupancy period. Remove the building from the city streets
after four days of such occupancy, unless an extension is granted by the Mayor
and the City Council;
   (F)   Comply with governing law. Comply with the Building Code, the fire
zone and any zoning ordinances now existing or hereinafter adopted and all
other applicable ordinances and laws, if any upon relocating the building in
the city;
   (G)   Clear old premises. Within ten days from the removal of the building,
the permittee shall remove all rubbish and materials and fill all excavations
to existing grade at the original site so that the premises are left in a safe
and sanitary condition; and
   (H)   Remove services connections. See that the sewer line is plugged with a
concrete stopper, the water shut off and the meter returned to the city water
office. Permittee shall notify the gas and electric service companies to remove
their services.
(Prior Code, § 8-205)
§ 150.50 NO GENERAL LICENSE.
   There shall be no license issued or general permit given to anyone to move
buildings at will or generally within the city.
(Prior Code, § 8-206)
BUILDING INSPECTOR
§ 150.65 POWER AND AUTHORITY.
   (A)   The Building Inspector shall be the city official who shall have the
duty of enforcing all city building and housing regulations, if any.
      (1)   He or she shall inspect all buildings repaired, altered, built or
moved in the city as often as necessary to ensure compliance with all city
ordinances.
      (2)   He or she shall have the power and authority to order, at the
direction of the City Council, all work stopped on any construction, alteration
or relocation which violates any provisions prescribed in any city building and
housing regulations. He or she shall, at the direction of the City Council,
issue permission to continue any construction, alteration or relocation when
the City Council is satisfied that no provision will be violated. If the stop
order is an oral one, it shall be followed by a written stop order within one
hour. This written order may be served by any city police officer.
   (B)   In the event that the city has building and housing regulations and
the Mayor fails to appoint a Building Inspector, the chief city law enforcement
officer shall be the Building Inspector ex officio.
§ 150.66 RIGHT OF ENTRY.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to refuse to allow the Building
Inspector entry into any building or structure where the work of construction,
alteration, repair or relocation is taking place for the purpose of making
official inspections at any reasonable hour.
Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person violating any provision of §§
150.25 through
150.33 shall be subject to a maximum sentence of three months’ imprisonment or
$500 fine, or both. In addition, the city may, by an action in the District
Court, enforce the provisions of §§
150.25 through
150.33 through equity and injunctive processes.
(Prior Code, § 8-110)
CHAPTER 151: PUBLIC WAYS AND PROPERTY
Section
City Property
   
151.01   Maintenance and control
   
151.02   Regulation of snow, ice and other encroachments
   
151.03   Permitted use of public street space
   
151.04   Poles, wires and pipelines
   
151.05   Guttering and eave spouts
   
151.06   Overhanging branches
   
151.07   Heavy equipment
   
151.08   Sale and conveyance; real property
Sidewalks
   
151.20   Requirement to keep clean
   
151.21   Construction and repair at city direction
   
151.22   Failure to construct, reconstruct or repair
   
151.23   Construction by petition
   
151.24   Failure to rebuild
Streets and Alleys
   
151.35   Opening, widening, improving or vacating
   
151.36   Crossings
   
151.37   Names and numbers
   
151.38   Excavation
   
151.39   Driving stakes
   
151.40   Mixing concrete
   
151.41   Harmful liquids
Private Drives
   
151.55   Application for construction of private drive
   
151.56   Application requirements
   
151.57   Issuance of permit
 
   
151.99   Penalty
CITY PROPERTY
§ 151.01 MAINTENANCE AND CONTROL.
   The City Council shall have the care, supervision and control of all public
highways, bridges, streets, alleys, public squares and commons within the city
and shall cause the same to be kept open and in repair and free from nuisances.
(Neb. RS 17-567)
§ 151.02 REGULATION OF SNOW, ICE AND OTHER ENCROACHMENTS.
   (A)   The city shall have the power to prevent and remove all encroachments,
including snow, ice, mud or other obstructions, into and upon all sidewalks,
streets, avenues, alleys and other city property.
(Neb. RS 17-557)
   (B)   If the abutting property owner refuses or neglects, after five days’
notice by publication or, in place thereof, personal service of such notice, to
remove all encroachments from sidewalks as provided in division (A) above, the
city, through the proper officers, may cause such encroachments to be removed,
and the cost of removal shall be paid out of the Street Fund. The City Council
shall assess the cost of the notice and removal of the encroachment against the
abutting property as a special assessment. The special assessment shall be
known as a special sidewalk assessment and, together with the cost of notice,
shall be levied and collected as a special assessment in addition to the
general revenue taxes and shall be subject to the same penalties as other
special assessments and shall draw interest from the date of the assessment.
Upon payment of the assessment, the assessment shall be credited to the Street
Fund.
(Neb. RS 17-557.01)
§ 151.03 PERMITTED USE OF PUBLIC STREET SPACE.
   Any person engaged in the erection, construction, reconstruction, wrecking
or repairing of any building, or the construction or repair of a sidewalk along
any street, may occupy the public street space with the building material and
equipment as long as is necessary if such person makes application to and
receives a permit to do so in writing from the Street Commissioner. No permit
shall authorize the occupancy of more than one-third of the roadway of the
public space adjacent to the real estate on which the building or sidewalk is
to be erected, constructed, reconstructed, wrecked or repaired. A suitable
passageway for pedestrians shall be maintained within the public space included
in the permit, which passageway shall be protected and lighted in the manner
required by the Street Commissioner.
Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.04 POLES, WIRES AND PIPELINES.
   (A)   Poles, wires, conduits, gas mains, pipelines and other appurtenances
of public service companies shall be located or erected over, upon or under the
streets, alleys and common grounds of the city. Application for location of
such appurtenances shall be made to the City Council in writing. Approval by
the Council shall be issued in writing. Any public service company granted a
right-of-way for the erection and maintenance of poles, wires, conduits, gas
mains, pipelines or other appurtenances shall at all times erect and locate
their appurtenances at such places and in such manner as shall be designated by
the Council.
   (B)   (1)   All poles, wires, conduits, gas mains, pipelines and other
appurtenances shall be removed or relocated by the companies at their own
expense when requested to do so by the Council. Any such removal or relocation
shall be ordered by resolution of the Council and the City Clerk shall notify
any and all companies affected.
      (2)   The companies shall, within 24 hours after receiving notice, at
their own expense cause the poles, wires, conduits, gas mains, pipelines or
other appurtenances to be removed or relocated. The Council shall designate
another location as closely as possible where the appurtenances may be reset or
placed.
   (C)   All poles, wires, conduits, gas mains, pipelines or other
appurtenances shall be reset, placed or erected in such a manner that they will
not interfere with the water system; the sewerage system; any poles, wires,
conduits, mains, lines or other appurtenances of any public utility; any
adjacent buildings; or travel on the public ways and property. Whenever
possible, all poles, wires, conduits, gas mains, pipelines and appurtenances
shall be confined to the alleys of the city.
§ 151.05 GUTTERING AND EAVE SPOUTS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to erect or maintain any dwelling house
or business building within the limits of the city where the dwelling or
building abuts on any sidewalk or street without providing proper guttering and
eave spouts to receive the wastewaters that collect on the sidewalks and
streets. All eave spouts erected on any dwelling house or business building
shall be constructed to drain into the alleys, or shall be buried beneath the
sidewalks and drain into the streets where it is found to be impossible to
drain the eave spouts into the alley.
Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.06 OVERHANGING BRANCHES.
   The owner or occupant of any lot, piece or parcel of ground abutting or
adjacent to any street or sidewalk over which there extend the branches of
trees shall at all times keep the branches or limbs thereof trimmed to the
height of at least eight feet above the surface of the walk and at least 14
feet above the surface of the street or to the heights otherwise specified by
the City Council. Whenever the branches or limbs of any tree extend over
streets or sidewalks contrary to such provisions so as to interfere with the
lighting of the street from street lights or with the convenience of the public
using the street or sidewalk, the city may proceed against the owner or
occupant of the property abutting or adjacent to the street or sidewalk as
provided in §
90.02.
Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.07 HEAVY EQUIPMENT.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to move or operate heavy equipment
across any curb, gutter, bridge, culvert, sidewalk, crosswalk or crossing on
any unpaved street without first having protected such curb, gutter, bridge,
culvert, sidewalks, crosswalk or crossing with heavy plank sufficient in
strength to warrant against the breaking or damaging of such curb, gutter,
bridge, culvert, sidewalk, crosswalk or crossing.
   (B)   Except as provided in state law, it shall be unlawful to run, drive,
move, operate or convey over or across any paved street a vehicle, machine or
implement with sharp discs or with sharp wheels that bear upon the pavement;
with wheels that have cutting edges; with wheels that have lugs, any protruding
parts or bolts thereon that extend beyond a plain tire so as to cut, mark, mar,
indent or otherwise injure or damage any pavement, gutter or curb, except that
where heavy vehicles, structures and machines move along paved or unpaved
streets, the city police are hereby authorized and empowered to choose the
route over which the moving of such vehicles, structures or machines will be
permitted and allowed.
Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.08 SALE AND CONVEYANCE; REAL PROPERTY.
   (A)   Except as provided in division (G) below, the power of the city to
convey any real property owned by it, including land used for park purposes and
public squares, except real property used in the operation of public utilities,
shall be exercised by resolution, directing the sale at public auction or by
sealed bid of that property and the manner and terms of such sales, except that
the property shall not be sold at public auction or by sealed bid when:
      (1)   The property is being sold in compliance with the requirements of
federal or state grants or programs;
      (2)   The property is being conveyed to another public agency; or
      (3)   The property consists of streets and alleys.
   (B)   The City Council may establish a minimum price for real property at
which bidding shall begin or shall serve as a minimum for a sealed bid.
   (C)   After the passage of the resolution directing the sale, notice of all
proposed sales of property described in division (A) above and the terms of
such sales shall be published once each week for three consecutive weeks in a
legal newspaper published in or of general circulation in the city.
   (D)   (1)   If, within 30 days after the third publication of the notice, a
remonstrance petition against the sale conforms to Neb. RS 32-628, is signed by
registered voters of the city equal in number to 30% of the registered voters
of the city voting at the last regular city election held therein, and is filed
with the City Council, that property shall not then, nor within one year
thereafter, be sold. If the date for filing the petition falls upon a Saturday,
Sunday or legal holiday, the signatures shall be collected within the 30-day
period, but the filing shall be considered timely if filed or postmarked on or
before the next business day.
      (2)   Upon receipt of the remonstrance, the City Council, with the aid
and assistance of the Election Commissioner or the County Clerk, shall
determine the validity and sufficiency of signatures on the petition. The City
Council shall deliver the petition to the Election Commissioner or the County
Clerk by hand carrier, by the use of law enforcement officials or by certified
mail, return receipt requested.
      (3)   Upon receipt of the petition, the Election Commissioner or County
Clerk shall issue to the City Council a written receipt that the petition is in
the custody of the Election Commissioner or County Clerk. The Election
Commissioner or County Clerk shall compare the signature of each person signing
the petition with the voter registration records to determine if each signer
was a registered voter on or before the date on which the petition was filed
with the City Council. The Election Commissioner or County Clerk shall also
compare the signer’s printed name, street and number or voting precinct, and
city or post office address with the voter registration records to determine
whether the signer was a registered voter. The signature and address shall be
presumed to be valid only if the Election Commissioner or County Clerk
determines that the printed name, street and number or voting precinct, and
city or post office address match the registration records and that the
registration was received on or before the date on which the petition was filed
with the City Council. The determinations of the Election Commissioner or
County Clerk may be rebutted by any credible evidence which the City Council
finds sufficient. The express purpose of the comparison of names and addresses
with the voter registration records, in addition to helping to determine the
validity of the petition, the sufficiency of the petition and the
qualifications of the signer, shall be to prevent fraud, deception and
misrepresentation in the petition process.
      (4)   Upon completion of the comparison of names and addresses with the
voter registration records, the Election Commissioner or County Clerk shall
prepare in writing a certification under seal setting forth the name and
address of each signer found not to be a registered voter and the signature
page number and line number where the name is found, and if the reason for the
invalidity of the signature or address is other than the nonregistration of the
signer, the Election Commissioner or County Clerk shall set forth the reason
for the invalidity of the signature. If the Election Commissioner or County
Clerk determines that a signer has affixed his or her signature more than once
to the remonstrance and that only one person is registered by that name, the
Election Commissioner or County Clerk shall prepare in writing a certification
under seal setting forth the name of the duplicate signature and shall count
only the earliest dated signature.
      (5)   The Election Commissioner or County Clerk shall certify to the City
Council the number of valid signatures necessary to constitute a valid
remonstrance. The Election Commissioner or County Clerk shall deliver the
remonstrance and the certifications to the City Council within 40 days after
the receipt of the remonstrance from the City Council. The delivery shall be by
hand carrier, by use of law enforcement officials or by certified mail, return
receipt requested. Not more than 20 signatures on one signature page shall be
counted.
      (6)   The City Council shall, within 30 days after the receipt of the
remonstrance and certifications from the Election Commissioner or County Clerk,
hold a public hearing to review the remonstrance and certifications and receive
testimony regarding them. The City Council shall, following the hearing, vote
on whether or not the remonstrance is valid and shall uphold the remonstrance
if sufficient valid signatures have been received.
   (E)   Real estate now owned or hereafter owned by the city may be conveyed
without consideration to the state for state armory sites or, if acquired for
state armory sites, shall be conveyed strictly in accordance with the
conditions of Neb. RS 18-1001 through 18-1006.
   (F)   Following passage of the resolution directing a sale, publishing of
the notice of the proposed sale, and passing of the 30-day right-of-
remonstrance period, the property shall then be sold. The sale shall be
confirmed by passage of an ordinance stating the name of the purchaser and
terms of the sale.
(Neb. RS 17-503)
   (G)   Divisions (A) through (F) above shall not apply to the sale of real
property if the authorizing resolution directs the sale of real property the
total fair market value of which is less than $5,000. Following passage of the
resolution directing the sale of the property, notice of the sale shall be
posted in three prominent places within the city for a period of not less than
seven days prior to the sale of the property. The notice shall give a general
description of the property offered for sale and state the terms and conditions
of sale. Confirmation of the sale by passage of an ordinance may be required.
(Neb. RS 17-503.01)
SIDEWALKS
§ 151.20 REQUIREMENT TO KEEP CLEAN.
   It shall be unlawful for the occupant of any lot or lots or the owner of any
vacant lot or lots within the corporate limits to allow snow, sleet, mud, ice
or other substance to accumulate on the sidewalks or to permit any snow, sleet,
ice, mud or other substance to remain upon the sidewalk. Unless the City
Council has provided otherwise, all sidewalks within the Business District
shall be cleaned within five hours after the cessation of a storm unless the
storm or fall of snow shall have taken place during the night, in which case,
the sidewalk shall be cleaned before 9:00 a.m. the following day, and sidewalks
within the residential areas of the city shall be cleaned within 24 hours after
the cessation of the storm.
Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.21 CONSTRUCTION AND REPAIR AT CITY DIRECTION.
   (A)   (1)   The Mayor and City Council may construct and repair sidewalks or
cause the construction and repair of sidewalks in such manner as the Mayor and
City Council deem necessary and assess the expense of such construction or
repairs on the property in front of which such construction or repairs are
made, after having given notice:
         (a)   By publication in one issue of a legal newspaper of general
circulation in the city; and
         (b)   By either causing a written notice to be served upon the
occupant in possession of the property involved or to be posted upon such
premises ten days prior to the commencement of such construction or repair.
      (2)   The powers conferred under this section are in addition to those
provided in Neb. RS 17-509 through 17-521 and may be exercised without creating
an improvement district.
      (3)   If the owner of any property abutting any street or avenue or part
thereof fails to construct or repair any sidewalk in front of the owner’s
property within the time and in the manner as directed and requested by the
Mayor and City Council after having received due notice to do so, the Mayor and
City Council may cause the sidewalk to be constructed or repaired and may
assess the cost of such construction or repairs against the property.
(Neb. RS 17-522)
   (B)   All sidewalks shall be constructed and repaired in conformity with
such plans and specifications as may be approved by the City Council.
   (C)   Assessments made under the provisions of this section shall be made
and assessed in the following manner.
      (1)   Such assessment shall be made by the City Council at a special
meeting, by a resolution, taking into account the benefits derived or injuries
sustained in consequence of such improvements, and the amount charged against
the same, which, with the vote, shall be recorded in the minutes. Notice of the
time of holding such meeting and the purpose for which it is to be held shall
be published in a legal newspaper in or of general circulation in the city at
least four weeks before the same shall be held or, in lieu thereof, personal
service may be made upon persons owning or occupying property to be assessed.
      (2)   All such assessments shall be known as special assessments for
improvements and shall be levied and collected as a separate tax, in addition
to the taxes for general revenue purposes, and shall be placed on the tax roll
for collection, subject to the same penalties and collected in like manner as
other city taxes.
(Neb. RS 17-524)
Statutory reference:
   Authority to improve through sidewalk district, see Neb. RS 19-2417 through
19-2419
§ 151.22 FAILURE TO CONSTRUCT, RECONSTRUCT OR REPAIR.
   If any such owner shall neglect or refuse, or shall have failed, after
notice has been given as provided in this subchapter, to construct, repair,
replace or reconstruct any sidewalk within the time limited in the notice given
in such case and whose duty it is made by this subchapter to construct, repair
or rebuild such walks, the Street Commissioner or other officer empowered
herein to act shall proceed at once without further notice to such owner or
person to have such sidewalks constructed, repaired, rebuilt or reconstructed,
as the case may be, and the expense of such work shall be assessed to such lot
or piece of land and collected as provided by law.
(Prior Code, § 5-305)
§ 151.23 CONSTRUCTION BY PETITION.
   (A)   If the owners of the record title representing more than 60% of the
front footage of the directly abutting property, subject to assessment for
sidewalk improvements, petition the City Council to make the same, the City
Council shall proceed in all things as though such construction had been
ordered by it. Upon the petition of any freeholder who is an abutting owner in
fee simple of property subject to assessment for sidewalk improvements, the
City Council may order permanent sidewalks built in accordance with this
subchapter upon the freeholder making, executing and delivering to the city an
agreement to the effect that the petitioning freeholder will pay the
engineering service fee and all other incidental construction costs until paid
shall be a perpetual lien upon the real estate along which the freeholder
desires such sidewalk to be constructed and that the petitioner gives and
grants to the city the right to assess and levy the costs of such construction
against the freeholder’s real estate abutting the sidewalk improvement and
promises to pay such costs with interest. The total cost of such improvement
shall be levied, allocated, financed and specially assessed as provided by law.
   (B)   In the event the property owner is a nonresident of the county in
which the property lies, the city shall, before levying any special assessment
against that property, send a copy of any notice required by law to be
published by means of certified mail, return receipt requested, to the last
known address of the nonresident property owner. The last known address shall
be that address listed on the current tax rolls at the time such required
notice was first published.
(Prior Code, § 5-306)
§ 151.24 FAILURE TO REBUILD.
   In case the owner of property in front of which any unlawful sidewalk is
constructed or refuses or neglects to rebuild or relocate the same within five
days after notice to do so, then the City Council may order the same rebuilt or
relocated and assess the costs thereof upon the abutting property upon the same
notice and in the same manner provided by law for the construction of and
assessment for new sidewalks.
(Prior Code, § 5-307) Penalty, see §
151.99
STREETS AND ALLEYS
§ 151.35 OPENING, WIDENING, IMPROVING OR VACATING.
   (A)   (1)   The city shall have the power to open, widen or otherwise
improve or vacate any street, avenue, alley or lane within the limits of the
city and also to create, open and improve any new street, avenue, alley or
lane. All damages sustained by the citizens of the city, or by the owners of
the property therein, shall be ascertained in that manner as shall be provided
by ordinance.
      (2)   Whenever any street, avenue, alley or lane is vacated, the same
shall revert to the owners of the abutting real estate, one-half on each side
thereof, and become a part of that property unless the city reserves title in
the ordinance vacating such street or alley. If title is retained by the city,
such property may be sold, conveyed, exchanged or leased upon such terms and
conditions as shall be deemed in the best interests of the city.
      (3)   When a portion of a street, avenue, alley or lane is vacated only
on one side of the center thereof, the title to the land shall vest in the
owner of the abutting property and become a part of that property unless the
city reserves title in the ordinance vacating a portion of such street or
alley. If title is retained by the city, such property may be sold, conveyed,
exchanged or leased upon such terms and conditions as shall be deemed in the
best interests of the city.
      (4)   When the city vacates all or any portion of a street, avenue, alley
or lane, the city shall, within 30 days after the effective date of the
vacation, file a certified copy of the vacating ordinance with the Register of
Deeds for the county in which the vacated property is located, to be indexed
against all affected lots.
      (5)   The title to property vacated pursuant to this section shall be
subject to the following:
         (a)   There is reserved to the city the right to maintain, operate,
repair and renew public utilities existing at the time title to the property is
vacated there; and
         (b)   There is reserved to the city, any public utilities and any
cable television systems the right to maintain, repair, renew and operate water
mains, gas mains, pole lines, conduits, electrical transmission lines, sound
and signal transmission lines, and other similar services and equipment and
appurtenances, including lateral connections or branch lines, above, on or
below the surface of the ground that are existing as valid easements at the
time title to the property is vacated for the purposes of serving the general
public or the abutting properties and to enter upon the premises to accomplish
such purposes at any and all reasonable times.
(Neb. RS 17-558)
   (B)   The city shall have the power to create, open, widen or extend any
street, avenue, alley, off-street parking area or other public way, or annul,
vacate or discontinue the same.
(Neb. RS 17-559)
§ 151.36 CROSSINGS.
   (A)   The City Council may order and cause to be constructed, under the
supervision of the Street Commissioner, those street, avenue and alley
crossings as the City Council deems necessary. When a petition for the
construction of any such crossings is filed by an interested resident in the
office of the City Clerk, the City Clerk shall refer the application to the
Street Commissioner, who shall investigate and make a recommendation to the
City Council.
   (B)   Action by the City Council on the application, whether the application
is approved or rejected, shall be considered final.
§ 151.37 NAMES AND NUMBERS.
   (A)   The City Council may at any time, by ordinance, rename any street or
provide a name for any new street. Buildings used for residence or business
purposes and located along those streets shall retain those numbers as the City
Council may require.
   (B)   It shall be the duty of the Street Commissioner, upon the erection of
any new building, to assign the proper numbers to the building and give notice
to the owner and occupant of the same.
Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.38 EXCAVATION.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to make an excavation in any street or
streets for any purpose whatsoever unless a written permit is issued by the
Street Commissioner authorizing those excavations.
Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.39 DRIVING STAKES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to drive any peg or stake of any kind
into the pavement in any street or alley without first procuring the written
consent of the Street Commissioner.
Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.40 MIXING CONCRETE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to mix any concrete or plastering
material directly on the street pavement for any reason whatsoever.
Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.41 HARMFUL LIQUIDS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to place or permit to leak in the gutter
of any street any waste gasoline, kerosene or high lubricating oils, which
damage or act as a solvent upon the streets.
Penalty, see §
151.99
PRIVATE DRIVES
§ 151.55 APPLICATION FOR CONSTRUCTION OF PRIVATE DRIVE.
   Before any person, firm or corporation constructs a private drive onto any
public street or alley, an application shall first be made to the City Council
for a permit for such construction. Such application shall be accompanied by a
fee of $40 and shall be acted upon by the City Council at a regular or special
meeting.
(Prior Code, § 5-401)
§ 151.56 APPLICATION REQUIREMENTS.
   All driveway applications shall contain the following information:
   (A)   The addition, block and lot which the driveway is to serve;
   (B)   The location of the proposed driveway with reference to adjacent lot
lines; and
   (C)   The width of the driveway and type of street surface to which the
driveway will connect.
(Prior Code, § 5-402)
§ 151.57 ISSUANCE OF PERMIT.
   In the event that the City Council determines that such application is in
due and proper form and that the same complies with this subchapter, it shall
issue a permit for construction of such requested driveway.
(Prior Code, § 5-403)
§ 151.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   It is hereby determined a nuisance to fail to remove accumulated snow
from any sidewalk within the city, and such failure to remove accumulated snow
from the sidewalk after 24 hours cessation of the storm shall be punished as a
misdemeanor and the owner permitting such accumulation shall be fined in a sum
not to exceed $500.
(Prior Code, § 5-308)
   (B)   Any person, firm or corporation violating the terms of §§
151.55 through
151.57 and who constructs a driveway onto a city street or alley without first
securing a permit therefore shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and shall
be fined in a sum not to exceed $500, and each day’s maintenance of the same
shall constitute a separate offense.
(Prior Code, § 5-404)
   (C)   Any and all persons violating any of the provisions of this chapter
for which penalty is not therein provided shall be deemed guilty of a
misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be fined in a sum of not more
than $500 for each offense. Each day’s maintenance of the same shall constitute
a separate offense.
(Prior Code, § 5-501)
CHAPTER 152: TREES
Section
   
152.01   Tree Board
   
152.02   Definitions
   
152.03   Street tree species
   
152.04   Spacing
   
152.05   Distance from curb and sidewalk
   
152.06   Distance from street corners and fireplugs
   
152.07   Utilities
   
152.08   Public tree cards
   
152.09   Consent of property owner
   
152.10   Tree topping
   
152.11   Pruning, corner clearance
   
152.12   Dead or diseased tree removal
   
152.13   Removal of stumps
   
152.14   Interference with Tree Board
   
152.15   Review by City Council
§ 152.01 TREE BOARD.
   (A)   Creation and establishment of a City Tree Board. There is hereby
created and established a Tree Board for the city, which shall consist of five
permanent members and as many advisory members as the City Council determines
necessary. The permanent members shall be citizens and residents of this city
and the advisory members shall be residents of Cedar County or Knox County.
Such permanent and advisory members shall be appointed by the Mayor with the
approval of the City Council. In the event that a vacancy shall occur during
the term of any member, his or her successor shall be appointed by the Mayor
with the approval of the City Council for the unexpired term.
(Prior Code, § 1-901)
   (B)   Term of office. The term of the five persons to be appointed by the
Mayor with the approval of the City Council shall be three years with staggered
terms, so that two members’ terms shall expire every two years. The advisory
members shall have no term and shall serve at the pleasure of the Mayor and
City Council. In the event that a vacancy shall occur during the term of any
member, his or her successor shall be appointed for the unexpired portion of
the term.
(Prior Code, § 1-903)
   (C)   Compensation. Members of the Tree Board shall serve without
compensation.
(Prior Code, § 1-904)
   (D)   Duties and responsibilities. It shall be the responsibility of the
Tree Board to study, investigate, counsel and develop and/or update annually
and administer a written plan for the care, preservation, pruning, planting,
replanting, removal or disposition of trees and shrubs in parks, along streets
and in other public areas. Such plan will be presented annually to the City
Council and, upon their acceptance and approval, shall constitute the official
comprehensive City Tree Plan for the city. The Tree Board, when requested by
the Council, shall consider, investigate, make finding, report and recommend
upon any special matter of question coming within the scope of its work.
(Prior Code, § 1-905)
   (E)   Operation. The Tree Board shall choose its own officers, make its own
rules and regulations and keep a minute book of its proceedings. A majority of
its members shall be a quorum for the transaction of business.
(Prior Code, § 1-906)
§ 152.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   NUISANCE OR OBSTRUCTION. Trees and shrubs growing upon or near the lot line
or upon public ground, including the public owned sidewalk space, and
interfering with the use or construction of any public improvements.
   PARK TREES. Trees, shrubs, bushes and all other woody vegetation in public
parks having individual names, and all areas owned by the city, or to which the
public has free access as a park.
   STREET TREES. Trees, shrubs, bushes and all other woody vegetation on land
lying between property lines on either side of all streets, avenues or ways
with the city.
(Prior Code, § 1-902)
§ 152.03 STREET TREE SPECIES.
   (A)   The tree list adopted by the Tree Board and published by them
constitutes the official street tree species for the city.
   (B)   No species other than those included in this list may be planted as
street trees without written permission of the City Tree Board.
(Prior Code, § 1-907) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 152.04 SPACING.
   The spacing of street trees will be in accordance with the three species
size classes listed in the tree list, and no trees may be planted closer
together than the following: small trees, 30 feet; medium trees, 40 feet; and
large trees, 50 feet; except in special plantings designed or approved by a
landscape architect.
(Prior Code, § 1-908)
§ 152.05 DISTANCE FROM CURB AND SIDEWALK.
   The distance trees may be planted from curbs or curblines and sidewalks will
be in accordance with the three species size classes listed in the tree list
and no trees may be planted closer to any curb or sidewalk than the following:
small trees, two feet; medium trees, three feet; and large trees, four feet.
(Prior Code, § 1-909)
§ 152.06 DISTANCE FROM STREET CORNERS AND FIREPLUGS.
   No street tree shall be planted closer than 35 feet of any street corner,
measured from the point of nearest intersecting curbs or curblines. No street
tree shall be planted closer than ten feet of any fireplug.
(Prior Code, § 1-910) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 152.07 UTILITIES.
   No street trees other than those species listed as small trees in the tree
list may be planted under or within ten lateral feet of any overhead utility
wire, or over or within five lateral feet of any underground water line, sewer
line, transmission line or other utility.
(Prior Code, § 1-911) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 152.08 PUBLIC TREE CARDS.
   (A)   The city shall have the right to plant, subject to §
152.09, prune, maintain and remove trees, plants and shrubs within the lines of
all streets, alleys, avenues, lanes, squares and public grounds, as may be
necessary to ensure public safety or to preserve or enhance the symmetry and
beauty of such public grounds.
   (B)   This section does not prohibit the planting of street trees by
adjacent property owners, providing that the selection and location of said
trees is in accordance with this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 1-912)
§ 152.09 CONSENT OF PROPERTY OWNER.
   The City Tree Board shall plant no trees on public right-of-way without the
consent of the adjacent property owners. Such consent shall be in writing and
shall be maintained as part of the official Tree Board records.
(Prior Code, § 1-913)
§ 152.10 TREE TOPPING.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful as a normal practice for any person, firm or city
department to top any street tree, park tree or other tree on public property.
   (B)   For the purpose of this section, TOPPING is defined as the severe
cutting back of limbs to stubs larger than three inches in diameter within the
tree’s crown to such a degree so as to remove the normal canopy and disfigure
the tree.
   (C)   Trees severely damaged by storms or other causes, or certain trees
under utility wires or other obstructions where other pruning practices are
impractical may be exempted from this chapter at the determination of the City
Tree Board.
(Prior Code, § 1-914) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 152.11 PRUNING, CORNER CLEARANCE.
   Every owner of any tree overhanging any street or right-of-way within the
city shall prune the branches, so that such branches shall not obstruct the
light from any streetlamp or obstruct the view of any street intersection, and
so that there shall be a clear space of ten feet above the surface of the
street or sidewalk.
(Prior Code, § 1-915)
§ 152.12 DEAD OR DISEASED TREE REMOVAL.
   (A)   All trees that are in a diseased, dying or dead condition are declared
to be a public nuisance and shall be removed by the property owner from the
private property on which they are located. For the purpose of carrying out the
provisions of this section, the City Tree Board shall have the authority to
enter on private property to inspect the trees thereon. In the event that the
trees are diseased or dead, notice shall be given to the owner of the property
by mail or personal service, and such notice shall allow said owner 60 days to
remove said tree or trees.
   (B)   In the event that the owner is a nonresident, notice shall be made by
publication in a newspaper of general circulation, or by certified mail if the
name and address is known. The person charged with the removal may enter into
an agreement with the city that such work be accomplished by the city, and the
expense shall be declared to be a lien upon such property from the time the
same becomes due until paid. If the owner fails, neglects or refuses to enter
into such an agreement, or to remove the trees, the City Tree Board may enter
upon the property and proceed to direct the removal of the trees and the cost
thereof hall be chargeable to the property owner. If the owner fails to
reimburse the city after being properly billed, the costs shall be assessed
against the property and certified by the City Clerk to the County Treasurer to
be collected in the manner prescribed by law.
   (C)   In the event the property owner is a nonresident of the county in
which the property lies, the city shall, before levying any special assessment
against that property, send a copy of any notice required by law to be
published by means of certified mail, return receipt requested, to the last
known address of the nonresident property owner. The last known address shall
be that address listed on the current tax rolls at the time such required
notice was first published.
(Prior Code, § 1-916)
§ 152.13 REMOVAL OF STUMPS.
   All stumps of street and park trees shall be removed below the surface of
the ground so that the top of the stump shall not project above the surface of
the ground.
(Prior Code, § 1-917)
§ 152.14 INTERFERENCE WITH TREE BOARD.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to prevent, delay or interfere with the
City Tree Board, or any of its agents, while engaging in and about the
planting, cultivating, mulching, pruning, spraying or removing of any street
trees, park trees or trees on private grounds, as authorized in this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 1-918) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 152.15 REVIEW BY CITY COUNCIL.
   The City Council shall have the right to review the conduct, acts and
decisions of the City Tree Board. Any person may appeal any ruling or order of
the City Tree Board to the Council, who may hear the matter and make a final
decision.
(Prior Code, § 1-919)
CHAPTER 153: FLOOD DAMAGE PREVENTION
Section
General Provisions
   
153.01   Definitions
   
153.02   Enforcement Official
   
153.03   Flood hazard boundary map
   
153.04   Findings of fact
   
153.05   New water and sewer systems
   
153.06   Alteration of relocation of watercourses
   
153.07   Amendments
Development Permits
   
153.20   Development permit required
   
153.21   Application
   
153.22   Review of application
   
153.23   Requirements
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 153.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DEVELOPMENT. Any human-made change to improved or unimproved real estate,
including, but not limited to, buildings or other structures, mining, dredging,
filling, grading, paving, excavation or drilling operations.
   FLOOD. A general and temporary condition of partial or complete inundation
of normally dry land areas from the overflow of inland or tidal waters, the
unusual and rapid accumulation or runoff of surface waters from any source.
   FLOODPROOFING. Any combination of structural and non-structural additions,
changes or adjustments to structures which reduce or eliminate flood damage to
real estate or improved real property, water and sanitary facilities,
structures and their contents.
   LOWEST FLOOR. The lowest floor of the lowest enclosed area (including
basement). An unfinished or flood resistant enclosure, usable solely for
parking of vehicles, building access or storage, in an area other than a
basement area, is not considered a building’s LOWEST FLOOR; provided, that such
enclosure is not built so as to render the structure in violation of the
applicable non-elevation design requirements of this chapter.
   MANUFACTURED HOME. A structure transportable in one or more sections which
is built on a permanent chassis and is designed for use with or without a
permanent foundation when connected to the required utilities. For floodplain
management purposes, the term MANUFACTURED HOME also includes park trailers,
travel trailers and other similar vehicles placed on a site for greater than
180 consecutive days. For insurance purposes, the term MANUFACTURED HOME does
not include park trailers, travel trailers and other similar vehicles.
   MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A parcel or contiguous parcels of
land divided into two or more manufactured home lots for rent or sale.
   100-YEAR FLOOD. The condition of flooding having a 1% chance of annual
occurrence.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE.
      (1)   A vehicle which is:
         (a)   Built on a single chassis;
         (b)   Four hundred square feet or less when measured at the largest
horizontal projections;
         (c)   Designed to be self-propelled or permanently towable by a light
duty truck; and
         (d)   Designed primarily not for use as a permanent dwelling but as
temporary living quarters for recreational, camping, travel or seasonal use.
      (2)   RECREATIONAL VEHICLES placed on sites within the special flood
hazard areas on the community’s official map shall either:
         (a)   Be on the site for fewer than 180 consecutive days;
         (b)   Be fully licensed and ready for highway use; or
         (c)   Meet the permit requirements and the elevation and anchoring
requirements for “manufactured homes.”
      (3)   A RECREATIONAL VEHICLE is ready for highway use if it is on its
wheels or jacking system, is attached to the site only by quick-disconnect type
utilities and security devices and has no permanently attached additions.
   REGULATORY FLOOD ELEVATION. The water surface elevation of the 100-year
flood.
   SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREA. The land within a community subject to a 1% or
greater chance of flooding in any given year. This land is identified as Zone A
on the official map.
   STRUCTURE. A walled and roofed building that is principally above ground, as
well as a manufactured home, and a gas or liquid storage tank that is
principally above ground.
   SUBSTANTIAL DAMAGE. Damage of any origin sustained by a structure whereby
the cost of restoring the structure to its before-damaged condition would equal
or exceed 50% of the market value of the structure before the damage occurred.
   SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT. Any repair, reconstruction or improvement of a
structure, the cost of which equals or exceeds 50% of the market value of the
structure either before the improvement is started, or if the structure has
been damaged and is being restored before the damage occurred. For the purposes
of this definition, SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT is considered to occur when the
first alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor or other structural part of the
building commences, whether or not that alteration affects the external
dimensions of the structure. The term does not, however, include any alteration
to comply with existing state or local health, sanitary, building or safety
codes or regulations as well as structures listed in National or State
Registers of Historic Places.
(Prior Code, § 8-301)
§ 153.02 ENFORCEMENT OFFICIAL.
   (A)   The City Clerk as defined in the zoning ordinances of the city is
hereby designated as the Council’s duly designated enforcement officer. The
City Clerk shall be appointed to these additional duties by resolution of the
City Council and his or her appointment shall continue during good behavior and
satisfactory service.
   (B)   During temporary absence or disability of the City Clerk, the City
Council shall designate an acting enforcement official.
(Prior Code, § 8-302)
§ 153.03 FLOOD HAZARD BOUNDARY MAP.
   The City Council hereby designates the current flood hazard boundary map/
flood insurance rate map and amendments as the official map to be used in
determining those areas of special flood hazard.
(Prior Code, § 8-303)
§ 153.04 FINDINGS OF FACT.
   The City Council shall review all subdivision applications and other
proposed new developments, including manufactured home parks or subdivisions,
and shall make findings of fact and assure that:
   (A)   All such proposed developments are consistent with the need to
minimize flood damage;
   (B)   Subdivision proposals and other proposed new developments (including
proposals for manufactured home parks and subdivisions), greater than five
acres or 50 lots, whichever is lesser, include within such proposals regulatory
flood elevation data in areas designated Zone A;
   (C)   Adequate drainage is provided so as to reduce exposure to flood
hazards; and
   (D)   All public utilities and facilities are located so as to minimize or
eliminate flood damage.
(Prior Code, § 8-308)
§ 153.05 NEW WATER AND SEWER SYSTEMS.
   New and replacement water and sewer systems shall be constructed to
eliminate or minimize infiltration by or discharge into floodwaters. Moreover,
on-site waste disposal systems will be designed to avoid impairment or
contamination during flooding.
(Prior Code, § 8-309)
§ 153.06 ALTERATION OF RELOCATION OF WATERCOURSES.
   The City Council will ensure that the flood-carrying capacity within the
altered or relocated portion of any watercourse is maintained. The city will
notify adjacent communities and the state coordinating office prior to any
alteration or relocation of a watercourse and submit copies of such
notifications to the Federal Emergency Management Agency. Moreover, the city
will work with appropriate state and federal agencies in every way possible in
complying with the National Flood Insurance Program in accordance with the
National Flood Disaster Protection Act of 1973, being 42 U.S.C. §§ 4001 et seq.
(Prior Code, § 8-310)
§ 153.07 AMENDMENTS.
   The City Council may, from time to time, amend this chapter to reflect any
and all changes in the National Flood Disaster Protection Act of 1973, being 42
U.S.C. §§ 4001 et seq. The regulations of this chapter are in compliance with
the National Flood Insurance Program Regulations as published in 44 C.F.R.
(Prior Code, § 8-311)
DEVELOPMENT PERMITS
§ 153.20 DEVELOPMENT PERMIT REQUIRED.
   (A)   No person, firm or corporation shall erect, construct, enlarge or
improve any building or structure in the city or cause the same to be done
without first obtaining a separate development permit for each building or
structure.
   (B)   Within Zone A on the official map, separate development permits are
required for all new construction, substantial improvements and other
developments, including the placement of manufactured homes.
(Prior Code, § 8-304) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 153.21 APPLICATION.
   (A)   To obtain a permit, the applicant shall first file an application
therefore in writing on a form furnished for that purpose.
   (B)   Every such application shall:
      (1)   Identify and describe the work to be covered by the permit for
which application is made;
      (2)   Describe the land on which the proposed work is to be done by lot,
block, tract and house and street address, or similar description that will
readily identify and definitely locate the proposed building or work;
      (3)   Indicate the use or occupancy for which the proposed work is
intended;
      (4)   Be accompanied by plans and specifications for proposed
construction;
      (5)   Be signed by the permittee or his or her authorized agent, who may
be required to submit evidence to indicate such authority;
      (6)   Within designated flood prone areas, be accompanied by elevations
(in relation to a mean sea level) of the lowest floor (including basement) or
in the case of floodproofed nonresidential structures, the elevation to which
it has been floodproofed. Documentation or certification of such elevations
will be maintained by the City Clerk; and
      (7)   Give such other information as reasonably may be required by the
City Clerk.
(Prior Code, § 8-305)
§ 153.22 REVIEW OF APPLICATION.
   The City Clerk shall review all development permit application to determine
if the site of the proposed development is reasonably safe from flooding and
that all necessary permits have been received as required by federal or state
law.
(Prior Code, § 8-306)
§ 153.23 REQUIREMENTS.
   The City Clerk, in reviewing all applications for new construction,
substantial improvements, prefabricated buildings, placement of manufactured
homes and other development(s) (as defined in § 153.01) will:
   (A)   Obtain, review and reasonably utilize, if available, any regulatory
flood elevation data and floodway data available from federal, state or other
sources, until such other data is provided by the Federal Insurance
Administration in a flood insurance study; and require within areas designated
as Zone A on the official map that the following performance standards be met:
      (1)   Residential construction. New construction or substantial
improvement of any residential structure shall have the lowest floor, including
basement, elevated to one foot above the base flood elevation;
      (2)   Nonresidential construction. New construction or substantial
improvement of any commercial, industrial or other nonresidential structure
shall either have the lowest floor, including basement, elevated to one foot
above the base flood elevation or, together with attendant utility and sanitary
facilities, be floodproofed so that below such a level the structure is
watertight with walls substantially impermeable to the passage of water and
with structural components having the capability of resisting hydrostatic and
hydrodynamic loads and effects of buoyancy. A registered professional engineer
or architect shall certify that the standards of this division (A)(2) are
satisfied. Such certification shall be provided to the local enforcement
official; and
      (3)   All new construction and substantial improvements. Require that
fully enclosed areas below the lowest floor that are subject to flooding shall
be designed to automatically equalize hydrostatic flood forces on exterior
walls by allowing for the entry and exit of floodwaters. Designs for meeting
this requirement must either be certified by a registered professional engineer
or architect or meet or exceed the following minimum criteria.
         (a)   A minimum of two openings having a total net area of not less
than one square inch for every square foot of enclosed area subject to flooding
shall be provided.
         (b)   The bottom of all openings shall be no higher than one foot
above grade.
         (c)   Openings may be equipped with screens, louvers, valves or other
coverings or devices; provided, that they permit the automatic entry and exit
of floodwaters.
   (B)   Require the use of construction materials that are resistant to flood
damage;
   (C)   Require the use of construction methods and practices that will
minimize flood damage;
   (D)   Require that new structures be designed (or modified) and adequately
anchored to prevent flotation, collapse or lateral movement of the structure
resulting from hydrodynamic and hydrostatic loads, including the effects of
buoyancy;
   (E)   New structures be constructed with electrical, heating, ventilation,
plumbing and air conditioning equipment and other service facilities that are
designed and/or located so as to prevent water from entering or accumulating
within the components during conditions of flooding;
   (F)   Assure that all manufactured homes shall be anchored to resist
flotation, collapse or lateral movement. Manufactured homes must be anchored in
accordance with state laws, local building codes and FEMA guidelines. In the
event that over-the-top frame ties to ground anchors are used, the following
specific requirements (or their equivalent) shall be met:
      (1)   Over-the-top ties be provided at each of the four corners of the
manufactured home, with two additional ties per side at the intermediate
locations; and manufactured homes less than 50 feet long requiring one
additional tie per side;
      (2)   Frame ties be provided at each corner of the home, with five
additional ties per side at intermediate points; and manufactured homes less
than 50 feet long requiring four additional ties per side;
      (3)   All components of the anchoring system be capable of carrying a
force of 4,800 pounds; and
      (4)   Any additions to manufactured homes be similarly anchored.
   (G)   Require that all manufactured homes to be placed within Zones A1-30,
AH and AE on the community’s FIRM be elevated on a permanent foundation such
that the lowest floor of the manufactured home is one foot above the base flood
elevation and be securely anchored to an adequately anchored foundation system
in accordance with the provisions of division (F) above.
(Prior Code, § 8-307)
CHAPTER 154: ZONING AND SUBDIVISIONS
Section
Zoning
   
154.01   Zoning regulations adopted
   
154.02   Jurisdiction
Subdivisions
   
154.15   Subdivision regulations adopted
   
154.16   Jurisdiction
 
   
154.99   Penalty
ZONING
§ 154.01 ZONING REGULATIONS ADOPTED.
   There is hereby established and adopted in the city the conditions,
provisions, limitations and terms of a standard zoning code containing rules
and regulations printed as a code in book or pamphlet form, by reference
thereto to have the same force and effect as though it had been spread at large
therein. Not less than three copies of such standard code or portion thereof
shall be filed for use and examination by the public in the office of the City
Clerk. Amendments to such zoning code shall be construed to have been adopted
if the three copies of the standard code so filed shall be at all times kept
current in the office of the City Clerk.
(Prior Code, § 8-501)
§ 154.02 JURISDICTION.
   The areas of jurisdiction shall be all land within the corporate limits of
the city and all areas within the planning jurisdiction as defined on the
official zoning district map of the city. The official zoning district map
shall be on file at the City Clerk’s office and open to inspection and
available to the public at all reasonable business hours.
(Prior Code, § 8-502)
SUBDIVISIONS
§ 154.15 SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS ADOPTED.
   This subchapter shall be known and may be cited as the subdivision
regulations for the city. An official copy of the subdivision regulations shall
be on file at the office of the City Clerk and open to inspection and available
to the public at all reasonable business hours.
(Prior Code, § 8-601)
§ 154.16 JURISDICTION.
   The area of jurisdiction shall be all land within the corporate limits of
the city and all areas within the planning and zoning jurisdiction as defined
on the official zoning district map of the city, which is on file at the City
Clerk’s office and open to inspection and available to the public at all
reasonable business hours.
(Prior Code, § 8-602)
§ 154.99 PENALTY.
   Any person who shall violate or refuse to comply with the enforcement of any
of the provisions of this chapter, whether set forth at full length herein or
incorporated by reference, shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon
conviction thereof, shall be fined in a sum of not more than $500 for each
offense. A new violation shall be deemed to have been committed every 24 hours
of such failure to comply.
(Prior Code, § 8-701)
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
   Table
      
I.   REAL ESTATE TRANSACTIONS
TABLE I: REAL ESTATE TRANSACTIONS
 
Ord. No.  Date Passed Description
                      Confirming the sale of property described as: Replat 4 &
5-8-23(1) 5-8-2023    3- Lot 12-406-400842A-122 67; Replat 4 & 3 Lot 11-405
                      400840A-122 66; Replat 4 & 3 Lot 10-404-400838A-122 65;
                      Replat 4 & 3 Lot 9-403-400836A-122 64
                     
 
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to Nebraska Revised Statutes
References to Prior Code
References to Resolutions
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO NEBRASKA REVISED STATUTES
Neb. RS Section Code Section
Neb. RS Section              Code Section
9-201 et seq.                134.02
9-301 et seq.                134.02
9-401 et seq.                134.02
9-501 et seq.                134.02
9-601 et seq.                134.02
9-701                        134.02
9-801 et seq.                134.02
9-1201 et seq.               134.02
11-101                       33.21
11-104                       33.20
11-105                       33.20
11-109                       33.20
11-110                       33.20
11-111                       33.20
11-112                       33.20
11-113                       33.20
11-114                       33.20
11-115                       33.20
11-116                       33.20
11-117                       33.20
11-118                       33.20
13-501 et seq.               32.16
13-504                       34.22
13-505                       34.22
13-506                       34.23
13-507                       34.23
13-508                       34.24
13-509                       34.24
13-510                       34.25
13-518 through 13-522        34.23;
                             34.24
13-606                       34.01
13-801 et seq.               32.16
13-903                       34.04
13-1802                      32.16
13-2501 et seq.              32.16
16-318(3)                    31.04
16-691.01                    34.09
17-102                       30.15
17-103                       30.15
17-104                       30.15
17-105                       33.02
17-106                       33.02
                             30.01;
                             30.03;
17-107                       31.01;
                             31.07;
                             32.17
17-108                       33.35
17-108.02                    30.02;
                             30.15
17-110                       30.02
17-111                       30.02
17-112                       30.02
17-113                       30.02
17-114                       30.02
17-117                       30.02
17-118                       32.16
17-119                       31.10
17-121                       32.02
17-129                       131.01
17-134                       110.04
17-148                       30.16
17-150                       31.11
17-501 through 17-560        31.08
17-502                       11.02
17-503                       151.08
17-503.01                    151.08
17-505                       30.30
17-509 through 17-521        151.21
17-522                       151.21
17-524                       151.21
17-525                       112.23
                             91.02;
                             91.04;
17-526                       91.35;
                             91.37;
                             91.38;
                             91.40
17-531                       52.02
17-534                       52.02
                             52.04;
17-537                       52.05;
                             52.11;
                             52.18
17-540                       34.09;
                             52.19
17-541                       31.07;
                             31.08
17-542                       52.20
17-543                       31.07;
                             31.08
17-547                       91.02;
                             91.04
17-548                       91.04
17-556                       131.01;
                             133.15
17-557                       151.02
17-557.01                    151.02
17-558                       151.35
17-559                       151.35
17-563                       90.02
17-567                       151.01
17-568                       31.11
17-568.01                    31.11;
                             34.02
17-568.02                    34.02
                             31.01;
17-604                       33.20;
                             33.35
17-605                       31.03
17-606                       31.04
17-606(2)                    31.04
17-607                       34.08
17-608                       34.09
17-609                       34.09
17-610                       31.05
17-611                       33.35
17-612                       33.35
                             30.31;
17-613                       30.33;
                             30.34;
                             34.02
                             10.15;
17-614                       30.31;
                             30.32;
                             30.36
17-615                       30.33
17-616                       30.32
17-701                       34.20
17-702                       34.07
17-708                       34.03
17-710                       34.06
17-711                       34.03
17-714                       34.04
17-715                       34.04
17-803                       34.09
17-804                       31.08
17-919                       31.11
17-1001                      90.02
18-132                       30.30
18-305 through 18-312        33.36
18-412.01                    34.02
18-1001 through 18-1006      151.08
18-1701                      31.03
18-1720                      90.02;
                             133.01
18-1743                      150.03
18-1756                      34.02
18-2102.01                   32.01
18-2715                      32.01
18-2801 et seq.              34.20;
                             34.22
18-2804                      34.01
18-3301                      31.11
19-613                       30.15
19-901 et seq.               32.01
19-903                       32.01
19-915                       30.36
19-916                       32.01
19-922                       30.30
19-925 through 19-933        32.01
19-926                       32.01
19-927                       32.01
19-928                       32.01
19-929                       32.01
19-930 through 19-933        32.01
19-1101                      31.04
19-1102                      31.03
19-1103                      31.03;
                             31.04
19-1301                      34.07
19-1302                      34.07
19-1303                      34.07
19-1304                      34.07
19-1305                      52.02
19-1309                      34.40
19-1310                      34.40
19-1311                      34.40
19-1312                      34.40
19-2417 through 19-2419      151.21
19-2701                      52.06
19-2902                      34.01
19-2903                      34.01
19-2904                      34.01
19-2905                      34.01
19-2906 through 19-2909      34.01
19-3701                      30.34
20-203                       91.39
23-122                       31.03
25-2703                      30.30
28-311.02                    130.06
28-311.03                    130.06
28-318                       134.01
28-519                       130.01
28-520                       91.39;
                             130.02
28-521                       91.39;
                             130.02
28-523                       133.02
28-610                       132.01
28-710 et seq.               134.01
28-801                       134.01
28-830                       134.01
28-831                       134.01
28-833                       134.02
28-903                       132.02
28-1008                      91.39
28-1101                      134.02
28-1102                      134.02
28-1103                      134.02
28-1104                      134.02
28-1107                      134.02
28-1108                      134.02
28-1109                      134.02
28-1110                      134.02
28-1111                      134.02
28-1112                      134.02
28-1113                      134.02
28-1117                      134.02
28-1241                      92.50
28-1241 through 28-1252      92.50
28-1321                      90.02
28-1322                      131.02
28-1465                      32.16
28-1466                      32.16
28-1472                      32.16
28-1601                      134.02
29-215                       32.16
29-830 through 29-835        150.30
                             30.01;
32-101 et seq.               30.15;
                             34.07
32-101                       30.15
32-109                       30.02;
                             30.15
32-533                       30.01;
                             30.15
32-552                       30.15
32-553                       30.15
32-554                       30.15
32-557                       30.15
32-560                       30.03;
                             30.18
32-560 through 32-572        30.03;
                             30.18
32-561                       30.03;
                             30.18
32-568                       30.03;
                             30.18
32-569                       30.18
32-603                       30.02;
                             30.15
32-604                       30.02;
                             30.15
32-628                       151.08
32-1308                      30.03;
                             30.18
33-141                       31.04
37-1254.01                   32.16
37-1254.02                   32.16
39-2512                      31.10
43-245 et seq.               134.01
48-1503                      34.02
49-801(16)                   10.05
49-1408                      33.36
49-1425                      33.36
49-1499.03 through 49-14,103 33.36
49-1499.04                   33.36
49-14,102                    33.36
49-14,103.01                 33.36
49-14,103.02                 33.36
49-14,103.03                 33.36
49-14,103.04                 33.36
49-14,103.05                 33.36
49-14,103.06                 33.36
51-215                       34.07
51-216                       34.07
                             112.03;
                             112.15—
53-101 et seq.               112.17;
                             112.19—
                             112.22;
                             112.40
53-103.01 through 53-103.51  112.01
53-116.01                    112.17
53-118                       112.36
53-123.04(3)                 133.03
53-123.11(1)(c)              133.03
53-123.12                    112.16
53-124                       112.16
53-124.01                    112.16
53-124.17                    112.16
53-129                       112.16
53-131                       112.16
53-132                       112.16
53-133                       112.16
53-134                       112.16
53-134.03                    112.16;
                             112.36
53-134.04                    112.20;
                             112.21
53-135                       112.18
53-135.01                    112.16;
                             112.18
53-148                       112.19
53-168.06                    112.15
53-174                       112.39
53-178                       112.35
53-179                       112.37
53-180                       112.02
53-183                       112.38
53-186                       112.03
53-186(2)                    112.03
53-186.01                    112.03
53-1,115                     112.20
54-601                       91.37
54-602                       91.37
54-603                       91.35
54-603(3)                    91.35
54-606                       91.37
54-607                       91.02
54-617                       91.39
54-618                       91.39
54-619                       91.39
54-620                       91.39
54-621                       91.39
54-622.01                    91.39
54-623                       91.39
55-133                       70.01
60-401 et seq.               70.04
60-462                       70.04
60-4,163                     32.16
60-4,164                     32.16
60-606 through 60-676        70.01
60-607                       70.01
60-610                       70.01
60-613                       70.01
60-624                       70.01
60-631                       70.01
60-638                       70.01
60-646                       70.01
60-654                       70.01
60-656                       70.01
60-658.01                    70.01
60-661                       70.01
60-669                       70.01
60-670                       70.01
60-671                       70.01
60-672                       70.01
60-676                       70.01
                             70.02;
60-680                       72.01;
                             72.09
60-681                       70.03
60-683                       70.04
60-6,110                     70.05
60-6,114                     70.06
60-6,118                     70.01
60-6,129                     71.02
60-6,139                     71.45
60-6,142                     73.02
60-6,148                     71.01
60-6,166                     72.02
60-6,167                     72.10
60-6,168                     72.11
60-6,178                     71.37
60-6,183                     71.39
60-6,187                     71.21
60-6,190                     71.21
60-6,192                     71.22
60-6,196                     32.16
60-6,197                     32.16
60-6,211.01                  32.16
60-6,211.02                  32.16
60-6,211.08                  112.03;
                             133.03
60-6,213                     71.43
60-6,214 through 6-6,218     71.43
60-6,288 through 60-6,290    70.06
60-6,294                     70.06
60-6,306 through 60-6,308    73.03
60-6,308                     71.45
60-6,315                     73.02
60-6,316                     73.01
60-6,317                     73.02
60-6,318                     73.02
60-6,335                     73.04
60-6,337                     73.04
60-6,338                     73.04
60-6,343                     73.04
60-1901                      133.04
66-1801 et seq.              54.01
70-624.04                    33.36
70-1605                      52.20
70-2103                      130.02
71-4402                      91.20
71-4404                      91.20
71-4405                      91.20
71-4406                      91.21
71-4408                      91.04;
                             91.22
71-4411                      91.22
71-4412                      91.35
71-4603                      150.28
71-5301                      52.09
71-1557(1)                   150.28
72-1237 et seq.              34.09
72-1260 et seq.              34.09
73-101 et seq.               34.02
Chapter 75, Article 3        133.03
77-2201                      31.04
77-2201 through 77-2215      31.04
77-2202                      31.04
77-2209                      31.04
77-2210                      31.04
77-2212                      31.04
77-2337                      34.07
77-2341                      34.09
77-2362                      34.08
77-2363                      34.08
77-2364                      34.08
77-2365.01                   34.08
77-2366                      34.08
77-2386 et seq.              34.08
77-2386                      34.08
77-23,109 et seq.            34.09
77-3001 et seq.              134.02
81-145 through 81-161.06     34.02
81-520.01                    92.21
81-829.65                    32.16
81-3404                      150.26
81-3422                      150.26
84-712 through 84-712.09     31.03;
                             31.04
84-712(2)                    31.03
84-1201 et seq.              31.03
84-1407 et seq.              33.01
84-1408                      33.01
84-1410                      33.03
84-1411                      33.01
84-1411(8)                   33.01
                             
 
REFERENCES TO PRIOR CODE
Prior Code Section 2024 Code Section
Prior Code Section 2024 Code Section
1-101              11.01
1-107              30.04
1-109              30.19
1-208              31.07
1-213              31.12
1-301              11.02
1-308              33.02
1-309              33.04
1-403              30.35
1-803              51.10;
                   51.99
1-901              152.01
1-902              152.02
1-903              152.01
1-904              152.01
1-905              152.01
1-906              152.01
1-907              152.03
1-908              152.04
1-909              152.05
1-910              152.06
1-911              152.07
1-912              152.08
1-913              152.09
1-914              152.10
1-915              152.11
1-916              152.12
1-917              152.13
1-918              152.14
1-919              152.15
1-1001             10.99
2-103              131.03
2-105              130.03
2-106              130.04
2-108              131.04
2-110              130.05
2-114              134.03
2-201              135.01
2-202              135.02
2-203              135.03
2-204              135.04
2-205              135.99
2-316              91.40
2-321              91.06
2-401              91.06
2-402              91.06
2-403              91.07
2-404              91.07
2-405              91.07
2-501              91.07
2-502              91.07
2-503              91.07
2-504              91.09
2-505              91.99
2-603              90.99
2-701              90.99
3-102              71.03
3-103              71.35
3-104              71.04
3-105              71.04
3-106              71.04
3-107              71.04
3-110              71.07
3-111              71.07
3-112              71.36
3-113              71.37
3-114              71.08
3-115              71.05
3-116              71.06
3-117              71.20
3-118              71.38
3-119              71.39
3-120              71.39
3-121              71.40
3-123              71.41
3-124              71.22
3-125              71.42
3-126              71.43
3-127              71.43
3-132              71.44
3-133              71.45
3-134              71.46
3-135              71.47
3-136              71.48
3-137              71.49
3-138              71.49
3-201              133.04
3-202              133.04
3-203              133.04
3-204              133.04
3-205              133.04
3-206              133.99
3-315              72.09
3-317              72.07
3-318              72.13
3-401              73.02
3-402              73.01
3-403              73.03
3-404              73.03
3-405              73.04
3-406              73.04
3-407              73.04
3-408              73.04;
                   73.99
3-501              70.99
4-105              112.37
4-107              112.23
4-109              112.21
4-111              112.22
4-112              112.24
4-116              112.39
4-117              112.40
4-118              112.41
4-119              112.42
4-120              112.43
4-121              112.44
4-123              112.45
4-124              112.46
4-127              112.47
4-201              110.01
4-202              110.02
4-203              110.03
4-204              110.04
4-301              110.15
4-302              110.16
4-303              110.17
4-401              111.01
4-402              111.02
4-403              111.03
4-404              111.04
4-405              111.05
4-406              111.06
4-407              111.07
4-408              111.08
4-409              111.09
4-410              111.10
4-411              111.11
4-412              111.12
4-413              111.13
4-414              111.14
4-415              111.15
4-501              112.99
5-305              151.22
5-306              151.23
5-307              151.24
5-308              151.99
5-401              151.55
5-402              151.56
5-403              151.57
5-404              151.99
5-501              151.99
6-101              52.02
6-102              52.01
6-103              52.03
6-104              52.04
6-105              52.05
6-106              52.06
6-107              52.07
6-108              52.08
6-109              52.19
6-110              52.20
6-111              52.21
6-112              52.09
6-113              52.10
6-114              52.11
6-115              52.12
6-116              52.15
6-117              52.18
6-118              52.16
6-119              52.17
6-120              52.13
6-121              52.14
6-122              52.35
6-123              52.36
6-124              52.37
6-125              52.38
6-126              52.50
6-127              52.51
6-128              52.52
6-129              52.53
6-130              52.54
6-131              52.55
6-132              52.56
6-133              52.57
6-134              52.58
6-135              52.59
6-136              52.60
6-137              52.61
6-138              52.62;
                   52.99
6-139              52.63
6-140              52.22
6-141              52.23
6-201              110.30
6-202              110.31
6-203              110.32
6-204              110.33
6-205              110.34
6-301              53.001
6-302              53.002
6-303              53.003
6-304              53.004
6-305              53.005
6-306              53.007
6-307              53.007
6-308              53.008
6-309              53.009
6-310              53.025
6-311              53.026
6-312              53.027
6-313              53.028
6-314              53.029
6-315              53.030
6-316              53.031
6-317              53.045
6-318              53.046
6-319              53.047
6-320              53.048
6-321              53.049
6-322              53.050
6-323              53.051
6-324              53.052
6-325              53.053
6-326              53.065
6-327              53.066
6-328              53.067
6-329              53.068
6-330              53.069
6-331              53.070
6-332              53.071
6-333              53.071
6-334              53.072
6-335              53.073
6-336              53.085
6-337              53.085
6-338              53.085
6-339              53.006
6-340              53.086
6-341              53.010
6-342              53.010
6-343              53.087
6-344              53.088
6-345              53.011
6-401              54.01
6-402              54.02
6-501              51.01
6-502              51.02
6-503              51.03
6-504              51.04
6-505              51.05
6-506              51.06
6-507              51.07
6-508              51.08
6-509              51.08
6-510              51.08
6-511              51.08
6-512              51.09
6-601              50.99
7-101              92.01
7-102              92.02
7-103              92.03
7-104              92.04
7-105              92.05
7-106              92.06
7-107              92.07
7-108              92.08
7-109              92.09
7-110              92.10
7-111              92.11
7-112              92.12
7-113              92.13
7-114              92.14
7-115              92.15
7-116              92.16
7-117              92.17
7-118              92.18
7-119              92.19
7-120              92.20
7-201              92.35
7-202              92.36
7-203              92.37
7-204              92.38
7-301              92.50
7-302              92.51
7-303              92.52
7-401              92.99
8-101              150.25
8-102              150.26
8-103              150.27
8-104              150.28
8-105              150.29
8-106              150.30
8-107              150.31
8-108              150.32
8-109              150.33
8-110              150.99
8-201              150.45
8-202              150.46
8-203              150.47
8-204              150.48
8-205              150.49
8-206              150.50
8-301              153.01
8-302              153.02
8-303              153.03
8-304              153.20
8-305              153.21
8-306              153.22
8-307              153.23
8-308              153.04
8-309              153.05
8-310              153.06
8-311              153.07
8-404              150.05
8-405              150.06
8-406              150.07
8-409              150.08
8-410              150.09
8-411              150.10
8-501              154.01
8-502              154.02
8-601              154.15
8-602              154.16
                   
 
REFERENCES TO RESOLUTIONS
 
Res. No.   Date Passed  Code Section
4-4-23-1   4-4-2023       33.02
8-14-2023  8-14-2023      51.02
11-13-23-1 11-13-2023     50.01
                         
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
 
 
Ord. No.   Date Passed  Code Section
325        8-4-2014       112.37
4-4-23     4-4-2023       34.05
5-8-23(1)  5-8-2023       TSO Table I
12-11-23-2 12-11-2023     31.13
                          71.21;
2-12-24    2-12-2024      71.99;
                          Chapter 74, Sched. I
                         
 
