VILLAGE OF ELM CREEK, NEBRASKA
CODE OF ORDINANCES
2025 S-7 Supplement Contains:
Local Legislation current through    Ordinance No. 2025-19, passed 1-15-2025
 
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street, Suite 310
Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
1-800-445-5588 www.amlegal.com
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
   Chapter
      
10.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
11.   VILLAGE STANDARDS
CHAPTER 10: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
10.01   Title of code
   
10.02   Interpretation
   
10.03   Application to future ordinances
   
10.04   Captions
   
10.05   Definitions
   
10.06   Rules of interpretation
   
10.07   Severability
   
10.08   Reference to other sections
   
10.09   Reference to offices
   
10.10   Errors and omissions
   
10.11   Official time
   
10.12   Reasonable time
   
10.13   Ordinances repealed
   
10.14   Ordinances unaffected
   
10.15   Repeal or modification of ordinance
   
10.16   Section histories; statutory references
   
10.17   Supplementation of code of ordinances
 
   
10.99   General penalty
§ 10.01 TITLE OF CODE.
   This codification of ordinances by and for the Village of Elm Creek,
Nebraska, shall be designated as the Code of Elm Creek and may be so cited.
§ 10.02 INTERPRETATION.
   Unless otherwise provided herein, or by law or implication required, the
same rules of construction, definition, and application shall govern the
interpretation of this code as those governing the interpretation of state law.
§ 10.03 APPLICATION TO FUTURE ORDINANCES.
   All provisions of Title I compatible with future legislation shall apply to
ordinances hereafter adopted amending or supplementing this code unless
otherwise specifically provided.
§ 10.04 CAPTIONS.
   Headings and captions used in this code, other than the title, chapter, and
section numbers, are employed for reference purposes only and shall not be
deemed a part of the text of any section.
§ 10.05 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   General rule. Words and phrases shall be taken in their plain, or
ordinary and usual sense. However, technical words and phrases having a
peculiar and appropriate meaning in law shall be understood according to their
technical import.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this code, the following definitions
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      BOARD OF TRUSTEES, VILLAGE BOARD, or GOVERNING BODY. The legislative body
of the Village of Elm Creek.
      CHAIRPERSON. The Chief Administrative Official of the municipality
whenever it appears in this code.
      CODE, THIS CODE, or THIS CODE OF ORDINANCES. This village code as
modified by amendment, revision, and adoption of new titles, chapters, or
sections.
      COUNTY. Buffalo County, Nebraska.
      GOVERNING BODY. The Chairperson and Board of Trustees of the
municipality.
      MAY. The act referred to is permissive.
      MONTH. A calendar month.
      MUNICIPAL and MUNICIPALITY. The Village of Elm Creek, Nebraska, a
municipal corporation.
      MUNICIPAL POLICE. Any police officer of the municipality whenever it
appears in this code.
      OATH. An affirmation in all cases in which, by law, an affirmation may be
substituted for an oath, and in such cases the words SWEAR and SWORN shall be
equivalent to the words AFFIRM and AFFIRMED.
      OFFICER, OFFICE, EMPLOYEE, COMMISSION, or DEPARTMENT. An officer, office,
employee, commission, or department of this village unless the context clearly
requires otherwise.
      PERSON. Include natural persons; artificial persons such as corporations,
co-partnerships, associations; and all aggregate organizations of whatever
character.
      PRECEDING or FOLLOWING. Next before or next after, respectively.
      SHALL. The act referred to is mandatory.
      SIGNATURE or SUBSCRIPTION. Includes a mark when the person cannot write.
      STATE. The State of Nebraska.
      SUBCHAPTER. A division of a chapter, designated in this code by a heading
in the chapter analysis and a capitalized heading in the body of the chapter,
setting apart a group of sections related by the subject matter of the heading.
Not all chapters have SUBCHAPTERS.
      VILLAGE, MUNICIPAL CORPORATION, or MUNICIPALITY. The Village of Elm
Creek, Nebraska.
      WHOLESALE DEALER/SELLER. Wholesale dealer or sellers of said product at
wholesale shall embrace and include manufacturers of any product who sell the
said product to other persons for the purpose of future resale to consumers.
      WRITTEN. Any representation of words, letters, or figures, whether by
printing or otherwise.
      YEAR. A calendar year, unless otherwise expressed.
(Ord. 420, passed 8-15-1991)
§ 10.06 RULES OF INTERPRETATION.
   The construction of all ordinances of this village shall be by the following
rules, unless that construction is plainly repugnant to the intent of the Mayor
and Village Board or of the context of the same ordinance.
   (A)   AND or OR. Either conjunction shall include the other as if written
“and/or”, if the sense requires it.
   (B)   Acts by assistants. When a statute or ordinance requires an act to be
done which, by law, an agent or deputy as well may do as the principal, the
requisition shall be satisfied by the performance of the act by an authorized
agent or deputy.
   (C)   Gender and number. All words used herein implying the masculine gender
may apply to and include the feminine or neuter gender, and all words importing
the plural may be applied to and mean a single person, firm, or thing. All
words importing the singular number may be applied to and mean the plural
number.
   (D)   General term. A general term following specific enumeration of terms
is not to be limited to the class enumerated unless expressly so limited.
(Ord. 420, passed 8-15-1991)
§ 10.07 SEVERABILITY.
   If any provision of this code as now or later amended or its application to
any person or circumstance is held invalid, the invalidity does not affect
other provisions that can be given effect without the invalid provision or
application.
§ 10.08 REFERENCE TO OTHER SECTIONS.
   Whenever in one section reference is made to another section hereof, that
reference shall extend and apply to the section referred to as subsequently
amended, revised, recodified, or renumbered unless the subject matter is
materially altered by the amendment or revision.
§ 10.09 REFERENCE TO OFFICES.
   Reference to a public office or officer shall be deemed to apply to any
office, officer, or employee of this village exercising the powers, duties, or
functions contemplated in the provision, irrespective of any transfer of
functions or change in the official title of the functionary.
§ 10.10 ERRORS AND OMISSIONS.
   If a manifest error is discovered, consisting of the misspelling of any
words; the omission of any word or words necessary to express the intention of
the provisions affected; the use of a word or words to which no meaning can be
attached; or the use of a word or words when another word or words was clearly
intended to express the intent, the spelling shall be corrected and the word or
words supplied, omitted, or substituted as will conform with the manifest
intention, and the provisions shall have the same effect as though the correct
words were contained in the text as originally published. No alteration shall
be made or permitted if any question exists regarding the nature or extent of
the error.
§ 10.11 OFFICIAL TIME.
   The official time, as established by applicable state/federal laws, shall be
the official time within this village for the transaction of all village
business.
§ 10.12 REASONABLE TIME.
   (A)   In all cases where an ordinance requires an act to be done in a
reasonable time or requires reasonable notice to be given, reasonable time or
notice shall be deemed to mean the time which is necessary for a prompt
performance of the act or the giving of the notice.
   (B)   The time within which an act is to be done, as herein provided, shall
be computed by excluding the first day and including the last. If the last day
is Sunday, it shall be excluded.
§ 10.13 ORDINANCES REPEALED.
   This code contains all of the provisions of a general nature pertaining to
the subjects enumerated and embraced in this code. All prior ordinances
pertaining to the subjects treated by this code are repealed, except that
nothing shall affect any rights acquired under, actions involving, or fines,
penalties, forfeitures, or liabilities incurred pursuant to those ordinances
prior to repeal.
§ 10.14 ORDINANCES UNAFFECTED.
   All ordinances of a temporary or special nature and all other ordinances
pertaining to subjects not embraced in this code, including ordinances
specified in this section, shall remain in full force and effect unless
repealed expressly or by necessary implication:
   (A)   Vacating or setting the boundaries of streets, alleys, or other public
places;
   (B)   Annexing or detaching territory;
   (C)   Granting or accepting easements, plats, or dedication of land to
public use;
   (D)   Providing for the acquisition or conveyance of real or personal
property;
   (E)   Authorizing or directing public improvements to be made;
   (F)   Levying taxes or special assessments;
   (G)   Appropriating money;
   (H)   Granting franchises or special licenses; or
   (I)   Providing for the issuance of bonds or other instruments of
indebtedness.
§ 10.15 REPEAL OR MODIFICATION OF ORDINANCE.
   (A)   Whenever any ordinance or part of an ordinance shall be repealed or
modified by a subsequent ordinance, the ordinance or part of an ordinance thus
repealed or modified shall continue in force until the publication of the
ordinance repealing or modifying it to give effect thereto.
   (B)   No suit, proceedings, right, liability, fine, forfeiture, or penalty
instituted, created, given, secured, or accrued under any ordinance previous to
its repeal shall in any way be affected, released, or discharged, but may be
prosecuted, enjoyed, and recovered as fully as if the ordinance had continued
in force, unless it is otherwise expressly provided.
   (C)   When any ordinance repealing a former ordinance, clause, or provision
is itself repealed, the repeal shall not be construed to revive the former
ordinance, clause, or provision, unless it is expressly provided.
§ 10.16 SECTION HISTORIES; STATUTORY REFERENCES.
   (A)   As histories for the code sections, the specific number and passage
date of the original ordinance, and the amending ordinances, if any, are listed
following the text of the code section. Example: (Ord. 10, passed 5-13-1960;
Ord. 15, passed 1-1-1970; Ord. 20, passed 1-1-1980; Ord. 25, passed 1-1-1985)
   (B)   (1)   A statutory cite included in the history indicates that the text
of the section reads substantially the same as the statute. Example: (Neb. RS
17-100)
      (2)   A statutory cite set forth as a “statutory reference” following the
text of the section indicates that the reader should refer to that statute for
further information. Example:
      § 39.01 PUBLIC RECORDS AVAILABLE.
      This municipality shall make available to any person for inspection or
copying all public records, unless otherwise exempted by state law.
      Statutory reference:
         Inspection of public records, see Neb. RS 84-712 et seq.
   (C)   If a section of this code was derived from the previous code of
ordinances of the village published in 1991, as subsequently amended, the 1991
code section number shall be indicated in the history by “(1991 Code, §
     )”.
§ 10.17 SUPPLEMENTATION OF CODE OF ORDINANCES.
   (A)   Discretion. When preparing a supplement to this municipal code, the
codifier (that is, the person, agency, or organization authorized to prepare
the supplement) may make formal nonsubstantive changes in ordinances and parts
of ordinances included in the supplement as necessary to embody them into a
unified code. For example, the codifier may:
      (1)   Organize the ordinance material into appropriate sections and
divisions;
      (2)   Provide appropriate catchlines, headings, and titles for sections
and other subdivisions of the ordinance printed in the supplement and make
changes in such catchlines, headings, and titles;
      (3)   Assign appropriate numbers to sections and other divisions to be
inserted in the code and, where necessary to accommodate new material, change
existing section or other division numbers;
      (4)   Change the words “this ordinance” or words of the same meaning to
“this chapter”, “this subchapter”, “this section”, and the like, as may be
appropriate, or to “§§       through      ” (inserting section numbers to
indicate the sections of the code which embody the substantive sections of the
ordinance incorporated into the code);
      (5)   Insert appropriate section numbers in references to code sections
such as “§      ” or “§§       through      ” which are not filled in prior to
adoption of an ordinance;
      (6)   Correct the spelling of words, correct obvious typographical
errors, correct erroneous division and hyphenation of words, capitalize or
decapitalize words, and make other similar changes in accordance with accepted
usage or for consistency with other provisions of the code;
      (7)   Change terminology for consistency with terminology used in other
provisions of the code; and
      (8)   Make other nonsubstantive changes necessary to incorporate
ordinance material into the code while preserving the original meaning of the
ordinance sections.
   (B)   Prohibition. In no case shall the codifier make any change in the
meaning or effect of ordinance material included in the supplement or already
embodied in the code and not repealed by any ordinance.
§ 10.99 GENERAL PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who violates any of the provisions of this municipal code,
unless otherwise specifically provided herein, shall be deemed guilty of an
offense and upon conviction thereof shall be fined in any sum not exceeding
$500. A new violation shall be deemed to have been committed every 24 hours of
failure to comply with the provisions of this code.
   (B)   (1)   Whenever a nuisance exists, as defined in §
90.01, the municipality may proceed by a suit in equity to enjoin and abate the
same, in the manner provided by law.
      (2)   Whenever, in any action, it is established that a nuisance exists,
the court may, together with the fine or penalty imposed, enter an order of
abatement as a part of the judgment in the case.
Statutory reference:
   Authority to abate nuisances, see Neb. RS 18-1720 and 18-1722
   Ordinance enforcement powers, see Neb. RS 17-505
CHAPTER 11: VILLAGE STANDARDS
Section
   
11.01   Official corporate seal
§ 11.01 OFFICIAL CORPORATE SEAL.
   (A)   There shall be owned by the village and kept in the office the Village
Clerk a common seal of the corporation having engraved thereon the words
“Village of Elm Creek, Buffalo County, Nebraska, Seal”.
   (B)   The Village Clerk shall affix an impression of the official seal to
all warrants, licenses, ordinances, and other papers issued by order of the
Board of Trustees and countersigned by the Clerk.
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
   Chapter
      
30.   GOVERNING BODY
      
31.   VILLAGE OFFICIALS
      
32.   ELECTIONS
      
33.   FISCAL MANAGEMENT
      
34.   ORGANIZATIONS
      
35.   POLICE AND FIRE DEPARTMENTS
      
36.   VILLAGE POLICIES
CHAPTER 30: GOVERNING BODY
Section
Meetings
   
30.01   Defined
   
30.02   Public body defined
   
30.03   Public
   
30.04   Closed sessions
   
30.05   Prohibited acts; exempt events
   
30.06   Emergency meetings
   
30.07   Minutes
   
30.08   Votes
   
30.09   Notice to news media
   
30.10   Public participation
   
30.11   Regular meeting
   
30.12   Special meetings
   
30.13   Order of business
   
30.14   Parliamentary procedure
   
30.15   Change in office
   
30.16   Reorganizational meeting
   
30.17   Telephone conference calls; when allowed
   
30.18   Open to public; notice; agenda
Ordinances
   
30.30   Ordinances, rules, and resolutions; grant of power
   
30.31   Introduction
   
30.32   Resolutions and motions
   
30.33   Style
   
30.34   Title
   
30.35   Reading and passage of ordinances, resolutions, orders, and bylaws
   
30.36   Publication or posting
   
30.37   Certificate of publication or posting
   
30.38   Effective date; emergency ordinances
   
30.39   Amendments and revisions
   
30.30   Notices; publication
MEETINGS
§ 30.01 DEFINED.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   MEETING. All regular, special, or called meetings, formal or informal, of
any public body for the purposes of briefing, discussion of public business,
formation of tentative policy, or the taking of any action of the public body.
(Neb. RS 84-1409) (1991 Code, § 1-501)
§ 30.02 PUBLIC BODY DEFINED.
   (A)   PUBLIC BODY, as used in this subchapter, shall mean:
         (1)   The governing body of the municipality;
         (2)   All independent boards, commissions, bureaus, committees,
councils, subunits, or any other bodies, now or hereafter created by
constitution, statute, ordinance, or otherwise pursuant to law; and
         (3)   Advisory committees of the bodies listed above.
   (B)   This subchapter shall not apply to subcommittees of such bodies unless
a quorum of the public body attends a subcommittee meeting or unless such
subcommittees are holding hearings, making policy, or taking formal action on
behalf of its parent body.
(Neb. RS 84-1409(1)) (1991 Code, § 1-502) (Ord. 435, passed 4-15-1993)
§ 30.03 PUBLIC.
   All public meetings, as defined by law, shall be held in a municipal public
building which shall be open to attendance by the public. All meetings shall be
held in the public building in which the governing body usually holds such
meetings unless the publicized notice hereinafter required shall designate some
other public building or other specified place. The advance publicized notice
of all public convened meetings shall be simultaneously transmitted to all
members of the governing body and to the public by a method designated by the
governing body or by the Chairperson of the Board if the governing body has not
designated a method. Such notice shall contain the time and specific place for
each meeting and either an enumeration of the agenda subjects known at the time
of the notice, or a statement that such an agenda kept continually current
shall be readily available for public inspection at the office of the Municipal
Clerk. Except for items of an emergency nature, the agenda shall not be altered
later than 24 hours before the scheduled commencement of the meeting or 48
hours before the scheduled commencement of a meeting of the governing body
scheduled outside the corporate limits of the municipality. The governing body
shall have the right to modify the agenda to include items of an emergency
nature only at such public meetings. The minutes of the Municipal Clerk shall
include the record of the manner and advance time by which the advance
publicized notice was given, a statement of how the availability of an agenda
of the then-known subjects was communicated, the time and specific place of the
meetings, and the names of each member of the governing body present or absent
at each convened meeting. The minutes of the governing body shall be a public
record open to inspection by the public upon request at any reasonable time at
the office of the Municipal Clerk. Any official action on any question or
motion duly moved and seconded shall be taken only by roll call vote of the
governing body in open session. The record of the Municipal Clerk shall show
how each member voted, or that the member was absent and did not vote.
(Neb. RS 84-1408, 84-1409, 84-1411, 84-1413) (1991 Code, § 1-503)
§ 30.04 CLOSED SESSIONS.
   (A)   (1)   Any public body may hold a closed session by the affirmative
vote of a majority of its voting members if a closed session is clearly
necessary for the protection of the public interest or for the prevention of
needless injury to the reputation of an individual and if such individual has
not requested a public meeting. Closed sessions may be held for, but shall not
be limited to, such reasons as:
         (a)   Strategy sessions with respect to collective bargaining, real
estate purchases, pending litigation, or litigation which is imminent as
evidenced by communication of a claim or threat of litigation to or by the
public body;
         (b)   Discussion regarding deployment of security personnel or
devices;
         (c)   Investigative proceedings regarding allegations of criminal
misconduct; or
         (d)   Evaluation of the job performance of a person when necessary to
prevent needless injury to the reputation of a person and if such person has
not requested a public meeting.
      (2)   Nothing in this section shall permit a closed meeting for
discussion of the appointment or election of a new member to any public body.
   (B)   The vote to hold a closed session shall be taken in open session. The
vote of each member on the question of holding a closed session, the reason for
the closed session, and the time when the closed session commenced and
concluded shall be recorded in the minutes. The public body holding such a
closed session shall restrict its consideration of matters during the closed
portions to only those purposes set forth in the minutes as the reason for the
closed session. The meeting shall be reconvened in open session before any
formal action may be taken. For purposes of this section, formal action means a
collective decision or a collective commitment or promise to make a decision on
any question, motion, proposal, resolution, order, or ordinance or formation of
a position or policy, but shall not include negotiating guidance given by
members of the public body to legal counsel or other negotiators in closed
sessions authorized under division (A)(1)(a) above.
   (C)   Any member of any public body shall have the right to challenge the
continuation of a closed session if the member determines that the session has
exceeded the reason stated in the original motion to hold a closed session or
if the member contends that the closed session is neither clearly necessary
for:
      (1)   The protection of the public interest; or
      (2)   The prevention of needless injury to the reputation of an
individual. Such challenge shall be overruled only by a majority vote of the
members of the public body. Such challenge and its disposition shall be
recorded in the minutes.
   (D)   Nothing in this section shall be construed to require that any meeting
be closed to the public. (Neb. RS 84-1410) (1991 Code, § 1-504) (Ord. 436,
passed 4-15-1993; Ord. 497, passed 2-16-1995; Ord. 2005-26, passed 7-28-2005)
§ 30.05 PROHIBITED ACTS; EXEMPT EVENTS.
   (A)   No person or public body shall fail to invite a portion of its members
to a meeting, and no public body shall designate itself a subcommittee of the
whole body for the purpose of circumventing this subchapter or the Open
Meetings Act, being Neb. RS 84-1407 to 84-1414. No closed session, informal
meeting, chance meeting, social gathering, email, fax, or electronic
communication shall be used for the purpose of circumventing the requirements
of this subchapter or the Act.
   (B)   This subchapter does not apply to chance meetings or to attendance at
or travel to conventions or workshops of members of a public body at which
there is no meeting of the body then intentionally convened, if there is no
vote or other action taken regarding any matter over which the public body has
supervision, control, jurisdiction, or advisory power.
(Neb. RS 84-1410) (1991 Code, § 1-504.01) (Ord. 2005-26, passed 7-28-2005)
§ 30.06 EMERGENCY MEETINGS.
   When it is necessary to hold an emergency meeting without reasonable advance
public notice, the nature of the emergency shall be stated in the minutes and
any formal action taken in that meeting shall pertain only to the emergency.
Such emergency meetings may be held by means of electronic or telecommunication
equipment. The provisions of §
30.09 shall be complied with in conducting emergency meetings. Complete minutes
of such emergency meetings specifying the nature of the emergency and any
formal action taken at the meeting shall be made available to the public by no
later than the end of the next regular business day.
(Neb. RS 84-1411) (1991 Code, § 1-505)
§ 30.07 MINUTES.
   (A)   Each public body shall keep minutes of all meetings showing the time,
place, members present and absent, and the substance of all matters discussed.
   (B)   The minutes of all meetings and evidence and documentation received or
disclosed in open session shall be public records and open to public inspection
during normal business hours.
   (C)   Minutes shall be written or kept as an electronic record and shall be
available for inspection within ten working days or prior to the next convened
meeting, whichever occurs earlier, except that the city may have an additional
ten working days if the employee responsible for writing or keeping the minutes
is absent due to a serious illness or emergency.
(Neb. RS 84-1413) (1991 Code, § 1-506) (Ord. 2022-9, passed 12-19-2022)
§ 30.08 VOTES.
   (A)   Any action taken on any question or motion duly moved and seconded
shall be by roll call vote of the public body in open session, and the record
shall state how each member voted, or if the member was absent or not voting.
The requirements of a roll call or viva voce vote shall be satisfied by a
village which utilizes an electronic voting device which allows the yeas and
nays of each member of the Board of Trustees to be readily seen by the public.
   (B)   The vote to elect leadership within a public body may be taken by
secret ballot, but the total number of votes for each candidate shall be
recorded in the minutes.
(Neb. RS 17-616, 84-1413) (1991 Code, § 1-507)
§ 30.09 NOTICE TO NEWS MEDIA.
   The Village Clerk, Secretary, or other designee of each public body shall
maintain a list of the news media requesting notification of meetings and shall
make reasonable efforts to provide advance notification to them of the time and
place of each meeting and the subjects to be discussed at that meeting.
(Neb. RS 84-1411) (1991 Code, § 1-508)
§ 30.10 PUBLIC PARTICIPATION.
   (A)   Subject to this subchapter and the Open Meetings Act, Neb. RS 84-1407
et seq., the public has the right to attend and the right to speak at meetings
of public bodies, and all or any part of a meeting of a public body, except for
closed sessions called pursuant to §
30.04 may be videotaped, televised, photographed, broadcast, or recorded by any
person in attendance by means of a tape recorder, a camera, video equipment, or
any other means of pictorial or sonic reproduction or in writing. Except for
closed sessions called pursuant to §
30.04, a public body shall allow members of the public an opportunity to speak
at each meeting.
   (B)   It shall not be a violation of division (A) above for any public body
to make and enforce reasonable rules and regulations regarding the conduct of
persons attending, speaking at, videotaping, televising, photographing,
broadcasting, or recording its meetings, including meetings held by virtual
conferencing.
   (C)   No public body shall require members of the public to identify
themselves as a condition for admission to the meeting, nor shall such body
require that the name of any member of the public be placed on the agenda prior
to such meeting in order to speak about items on the agenda. The body shall
require any member of the public desiring to address the body to identify
himself or herself, including an address and the name of any organization
represented by such person, unless the address requirement is waived to protect
the security of the individual.
   (D)   No public body shall, for the purpose of circumventing this subchapter
or the Open Meetings Act, Neb. RS 84-1407 et seq., hold a meeting in a place
known by the body to be too small to accommodate the anticipated audience.
   (E)   No public body shall be deemed in violation of this section if it
holds its meeting in its traditional meeting place which is located in this
state.
   (F)   No public body shall be deemed in violation of this section if it
holds a meeting outside of this state if, but only if, a member entity of the
public body is located outside of this state and the other requirements of Neb.
RS 84-1412 are met.
   (G)   The public body shall, upon request, make a reasonable effort to
accommodate the public's right to hear the discussion and testimony presented
at the meeting.
   (H)   Public bodies shall make available at the meeting, for examination and
copying by members of the public, at least one copy of all reproducible written
material to be discussed at an open meeting, either in paper or electronic
form. Public bodies shall make available at least one current copy of the Open
Meetings Act, Neb. RS 84-1407 et seq., posted in the meeting room at a location
accessible to members of the public. At the beginning of the meeting, the
public shall be informed about the location of the posted information.
(1991 Code, § 1-509) (Ord. 2021-32, passed 12-21-2021; Ord. 2025-12, passed 1-
15-2025)
Statutory reference:
   For similar state law, see Neb. RS 84-1412
§ 30.11 REGULAR MEETING.
   (A)    The meetings of the governing body shall be held in the meeting place
of the municipality. Regular meetings shall be held on the third Thursday of
each month at the hour of 7:00 p.m.
   (B)   At all meetings of the Board of Trustees, a majority of the Board
shall constitute a quorum to do business.
(Neb. RS 17-204, 17-205, 17-210) (1991 Code, § 1-510) (Ord. 2002-16, passed 9-
19-2002; Ord. 2023-3, passed 6-23-2023)
§ 30.12 SPECIAL MEETINGS.
   (A)   Special meetings may be called by the Chairperson, or by three members
of the Board of Trustees, the object of which shall be submitted to the Board
in writing. The call and object, as well as the disposition thereof, shall be
entered upon the journal by the Municipal Clerk. On filing the call for a
special meeting, the Municipal Clerk shall notify the members of the Board of
Trustees of the special meeting, stating the time and its purpose. Notice of a
special meeting need not be given to a member of the Board known to be out of
the state or physically unable to be present. A majority of the members of the
Board of Trustees shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of business,
but a smaller number may adjourn from day to day and compel the attendance of
the absent members. Whether a quorum is present or not, all absent members
shall be sent for and compelled to attend.
   (B)   At the hour appointed for the meeting, the Municipal Clerk shall
proceed to call the roll of members and announce whether a quorum is present.
If a quorum is present, the Board shall be called to order by the Chairperson,
if present, or if absent, by the President of the Board. In the absence of both
the Chairperson and the President of the Board, the members of the Board of
Trustees shall elect a President pro tempore. All ordinances passed at any
special meeting shall comply with procedures set forth in §§
30.30 through
30.39.
(Neb. RS 17-204, 17-205) (1991 Code, § 1-511)
§ 30.13 ORDER OF BUSINESS.
   Promptly at the hour set by law on the day of each regular meeting, the
members of the Village Board, the Village Clerk, and such other village
officials that may be required shall take their regular stations in the meeting
place, and the business of the village shall be taken up for consideration and
disposition in the order prescribed by the official agenda on file at the
office of the Village Clerk.
(1991 Code, § 1-512)
§ 30.14 PARLIAMENTARY PROCEDURE.
   (A)   The Chairperson shall preserve order during meetings of the Board of
Trustees and shall decide all questions of order, subject to an appeal to the
Board. When any person is called to order, he or she shall be seated until the
point is decided. When the Chairperson is putting the question, no person shall
leave the meeting room. Every person present, previous to speaking, shall rise
from his or her seat and address the presiding officer and while speaking shall
confine his or her comments to the question. When two or more persons rise at
once, the Chairperson shall recognize the one who spoke first. All resolutions
or motions shall be reduced to writing before being acted upon, if requested by
the Village Clerk or any member of the Board. Every member of the Board who is
present when a question is voted upon shall cast his or her vote unless excused
by a majority of the members of the Board present. No motion shall be put or
debated unless seconded. When seconded, it shall be stated by the Chairperson
before being debatable. In all cases where a motion or resolution is entered on
the minutes, the name of the member of the Board making the motion or
resolution shall be entered also.
   (B)   After each vote, the “yeas” and “nays” shall be taken and entered in
the minutes. Before the vote is actually taken, any resolution, motion, or
proposed ordinance may be withdrawn from consideration by the sponsor with the
consent of the member of the Board seconding the resolution, motion, or
ordinance. When, in the consideration of an ordinance, different times or
amounts are proposed, the question shall be put on the largest sum, or the
longest time. A question to reconsider shall be in order when made by a member
voting with the majority, but the motion to reconsider must be made before the
expiration of the third regular meeting after the initial consideration of the
question. When any question is under debate, no motion shall be made,
entertained, or seconded except the previous question, a motion to table, and
to adjourn. Each of the motions shall be decided without debate. Any of the
rules of the Board for meetings may be suspended by a two-thirds vote of the
members present. In all cases in which provisions are not made by these rules,
Robert’s Rules of Order is the authority by which the Board shall decide all
procedural disputes that may arise.
(1991 Code, § 1-513)
§ 30.15 CHANGE IN OFFICE.
   The Chairperson and Board of Trustees shall meet at the regular meeting of
the Board in December in each election year, and the outgoing officers and
outgoing members of the Board of Trustees shall present their reports, and upon
the outgoing Board having completed its business, the outgoing Trustees shall
surrender their offices to the incoming Trustees, and the outgoing officers
shall thereupon each surrender to his or her successor in office all property,
records, papers, and moneys belonging to the same.
(Neb. RS 17-204) (1991 Code, § 1-514) (Ord. 514, passed 1-18-1996)
§ 30.16 REORGANIZATIONAL MEETING.
   (A)   The newly elected Board of Trustees shall convene at the regular place
of meeting at the first regular meeting of the Board in each election year
immediately after the prior Board adjourns and proceed to organize themselves
for the ensuing year. The Chairperson pro tempore shall call the meeting to
order. The Board shall then proceed to examine the credentials of its members
and other elective officers of the municipality to see that each has been duly
and properly elected and to see that such oaths and bonds have been given as
are required.
   (B)   After ascertaining that all Trustees and officers are duly qualified,
the Board shall then elect one of its own body who shall be styled as
Chairperson of the Board of Trustees. The Chairperson shall then nominate his
or her candidates for appointive offices and said officers shall hold office
until their successors are duly appointed and qualified. The Chairperson shall
then proceed with the regular order of business. It is hereby made the duty of
each and every member of the Board or of its successors in office, and of each
officer hereafter elected to any office, to qualify prior to the first regular
meeting of the Board in December following his or her election.
   (C)   Immediately upon the assembly of the newly elected Board upon the
first regular meeting in December following the election, each officer elected
at the general election shall take possession of his or her office. Each
appointive officer who is required to give bond shall qualify by filing the
required bond, approved by the Board of Trustees, in the office of the
Municipal Clerk within two weeks from the date of his or her said appointment;
provided, on said bond shall be endorsed the same oath as required of a
Trustee. Failure to qualify by elective or appointive officers within the time
and manner provided in this section shall and does in itself create a vacancy
in the office to which said person failing to qualify shall have been elected
or appointed.
(Neb. RS 17-204) (1991 Code, § 1-515) (Ord. 513, passed 1-18-1996)
§ 30.17 TELEPHONE CONFERENCE CALLS; WHEN ALLOWED.
   (A)   A meeting of the governing body of an entity formed under the
Interlocal Cooperation Act or the Joint Public Agency Act, or of the governing
body of a risk management pool or its advisory committees organized in
accordance with the Intergovernmental Risk Management Act, may be held by
telephone conference call if:
      (1)   The territory represented by the member public agencies of the
entity or pool covers more than one county;
      (2)   Reasonable advance publicized notice is given which identifies each
telephone conference location at which a member of the entity’s or pool’s
governing body will be present;
      (3)   All telephone conference meeting sites identified in the notice are
located within public buildings used by members of the entity or pool or at a
place which will accommodate the anticipated audience;
      (4)   Reasonable arrangements are made to accommodate the public’s right
to attend, hear, and speak at the meeting, including seating, recordation by
audio recording devices, and a reasonable opportunity for input such as public
comment or questions to at least the same extent as would be provided if a
telephone conference call was not used;
      (5)   At least one copy of all documents being considered is available to
the public at each site of the telephone conference call;
      (6)   At least one member of the governing body of the entity or pool is
present at each site of the telephone conference call identified in the public
notice;
      (7)   The telephone conference call lasts no more than one hour; and
      (8)   No more than one-half of the entity’s or pool’s meetings in a
calendar year are held by telephone conference call.
   (B)   Nothing in this section shall prevent the participation of
consultants, members of the press, and other nonmembers of the governing body
at sites not identified in the public notice. Telephone conference calls shall
not be used to circumvent any of the public government purposes established in
Neb. RS 84-1408 to 84-1414.
(Neb. RS 84-1411(3)) (1991 Code, § 1-516) (Ord. 2002-11, passed 2-21-2002)
§ 30.18 OPEN TO PUBLIC; NOTICE; AGENDA.
   (A)   The formation of public policy is public business and may not be
conducted in secret. Every meeting of a public body shall be open to the public
in order that citizens may exercise their democratic privilege of attending and
speaking at meetings of public bodies, except as otherwise provided by the
State Constitution, federal statutes, and the Open Meetings Act, Neb. RS 84-
1407 et seq.
   (B)   (1)   Each public body shall give reasonable advance publicized notice
of the time and place of each meeting as provided in division (B)(2) below. The
notice shall be transmitted to all members of the public body and to the
public.
      (2)   The notice shall be given by:
         (a)   1.   a.   Publication in a newspaper of general circulation
within the public body’s jurisdiction that is finalized for printing that is
finalized for printing prior to the time and date of the meeting;
               b.   Posting on such newspaper’s website, if available; and
               c.   Posting on a statewide website established and maintained
as a repository for such notices by a majority of state newspapers.
            2.   Such notice shall be placed in the newspaper and on the
websites by the newspaper.
         (b)   1.   a.   Posting to the newspaper’s website, if available; and
               b.   Posting on a statewide website established and maintained
as a repository for such notices by a majority of state newspapers if no
edition of a newspaper of general circulation within the public body’s
jursidiction is to be finalized for printing prior to the time and date of the
meeting.
            2.   Such notice shall be placed in the newspaper and on the
websites by the newspaper.
         (c)   Posting written notice in three conspicuous public places in
such city, village, or district. Such notice shall be posted by the public body
in the same three places for each meeting.
      (3)   (a)   In case of refusal, neglect, or inability of the newspaper to
publish the notice, the public body shall:
            1.   Post such notice on its website, if available;
            2.   Submit a post on a statewide website established and
maintained as a repository for such notices by a majority of state newspapers;
and
            3.   Post such notice in a conspicuous public place in such public
body’s jurisdiction.
         (b)   The public body shall keep a written record of such posting. The
record of such posting shall be evidence that such posting was done as required
and shall be sufficient to fulfill the requirement of publication.
      (4)   Each public body shall record the methods and dates of the notice
in its minutes.
      (5)   The notice shall contain an agenda of subjects known at the time of
the publicized notice or a statement that the agenda, which shall be kept
continually current, is readily available for public inspection at the office
of the public body during normal business hours. Agenda items shall be
sufficiently descriptive to give the public reasonable notice of the matters to
be considered at the meeting. Except for items of an emergency nature, the
agenda shall not be altered later than 24 hours before the scheduled
commencement of the meeting or 48 hours before the scheduled commencement of a
meeting of the Board of Trustees scheduled outside the corporate limits of the
village). The public body shall have the right to modify the agenda to include
items of an emergency nature only at such public meeting.
(Ord. 2021-8, passed 1-28-2021; Ord. 2025-9, passed 1-15-2025)
Statutory reference:
   For similar state law, see Neb. RS 84-1408, 84-1411
ORDINANCES
§ 30.30 ORDINANCES, RULES, AND RESOLUTIONS; GRANT OF POWER.
   The governing body may make all ordinances, bylaws, rules, regulations, and
resolutions, not inconsistent with the laws of the State of Nebraska, as may be
expedient for maintaining the peace, good government, and welfare of the
municipality and its trade, commerce, and security.
(Neb. RS 17-505) (1991 Code, § 1-601) (Ord. 527, passed 6-19-1997)
§ 30.31 INTRODUCTION.
   Ordinances shall be introduced by members of the governing body in one of
the following ways.
   (A)   With the recognition of the Chairperson, a member may, in the presence
and hearing of a majority of the members elected to the governing body, read
aloud the substance of the proposed ordinance and file a copy with the
Municipal Clerk for future consideration; or
   (B)   With the recognition of the Chairperson, a member may present the
proposed ordinance to the Clerk who, in the presence and hearing of a majority
of the members elected to the governing body, shall read aloud the substance of
the same and shall file it for future consideration.
(1991 Code, § 1-602) (Ord. 528, passed 6-19-1997)
§ 30.32 RESOLUTIONS AND MOTIONS.
   Resolutions and motions shall be introduced in one of the methods prescribed
for the introduction of ordinances. After their introduction, they shall be
fully and distinctly read one time in the presence and hearing of a majority of
the members elected to the Board. The issue raised by said resolutions or
motions shall be disposed of in accordance with the usage of parliamentary law
adopted for the guidance of the Board. A majority vote shall be required to
pass any resolution or motion. The vote on any resolution or motion shall be by
roll call vote.
(1991 Code, § 1-603)
§ 30.33 STYLE.
   The style of all municipal ordinances shall be: “Be it ordained by the Board
of Trustees of the Village of Elm Creek, Nebraska”.
(Neb. RS 17-613) (1991 Code, § 1-604)
§ 30.34 TITLE.
   No ordinance shall contain a subject not clearly expressed in its title.
(Neb. RS 17-614) (1991 Code, § 1-605)
§ 30.35 READING AND PASSAGE OF ORDINANCES, RESOLUTIONS, ORDERS, AND BYLAWS.
   (A)   All ordinances and resolutions or orders for the appropriation or
payment of money shall require for their passage or adoption the concurrence of
a majority of all elected members of the Board of Trustees. Ordinances of a
general or permanent nature shall be read by title on three different days
unless three-fourths of the Board of Trustees vote to suspend this requirement.
Such requirement shall not be suspended for any ordinance for the annexation of
territory, or the redrawing of boundaries for Village Board of Trustees
election districts or wards or as otherwise provided by law. In case this
requirement is suspended, the ordinance shall be read by title and then moved
for final passage. Three-fourths of the Board of Trustees may require a reading
of any such ordinance in full before enactment under either procedure set out
in this section.
   (B)   On the passage or adoption of every bylaw or ordinance, and every
resolution or order to enter into a contract by the Board of Trustees, the yeas
and nays shall be called and recorded. To pass or adopt any bylaw, ordinance,
or any such resolution or order a concurrence of a majority of the whole number
of members elected to the Board of Trustees shall be required. All appointments
of the officers by the Board of Trustees shall be made viva voce, and the
concurrence of a like majority shall be required, and the names of those, and
for whom they voted, on the vote resulting in an appointment, shall be
recorded. The requirements of a roll call or viva voce vote shall be satisfied
by a village which utilizes an electronic voting device which allows the yeas
and nays of each member of the Board of Trustees to be readily seen by the
public.
(1991 Code, § 1-606) (Ord. 496, passed 2-16-1995; Ord. 529, passed 6-19-1997;
Ord. 2021-28, passed 12-21-2021; Ord. 2024-3, passed 1-18-2024)
Statutory reference:
   For similar state law, see Neb. RS 17-614 and 17-616
§ 30.36 PUBLICATION OR POSTING.
   All ordinances of a general nature shall, before they take effect, be
published within 15 days after they are passed:
   (A)   In legal newspaper in or of general circulation in the village or, if
no paper is published in the village, then by posting a written or printed copy
in each of three public places in the village; or
   (B)   In book, pamphlet, or electronic form.
(1991 Code, § 1-607) (Ord. 530, passed 6-19-1997; Ord. 2018-17, passed 5-24-
2018; Ord. 2021-31, passed 12-21-2021)
Statutory reference:
   For similar state law, see Neb. RS 17-613
§ 30.37 CERTIFICATE OF PUBLICATION OR POSTING.
   The passage, approval, and publication or posting of all ordinances shall be
sufficiently proven by a certificate under the seal of the municipality from
the Municipal Clerk showing that the said ordinance was passed and approved,
and when, and in what paper the same was published, or when, and by whom, and
where the same was posted.
(Neb. RS 17-613) (1991 Code, § 1-608)
§ 30.38 EFFECTIVE DATE; EMERGENCY ORDINANCES.
   (A)   Except as provided in division (B) below, an ordinance for the
government of the municipality which has been adopted by the governing body
without submission to the voters of the municipality shall not go into effect
until 15 days after the passage of the ordinance.
   (B)   In the case of riot, infectious or contagious diseases, or other
impending danger, failure of a public utility, or other emergency requiring its
immediate operation, an ordinance shall take effect upon the proclamation of
the Chairperson, and the posting thereof in at least three of the most public
places in the municipality. Such emergency ordinance shall recite the
emergency, be passed by a three-fourths vote of the governing body, and entered
upon the Municipal Clerk’s minutes.
(Neb. RS 17-613, 19-3701) (1991 Code, § 1-609) (Ord. 531, passed 6-19-1997)
§ 30.39 AMENDMENTS AND REVISIONS.
   No ordinance or section thereof shall be revised or amended unless the new
ordinance contains the entire ordinance or section as revised or amended, and
the ordinance or section so amended shall be repealed, except that an ordinance
revising all the ordinances of the municipality and modifications to zoning or
building districts may be adopted as otherwise provided by law.
(Neb. RS 17-614) (1991 Code, § 1-610) (Ord. 532, passed 6-19-1997)
§ 30.40 NOTICES; PUBLICATION.
   If the municipality is required to publish a notice or advertisement in a
legal newspaper in or of general circulation in the municipality, and if there
is no legal newspaper in or of general circulation in the municipality, then
the municipality shall publish such notice or advertisement in a legal
newspaper in or of general circulation ha the county in which the municipality
is located. If there is no legal newspaper in or of general circulation in such
county, then the municipality shall publish such notice or advertisement by
posting a written or printed copy thereof in each of three public places in the
municipality for the same period, of time the municipality is required to
publish the notice or advertisement in a legal newspaper.
(Ord. 2018-18, passed 5-24-2018)
CHAPTER 31: VILLAGE OFFICIALS
Section
Elected Officials
   
31.001   Village Board Chairperson; selection and duties
   
31.002   Village Board; organization
   
31.003   Village Board; powers
   
31.004   Elected officials; vacancy
   
31.005   Elected officials; vacancy due to un-excused absences
Appointed Officials
   
31.020   General authority
   
31.021   Merger of offices
   
31.022   Municipal Administrator
   
31.023   Clerk-Treasurer position created
   
31.024   Village Clerk
   
31.025   Village Treasurer
   
31.026   Municipal Attorney
   
31.027   Special Engineer
   
31.028   Municipal Utilities Superintendent
   
31.029   Municipal Village Marshal; powers and duties
   
31.030   Municipal Fire Chief
   
31.031   Zoning Inspector
   
31.032   Municipal police officers
   
31.033   Municipal Street Commissioner
   
31.034   Municipal Building Inspector
   
31.035   Municipal Plumbing Inspector
General Provisions
   
31.045   Bonds; form
   
31.046   Oath of office; municipal officials
Compensation
   
31.060   Municipal officials
   
31.061   Conflict of interest involving contracts
   
31.062   Appointed officials
   
31.063   Elected officials
   
31.064   Officers and employees; action against; defense; payment of judgement;
liability
 
   
31.999   Penalty
ELECTED OFFICIALS
§ 31.001 VILLAGE BOARD CHAIRPERSON; SELECTION AND DUTIES.
   The Village Board Chairperson shall be selected at the first regular meeting
of the Board of Trustees in December by the Board of Trustees from its own
membership. The Chairperson shall preside at all meetings of the Board of
Trustees. In the absence of the Chairperson, the Board of Trustees shall elect
one of its own body to occupy the position temporarily who shall hold the title
of Chairperson pro tempore of the Board of Trustees. The Chairperson and the
Chairperson pro tempore shall have the same powers and privileges as other
members of the Board of Trustees. The Chairperson shall cause the ordinances of
the Board of Trustees to be printed and published for the information of the
inhabitants. The Chairperson shall also perform all duties of his or her office
in accordance with the laws of the State of Nebraska, and the ordinances of the
municipality. The qualifications for the Chairperson shall be the same general
qualifications that apply to the members of the Board of Trustees.
(Neb. RS 17-202 through 17-210) (1991 Code, § 1-101) (Ord. 516, passed 1-18-
1996)
§ 31.002 VILLAGE BOARD; ORGANIZATION.
   The Board of Trustees shall consist of five members. Any person who is a
citizen of the United States, a resident of the municipality at the time of his
or her election, and a registered voter may be eligible to be elected to the
Board of Trustees. Every Trustee so elected and so qualified shall hold his or
her office for a term of four years; provided, a Trustee’s term shall expire
and the office will become vacant upon a change of residence from the
municipality. The Board of Trustees shall, before entering upon the duties of
their office, take an oath to support the Constitution of the United States,
and the Constitution of the State of Nebraska, and faithfully and impartially
discharge the duties of their office. All Trustees elected to office shall
qualify and meet at the first regular meeting of the Board in December,
organize, and appoint the municipal officers required by law.
(Neb. RS 17-202 through 17-204) (1991 Code, § 1-102) (Ord. 515, passed 1-18-
1996)
§ 31.003 VILLAGE BOARD; POWERS.
   (A)   The Board of Trustees shall have the power to pass ordinances: to
prevent and remove nuisances within the village or within its one-mile zoning
jurisdiction; to restrain and prohibit gambling; to provide for licensing and
regulating theatrical and other amusements within the village; to prevent the
introduction and spread of contagious diseases; to establish and regulate
markets; to erect and repair bridges; to erect, repair, and regulate wharves
and the rates of wharfage; to regulate the landing of watercraft; to provide
for the inspection of building materials to be used or offered for sale in the
village; to govern the planting and protection of shade trees in the streets
and the building of structures projecting upon or over and adjoining, and all
excavations through and under, the sidewalks of the village; and in addition to
the special powers herein conferred and granted, to maintain the peace, good
government, and welfare of the village and its trade, commerce, and
manufactories; and to enforce all ordinances by inflicting penalties upon
inhabitants or other persons for violation thereof not exceeding $500 for any
one offense, recoverable with costs. Nothing in this division (A) shall be
construed to apply to bingo, lotteries, lotteries by the sale of pickle cards,
or raffles conducted in accordance with the Nebraska Bingo Act, the Nebraska
Lottery and Raffle Act, the Nebraska Pickle Card Lottery Act, the Nebraska
Small Lottery and Raffle Act, or the State Lottery Act.
(Neb. RS 17-207)
   (B)   The village has the power and authority by ordinance to define,
regulate, suppress, and prevent nuisances, and to declare what constitutes a
nuisance, and to abate and remove the same. The village may exercise this power
and authority within its zoning jurisdiction.
(Neb. RS 18-1720)
(Ord. 2016-15, passed 3-24-2016)
§ 31.004 ELECTED OFFICIALS; VACANCY.
   (A)   Every elective office shall be vacant upon the happening of any of the
events specified in Neb. RS 32-560 except as provided in Neb. RS 32-561.
   (B)   (1)   Except as otherwise provided in division (C) or (D) below,
vacancies in village elected offices shall be filled by the Board of Trustees
for the balance of the unexpired term. Notice of a vacancy, except a vacancy
resulting from the death of the incumbent, shall be in writing and presented to
the Board at a regular or special meeting and shall appear as a part of the
minutes of that meeting. The Board shall at once give public notice of the
vacancy by causing to be published in a newspaper of general circulation within
the village or by posting in three public places in the village the office
vacated and the length of the unexpired term.
      (2)   The Chairperson of the Board shall call a special meeting of the
Board or place the issue of filling the vacancy on the agenda at the next
regular meeting, at which time the Chairperson shall submit the name of a
qualified registered voter to fill the vacancy for the balance of the unexpired
term. The regular or special meeting shall occur upon the death of the
incumbent, or within four weeks after the meeting at which such notice of
vacancy has been presented. The Board shall vote upon the nominee, and if a
majority votes in favor of the nominee, the vacancy shall be declared filled.
If the nominee fails to receive a majority of the votes, the nomination shall
be rejected and the Chairperson shall, at the next regular or special meeting,
submit the name of another qualified registered voter to fill the vacancy. If
the subsequent nominee fails to receive a majority of the votes, the
Chairperson shall continue at that meeting to submit the names of qualified
registered voters in nomination and the Board shall continue to vote upon the
nominations at such meeting until the vacancy is filled. All Trustees present
shall cast a ballot for or against the nominee. Any member of the Board who has
been appointed to fill a vacancy on the Board shall have the same rights,
including voting, as if that person were elected.
   (C)   The Chairperson and Board of Trustees may, in lieu of filling a
vacancy in a village elected office as provided in division (B) above, call a
special election to fill that vacancy.
   (D)   If vacancies exist in the offices of one-half or more of the members
of the Board of Trustees, the Secretary of State shall conduct a special
village election to fill those vacancies. Candidates for such special election
shall file a candidate filing form pursuant to § 32.17.
(Neb. RS 32-569) (1991 Code, § 1-104) (Ord. 2016-14, passed 3-24-2016; Ord.
2025-19, passed 1-15-2025)
§ 31.005 ELECTED OFFICIALS; VACANCY DUE TO UN-EXCUSED ABSENCES.
   (A)   In addition to the events listed in Neb. RS 32-560 and any other
reasons for a vacancy provided by law, after notice and a hearing, a vacancy on
the Board of Trustees shall exist if a member is absent from more than five
consecutive regular meetings of the Board unless the absences are excused by a
majority vote of the remaining members.
(Neb. RS 19-3101)
   (B)   The Board of Trustees shall take a vote on whether to excuse a
member’s absence from a meeting upon either:
      (1)   A written request from the member submitted to the Village Clerk;
or
      (2)   A motion of any other Board member.
   (C)   If a member has been absent from six consecutive regular meetings and
none of the absences have been excused by a majority vote of the remaining
members, the Village Clerk shall include this as an item on the agenda for the
next regular meeting. At that meeting, the Board shall set a date for a hearing
and direct the Village Clerk to give the member notice of the hearing by
personal service or first-class mail to the member’s last known address.
   (D)   At the hearing, the Board member shall have the right to present
information on why one or more of the absences should be excused. If the Board
does not excuse one or more of the member’s absences by a majority vote at the
conclusion of the hearing, there shall be a vacancy on the Board.
(1991 Code, § 1–105) (Ord. 2005-03, passed 5-26-2005)
APPOINTED OFFICIALS
§ 31.020 GENERAL AUTHORITY.
   (A)   The Board of Trustees may appoint a Municipal Clerk, Treasurer,
Attorney, Street Commissioner, and Marshal.
   (B)   It shall appoint a Board of Health and shall also appoint such
additional officials and employees as it may determine the municipality needs.
   (C)   All such appointees shall hold office for one year, unless sooner
removed by the Chairperson of the Board of Trustees by and with the advice and
consent of the other Trustees.
(Neb. RS 17-208)
   (D)   If the municipality has a Municipal Water Commissioner, the Municipal
Water Commissioner may at any time, for sufficient cause, be removed from
office by a two-thirds vote of the Board of Trustees.
(Neb. RS 17-541)
(1991 Code, § 1-201)
Statutory reference:
   Law enforcement reserve force, see Neb. RS 81-1438
§ 31.021 MERGER OF OFFICES.
   (A)   (1)   The Board of Trustees may, by ordinance, combine or merge any
elective or appointive village office or village employment or any combination
of duties of any such offices or employments, except that the office of Trustee
shall not be combined or merged with any other village office or village
employment except as provided in division (B) below.
      (2)   The village offices or village employments combined or merged shall
always be construed to be separate and the effect of the combination or merger
shall be limited to a consolidation of official duties only.
   (B)   (1)   The office of Trustee shall not be combined or merged with any
other village office or village employment, except that a member of the Board
of Trustees may receive compensation to perform seasonal or emergency work upon
approval by the Board of Trustees.
      (2)   No member of the Board of Trustees shall receive compensation from
the village in excess of the maximum amount provided by law.
   (C)   For purposes of this section, volunteer firefighters and volunteer
rescue squad personnel shall not be considered village officers.
(1991 Code, § 1-202) (Ord. 2021-27, passed 12-21-2021)
Statutory reference:
   For similar state law, see Neb. RS 17-209.02
§ 31.022 MUNICIPAL ADMINISTRATOR.
   (A)   Responsibilities; qualifications; how appointed. In order to provide
efficient and orderly operation of the municipal government, and more effective
administration of the affairs of the village, there is hereby created the
office of Municipal Administrator. The Municipal Administrator shall be
responsible for the proper administration of all affairs of the village and
shall have general supervisory authority over all village departments. He or
she shall be appointed by the Chairperson with the consent of a majority of the
Board of Trustees for a period of one year, unless sooner removed, solely on
the basis of administrative qualifications, and need not be a resident of the
village or state when appointed. During the absence or disability of the
Municipal Administrator the Chairperson may designate some proper qualified
person to perform the duties of the office.
   (B)   Powers; duties. The Municipal Administrator shall be the
administrative head of the municipal government under the direction and control
of the Chairperson and the Board of Trustees and shall be responsible to the
Chairperson and the Board of Trustees for the efficient conduct of his or her
office. The duties of the Municipal Administrator shall be as follows:
      (1)   Make and keep up to date an inventory of all property, real and
personal, owned by the municipality;
      (2)   Act as purchasing agent for the purchase of all supplies, goods,
wares and merchandise, equipment and material which may be requested for the
various departments, divisions, or services of the municipality;
      (3)   Keep the Chairperson and the Board of Trustees fully advised as to
the financial condition and needs of the municipality and shall be responsible
for and prepare the annual estimate of expenditures for presentation to the
Chairperson and the Board of Trustees prior to the passage of the annual
appropriation ordinance;
      (4)   Serve as public relations officer of the municipal government, and
in such capacity to endeavor to investigate and adjust all complaints filed
against any employee, department, division or service thereof and cooperate
with all community organizations whose aim and purpose is to advance the
mission and strategic plan of the municipality and the best interests its
people and to attend meetings of such organizations if in the judgment of the
Administrator such attendance is necessary and desirable;
      (5)   Attend all meetings of the Board of Trustees with the duty of
reporting any matter concerning municipal affairs under his or her supervision
or direction and to attend such other meetings of the municipal departments and
officials as his or her duties may require;
      (6)   Analyze the functions, duties, and activities of the various
departments, divisions and services of the municipal government and of all
employees thereof, and to make his or her recommendations regarding the same to
the Chairperson and the Board of Trustees;
      (7)   Carry out the Chairperson and/or the Board of Trustees'
recommendations in coordinating the administrative functions and operations of
the various departments;
      (8)   Procure facts and submit long range improvements to the Chairperson
and the Board of Trustees;
      (9)   Recommend to the Chairperson and the Board of Trustees the
appointment and dismissal of all department heads over which he or she
exercises jurisdiction. Appointment or dismissal of department heads will be
made upon the recommendation of the Chairperson and confirmation of the Board
of Trustees. The Municipal Administrator may appoint and dismiss all
subordinate employees of the municipality, as well as provide for the transfer
of such employees from one department to another, except those employees
covered under the Civil Service Act of the state, the Municipal Attorney, and
the Municipal Clerk;
      (10)   Perform the duties of the Utilities Supervisor and/or Building
Inspector in the absence of a specific appointment to those offices by the
Chairperson and the Board of Trustees;
      (11)   Administer and be responsible for all departments and divisions of
the municipal government, which are under the Chairperson's and the Board of
Trustees' direction, including all public utilities presently owned or
hereafter acquired by the municipality, including the Fire and Police
Departments. The office of the Municipal Attorney and Municipal Clerk shall not
come under the administration and responsibility of the Municipal
Administrator; provided however, said Administrator is to be available to
assist those offices in any administrative matter that may arise and those
officers in turn shall be available to assist the Municipal Administrator in
the discharge of his or her duties;
      (12)   Recommend to the Chairperson and the Board of Trustees for
adoption such measures and ordinances as are deemed necessary or expedient;
      (13)   Prepare and recommend to the Chairperson and Board a
classification and compensation plan;
      (14)   Make investigations into the affairs of the municipality and any
department or division thereof, and any contract or the proper performance of
any obligation pertaining to the municipality;
      (15)   Exercise general supervision over all public buildings, streets,
and other public property which are under the control and jurisdiction of the
Chairperson and the Board of Trustees;
      (16)   Prepare and submit to the Chairperson and the Board of Trustees as
of the end of the fiscal year, a complete report of the finances and
administrative activities of the municipality for the preceding year;
      (17)   Keep the insurable property of the municipality appropriately
insured;
      (18)   Serve in any appointed office or as head of any department within
the municipal government if the need arises and when appointed thereto by the
Chairperson and the Board of Trustees and to hold and perform the duties
thereof at the pleasure of the Chairperson;
      (19)   The Municipal Administrator shall have the duty to keep open his
or her office for public affairs during days and hours approved by the
Chairperson and the Board of Trustees;
      (20)   Perform such other duties and exercise such other powers as may be
delegated to him or her from time to time by ordinances or resolutions of the
Board of Trustees, job description, and where action of the Board of Trustees
is not required, such duties and powers as may be prescribed by the
Chairperson; and
      (21)   To analyze the needs of the community for all types of community
and economic development projects and to be responsible for preparing grant
applications and administering grants when appropriate.
   (C)   Salary. The Municipal Administrator shall receive such salary as may
be determined by the governing body and will be available for public inspection
at the office of the Municipal Clerk.
   (D)   Authority to expend funds. The Municipal Administrator, in the
discharge of his or her duties, shall have the right to expend an amount not to
exceed the limits set forth in the applicable state law, pertaining to
villages, entering into contracts for the municipal work and improvements or
purchase of equipment or any lesser amounts set by the Board of Trustees
without advertising for bids and within any dollar amount on behalf of the
municipality for general purchases, maintenance and improvements, the
expenditure limitation herein to apply to all departments of the municipality.
   (E)   Removal of Municipal Administrator. The Municipal Administrator may be
removed by the Chairperson by and with the consent of the Board of Trustees.
(Ord. 2019-15, passed 6-27-2019)
§ 31.023 CLERK-TREASURER POSITION CREATED.
   The appointive offices of Municipal Clerk and Municipal Treasurer are hereby
combined and merged, in accordance with the authority granted to the Board of
Trustees by §
31.021.
(1991 Code, § 1-203) (Ord. 2019-15, passed 6-27-2019)
§ 31.024 VILLAGE CLERK.
   (A)   The Village Clerk shall have the custody of all laws and ordinances
and shall keep a correct journal of the proceedings of the Board of Trustees.
After the period of time specified by the State Records Administrator pursuant
to the Records Management Act, the Clerk may transfer the journal of the
proceedings of the Board of Trustees to the State Archives of the Nebraska
State Historical Society for permanent preservation. The Clerk shall also
perform such other duties as may be required by the ordinances of the village.
If the Clerk is acting as the Treasurer, he or she shall also comply with the
requirements of §
31.025(A)(3).
   (B)   (1)   It shall be the duty of the Clerk to prepare and publish the
official proceedings of the Board of Trustees within 30 days after any meeting
of the Board. The publication shall be in a newspaper of general circulation in
the village, shall set forth a statement of the proceedings of the meeting, and
shall also include the amount of each claim allowed, the purpose of the claim,
and the name of the claimant, except that the aggregate amount of all payroll
claims may be included as one item. Between July 15 and August 15 of each year,
the employee job titles and the current annual, monthly, or hourly salaries
corresponding to such job titles shall be published. Each job title published
shall be descriptive and indicative of the duties and functions of the
position. The charge for the publication shall not exceed the rates provided
for in Neb. RS 23-122.
      (2)   Publication under division (B)(1) shall be made in one legal
newspaper of general circulation in the village. If no legal newspaper is
published in the village, then the publication shall be made in one legal
newspaper published or of general circulation within the county in which the
village is located. The cost of publication shall be paid out of the general
funds of the village.
   (C)   The Clerk shall dispose of or destroy village public records when the
records have been determined to be of no further legal, administrative, fiscal,
or historical value by the State Records Administrator pursuant to the Records
Management Act. This shall not apply to the minutes of the Clerk and the
permanent ordinance and resolution books, or any other record classified as
permanent by the State Records Administrator.
   (D)   (1)   The Clerk shall permit any person to examine and copy the public
records in the Clerk's custody, and may charge a fee for providing copies of a
public record, as provided in Neb. RS 84-712 through 84-712.09.
      (2)   The Clerk may charge a reasonable fee for certified copies of any
record in his or her office, as set by resolution of the Board of Trustees.
   (E)   The Clerk shall permit no records, public papers, or other documents
of the village kept and preserved in his or her office to be taken therefrom,
except by such officers of the village as may be entitled to the use of the
same, but only upon their leaving a receipt therefor, and except pursuant to
Neb. RS 84-712(2). He or she shall keep all the records of his or her office,
including a record of all licenses issued by him or her, in a blank book with a
proper index. He or she shall include as part of his or her records all
petitions under which the Board of Trustees shall order public work to be done
at the expense of the property fronting thereon, together with references to
all resolutions and ordinances relating to the same. He or she shall endorse
the date and hour of filing upon every paper or document so filed in his or her
office. All such filings made by him or her shall be properly docketed.
Included in his or her records shall be all standard codes, amendments thereto,
and other documents incorporated by reference and arranged in triplicate in a
manner convenient for reference. He or she shall keep an accurate and complete
account of the appropriation of the several funds and draw, sign, and attest
all warrants ordered for the payment of money on the particular fund from which
the same is payable. At the end of each month, he or she shall then make a
report of the amounts appropriated to the various funds and the amount of the
warrants drawn thereon.
   (F)   The Clerk shall deliver all warrants, ordinances, and resolutions
under his or her charge to the Chairperson for his or her signature. He or she
shall also deliver to officers, employees, and committees all resolutions and
communications which are directed at such officers, employees, or committees.
With the seal of the village, he or she shall duly attest the Mayor's signature
to all ordinances, deeds, and papers required to be attested to when ordered to
do so by the Board of Trustees.
   (G)   The Clerk shall issue and sign all licenses, permits, and occupation
tax receipts authorized by law and required by the village ordinances. He or
she shall collect all occupation taxes and license money, except where some
other village officer is specifically charged with that duty. He or she shall
keep a register of all licenses granted in the village and the purpose for
which they have been issued.
   (H)   The Clerk shall keep in a book with a proper index copies of all
notices required to be published or posted by the Clerk by order of the Board
of Trustees or under the ordinances of the village. To each of the file copies
of the notices shall be attached the printer's affidavit of publication, if the
notices are required to be published, or the Clerk's certificate under seal
where the same are required to be posted only.
   (I)   The Clerk shall receive all objections to creation of paving districts
and other street improvements. He or she shall receive the claims of any person
against the village, and in the event that the claim is disallowed in part or
in whole, the Clerk shall notify the claimant or his or her agent or attorney
by letter within five days after the disallowance, and the Clerk shall then
prepare transcripts on appeals of any disallowance of a claim in all proper
cases.
(1991 Code, § 1-204) (Ord. 434, passed 4-15-1993; Ord. 2019-15, passed 6-27-
2019; Ord. 2021-4, passed 1-28-2021; Ord. 2021-40, passed 12-21-2021)
Statutory reference:
   For similar state law, see Neb. RS 17-605, 18-1701, 19-1102, and 19-1103
§ 31.025 VILLAGE TREASURER.
   (A)   (1)   The Village Treasurer shall be the custodian of all money
belonging to the village. He or she shall keep a separate account of each fund
or appropriation and the debts and credits belonging thereto. He or she shall
give every person paying money into the treasury a receipt therefor, specifying
the date of payment and on what account paid. He or she shall also file copies
of such receipts with his or her monthly reports. The Treasurer shall, at the
end of every month, and as often as may be required, render an account to the
Board of Trustees, under oath, showing the state of the treasury at the date of
such account and the balance of money in the treasury. He or she shall also
accompany such accounts with a statement of all receipts and disbursements,
together with all warrants redeemed and paid by him or her, which warrants,
with any and all vouchers held by him or her, shall be filed with his or her
account in the Village Clerk's office. If the Treasurer fails to render his or
her account within 20 days after the end of the month, or by a later date
established by the Board of Trustees, the Chairperson may use this failure as
cause to remove the Treasurer from office.
      (2)   The Treasurer shall keep a record of all outstanding bonds against
the village, showing the number and amount of each bond, for and to whom the
bonds were issued, and the date upon which any bond is purchased, paid, or
canceled. The Treasurer shall accompany the annual statement submitted pursuant
to Neb. RS 19-1101 with a description of the bonds issued and sold in that year
and the terms of sale, with every item of expense thereof.
      (3)   The Treasurer shall annually complete continuing education through
a program approved by the Auditor of Public Accounts, and proof of completion
of such program shall be submitted to the Auditor of Public Accounts.
   (B)   (1)   The Treasurer shall prepare and publish annually within 60 days
after the close of the village fiscal year a statement of the receipts and
expenditures of funds of the village for the preceding fiscal year. The
statement shall also include the information required by Neb. RS 16-318(3) or
Neb. RS 17-606(2). Not more than the legal rate provided for in Neb. RS 33-141
shall be charged and paid for such publication.
      (2)   Publication shall be made in one legal newspaper of general
circulation in the village. If no legal newspaper is published in the village),
then such publication shall be made in one legal newspaper published or of
general circulation within the county in which the village is located.
   (C)   (1)   All warrants upon the Treasurer shall be paid in the order of
their presentation therefor and as otherwise provided in Neb. RS 77-2201
through 77-2215.
      (2)   The Treasurer shall keep a warrant register, which register shall
show in columns arranged for that purpose the number, the date, and the amount
of each warrant presented and registered, the particular fund upon which the
same is drawn, the date of presentation, the name and address of the person in
whose name the warrant is registered, the date of payment, the amount of
interest, and the total amount paid thereon, with the date when notice to the
person in whose name such warrant is registered is mailed.
      (3)   The Treasurer shall make duplicate receipts for all sums which
shall be paid into his or her office, which receipts shall show the source from
which such funds are derived, and shall, by distinct lines and columns, show
the amount received to the credit of each separate fund, and whether the same
was paid in cash, in warrants, or otherwise. The Treasurer shall deliver one of
the duplicates to the person making the payment and retain the other in his or
her office.
      (4)   The Treasurer shall daily, as money is received, foot the several
columns of the cash book and of the register, and carry the amounts forward,
and at the close of each year, in case the amount of money received by the
Treasurer is insufficient to pay the warrants registered, he or she shall close
the account for that year in the register and shall carry forward the excess.
      (5)   The cash book, register, and retained receipts of the Treasurer
shall at all times be open to the inspection of any person in whose name any
warrants are registered and unpaid.
   (D)   The Treasurer shall permit any person to examine and copy the public
records in the Treasurer's custody, and may charge a fee for providing copies
of a public record, as provided in Neb. RS 84-712 through 84-712.09.
   (E)   The Treasurer shall keep all money belonging to the village separate
and distinct from his or her own money. He or she shall cancel all bonds,
coupons, warrants, and other evidences of debt against the village, whenever
paid by him or her, by writing or stamping on the face thereof, "Paid by the
Village Treasurer," with the date of payment written or stamped thereon. He or
she shall collect all special taxes, allocate special assessments to the
several owners, and obtain from the County Treasurer a monthly report as to the
collection of delinquent taxes.
(1991 Code, § 1-205) (Ord. 2019-15, passed 6-27-2019; Ord. 2021-5, passed 1-28-
2021)
Statutory reference:
   Annual report required to be published, see Neb. RS 19-1101 and 19-1103
   Statutory duties, see Neb. RS 17-606 through 17-609
   Warrants, register, and receipts, see Neb. RS 77-2201, 77-2202, 77-2209, 77-
2210, and 77-2212
§ 31.026 MUNICIPAL ATTORNEY.
   The Municipal Attorney is the municipality’s legal advisor, and as such he
or she shall commence, prosecute, and defend all suits on behalf of the
municipality. When requested by the Board of Trustees, he or she shall attend
meetings of the Board of Trustees and shall advise any municipal official in
all matters of law in which the interests of the municipality may be involved.
He or she shall draft such ordinances, bonds, contracts, and other writings as
may be required in the administration of the affairs of the municipality. He or
she shall examine all bonds, contracts, and documents on which the Board of
Trustees will be required to act and attach thereto a brief statement in
writing to all those instruments and documents as to whether or not the
document is in legal and proper form. He or she shall prepare complaints,
attend, and prosecute violations of the municipal ordinances when directed to
do so by the Board of Trustees. Without direction, he or she shall appear and
prosecute all cases for violation of the municipal ordinances that have been
appealed to and are pending in any higher court. He or she shall also examine,
when requested to do so by the Board of Trustees, the ordinance records and
advise and assist the Municipal Clerk as much as may be necessary to the end
that each procedural step will be taken in the passage of each ordinance to
ensure that they will be valid, and subsisting local laws in so far as their
passage and approval are concerned. The Board of Trustees shall have the right
to compensate the Municipal Attorney for legal services on such terms as the
Board of Trustees and the Municipal Attorney may agree, and to employ any
additional legal assistance as may be necessary out of the funds of the
municipality.
(1991 Code, § 1-208) (Ord. 2019-15, passed 6-27-2019)
Statutory reference:
   Authorizing and similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-610
§ 31.027 SPECIAL ENGINEER.
   The Board of Trustees may employ a Special Engineer to make or assist the
Municipal Engineer in making any particular estimate, survey, or other work.
The Special Engineer shall make a record of the minutes of his or her surveys
and all other work done for the municipality. He or she shall, when directed by
the Board of Trustees, accurately make all plats, sections, profiles, and maps
as may be necessary in the judgment of the governing body. He or she shall,
upon request of the Board of Trustees, make estimates of the costs of labor and
material which may be done or furnished by contract with the municipality and
make all surveys, estimates, and calculations necessary for the establishment
of grades, bridges, building of culverts, sewers, electric light system,
waterworks, power plant, public heating system, curbing and gutters, and the
improvement of streets and erection and repair of buildings, and shall perform
those other duties as the Board of Trustees may require. All records of the
Special Engineer shall be public records which shall belong to the municipality
and shall be turned over to his or her successor.
(1991 Code, § 1-209) (Ord. 2019-15, passed 6-27-2019)
Statutory reference:
   Authority to employ special engineer, see Neb. RS 17-568
   Duties related to annexation, see Neb. RS 17-405
   Duties related to public works, see Neb. RS 17-568.01
   Duties related to sewers, see Neb. RS 17-919
   Engineers and Architects Regulation Act, see Neb. RS 81-3401 through 81-3455
§ 31.028 MUNICIPAL UTILITIES SUPERINTENDENT.
   (A)   A Utilities Superintendent shall be appointed in the event that there
is more than one municipal utility and the Board of Trustees determines that it
is in the best interest of the municipality to appoint one official to have the
immediate control over all the municipal utilities. Any vacancy occurring in
this office by death, resignation, or removal may be filled in the manner
hereinbefore provided for the appointment of all municipal officials.
   (B)   The Utilities Superintendent’s duties over the following departments
shall be as stated herein.
      (1)   Water Department. He or she shall have general supervision and
control over the municipal water system and shall be primarily responsible for
its economic operation and prudent management. Included in the water system
shall be the water plant, the pump house, all machinery, and appliances used in
connection with producing and distributing water to inhabitants of the
municipality. All actions, decisions, and procedures of the Utilities
Superintendent shall be subject to the general directives and control of the
Board of Trustees. The Utilities Superintendent shall have the general control
and supervisory authority over all employees of the water system which the
Board of Trustees may from time to time hire to operate and maintain the
system. Unless some other official is specifically designated, he or she shall
collect all money received by the municipality on account of the system of
waterworks and shall faithfully account for and pay over to the Municipal
Treasurer all such money collected in the name of the municipality and receive
a receipt from the Municipal Treasurer for the depository evidence of the
faithful discharge of this duty. This receipt shall then be filed with the
Municipal Clerk, and the second copy shall be kept by the Superintendent. He or
she shall make a detailed report to the Board of Trustees at least once every
six months of the condition of the water system, of all mains, pipes, hydrants,
reservoirs, and machinery, and those improvements, repairs, and extensions
thereof as he or she may think proper. The report shall show the amount of
receipts and expenditures on account thereof for the preceding six months. No
money shall be expended for improvements, repairs, or extensions of the
waterworks system except upon the recommendation of the Superintendent. The
Utilities Superintendent shall provide a bond conditioned upon the faithful
discharge of duties which shall amount to not less than the amount set by
resolution of the Board of Trustees and on file in the office of the Municipal
Clerk. He or she shall perform those additional duties as may be prescribed by
the Board of Trustees.
      (2)   Sewer Department. The Utilities Superintendent shall have the
immediate control and supervision over all the employees and property that make
up the municipal sewer system, subject to the general control and directives of
the Board of Trustees. He or she shall at least every six months make a
detailed report to the Board of Trustees on the condition of the sewer system
and shall direct its attention to those improvements, repairs, extensions,
additions, and additional employees as he or she may believe are needed along
with an estimate of the cost thereof. He or she shall have those other duties
as the Board of Trustees may delegate. He or she shall issue permits for all
connections to the municipal sewer system and inspect and supervise all repairs
made to that system.
      (3)   Street Department. The Utilities Superintendent shall, subject to
the orders and directives of the Board of Trustees, have general charge,
direction, and control of all work on the streets, sidewalks, culverts, and
bridges of the municipality and shall perform those other duties as the Board
of Trustees may require. It shall be his or her responsibility to see that
gutters and drains therein function properly and that the same are kept in good
repair. He or she shall, at the request of the Board of Trustees, make a
detailed report to the Board of Trustees on the condition of the streets,
sidewalks, culverts, alleys, and bridges of the municipality and shall direct
its attention to those improvements, repairs, extensions, additions, and
additional employees as he or she may believe are needed to maintain a
satisfactory street system in the municipality, along with an estimate of the
cost thereof. He or she shall issue those permits and assume those other duties
as the Board of Trustees may direct.
(1991 Code, § 1-210) (Ord. 2019-15, passed 6-27-2019)
Statutory reference:
   Incentive payments to street superintendents, see Neb. RS 39-2512
   Water Commissioner required, see Neb. RS 17-541
§ 31.029 MUNICIPAL VILLAGE MARSHAL; POWERS AND DUTIES.
   (A)   The Marshal shall be Chief of Police, and shall at all times have the
power to make or order an arrest with proper process, for any offense against
the laws of the state or ordinances of the village, and bring the offender to
trial before the proper officer, and to arrest without process in all cases
where any such offense shall be committed or attempted to be committed in his
or her presence.
   (B)   At any and all times in which the village shall have contracted with
Buffalo County, Nebraska, and/or the Buffalo County Sheriff’s Department to
provide law enforcement services to the village, any officer or deputy
designated by such Buffalo County Sheriff’s Department to serve as contact
representative with the village shall function as Village Marshal and shall be
empowered with all powers and authority bestowed upon the Village Marshal by
the laws of the State of Nebraska or by this Municipal Code. Whenever the term
Village Marshal or Chief of Police is used or referenced in this Municipal
Code, it shall be deemed to denote such member of the Buffalo County Sheriff’s
Department in such instance, and the applicable provisions of this Municipal
Code shall be interpreted and enforced accordingly.
(1991 Code, § 1-211) (Ord. 525, passed 4-17-1997; Ord. 2019-15, passed 6-27-
2019)
§ 31.030 MUNICIPAL FIRE CHIEF.
   The Municipal Fire Chief shall be elected by the members of the Fire
Department. He or she shall enforce all laws and ordinances covering the
prevention of fires, the storage and use of explosives and flammable
substances, the installation of fire alarm systems, the maintenance of fire
extinguishing equipment, the regulation of fire escapes, and the inspection of
all premises requiring adequate fire escapes. He or she shall, within two days,
investigate the cause, origin, and circumstances of fires arising within his or
her jurisdiction. He or she shall, on or before April 1 and October 1 of each
year, cause the Secretary to file with the Municipal Clerk and the Clerk of the
District Court a certified copy of the rolls of all members in good standing in
their respective companies in order to obtain the exemptions provided by law.
He or she shall have the power during the time of a fire and for a period of 36
hours thereafter to arrest any suspected arsonist or any person for hindering
the Department’s efforts, conducting himself or herself in a noisy and
disorderly manner, or any person who refuses to obey any lawful order by the
Fire Chief or Assistant Fire Chief. The Fire Chief or an assistant in charge of
operations at a fire may command the services of any person present at any fire
in extinguishing the same or in the removal and protection of property. Failure
to obey such an order shall be an offense punishable by a fine. The Fire Chief
shall have the right to enter at all reasonable hours into buildings and upon
all premises within his or her jurisdiction for the purpose of examining the
same for fire hazards and related dangers.
(1991 Code, § 1-212) (Ord. 2019-15, passed 6-27-2019) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Authority to enforce ordinances by imposing fine, see Neb. RS 17-505
   Authority to procure equipment, organize companies, and prescribe rules, see
Neb. RS 17-147
   Inspections under Natural Gas Pipeline Safety Act and Petroleum Products and
Hazardous Substances Storage and Handling Act, see Neb. RS 81-512
   Investigations and reports required, see Neb. RS 81-506
   Life insurance required, see Neb. RS 35-108
   Membership, rolls, and filings, see Neb. RS 35-102
§ 31.031 ZONING INSPECTOR.
   The Chairperson may appoint a Zoning Inspector. In the absence of a specific
appointment by the Chairperson, the Municipal Clerk is hereby designated as
Zoning Inspector.
(1991 Code, § 1-213) (Ord. 2019-15, passed 6-27-2019)
§ 31.032 MUNICIPAL POLICE OFFICERS.
   (A)   The municipal police, whether regular or special, shall have the power
to arrest all offenders against the laws of the State of Nebraska, or the
municipality, by day or by night, and keep the said offenders in the municipal
jail or some other place to prevent their escape until trial can be held before
the proper official of the State of Nebraska or the municipality. They shall
have full power and authority to call on any person whenever necessary to
assist them in performing public duties, and failure, neglect, or refusal to
render such assistance shall be deemed a misdemeanor punishable upon conviction
by a fine. Every municipal police officer shall be expected to be conversant
and knowledgeable with the municipal and state laws and no law enforcement
official shall have any interest in any establishment having a liquor license.
Municipal police officers shall have the duty to file such complaints and
reports as may be required by the municipal ordinances and the laws of the
State of Nebraska.
   (B)   Any municipal police officer who shall willfully fail, neglect, or
refuse to make an arrest, or who purposely and willfully fails to make a
complaint after an arrest is made shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor, and
upon conviction shall be fined. It shall be unlawful for the governing body to
retain any municipal police officer in that position after he or she shall have
been duly convicted of the willful violation of any law of the United States of
America, the State of Nebraska, or any ordinance of the municipality, except
minor traffic violations. It shall be the duty of every municipal police
officer making a lawful arrest to search all persons in the presence of some
other person, whenever possible, and shall carefully keep and produce to the
proper judicial official upon the trial everything found upon the person of
such prisoners. All personal effects so taken from prisoners aforesaid shall be
restored to them upon their release. Suitable uniforms and badges shall be
furnished to the municipal police by the municipality. Any member who shall
lose or destroy the same shall be required to pay the replacement costs, and in
the event that any member shall leave the force, he or she shall immediately
deliver his or her badge to the Chief of Police. The governing body may from
time to time provide the municipal police with such uniforms, equipment, and
transportation as may be essential in the performance of their official duties.
(Neb. RS 17-213) (1991 Code, § 1-214) (Ord. 2019-15, passed 6-27-2019)
§ 31.033 MUNICIPAL STREET COMMISSIONER.
   The Municipal Street Commissioner shall, subject to the orders and
directives of the governing body, have general charge, direction, and control
of all work on the streets, sidewalks, culverts, and bridges of the
municipality, and shall perform such other duties as the governing body may
require. It shall be his or her responsibility to see that gutters and drains
therein function properly and that the same are kept in good repair. He or she
shall, at the request of the governing body, make a detailed report to the
governing body on the condition of the streets, sidewalks, culverts, alleys,
and bridges of the municipality, and shall direct their attention to such
improvements, repairs, extensions, additions, and additional employees as he or
she may believe are needed to maintain a satisfactory street system in the
municipality along with an estimate of the cost thereof. He or she shall issue
such permits and assume such other duties as the governing body may direct.
(Neb. RS 17-214) (1991 Code, § 1-215) (Ord. 2019-15, passed 6-27-2019)
§ 31.034 MUNICIPAL BUILDING INSPECTOR.
   The Municipal Building Inspector shall conduct surveys and make inspections
in any area of the municipality to determine whether all buildings and
structures are in compliance with the municipal ordinances. He or she shall
investigate all complaints whether they are verbal, written, or in the form of
a petition alleging and charging that a violation of the municipal ordinances
exists, and that a building or structure is unfit or unsafe for human
habitation. The Building Inspector is authorized upon properly identifying
himself or herself to enter, inspect, survey, and investigate between the hours
of 8:00 a.m. and 5:00 p.m., or at any time if an emergency exists, or if
requested by the owner or occupant thereof. He or she shall keep records of all
complaints received, inspection reports, orders, and complaints issued. The
records shall be available for public inspection and he or she shall prepare an
annual report including statistics based on the records kept. The Building
Inspector shall have no financial interest in the furnishing of labor,
materials, or appliances for the construction, alteration, or maintenance of a
building, except where he or she is the owner of a building, and he or she
shall not act as an agent for any said dealer or as an agent for the sale,
lease, or rental of any real estate. The Building Inspector shall report to the
governing body as often as it may deem necessary, and shall have such other
duties and issue such permits as they may direct. The Building Inspector may be
removed at any time for good and sufficient cause by the governing body.
(1991 Code, § 1-216) (Ord. 2019-15, passed 6-27-2019)
§ 31.035 MUNICIPAL PLUMBING INSPECTOR.
   The Municipal Plumbing Inspector shall enforce all laws relating to the
installation of plumbing and connections thereto. When acting in good faith and
without malice in the scope of his or her official duties, he or she shall not
himself or herself be held personally liable for any damage that may accrue to
persons or property as the result of any act required by him or her, or by
reason of any act or omission in the discharge of his or her duties. He or she
shall, in the discharge of his or her official duties, and upon proper
identification, have authority to enter into any building, structure, or
premises at any reasonable hour. He or she shall perform such other duties and
issue any permits that the governing body may direct. The Plumbing Inspector
may be removed at any time for good and sufficient cause by the governing body.
(1991 Code, § 1-217) (Ord. 2019-15, passed 6-27-2019)
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 31.045 BONDS; FORM.
   (A)   The Board of Trustees may require from all officers and servants,
elected or appointed, bonds and security for the faithful performance of their
duty. Official bonds of the municipality shall be in form joint and several and
shall be made payable to the municipality in such penalty as the Board of
Trustees may set by resolution, provided that the penalty amount on any bond
shall not fall below the legal minimum, when one has been set by the state, for
each particular official. All official bonds of the municipal officials shall
be executed by the principal named in those bonds and by at least two
sufficient sureties who shall be freeholders of the county, or by the official
as principal and by a guaranty, surety, fidelity, or bonding company, provided
that no municipal official, while still in his or her official term of office,
shall be accepted as surety on any other official’s bond, contractor’s bond,
license bond, or appeal bond under any circumstances. Only companies that are
legally authorized to transact business in this state shall be eligible for
suretyship on the bond of an official of the municipality. All these bonds
shall obligate the principal and sureties for the faithful discharge of all
duties required by law of that principal and shall inure to the benefit of the
municipality and any persons who may be injured by a breach of the conditions
of the bonds. No bond shall be deemed to be given or complete until the
approval of the Board of Trustees and all sureties are endorsed in writing on
that instrument by the Chairperson and Municipal Clerk pursuant to the approval
of the Board of Trustees. The premium on any official bond required to be given
may be paid out of the General Fund or other proper municipal fund, upon a
resolution to that effect by the Board of Trustees at the beginning of any
municipal year.
   (B)   All official bonds, meeting the conditions herein, shall be filed with
the Municipal Clerk for his or her official records, and it shall be the duty
of the Municipal Clerk to furnish a certified copy of any bond so filed upon
the payment of a fee, which shall be set by resolution of the Board of
Trustees. In the event that the sureties on the official bond of any officer of
the municipality, in the opinion of the Board of Trustees, become insufficient,
the Board of Trustees may, by resolution, fix a reasonable time within which
that officer may give a new bond or additional sureties as directed. In the
event that the officer should fail, refuse, or neglect to give a new bond or
additional sureties to the satisfaction and approval of the Board of Trustees,
then the office shall, by that failure, refusal, or neglect, become vacant, and
it shall be the duty of the Board of Trustees to appoint a competent and
qualified person to fill the office. Any official who is re-elected to office
shall be required to file a new bond after each election.
(1991 Code, § 1-301)
Statutory reference:
   Bonds generally and similar provisions, see Neb. RS 11-103 through 11-118
   Power to regulate offices, see Neb. RS 17-604
§ 31.046 OATH OF OFFICE; MUNICIPAL OFFICIALS.
   (A)   All officials of the municipality, whether elected or appointed,
except when a different oath is specifically provided herein, shall before
entering upon their respective duties take and subscribe the following oath,
which shall be endorsed upon their respective bonds.
“I, ______________________________, do solemnly swear that I will support the
Constitution of the United States and the Constitution of the State of
Nebraska, against all enemies foreign and domestic; that I will bear true faith
and allegiance to the same; that I take this obligation freely and without
mental reservation or for the purpose of evasion; and that I will faithfully
and impartially perform the duties of the office of ____________________,
according to law and to the best of my ability. And I do further swear that I
do not advocate nor am I a member of any political party or organization that
advocates the overthrow of the government of the United States or of this state
by force or violence; and that during such time as I am in this position I will
not advocate nor become a member of any political party or organization that
advocates the overthrow of the government of the United States or of this state
by force or violence. So help me God.”
   (B)   If any such officer is not required to give bond, the oath shall be
filed with the Municipal Clerk.
(Neb. RS 11-101) (1991 Code, § 1-302)
COMPENSATION
§ 31.060 MUNICIPAL OFFICIALS.
   The compensation of any elective official of the municipality shall not be
increased or diminished during the term for which he or she shall have been
elected except when there has been a merger of offices; provided, the
compensation of the members of the governing body, a board, or commission may
be increased or diminished at the beginning of the full term of any member
whether or not the terms of one or more members commence and end at different
times. No elected official may be rehired at a greater salary if he or she
resigns and desires to be rehired during the unexpired term of office. He or
she may be rehired after the term of office during which he or she resigned at
a greater salary. All salaries shall be set by ordinance of the governing body
and will be available for public inspection at the office of the Municipal
Clerk.
(Neb. RS 17-209.02, 17-612) (1991 Code, § 1-901)
§ 31.061 CONFLICT OF INTEREST INVOLVING CONTRACTS.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      BUSINESS ASSOCIATION.
         (a)   A business:
            1.   In which the individual is a partner, limited liability
company member, director, or officer; or
            2.   In which the individual or a member of the individual's
immediate family is a stockholder of closed corporation stock worth $1,000 or
more at fair market value or which represents more than a 5% equity interest or
is a stockholder of publicly traded stock worth $10,000 or more at fair market
value or which represents more than 10% equity interest.
         (b)   An individual who occupies a confidential professional
relationship protected by law shall be exempt from this definition. This
definition shall not apply to publicly traded stock under a trading account if
the filer reports the name and address of the stockbroker.
      IMMEDIATE FAMILY. A child residing in an individual's household, a spouse
of an individual, or an individual claimed by that individual or that
individual's spouse as a dependent for federal income tax purposes.
      OFFICER.
         (a)   Includes:
            1.   A member of any board or commission of the village which
spends and administers its own funds, who is dealing with a contract made by
such board or commission; or
            2.   Any elected village official.
         (b)   OFFICER does not mean volunteer firefighters or ambulance
drivers with respect to their duties as firefighters or ambulance drivers.
   (B)   (1)   Except as provided in Neb. RS 49-1499.04 or 70-624.04, no
officer may have an interest in any contract to which his or her governing
body, or anyone for its benefit, is a party. The existence of such an interest
in any contract shall render the contract voidable by decree of a court of
competent jurisdiction as to any person who entered into the contract or took
assignment of the contract with actual knowledge of the prohibited conflict. An
action to have a contract declared void under this section may be brought by
the County Attorney, the governing body, or any resident within the
jurisdiction of the governing body and shall be brought within one year after
the contract is signed or assigned. The decree may provide for the
reimbursement of any person for the reasonable value of all money, goods,
material, labor, or services furnished under the contract, to the extent that
the governing body has benefitted thereby.
      (2)   The prohibition in this division (B) shall apply only when the
officer or his or her parent, spouse, or child:
         (a)   Has a business association with the business involved in the
contract; or
         (b)   Will receive a payment, fee, or commission as a result of the
contract.
   (C)   Division (B) of this section does not apply if the contract is an
agenda item approved at a meeting of the governing body and the interested
officer:
      (1)   Makes a declaration on the record to the governing body responsible
for approving the contract regarding the nature and extent of his or her
interest prior to official consideration of the contract;
      (2)   Does not vote on the matters of granting the contract, making
payments pursuant to the contract, or accepting performance of work under the
contract, or similar matters relating to the contract, except that if the
number of members of the governing body declaring an interest in the contract
would prevent the body with all members present from securing a quorum on the
issue, then all members may vote on the matters; and
      (3)   Does not act for the governing body which is a party to the
contract as to inspection or performance under the contract in which he or she
has an interest.
   (D)   The receiving of deposits, cashing of checks, and buying and selling
of warrants and bonds of indebtedness of any such governing body by a financial
institution shall not be considered a contract for purposes of this section.
The ownership of less than 5% of the outstanding shares of a corporation shall
not constitute an interest within the meaning of this section.
   (E)   If an officer's parent, spouse, or child is an employee of the
officer's governing body, the officer may vote on all issues of the contract
which are generally applicable to all employees, or all employees within a
classification, and do not single out his or her parent, spouse, or child for
special action.
   (F)   Neb. RS 49-14,102 does not apply to contracts covered by this section.
   (G)   (1)   The person charged with keeping records for the governing body
shall maintain separately from other records a ledger containing the
information listed in divisions (G)(1)(a) through (G)(1)(e) below about every
contract entered into by the governing body in which an officer of the body has
an interest and for which disclosure is made pursuant to division (C) of this
section. This information shall be kept in the ledger for five years from the
date of the officer's last day in office and shall include:
         (a)   The names of the contracting parties;
         (b)   The nature of the interest of the officer in question;
         (c)   The date that the contract was approved by the governing body;
         (d)   The amount of the contract; and
         (e)   The basic terms of the contract.
      (2)   The information supplied relative to the contract shall be provided
no later than ten days after the contract has been signed by both parties. The
ledger kept pursuant to this division (G) shall be available for public
inspection during the normal working hours of the office in which it is kept.
   (H)   An open account established for the benefit of any governing body with
a business in which an officer has an interest shall be deemed a contract
subject to this section. The statement required to be filed by division (G) of
this section shall be filed within ten days after the account is opened.
Thereafter, the person charged with keeping records for the governing body
shall maintain a running account of amounts purchased on the open account.
Purchases made from petty cash or a petty cash fund shall not be subject to
this section.
   (I)   Notwithstanding divisions (A) through (H) of this section, the
governing body may prohibit contracts over a specific dollar amount in which an
officer of the governing body may have an interest.
   (J)   The governing body may exempt from divisions (A) through (H) of this
section contracts involving $100 or less in which an officer of that body may
have an interest.
(1991 Code, § 1-902) (Ord. 2021-39, passed 12-21-2021)
Statutory reference:
   For similar state law, see Neb. RS 49-14,103.01, 49-14,103.02, 49-14,103.03,
49-14,103.05, 49-14,103.06, 49-1408, and 49-1425
   Private gain by public officers, see Neb. RS 18-305 through 18-312
   Utility officers permitted to serve in elected office, see Neb. RS 70-624.04
§ 31.062 APPOINTED OFFICIALS.
   The salaries of the appointed officials of the village shall be on file in
the office of the Municipal Clerk and subject to public inspection at any
reasonable time.
(1991 Code, § 1-903)
§ 31.063 ELECTED OFFICIALS.
    The salaries of the elected officials of the village are hereby fixed as
follows.
   (A)   Chairperson of the Board of Trustees: $100 per meeting.
   (B)   Trustees: $75 per meeting.
(1991 Code, § 1-904) (Ord. 2006-05, passed 9-19-2006; Ord. 2024-16, passed 12-
16-2024)
§ 31.064 OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES; ACTION AGAINST; DEFENSE; PAYMENT OF JUDGEMENT;
LIABILITY.
   (A)   The village shall indemnify all officers, agents, and employees of the
village with respect to threatened, pending, or completed civil or criminal
proceedings to the full extent required or permitted by law.
   (B)   Without in any way limiting the foregoing, the village:
      (1)   May indemnify any person who was or is a party or is threatened to
be made a party to any threatened, pending, or completed action, suit, or
proceeding, whether civil, criminal, administrative, or investigative, other
than an action by or in the right of the village, by reason of the fact that
such person is or was the Chairperson of the Board of Trustees, a member of the
Board of Trustees or an officer, employee, or agent or representative of the
village, against expenses, including attorney’s fees, judgments, fines, and
amounts paid in settlement actually and reasonably incurred by him or her in
connection with such action, suit, or proceeding if such person acted in good
faith and in a manner which he or she reasonably believed to be in or not
opposed to the best interests of the village and, with respect to any criminal
action or proceeding, had no reasonable cause to believe that his or her
conduct was unlawful. The termination of any action, suit, or proceeding by
judgment, order settlement, or conviction or upon a plea of nolo contendere, or
its equivalent, shall not of itself create a presumption that such person did
not act in good faith and in a manner which he or she reasonably believed to be
in or not opposed to the best interests of the village and, with respect to any
criminal action or proceeding, had reasonable cause to believe that his or her
conduct was unlawful.
      (2)   To the extent that the Chairperson of the Board of Trustees, a
member of the Board of Trustees or an officer, employee, agent, or
representative of the village has been successful on the merits or otherwise in
defense of any action, suit, or proceedings referred to in division (B)(1)
above, or in defense of any claim, issue, or matter in such action, suit, or
proceeding, he or she shall be indemnified against expenses, including
attorney’s fees, actually and reasonably incurred by him or her in connection
with such defense.
      (3)   The village may indemnify any person who was or is a party or is
threatened to be made a party to any threatened, pending, or completed action
or suit by or in the right of the village to procure a judgment in its favor by
reason of the fact that such person is or was the Chairperson of the Board of
Trustees, a member of the Board of Trustees or an officer, employee, agent, or
representative of the village, against expenses, including attorney’s fees,
actually and reasonably incurred by his or her in connection with the defense
or settlement of such action or suit if such person acted in good faith and in
a manner he or she reasonably believed to be to or not opposed to the best
interests of the village, except that no indemnification shall be made in
respect of any claim, issue, or matter as to which such person was adjudged to
be liable for negligence or misconduct in the performance of his or her duty to
the village.
      (4)   Any indemnification under the provisions of this section shall be
made by the village only as authorized to the specific case upon a
determination that indemnification of the Chairperson of the Board of Trustees,
a member of the Board of Trustees, or an officer, employee, agent, or
representative of the village is proper to the circumstances because he or she
has set the applicable standard of conduct set forth in this section. Such
determination shall be made by the Board members by a majority vote of a quorum
consisting of Board members who were not parties to such action, suit, or
proceeding or, if such a quorum is not obtainable or even if obtainable, a
quorum of disinterested Board members so directs, by independent legal counsel
in a written opinion.
      (5)   Expenses incurred to defending a civil or criminal action, suit, or
proceeding may be paid by the village in advance of the final disposition of
such action, suit, or proceeding as authorized in the manner provided in
division (B)(1) above upon receipt of an undertaking by or on behalf of the
Chairperson of the Board of Trustees, a member of the Board of Trustees or an
officer, employee, agent, or representative of the village to repay such amount
unless it is ultimately determined that he or she is entitled to be indemnified
by the village as authorized in this section.
      (6)   The indemnification provided by this section shall not be deemed
exclusive of any other rights to which the person indemnified may be entitled
under any law, regulation, or agreement, either as to action in his or her
official capacity or as to action in another capacity while holding such office
and representing the interests of the village in such capacity, and shall
continue as to a person who has ceased to be the Chairperson of the Board of
Trustees, a member of the Board of Trustees or an officer, employee, agent, or
representative of the village, and shall inure to the benefit of the heirs,
personal representatives, and assigns of each person.
(1991 Code, § 1-905) (Ord. 537, passed 7-31-1997)
§ 31.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person, or any person’s agent or servant, who violates any of the
provisions of this chapter, unless otherwise specifically provided herein,
shall be deemed guilty of an offense and upon conviction thereof shall be fined
in any sum not exceeding $500. A new violation shall be deemed to have been
committed every 24 hours of failure to comply with the provisions of this
chapter.
    (B)   (1)   Whenever a nuisance exists as defined in this chapter, the
municipality may proceed by a suit in equity to enjoin, abate, and remove the
same in the manner provided by law.
      (2)   Whenever, in any action, it is established that a nuisance exists,
the court may, together with the fine or penalty imposed, enter an order of
abatement as a part of the judgment in the case.
(Neb. RS 17-505, 18-1720, 18-1722) (1991 Code, § 1-1101) (Ord. 2002-07, passed
2-21-2002)
CHAPTER 32: ELECTIONS
Section
   
32.01   Election of officers; certifications required
   
32.02   Generally
   
32.03   Tie votes
   
32.04   Joint, general
   
32.05   Joint, general, notice
   
32.06   Special elections
   
32.07   Filing fee
   
32.08   Petition; write-in, and other candidates for general election ballot;
procedures
   
32.09   Caucus candidates
   
32.10   Officials
   
32.11   Officials oath
   
32.12   Voter qualifications
   
32.13   Ballots
   
32.14   Board of Trustees; terms; qualifications
   
32.15   Exit polls; poll watchers
   
32.16   Recall procedure
   
32.17   Candidate filing forms; deadlines; filing officer
§ 32.01 ELECTION OF OFFICERS; CERTIFICATIONS REQUIRED.
   No later than July 1 of each even-numbered year, the Village Board shall
certify to the Election Commissioner or the County Clerk, on forms prescribed
by such official, the name of the village, the number of officers to be
elected, the length of the terms of office, the vacancies to be filled by
election and length of remaining term, and the number of votes to be cast by a
registered voter for each office. (Neb. RS 32-404) (1991 Code, § 1-701) (Ord.
512, passed 1-18-1996; Ord. 595, passed 6-15-2000; Ord. 2005-27, passed 7-28-
2005)
§ 32.02 GENERALLY.
   (A)   (1)   All village issues and offices shall be combined on the
statewide primary and general election ballots whenever possible. The issuance
of separate ballots shall be avoided in a statewide election if village offices
or issues can reasonably be combined with the nonpartisan ballot and state law
does not require otherwise.
      (2)   All village elections involving the election of officers shall be
held in accordance with the Election Act, Neb. RS 32-101 et seq., and in
conjunction with the statewide primary or general election.
(Neb. RS 32-556)
   (B)   When the village holds an election in conjunction with the statewide
primary or general election, the election shall be held as provided in the
Election Act, Neb. RS 32-101 et seq. Any other election held by the village
shall be held as provided in the Election Act unless otherwise provided by the
charter, code, or bylaws of the village.
   (C)   The village shall furnish to the Secretary of State and Election
Commissioner or County Clerk any maps and additional information which the
Secretary of State and Election Commissioner or County Clerk may require in the
proper performance of their duties in the conduct of elections and the
certifications of results.
(Neb. RS 32-404)
(1991 Code, § 1-701.01) (Ord. 2005-27, passed 7-28-2005; Ord. 2025-5, passed 1-
15-2025)
§ 32.03 TIE VOTES.
   In the case of a tie vote of any of the candidates in either the primary or
general election, the County Clerk shall notify such candidates to appear at
his or her office on a given day and hour to determine the same by lot before
the Canvassing Board, and the certificate of nomination or election shall be
given accordingly. Notice to appear shall be given by certified mail.
(Neb. RS 17-107.02(6)) (1991 Code, § 1-703)
§ 32.04 JOINT, GENERAL.
   The general municipal election shall be held in accordance with the
provisions of Neb. RS Ch. 32. The governing body has determined, by ordinance
duly adopted, to hold the municipal election in conjunction with the state-wide
primary election, held on the first Tuesday after the second Monday in May of
each even-numbered year. Prior to February one of the year, in which the first
such joint election takes place, the governing body shall receive the consent
in writing of the County Board to so hold the election and such authorization
shall be prescribed according to state law. The County Clerk shall have charge
of the election and shall have the authority to deputize the Municipal Clerk
for municipal election purposes.
(Neb. RS 32-505, 32-4,147) (1991 Code, § 1-704)
§ 32.05 JOINT, GENERAL, NOTICE.
   The County Clerk shall publish in a newspaper designated by the County Board
the notice of the election no less than 40 days prior to the primary or general
election. This notice will serve the notice requirement for all municipal
elections which are held in conjunction with the county.
(Neb. RS 32-402.01) (1991 Code, § 1-705)
§ 32.06 SPECIAL ELECTIONS.
   (A)   (1)   Except as provided in Neb. RS 77-3444, any issue to be submitted
to the registered voters at a special election by the village shall be
certified by the Village Clerk to the Election Commissioner or County Clerk on
or before the eighth Friday prior to the election. A special election may be
held by mail as provided in Neb. RS 32-952 through 32-959. Any other special
election under this section shall be subject to division (B) below.
      (2)   In lieu of submitting the issue at a special election, the village
may submit the issue at a statewide primary or general election or at any
scheduled county election, except that no such issue shall be submitted at a
statewide election or scheduled county election unless the issue to be
submitted has been certified by the Village Clerk to the Election Commissioner
or County Clerk by March 1 for the primary election and by September 1 for the
general election.
      (3)   (a)   After the Election Commissioner or County Clerk has received
the certification of the issue to be submitted, he or she shall be responsible
for all matters relating to the submission of the issue to the registered
voters, except that the Village Clerk shall be responsible for the publication
or posting of any required special notice of the submission of the issue other
than the notice required to be given of the statewide election issues. The
Election Commissioner or County Clerk shall prepare the ballots and issue
ballots for early voting and shall also conduct the submission of the issue,
including the receiving and counting of ballots on the issue.
         (b)   The election returns shall be made to the Election Commissioner
or County Clerk. The ballots shall be counted and canvassed at the same time
and in the same manner as the other ballots. Upon completion of the canvass of
the vote by the County Canvassing Board, the Election Commissioner or County
Clerk shall certify the election results to the Board of Trustees. The canvass
by the County Canvassing Board shall have the same force and effect as if made
by the Board of Trustees.
   (B)   (1)   A village that has submitted an issue for a special election
under division (A)(l) above may cancel the special election if the Secretary of
State, Election Commissioner, or County Clerk receives a resolution adopted by
the political subdivision canceling the special election on or before the
fourth Thursday prior to the election. No cancellation shall be effective after
such date. If a special election is canceled in such manner, the village shall
be responsible for the costs incurred that are related to the canceled
election. Such costs shall include all chargeable costs as provided in Neb. RS
32-1202 that are associated with preparing for and conducting a special
election.
      (2)   A village that has submitted an issue at a statewide primary or
general election or at any scheduled county election under division (A)(2)
above may withdraw the issue from the ballot if the Secretary of State,
Election Commissioner, or County Clerk receives a resolution adopted by the
village withdrawing the issue from the ballot not later than March 1 prior to a
statewide primary election or September 1 prior to a statewide general
election. No withdrawal shall be effective after such date. Any issue withdrawn
in this manner shall not be printed on the ballot.
   (C)   Any special election under the Election Act, Neb. RS 32-101 et seq.,
shall be held on the first Tuesday following the second Monday of the selected
month unless otherwise specifically provided. Except as otherwise specifically
provided, no special election shall be held under the Election Act in April,
May, June, October, November, or December of an even-numbered year unless it is
held in conjunction with the statewide primary or general election. No special
election shall be held under the Election Act in September of an even numbered
year except as provided in Neb. RS 32-564 and except for a special election by
a political subdivision pursuant to Neb. RS 13-519 or 77-3444 to approve a
property tax levy or exceed a property tax levy limitation.
(Neb. RS 32-405)
(1991 Code, § 1-706) (Ord. 2005-18, passed 6-23-2005; Ord. 2021-9, passed 1-28-
2021; Ord. 2022-15, passed 12-19-2022; Ord. 2025-15, passed 1-15-2025)
Statutory reference:
   For similar state law, see Neb. RS 32-405, 32-559
§ 32.07 FILING FEE.
   (A)   Except as provided in division (D) or (E) of this section, a filing
fee shall be paid to the Village Treasurer by or on behalf of each candidate
for village office prior to filing for office. The fee shall be placed in the
general fund of the village. No candidate filing forms shall be filed until the
proper payment or the proper receipt showing the payment of such filing fee is
presented to the filing officer. On the day of the filing deadline, the Village
Treasurer's office shall remain open to receive filing fees until the hour of
the filing deadline.
   (B)   Except as provided in division (D) or (E) of this section, the filing
fee shall be a sum equal to 1% of the annual salary as of November 30 of the
year preceding the election for the office for which he or she files as a
candidate.
   (C)   All declared write-in candidates shall pay the filing fees that are
required for the office at the time that they present the write-in affidavit to
the filing officer.
   (D)   No filing fee shall be required for any candidate filing for an office
in which a per diem is paid rather than a salary or for which there is a salary
of less than $500 per year.
   (E)   (1)   No filing fee shall be required of any candidate completing an
affidavit requesting to file for elective office in forma pauperis.
      (2)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
         AVAILABLE RESOURCES. Includes every type of property or interest in
property that an individual owns and may convert into cash except:
            1.   Real property used as a home;
            2.   Household goods of a moderate value used in the home; and
            3.   Assets to a maximum value of $3,000 used by a recipient in a
planned effort directed towards self-support.
         PAUPER. A person whose income and other resources for maintenance are
found under assistance standards to be insufficient for meeting the cost of his
or her requirements and whose reserve of cash or other available resources does
not exceed the maximum available resources that an eligible individual may own.
   (F)   If any candidate dies prior to an election, the spouse of the
candidate may file a claim for refund of the filing fee with the Board of
Trustees prior to the date of the election. Upon approval of the claim by the
Board of Trustees, the filing fee shall be refunded.
(1991 Code, § 1-707) (Ord. 2021-38, passed 12-21-2021)
Statutory reference:
   For similar state law, see Neb. RS 32-608
§ 32.08 PETITION; WRITE-IN, AND OTHER CANDIDATES FOR GENERAL ELECTION BALLOT;
PROCEDURES.
   (A)   (1)   Any registered voter who was not a candidate in the primary
election and who was not registered to vote with a party affiliation on or
after March 1 and before the general election in the calendar year of the
general election may have his or her name placed on the general election ballot
for a partisan office by filing petitions as prescribed in this section and
Neb. RS 32-621 or by nomination by political party convention or committee
pursuant to Neb. RS 32-627 or 32-710.
      (2)   Any candidate who was defeated in the primary election and any
registered voter who was not a candidate in the primary election may have his
or her name placed on the general election ballot if a vacancy exists on the
ballot under Neb. RS 32-625(2) and the candidate:
         (a)   Files for the office by petition as prescribed in divisions (B)
and (C) below;
         (b)   Files as a write-in candidate as prescribed in Neb. RS 32-615;
or
         (c)   Is nominated by political party convention or committee pursuant
to Neb. RS. 32-710.
(Neb. RS 32-616)
   (B)   Petitions for nomination shall conform to the requirements of Neb. RS
32-628. Petitions shall state the office to be filled and the name and address
of the candidate. Petitions for partisan office shall also indicate the party
affiliation of the candidate. A sample copy of the petition shall be filed with
the filing officer prior to circulation. Petitions shall be signed by
registered voters residing in the village, if candidates are chosen at large,
or in the ward in which the officer is to be elected, if candidates are chosen
by ward, and shall be filed with the filing officer in the same manner as
provided for candidate filing forms in § 32.17. Petition signers and petition
circulators shall conform to the requirements of Neb. RS 32-629 and 32-630. No
petition for nomination shall be filed unless there is attached thereto a
receipt showing the payment of the filing fee required pursuant to Neb. RS 32-
608. The petitions shall be filed by September 1 in the year of the general
election, and all signed petitions not filed with the Secretary of State by
such date shall become invalid.
(Neb. RS 32-617)
   (C)   (1)   The number of signatures of registered voters needed to place
the name of a candidate upon the nonpartisan ballot for the general election
shall be at least 10% of the total number of registered voters voting for
Governor or President of the United States at the immediately preceding general
election in the village or in the ward in which the officer is to be elected,
not to exceed 2,000.
      (2)   The number of signatures of registered voters needed to place the
name of a candidate for an office upon the partisan ballot for the general
election shall be as follows:
         (a)   For each partisan office to be filled by the registered voters
of the entire state, at least 4,000, and at least 750 signatures shall be
obtained in each congressional district in the state;
         (b)   For each partisan office to be filled by the registered voters
of a county, at least 20% of the total number of registered voters voting for
Governor or President of the United States at the immediately preceding general
election within the county, not to exceed 2,000, except that the number of
signatures shall not be required to exceed 25% of the total number of
registered voters voting for the office at the immediately preceding general
election; and
         (c)   For each partisan office to be filled by the registered voters
of a political subdivision other than a county, at least 20% of the total
number of registered voters voting for Governor or President of the United
States at the immediately preceding general election within the political
subdivision, not to exceed 2,000.
(Neb. RS 32-618)
(1991 Code, § 1-708) (Ord. 564, passed 10-27-1998; Ord. 2005-04, passed 5-26-
2005; Ord. 2019-30, passed 11-20-2019; Ord. 2025-17, passed 1-15-2025)
§ 32.09 CAUCUS CANDIDATES.
   (A)   The Board of Trustees may, by ordinance, call a caucus for the purpose
of nomination of candidates for offices to be filled in the village election.
This caucus shall be held at least ten days before the filing deadline for that
election, and the Board of Trustees shall publish notice of the caucus in at
least one newspaper of general circulation in the county at least once each
week for two consecutive weeks before the caucus.
(Neb. RS 17-601.01)
   (B)   The Chairperson of the caucus at which candidates are nominated shall
notify in writing the Village Clerk-Treasurer of the candidates so nominated,
not later than two days following the caucus. The Village Clerk-Treasurer shall
then notify the persons so nominated of their nomination, this notification to
take place not later than five days after the caucus. A candidate so nominated
shall not have his or her name placed upon the ballot unless, not more than ten
days after the holding of the caucus, he or she files with the Village Clerk-
Treasurer a written statement accepting the nomination of the caucus and pays
the filing fee, if any, for the office for which he or she was nominated.
(Neb. RS 17-601.02)
(1991 Code, § 1-709)
§ 32.10 OFFICIALS.
The County Clerk shall, at least 15 days prior to the state primary elections,
give notice of the appointment by each political party of three judges and two
clerks of election in each election unit in the municipality, to be known as
the Receiving Board. Each of the appointees referred to shall be of good
character, approved integrity, well informed, able to read, write, and speak
the English language, reside in the election precinct in which he or she is to
serve, be entitled to vote in his or her election unit, and hold office for a
term of two years, or until judges and clerks of election are appointed for the
next state primary election.
(Neb. RS 32-403 through 32-412) (1991 Code, § 1-710)
§ 32.11 OFFICIALS OATH.
Previous to any votes being received, the judges and clerks of election shall
severally take an oath or affirmation according to the form authorized by state
law. If there is no judge present at the opening of the polls, it shall be
lawful for the judges of election to administer the oath to each other and the
clerks of election. The person administering such oath shall cause an entry to
be made thereof and affixed to each poll book.
(Neb. RS 11-101.01, 19-3015, 32-413, 32-414) (1991 Code, § 1-711)
§ 32.12 VOTER QUALIFICATIONS.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      REGISTERED VOTER . An elector who has a current voter registration record
on file with the Election Commissioner or County Clerk.
(Neb. RS 32-115)
   (B)   All registered voters residing within the corporate limits of the
village on or before election day shall be entitled to vote at all village
elections.
(Neb. RS 17-602)
(1991 Code, § 1-712)
Statutory reference:
   Definition of elector, see Neb. RS 32-110
§ 32.13 BALLOTS.
   The County Clerk shall provide printed ballots for every general municipal
election and the expense of printing and delivering the ballots and cards of
instruction shall be a charge upon the municipality. (Neb. RS 32-417, 32-418)
(1991 Code, § 1-714)
§ 32.14 BOARD OF TRUSTEES; TERMS; QUALIFICATIONS.
   (A)   The members of the Village Board of Trustees shall be elected from the
municipality at large unless the registered voters of the municipality have
voted to elect its Board members by wards.
   (B)   The members of the Village Board of Trustees shall be elected at the
state-wide general election, as provided in Neb. RS 17-202, and each four years
thereafter. Except as provided in such section, the term of each Trustee shall
be four years or until his or her successor is elected and qualified.
   (C)   Any person may be a Trustee who is a citizen of the United States,
resides in the village, and is a registered voter.
(Neb. RS 17-202, 17-203, 32-532, 32-554) (1991 Code, § 1-717) (Ord. 511, passed
1-18-1996)
§ 32.15 EXIT POLLS; POLL WATCHERS.
   (A)   No person shall conduct an exit poll, a public opinion poll, or any
other interview with voters on election day seeking to determine voter
preference within 20 feet of the entrance of any polling place, or, if inside
the polling place or building, within 100 feet of any voting booth.
   (B)   (1)   No poll watcher shall interfere with any voter in the
preparation or casting of such voter's ballot or prevent any election worker
from performing the worker's duties.
      (2)   A poll watcher shall not provide assistance to a voter as described
in Neb. RS 32-918 unless selected by the voter to provide assistance as
provided in Neb. RS 32-918.
      (3)   A poll watcher shall not do any electioneering or disseminate any
information or materials advertising or advocating for or against any ballot
measure while engaged in observing at a polling place.
      (4)   A poll watcher shall maintain a distance of at least eight feet
from the sign-in table, the sign-in register, the polling booths, the ballot
box, and any ballots which have not been cast, except that if the polling place
is not large enough for a distance of eight feet, the judge of election shall
post a notice of the minimum distance the poll watcher must maintain from the
sign-in table, the sign-in register, the polling booths, the ballot box, and
any ballots which have not been cast. The posted notice shall be clearly
visible to the voters and shall be posted prior to the opening of the polls on
election day. The minimum distance shall not be determined to exclude a poll
watcher from being in the polling place.
(1991 Code, § 1-719) (Ord. 2021-6, passed 1-28-2021; Ord. 2025-16, passed 1-15-
2025) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   For similar state statutes, see Neb. RS 32-1525
§ 32.16 RECALL PROCEDURE.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      FILING CLERK. The Election Commissioner or County Clerk.
(Neb. RS 32-1301)
   (B)   Any member of the Board of Trustees may be removed from office by
recall pursuant to this section.
(Neb. RS 32-1302)
   (C)   (1)   A petition demanding that the question of removing a member of
the Board of Trustees be submitted to the registered voters shall be signed by
registered voters equal in number to at least 45% of the total vote cast for
the person receiving the most votes for that office in the last general
election. The signatures shall be affixed to petition papers and shall be
considered part of the petition.
      (2)   Petition circulators shall conform to the requirements of Neb. RS
32-629 and 32-630.
      (3)   The petition papers shall be procured from the filing officer.
Prior to the issuance of such petition papers, a recall petition filing form
shall be signed and filed with the filing officer by at least one registered
voter. Such voter or voters shall be deemed to be the principal circulator or
circulators of the recall petition. The filing form shall state the name and
office of the Trustee sought to be removed, shall include in concise language
of 60 words or less the reason or reasons for which recall is sought, and shall
request that the filing officer issue initial petition papers to the principal
circulator for circulation.
      (4)   After receiving the filing form, the filing officer shall notify
the Trustee by any method specified in Neb. RS 25-505.01 or, if notification
cannot be made with reasonable diligence by any of the methods specified in
Neb. RS 25-505.01, by leaving a copy of the filing form at the Trustee's usual
place of residence and mailing a copy by first-class mail to the Trustee's last
known address. If the Trustee chooses, he or she may submit a defense statement
in concise language of 60 words or less for inclusion on the petition. Any such
defense statement shall be submitted to the filing officer within 20 days after
the Trustee receives the copy of the filing form. The filing officer shall
prepare the petition papers within five business days after receipt of the
defense statement. The principal circulator or circulators shall gather the
petition papers within 20 days after being notified by the filing officer that
the petition papers are available. The filing officer shall notify the
principal circulator or circulators that the necessary signatures must be
gathered within 30 days from the date of issuing the petitions.
      (5)   The filing officer, upon issuing the initial petition papers or any
subsequent petition papers, shall enter in a record, to be kept in his or her
office, the name of the principal circulator or circulators to whom the papers
were issued, the date of issuance, and the number of papers issued. The filing
officer shall certify on the papers the name of the principal circulator or
circulators to whom the papers were issued and the date they were issued. No
petition paper shall be accepted as part of the petition unless it bears such
certificate. The principal circulator or circulators who check out petitions
from the filing officer may distribute such petitions to persons who may act as
circulators of such petitions.
      (6)   Petition signers shall conform to the requirements of Neb. RS 32-
629 and 32-630. Each signer of a recall petition shall be a registered voter
and qualified by his or her place of residence to vote for the office in
question.
(Neb. RS 32-1303)
   (D)   Each petition paper shall conform to the requirements of Neb. RS 32-
1304.
   (E)   (1)   The principal circulator or circulators shall file, as one
instrument, all petition papers comprising a recall petition for signature
verification with the filing officer within 30 days after the filing officer
issues the initial petition papers to the principal circulator or circulators
as provided in division (C) above.
      (2)   Within 15 business days after the filing of the petition, the
filing officer shall ascertain whether or not the petition is signed by the
requisite number of registered voters. No new signatures may be added after the
initial filing of the petition papers. Any person may remove his or her name
from a petition as provided in Neb. RS 32-632. If the petition is found to be
sufficient, the filing officer shall attach to the petition a certificate
showing the result of such examination. If the requisite number of signatures
has not been gathered, the filing officer shall file the petition in his or her
office without prejudice to the filing of a new petition for the same purpose.
(Neb. RS 32-1305)
   (F)   (1)   If the recall petition is found to be sufficient, the filing
officer shall notify the Trustee whose removal is sought and the Board of
Trustees that sufficient signatures have been gathered. Notification of the
Trustee shall be by any method specified in Neb. RS 25-505.01 or, if
notification cannot be made with reasonable diligence by any of the methods
specified in Neb. RS 25-505.01, by leaving such notice at the Trustee's usual
place of residence and mailing a copy by first-class mail to the Trustee's last
known address.
      (2)   The Board of Trustees shall, within 21 days after receipt of the
notification from the filing officer pursuant to division (F)(l) above, order
an election. The date of the election shall be the first available date that
complies with Neb. RS 32-405 and that can be certified to the Election
Commissioner or County Clerk at least 50 days prior to the election, except
that if any other election is to be held in the village within 90 days after
such notification, the Board shall provide for the holding of the recall
election on the same day.
      (3)   All resignations shall be tendered as provided in Neb. RS 32-562.
If the Trustee whose removal is sought resigns before the recall election is
held, the Board may cancel the recall election if the Board notifies the
Election Commissioner or County Clerk of the cancellation on or before the
fourth Thursday prior to the election; otherwise, the recall election shall be
held as scheduled.
      (4)   If a filing officer is subject to a recall election, the Secretary
of State shall conduct the recall election.
(Neb. RS 32-1306)
   (G)   The form of the official ballot at a recall election held pursuant to
division (F) above shall conform to the requirements of Neb. RS 32-1307.
   (H)   (1)   If a majority of the votes cast at a recall election are against
the removal of the Trustee named on the ballot or the election results in a
tie, the Trustee shall continue in office for the remainder of his or her term
but may be subject to further recall attempts as provided in division (I)
below.
      (2)   If a majority of the votes cast at a recall election are for the
removal of the Trustee named on the ballot, he or she shall, regardless of any
technical defects in the recall petition, be deemed removed from office unless
a recount is ordered. If the Trustee is deemed removed, the removal shall
result in a vacancy in the office, which shall be filled as otherwise provided
in this section, Neb. RS 32-567 through 32-570, 32-574, and 32-606.01.
      (3)   If the election results show a margin of votes equal to 1% or less
between the removal or retention of the Trustee in question, the Secretary of
State, Election Commissioner, or County Clerk shall order a recount of the
votes cast unless the Trustee files a written statement with the filing officer
that he or she does not want a recount.
      (4)   If there are vacancies in the offices of one-half or more of the
members of the Board of Trustees at one time due to the recall of such members,
a special election to fill such vacancies shall be conducted as expeditiously
as possible by the Secretary of State, Election Commissioner, or County Clerk.
Candidates for the special election shall file a candidate filing form pursuant
to § 32.17.
      (5)   No Trustee who is removed at a recall election or who resigns after
the initiation of the recall process shall be appointed to fill the vacancy
resulting from his or her removal or the removal of any other member of the
Board of Trustees during the remainder of his or her term of office.
(Neb. RS 32-1308)
   (I)   No recall petition filing form shall be filed against an elected
Trustee within 12 months after a recall election has failed to remove him or
her from office or within six months after the beginning of his or her term of
office or within six months prior to the incumbent filing deadline for the
office.
(Neb. RS 32-1309)
(Ord. 2016-11, passed 3-24-2016; Ord. 2019-36, passed 11-20-2019; Ord. 2021-17,
passed 1-28-2021; Ord. 2022-13, passed 12-19-2022; Ord. 2025-18, passed 1-15-
2025)
Statutory reference:
   For similar state law, see Neb. RS 32-1301 through 32-1303, 32-1305, 32-
1306, 32-1308, 32-1309
§ 32.17 CANDIDATE FILING FORMS; DEADLINES; FILING OFFICER.
   (A)   Any candidate may place his or her name on the primary election ballot
by filing a candidate filing form prescribed by the Secretary of State as
provided in division (B) below. If a candidate is an incumbent of any elective
office, the filing period for filing the candidate filing form shall be between
January 5 and February 15 prior to the date of the primary election. No
incumbent who resigns from elective office prior to the expiration of his or
her term shall file for any office after February 15 of that election year. All
other candidates shall file for office between January 5 and March 1 prior to
the date of the general election.
   (B)   Candidate filing forms shall be filed in the office of the Election
Commissioner or County Clerk.
   (C)   (1)   Except as provided in Neb. RS 32-564, any candidate in a special
election to fill a vacancy for an office of a political subdivision may have
his or her name placed on the special election ballot by filing a candidate
filing form prescribed by the Secretary of State as provided in Neb. RS 32-607
and this division (C).
      (2)   The filing period for filing the candidate filing form shall be:
         (a)   On or before March 1 for a special election to be held in
conjunction with the statewide primary election;
         (b)   On or before August 1 for a special election to be held in
conjunction with the statewide general election; and
         (c)   Between the eighth Friday prior to the election and the fifth
Friday prior to the election for all other elections.
      (3)   A candidate filing form for such special election shall meet the
requirements of Neb. RS 32-607, except that the form shall contain the
following statement: “I hereby swear that I will abide by the laws of the State
of Nebraska regarding the results of the special election, that I am a
registered voter and qualified to be elected, and that I will serve if
elected.”
      (4)   A candidate filing form for such special election shall be filed
with the filing officer specified in Neb. RS 32-607(2).
(Ord. 2021-41, passed 12-21-2021; Ord. 2025-2, passed 1-15-2025)
Statutory reference:
   For similar state law, see Neb. RS 32-606, 32-606.1 and 32-607
CHAPTER 33: FISCAL MANAGEMENT
Section
   
33.01   Fiscal year
   
33.02   Proposed budget statement; contents; availability; correction
   
33.03   Adopted budget statement; filing; certification of amount of tax
   
33.04   Expenditures prior to adoption of budget
   
33.05   Budget procedure
   
33.06   Appropriations
   
33.07   All-purpose levy; allocation; abandonment; extraordinary levies
   
33.08   Property tax; certification of amount
   
33.09   Expenditures
   
33.10   Contracts and purchases; bidding and other requirements
   
33.11   Annual audit; financial statements
   
33.12   Claims; warrants
   
33.13   Special Assessment Fund
   
33.14   Sinking funds; gifts of money or property
   
33.15   Deposit of funds
   
33.16   Investment and use of surplus funds
   
33.17   Bond issues
   
33.18   Motor vehicle fee
   
33.19   Property tax request; procedure for setting
   
33.20   Property tax levy; maximum; authority to exceed
   
33.21   Revision of budget
   
33.22   Proposed budget statement; hearing; adoption; certification of tax
amount
   
33.23   Debt collection; authority to contract with collection agency
   
33.24   Property tax request; increase by more than allowable growth
percentage; procedure for setting
   
33.25   Proprietary functions; fiscal year; budget statements; filing; hearing;
adoption; reconciliation
   
33.26   Credit cards; authority to accept
§ 33.01 FISCAL YEAR.
   The fiscal year of the municipality and any public utility of the
municipality commences on October 1 and extends through the following September
30, except as provided in the Municipal Proprietary Function Act, being Neb. RS
18-2801 to 18-2808.
(Neb. RS 17-701) (1991 Code, § 1-801) (Ord. 510, passed 1-18-1996)
§ 33.02 PROPOSED BUDGET STATEMENT; CONTENTS; AVAILABILITY; CORRECTION.
   (A)   The Board of Trustees shall annually or biennially prepare a proposed
budget statement on forms prescribed and furnished by the Auditor of Public
Accounts. The proposed budget statement shall be made available to the public
prior to publication of the notice of the hearing on the proposed budget
statement pursuant to §
33.22. A proposed budget statement shall contain the following information,
except as provided by state law:
      (1)   For the immediately preceding fiscal year or biennial period, the
revenue from all sources, including motor vehicle taxes, other than revenue
received from personal and real property taxation, allocated to the funds and
separately stated as to each such source: the unencumbered cash balance at the
beginning and end of the year or biennial period; the amount received by
taxation of personal and real property; and the amount of actual expenditures;
      (2)   For the current fiscal year or biennial period, actual and
estimated revenue from all sources, including motor vehicle taxes, allocated to
the funds and separately stated as to each such source: the actual unencumbered
cash balance available at the beginning of the year or biennial period; the
amount received from personal and real property taxation; and the amount of
actual and estimated expenditures, whichever is applicable. This statement
shall contain the cash reserve for each fiscal year or biennial period and
shall note whether or not the reserve is encumbered. The cash reserve
projections shall be based upon the actual experience of prior years or
biennial periods. The cash reserve shall not exceed 50% of the total budget
adopted exclusive of capital outlay items;
      (3)   For the immediately ensuing fiscal year or biennial period, an
estimate of revenue from all sources, including motor vehicle taxes, other than
revenue to be received from taxation of personal and real property, separately
stated as to each such source: the actual or estimated unencumbered cash
balances, whichever is applicable, to be available at the beginning of the year
or biennial period; the amounts proposed to be expended during the year or
biennial period; and the amount of cash reserve, based on actual experience of
prior years or biennial period, which cash reserve shall not exceed 50% of the
total budget adopted exclusive of capital outlay items;
      (4)   A statement setting out separately the amount sought to be raised
from the levy of a tax on the taxable value of real property:
         (a)   For the purpose of paying the principal or interest on bonds
issued or authorized to be issued by the Board of Trustees or the legal voters
of the political subdivision; and
         (b)   For all other purposes.
      (5)   A uniform summary of the proposed budget statement, including each
proprietary function fund included in a separate proprietary budget statement
prepared pursuant to the Municipal Proprietary Function Act, and a grand total
of all funds maintained by the Board of Trustees; and
      (6)   A list of the proprietary functions which are not included in the
budget statement. These proprietary functions shall have a separate budget
statement which is approved by the Board of Trustees as provided in the
Municipal Proprietary Function Act.
   (B)   The actual or estimated unencumbered cash balance required to be
included in the budget statement by this section shall include deposits and
investments of the village as well as any funds held by the County Treasurer
for the village and shall be accurately stated on the proposed budget
statement.
   (C)   The village shall correct any material errors in the budget statement
detected by the Auditor of Public Accounts or by other sources.
(Neb. RS 13-504)
   (D)   The estimated expenditures plus the required cash reserve for the
ensuing fiscal year or biennial period less all estimated and actual
unencumbered balances at the beginning of the year or biennial period and less
the estimated income from all sources, including motor vehicle taxes, other
than taxation of personal and real property shall equal the amount to be
received from taxes, and that amount shall be shown on the proposed budget
statement pursuant to this section. The amount to be raised from taxation of
personal and real property, as determined above, plus the estimated revenue
from other sources, including motor vehicle taxes, and the unencumbered
balances shall equal the estimated expenditures, plus the necessary required
cash reserve, for the ensuing year or biennial period.
(Neb. RS 13-505)
(1991 Code, § 1-802) (Ord. 458, passed 5-19-1994; Ord. 533, passed 6-19-1997;
Ord. 555, passed 7-16-1998; Ord. 2002-13, passed 2-21-2002; Ord. 2005-07,
passed 5-26-2005; Ord. 2022-11, passed 12-19-2022)
§ 33.03 ADOPTED BUDGET STATEMENT; FILING; CERTIFICATION OF AMOUNT OF TAX.
   (A)   (1)   After publication and hearing on the proposed budget statement
and within the time prescribed by law, the Board of Trustees shall file with
and certify to the levying board or boards on or before September 30 of each
year, or September 30 of the final year of a biennial period, and file with the
Auditor of Public Accounts a copy of the adopted budget statement which
complies with Neb. RS 13-518 through 13-522, if applicable, together with the
amount of the tax required to fund the adopted budget, setting out separately:
         (a)   The amount to be levied for the payment of principal or interest
on bonds issued or authorized to be issued by the Board of Trustees or the
legal voters of the political subdivision; and
         (b)   The amount to be levied for all other purposes.
      (2)   Proof of publication shall be attached to the statements.
   (B)   If the prime rate published by the Federal Reserve Board is 10% or
more at the time of the filing and certification required under this section,
the Board of Trustees, in certifying the amount required, may make allowance
for delinquent taxes not exceeding 5% of the amount required, plus the actual
percentage of delinquent taxes for the preceding tax year or biennial period,
and for the amount of estimated tax loss from any pending or anticipated
litigation which involves taxation and in which tax collections have been or
can be withheld or escrowed by court order. For the purpose of this section,
ANTICIPATED LITIGATION shall be limited to the anticipation of an action being
filed by a taxpayer who or which filed a similar action for the preceding year
or biennial period which is still pending. Except for such allowances, the
Board of Trustees shall not certify an amount of tax more than 1% greater or
lesser than the amount determined under § 35.20.
   (C)   The Board of Trustees shall use the certified taxable values as
provided by the County Assessor pursuant to Neb. RS 13-509 for the current year
in setting or certifying the levy. The Board of Trustees may designate one of
its members to perform any duty or responsibility required of the Board by this
section.
(Neb. RS 13-508)
(1991 Code, § 1-804) (Ord. 459, passed 5-19-1994; Ord. 509, passed 1-18-1996;
Ord. 534, passed 6- 19-1997; Ord. 559, passed 8-20-1998; Ord. 2018-13, passed
5-24-2018; Ord. 2021-29, passed 12-21-2021; Ord. 2022-6, passed 12-19-2022;
Ord. 2025-1, passed 1-15-2025)
Statutory reference:
   For similar state law, see Neb. RS 13-508
§ 33.04 EXPENDITURES PRIOR TO ADOPTION OF BUDGET.
   (A)   On and after the first day of its fiscal year in 1993 and of each
succeeding year and until the adoption of the budget of the governing body in
September, the governing body may expend any balance of cash on hand for the
current expenses of the municipality. Except as provided in division (B) below,
such expenditures shall not exceed an amount equivalent to the total amount
expended under the last budget in the equivalent period of the prior budget
year. Such expenditures shall be charged against the appropriations for each
individual fund or purpose as provided in the budget when adopted.
   (B)   The restriction on expenditures in division (A) above may be exceeded
upon the express finding of the governing body that expenditures beyond the
amount authorized are necessary to enable the municipality to meet its
statutory duties and responsibilities. The finding and approval of the
expenditures in excess of the statutory authorization shall be adopted by the
governing body in open public session. Expenditures authorized by this section
shall be charged against appropriations for each individual fund or purpose as
provided in the budget when adopted, and nothing in this section shall be
construed to authorize expenditures by the municipality in excess of that
authorized by any other statutory provision.
(Neb. RS 13-509.01, 13-509.02) (1991 Code, § 1-804.01) (Ord. 495, passed 2-16-
1995)
§ 33.05 BUDGET PROCEDURE.
   The budget instruction manual prepared by the Auditor of Public Accounts is
incorporated by reference for the purpose of proper budget preparation.
(1991 Code, § 1-805)
§ 33.06 APPROPRIATIONS.
   The governing body shall adopt a budget statement pursuant to the Nebraska
Budget Act, to be termed “The Annual Appropriation Bill”, in which are
appropriated such sums of money as may be deemed necessary to defray all
necessary expenses and liabilities of the municipality.
(Neb. RS 17-706) (1991 Code, § 1-806) (Ord. 460, passed 5-19-1994; Ord. 508,
passed 1-18-1996)
§ 33.07 ALL-PURPOSE LEVY; ALLOCATION; ABANDONMENT; EXTRAORDINARY LEVIES.
   (A)   The governing body has decided to certify to the County Clerk for
collection one all-purpose levy required to be raised by taxation for all
municipal purposes instead of certifying a schedule of levies for specific
purposes added together. Subject to the limits in Neb. RS 77-3442, the all-
purpose levy shall not exceed the annual levy specified in section Neb. RS 19-
1309 to be levied upon the taxable valuation of all taxable property in the
municipality.
   (B)   The amount of the all-purpose levy shall be certified as a single
amount for General Fund purposes. The governing body shall allocate the amount
raised by the all-purpose levy to the several departments of the municipality
in its annual budget and appropriation ordinance, or in other legal manner, as
the governing body deems wisest and best.
   (C)   The municipality shall be bound by its election to follow the all-
purpose levy method during the ensuing fiscal year, but may abandon such method
in succeeding fiscal years.
   (D)   Otherwise authorized extraordinary levies to service and pay bonded
indebtedness of the municipality may be made by the municipality in addition to
the all-purpose levy.
(Neb. RS 19-1309 through 19-1312) (1991 Code, § 1-807) (Ord. 568, passed 11-19-
1998)
§ 33.08 PROPERTY TAX; CERTIFICATION OF AMOUNT.
   The governing body shall, at the time and in the manner provided by law,
cause to be certified to the County Clerk the amount of tax to be levied upon
the taxable value of all the taxable property of the municipality which the
municipality requires for the purposes of the adopted budget statement for the
ensuing year, including all special assessments and taxes assessed as otherwise
provided. Subject to Neb. RS 77-3442, the maximum amount of tax which may be so
certified, assessed, and colleted shall not require a tax levy in excess of the
amounts specified in Neb. RS 17-702.
(Neb. RS 17-702) (1991 Code, § 1-812) (Ord. 558, passed 8-20-1998)
§ 33.09 EXPENDITURES.
   (A)   No municipal official shall have the power to appropriate, issue, or
draw any order or warrant on the municipal treasury for money, unless the same
has been appropriated or ordered by ordinance.
(Neb. RS 17-708)
   (B)   No expenditure for any improvement to be paid for out of the General
Fund of the municipality shall exceed in any one year the amount provided for
that improvement in the adopted budget statement.
(1991 Code, § 1-813)
§ 33.10 CONTRACTS AND PURCHASES; BIDDING AND OTHER REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Except as provided in Neb. RS 18-412.01 for a contract with a public
power district to operate, renew, replace, or add to the electric distribution,
transmission, or generation system of the village, no contract for enlargement
or general improvements, such as water extensions, sewers, public heating
systems, bridges, work on streets, or any other work or improvement, when the
cost of the enlargement or improvement is assessed to the property, costing
over $30,000 shall be made unless it is first approved by the Board of
Trustees.
   (B)   Except as provided in Neb. RS 18-412.01, before the Board of Trustees
makes any contract in excess of $30,000 for enlargements or general
improvements, such as water extensions, sewers, public heating systems,
bridges, work on streets, or any other work or improvement when the cost of the
enlargement or improvement is assessed to the property, an estimate of the cost
shall be made by the Village Engineer and submitted to the Board of Trustees.
In advertising for bids as provided in divisions (C) and (E) below, the Board
of Trustees may publish the amount of the estimate.
   (C)   Advertisements for bids shall be required for any contract costing
over $30,000 entered into:
      (1)   For enlargements or general improvements, such as water extensions,
sewers, public heating systems, bridges, work on streets, or any other work or
improvement when the cost of the enlargement or improvement is assessed to the
property; or
      (2)   For the purchase of equipment used in the construction of the
enlargements or general improvements.
   (D)   A village electric utility may enter into a contract for the
enlargement or improvement of the electric system or for the purchase of
equipment used for the enlargement or improvement without advertising for bids
if the price is:
      (1)   $30,000 or less;
      (2)   $60,000 or less and the village electric utility has gross annual
revenue from retail sales in excess of $1,000,000;
      (3)   $90,000 or less and the village electric utility has gross annual
revenue from retail sales in excess of $5,000,000; or
      (4)   $120,000 or less and the village electric utility has gross annual
revenue from retail sales in excess of $10,000,000.
   (E)   The advertisement provided for in division (C) above shall be
published at least seven days prior to the bid closing in a legal newspaper in
or of general circulation in the village. In case of a public emergency
resulting from infectious or contagious diseases, destructive windstorms,
floods, snow, war, or an exigency or pressing necessity or unforeseen need
calling for immediate action or remedy to prevent a serious loss of or serious
injury or damage to life, health, or property, estimates of costs and
advertising for bids may be waived in the emergency ordinance authorized by
Neb. RS 17-613 when adopted by a three-fourths vote of the Board of Trustees
and entered of record.
   (F)   If, after advertising for bids as provided in this section, the Board
of Trustees receives fewer than two bids on a contract or if the bids received
by the Board of Trustees contain a price which exceeds the estimated cost, the
Board of Trustees may negotiate a contract in an attempt to complete the
proposed enlargements or general improvements at a cost commensurate with the
estimate given.
   (G)   If the materials are of such a nature that, in the opinion of the
manufacturer and with the concurrence of the Board of Trustees or Board of
Public Works, no cost can be estimated until the materials have been
manufactured or assembled to the specific qualifications of the village, the
Board of Trustees or Board of Public Works may authorize the manufacture and
assemblage of those materials and may thereafter approve the estimated cost
expenditure when it is provided by the manufacturer.
(Neb. RS 17-568.01)
   (H)   Any village bidding procedure may be waived by the Board of Trustees
or Board of Public Works:
      (1)   When materials or equipment are purchased at the same price and
from the same seller as materials or equipment which have formerly been
obtained pursuant to the state bidding procedure in the State Procurement Act,
Neb. RS 81-145 through 81-162;
      (2)   When the contract is negotiated directly with a sheltered workshop
pursuant to Neb. RS 48-1503; or
      (3)   When required to comply with any federal grant, loan, or program.
(Neb. RS 17-568.02)
   (I)   (1)   Notwithstanding any other provisions of law or a home rule
charter, a village which has established, by an interlocal agreement with any
county, a joint purchasing division or agency may purchase personal property
without competitive bidding if the price for the property has been established
by the federal General Services Administration or the material division of the
Department of Administrative Services.
      (2)   For the purpose of this division (I), the following definitions
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
         PERSONAL PROPERTY. Includes, but is not limited to, supplies,
materials, and equipment used by or furnished to any officer, office,
department, institution, board, or other agency.
         PURCHASING or PURCHASE. The obtaining of personal property by sale,
lease, or other contractual means.
(Neb. RS 18-1756) (1991 Code, § 1-814) (Ord. 548, passed 6-18-1998; Ord. 2018-
12, passed 5-24-2018; Ord. 2025-3, passed 1-15-2025)
§ 33.11 ANNUAL AUDIT; FINANCIAL STATEMENTS.
   (A)   (1)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
          ACCOUNTANT . A duly licensed public accountant or certified public
accountant who otherwise is not an employee of or connected in any way with the
village;
         ANNUAL AUDIT REPORT . The written report of the accountant and all
appended statements and schedules relating thereto presenting or recording the
findings of an examination or audit of the financial transactions, affairs, or
financial condition of the village and its proprietary functions for the fiscal
year immediately prior to the making of such annual report.
         FISCAL YEAR . The fiscal year for the village or the fiscal year
established in Neb. RS 18-2804 for a proprietary function if different than the
municipal fiscal year.
(Neb. RS 19-2902)
   (2)   The Board of Trustees shall cause an audit of the village’s accounts
to be made by a recognized independent and qualified accountant as
expeditiously as possible following the close of the fiscal year and to cover
all financial transactions and affairs of the village for such preceding fiscal
year. Such audit shall be made on a cash or accrual method at the discretion of
the Board of Trustees. Such audit shall be completed and the annual audit
report made by such accountant shall be submitted within six months after the
close of the fiscal year in any event, unless an extension of time is granted
by a written resolution adopted by the Board of Trustees. The Board of Trustees
may request a waiver of the audit requirement subject to the requirements of
Neb. RS 84-304. If the village is required to conduct an audit under Neb. RS
84-304 and owns or operates any type of public utility or other enterprise
which substantially generates its own revenue, the Board of Trustees shall have
that phase of the village’s affairs reported separately from the other
functions of the village. The result of such audit shall appear separately in
the annual audit report made by the accountant to the village, and the audit
shall be on a cash or accrual basis at the discretion of the Board of Trustees.
(Neb. RS 19-2903)
   (3)   The annual audit report shall set forth, insofar as possible, the
financial position and results of financial operations for each fund or group
of accounts of the village. When the accrual method is selected for the annual
audit report, such report shall be in accordance with generally accepted
accounting principles. The annual audit report shall also include the
professional opinion of the accountant with respect to the financial
statements, or, if an opinion cannot be expressed, a declaration that the
accountant is unable to express such an opinion with an explanation of the
reasons why he or she cannot do so.
(Neb. RS 19-2904)
   (4)   At least three copies of such annual audit report shall be properly
signed and attested by the accountant; two copies shall be filed with the
Village Clerk and one copy shall be filed with the Auditor of Public Accounts.
The annual audit report filed, together with any accompanying comment or
explanation, shall become a part of the public records of the Village Clerk and
shall at all times thereafter be open and subject to public inspection.
(Neb. RS 19-2905)
   (B)   The Board of Trustees shall provide and file with the Village Clerk,
not later than August 1 of each year, financial statements showing the
village’s actual and budgeted figures for the most recently completed fiscal
year.
(Neb. RS 13-606) (1991 Code, § 1-815) (Ord. 2005-12, passed 5-26-2005)
§ 33.12 CLAIMS; WARRANTS.
   (A)   All claims against the municipality shall be presented to the Board of
Trustees in writing with a full account of the items, and no claim or demand
shall be audited or allowed unless presented as provided for in this section.
No costs shall be recovered against the municipality in any action brought
against it for an unliquidated claim which has not been presented to the Board
of Trustees to be audited, nor upon claims allowed in part, unless the recovery
shall be for a greater sum than the amount allowed, with the interest due. No
order or warrant shall be drawn in excess of 85% of the current levy for the
purpose for which it is drawn unless there shall be sufficient money in the
municipal treasury for the appropriate fund against which it is to be drawn,
provided that in the event there exist obligated funds from the federal or
state government for the general purpose of that warrant, then that warrant may
be drawn in excess of 85%, but not more than 100% of the current levy for the
purpose for which the warrant is drawn.
   (B)   All warrants drawn upon the municipal treasury must be signed by the
Board Chairperson and countersigned by the Municipal Clerk, stating the
particular fund to which the warrant is chargeable, the person to whom payable,
and for what particular object. No money shall be otherwise paid than upon
warrants so drawn. Each warrant shall specify the amount included in the
adopted budget statement for the fund upon which it is drawn and the amount
already expended of that fund.
(Neb. RS 17-711) (1991 Code, § 1-816)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-714 and 17-715
§ 33.13 SPECIAL ASSESSMENT FUND.
   All money received on special tax assessments shall be held by the Municipal
Treasurer as a special fund to be applied to the payment of the improvement for
which the assessment was made, and this money shall be used for no other
purpose whatever, unless to reimburse the municipality for money expended for
any such improvement.
(Neb. RS 17-710) (1991 Code, § 1-818)
§ 33.14 SINKING FUNDS; GIFTS OF MONEY OR PROPERTY.
   (A)   The village is hereby empowered to receive money or property by
donation, bequest, gift, devise, or otherwise for the benefit of any one or
more of the public purposes for which sinking funds are established by this
section, as stipulated by the donor. Title to any money or property so donated
shall vest in the Board of Trustees, or in its successors in office, who shall
become the owners thereof in trust to the uses of the sinking fund or funds. In
the event of a donation of real estate, the Board of Trustees may manage such
real estate as in the case of real estate donated to the village for village
library purposes under the provisions of Neb. RS 51-215 and 51-216.
(Neb. RS 19-1301)
   (B)   The Board of Trustees, subject to all the limitations set forth in
this section, shall have the power to levy a tax of not to exceed $0.105 on
each $100 in any one year upon the taxable value of all the taxable property
within the village for a term of not to exceed ten years, in addition to the
amount of tax which may be annually levied for the purposes of the adopted
budget statement of the village, for the purpose of establishing a sinking fund
for the construction, purchase, improvement, extension, original equipment, or
repair, not including maintenance, of any one or more of the following public
improvements, including acquisition of any land incident to the making thereof:
village libraries; village auditoriums or community houses for social or
recreational purposes; village halls; village public libraries, auditoriums, or
community houses in a single building; village swimming pools; village jails;
village fire stations, together with firefighting equipment or apparatus;
village parks; village cemeteries; village medical buildings, together with
furnishings and equipment; or village hospitals. The village shall not be
authorized to levy the tax or to establish the sinking fund as provided in this
division if, having bonded indebtedness, such village has been in default in
the payment of interest thereon or principal thereof for a period of ten years
prior to the date of the passage of the resolution providing for the submission
of the proposition for establishment of the sinking fund as required in
division (C).
(Neb. RS 19-1302)
   (C)   Before any sinking fund or funds are established or before any annual
tax is levied for any such planned village improvements mentioned in division
(B) by the village, the Board of Trustees shall declare its purpose by
resolution to submit to the qualified electors of the village at the next
general village election the proposition to provide the village with the
specific village improvement planned under this section. The resolution of
submission shall, among other things, set forth a clear description of the
improvement planned, the estimated cost according to the prevailing costs, the
amount of annual levy over a definite period of years, not exceeding ten years,
required to provide such cost, and the specific name or designation for the
sinking fund sought to be established to carry out the planned improvement,
together with a statement of the proposition for placement upon the ballot at
the election. Notice of the submission of the proposition, together with a copy
of the official ballot containing the proposition, shall be published in its
entirety three successive weeks before the day of the election in a legal
newspaper in or of general circulation in the village or, if no legal newspaper
is in or of general circulation in the village, in a legal newspaper in or of
general circulation in the county in which the village is located. No such
sinking fund shall be established unless the same has been authorized by a
majority or more of the legal votes of the village cast for or against the
proposition. If less than a majority of the legal votes favor the establishment
of the sinking fund, the planned improvement shall not be made, no annual tax
shall be levied therefor, and no sinking fund or sinking funds shall be
established in connection therewith, but such resolution of submission shall
immediately be repealed. If the proposition shall carry at such election in the
manner prescribed in this division, the Board of Trustees and its successors in
office shall proceed to do all things authorized under such resolution of
submission but never inconsistent with this section. The election provided for
under this section shall be conducted as provided under the Election Act.
(Neb. RS 19-1303)
   (D)   All funds received by the Village Treasurer, by donation or by tax
levy, as hereinbefore provided, shall, as they accumulate, be immediately
invested by the Treasurer, with the written approval of the Board of Trustees,
in the manner provided in Neb. RS 17-540. Whenever investments of such sinking
fund or funds are made, as aforesaid, the nature and character of the same
shall be reported to the Board of Trustees, and the investment report shall be
made a matter of record by the Village Clerk in the proceedings of the Board of
Trustees. The sinking fund, or sinking funds, accumulated under the provisions
of this section, shall constitute a special fund, or funds, for the purpose or
purposes for which the same was authorized and shall not be used for any other
purpose unless authorized by 60% of the qualified electors of the village
voting at a general election favoring such change in the use of the sinking
fund or sinking funds. The question of the change in the use of the sinking
fund or sinking funds, when it fails to carry, shall not be resubmitted in
substance for a period of one year from and after the date of such election.
(Neb. RS 19-1304)
(1991 Code, § 1-819) (Ord. 2019-35, passed 11-20-2019)
 Statutory reference:
   Additional levy limitations, see Neb. RS 17-702
   Investment in warrants, see Neb. RS 77-2337
§ 33.15 DEPOSIT OF FUNDS.
   (A)   The Village Treasurer shall deposit, and at all times keep on deposit,
for safekeeping, in banks, capital stock financial institutions, or qualifying
mutual financial institutions of approved and responsible standing, all money
collected, received, or held by him or her as Village Treasurer. Such deposits
shall be subject to all regulations imposed by law or adopted by the Board of
Trustees for the receiving and holding thereof. The fact that a stockholder,
director, or other officer of such bank, capital stock financial institution,
or qualifying mutual financial institution is also serving as a member of the
Board of Trustees or as any other officer of the village shall not disqualify
such bank, capital stock financial institution, or qualifying mutual financial
institution from acting as a depository for such municipal funds.
   (B)   (1)   The Board of Trustees shall require from all banks, capital
stock financial institutions, or qualifying mutual financial institutions:
         (a)   A bond in such penal sum as may be the maximum amount on deposit
at any time less the amount insured by the Federal Deposit Insurance
Corporation or, in lieu thereof; and
         (b)   Security given as provided in the Public Funds Deposit Security
Act to secure the payment of all such deposits and accretions.
      (2)   The Board of Trustees shall approve such bond or giving of
security. The Village Treasurer shall not be liable for any loss of any money
sustained by reason of the failure of any such depository so designated and
approved.
(Neb. RS 17-607)
      (3)   The insurance afforded to depositors in banks, capital stock
financial institutions, or qualifying mutual financial institutions through the
Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation shall be deemed and construed to be a
surety bond to the extent that the deposits are insured by such corporation,
and for deposits so insured, no other surety bond or other security shall be
required.
(Neb. RS 77-2362)
      (4)   Neb. RS 77-2366 shall apply to deposits in capital stock financial
institutions. Ned. RS 77-2365.01 shall apply to deposits in qualifying mutual
financial institutions.
(Neb. RS 17-607, 77-2362) (1991 Code, § 1-820) (Ord. 569, passed 11-19-1998;
Ord. 2005-11, passed 5-26-2005; Ord. 2005-20, passed 6-23-2005)
§ 33.16 INVESTMENT AND USE OF SURPLUS FUNDS.
   (A)   When the Village Treasurer holds funds of the village in excess of the
amount required for maintenance or set aside for betterments and improvements,
the Chairperson and Board of Trustees may, by resolution, direct and authorize
the Treasurer to invest the surplus funds in the outstanding bonds or
registered warrants of the village, bonds and debentures issued either singly
or collectively by any of the 12 federal land banks, the 12 intermediate credit
banks, or the 13 banks for cooperatives under the supervision of the Farm
Credit Administration, or in interest-bearing bonds or the obligations of the
United States. The interest on such bonds or warrants shall be credited to the
fund out of which the bonds or warrants were purchased.
(Neb. RS 17-608)
   (B)   All income received by the village from public utilities and from the
payment and collection of water taxes, rents, rates or assessments shall be
applied to the payment of running expenses, interest on bonds or money borrowed
and the erection and construction of public utilities; should there be any
surplus, it shall be annually created into a sinking fund for the payment of
public utility bonds or for improvements of the works, or into the General Fund
as the Council may direct. The surplus remaining, if any, may, if the Council
so directs, be invested in interest-bearing bonds or obligations of the United
States.
(Neb. RS 17-540)
   (C)   The Chairperson and Board of Trustees may, by resolution, direct and
authorize the Treasurer to dispose of the surplus electric light, water, or gas
funds, or the funds arising from the sale of electric light, water, or natural
gas distribution properties, by the payment of outstanding electric light,
water, or gas distribution bonds or water warrants then due. The excess, if
any, after such payments may be transferred to the General Fund of the village.
(Neb. RS 17-609)
   (D)   Any surplus funds arising out of the operation of any system of
waterworks, power plant, ice plant, gas plant, sewerage, heating or lighting
plant, or distribution system by the Board of Public Works, or by the Board of
Trustees where any of such utilities are not being operated by such a Board,
may be invested, if not invested pursuant to the provisions of any other law
upon the subject, in like manner and subject to the same conditions as the
investment of similar funds of cities of the first class, as provided in Neb.
RS 16-691.01.
(Neb. RS 17-803)
   (E)   (1)   Whenever the village has accumulated a surplus of any fund in
excess of its current needs or has accumulated a sinking fund for the payment
of its bonds and the money in such sinking fund exceeds the amount necessary to
pay the principal and interest of any such bonds which become due during the
current year, the Board of Trustees may invest any such surplus in excess of
current needs or such excess in its sinking fund in certificates of deposit, in
time deposits, and in any securities in which the State Investment Officer is
authorized to invest pursuant to the State Capital Expansion Act, Neb. RS 17-
1269 et seq., and the State Funds Investment Act, Neb. RS 17-1237 et seq., and
as provided in the authorized investment guidelines of the State Investment
Council in effect on the date the investment is made. The State Investment
Officer shall, upon request, furnish a copy of current authorized investment
guidelines of the State Investment Council.
      (2)   Nothing in division (E)(l) above shall be construed to authorize
investments in venture capital or to expand the investment authority of a local
government investment pool under the Public Entities Pooled Investment Act,
Neb. RS 77-23109 et seq.
(Neb. RS 77-2341)
(Ord. 2025-6, passed 1-15-2025)
§ 33.17 BOND ISSUES.
   The Board of Trustees may, after meeting all the requirements of state law,
issue bonds, fund bonds, and retire bonds for such purposes as may be permitted
by state law. The Board of Trustees shall have the authority to levy special
assessments for the payment of interest and principal on these bonds and may
spread the payments up to the maximum number of years permitted by state law.
(1991 Code, § 1-822)
Statutory reference:
   Bonds in general, see Neb. RS 18-1801 through 18-1805
   Boundary bridge bonds, see Neb. RS 39-835 through 39-842.01
   Cemetery bonds, see Neb. RS 12-1001 through 12-1004 and 17-939
   Cold storage plant bonds, see Neb. RS 17-958
   Compromise of indebtedness, see Neb. RS 10-301 through 10-305
   Dikes, see Neb. RS 17-529.01
   Flood control project bonds, see Neb. RS 17-529.08
   Funding and refunding bonds, see Neb. RS 10-606 through 10-614
   General provisions, see Neb. RS 10-101 through 10-143
   Internal improvement bonds, see Neb. RS 10-401 through 10-411
   Joint power plant bonds, see Neb. RS 17-911
   Library bonds, see Neb. RS 17-968
   Medical and multi-unit facility bonds, see Neb. RS 23-3513
   Power plant bonds, see Neb. RS 17-908
   Uniform registration and cancellation of bonds, see Neb. RS 10-201 through
10-209
   Utilities bonds, see Neb. RS 17-905
   Waterworks bonds, see Neb. RS 17-534
§ 33.18 MOTOR VEHICLE FEE.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      LIMITS OF THE VILLAGE. Includes the extraterritorial zoning jurisdiction
of the village.
      PERSON. Includes bodies corporate, societies, communities, the public
generally, individuals, partnerships, limited liability companies, joint-stock
companies, cooperatives, and associations. Person does not include any federal,
state, or local government or any political subdivision thereof.
   (B)   (1)   Except as otherwise provided in divisions (D) of this section,
the governing body of the village shall have power to require any individual
whose primary residence or person who owns a place of business which is within
the limits of the village and that owns and operates a motor vehicle within
such limits to pay an annual motor vehicle fee and to require the payment of
such fee upon the change of ownership of such vehicle. All such fees which may
be provided for under this section shall be used exclusively for constructing,
repairing, maintaining, or improving streets, roads, alleys, public ways, or
parts thereof or for the amortization of bonded indebtedness when created for
such purposes.
      (2)   To ensure compatibility with the Vehicle Title and Registration
System maintained by the Department of Motor Vehicles:
         (a)   Any village that collects the annual motor vehicle fee
authorized under this section shall use the plate types listed under Neb. RS
60-3,104 and, as applicable, weight categories listed under the Motor Vehicle
Registration Act when reporting information to the Vehicle Title and
Registration System; and
         (b)   Any village that adopts an annual motor vehicle fee under this
section or that modifies an existing motor vehicle fee shall notify the
Department of Motor Vehicles of such new or modified fee within ten business
days after the passage of the ordinance authorizing such new or modified fee
and at least 60 days prior to the implementation of such new or modified fee.
   (C)   No motor vehicle fee shall be required under this section if:
      (1)   A vehicle is used or stored but temporarily in the village for a
period of six months or less in a 12-month period;
      (2)   An individual does not have a primary residence or a person does
not own a place of business within the limits of the village and does not own
and operate a motor vehicle within the limits of the village; or
      (3)   An individual is a full-time student attending a postsecondary
institution within the limits of the village and the motor vehicle's situs
under the Motor Vehicle Certificate of Title Act is different from the place at
which he or she is attending such institution.
   (D)   After December 31, 2012, no motor vehicle fee shall be required of any
individual whose primary residence is or person who owns a place of business
within the extraterritorial zoning jurisdiction of the village.
   (E)   The fee shall be paid to the County Treasurer of the county in which
the village is located when the registration fees as provided in the Motor
Vehicle Registration Act are paid. These fees shall be credited by the County
Treasurer to the road fund of the village.
(1991 Code, § 1-823) (Ord. 2021-19, passed 1-28-2021)
Statutory reference:
   For similar state law, see Neb. RS 18-1214
   Motor Vehicle Registration Act, see Neb. RS 60-301
§ 33.19 PROPERTY TAX REQUEST; PROCEDURE FOR SETTING.
   (A)   If the annual assessment of property would result in an increase in
the total property taxes levied by a county, municipality, school district,
learning community, sanitary and improvement district, natural resources
district, educational service unit, or community college, as determined using
the previous year's rate of levy, the village's property tax request for the
current year shall be not more than its property tax request in the prior year,
and the village's rate of levy for the current year shall be decreased
accordingly when such rate is set by the County Board of Equalization pursuant
to Neb. RS 77-1601. The Board of Trustees shall pass a resolution or ordinance
to set the amount of its property tax request after holding the public hearing
required in division (C) below. If the Board of Trustees seeks to set its
property tax request at an amount that exceeds its property tax request in the
prior year, it may do so, subject to the limitations provided in the School
District Property Tax Limitation Act, Neb. RS 79-3401 et seq., and the Property
Tax Growth Limitation Act, Neb. RS 13-3401 et seq., after holding the public
hearing required in division (C) below and by passing a resolution or ordinance
that complies with division (D) below. If any county, village, school district,
or community college seeks to increase its property tax request by more than
the allowable growth percentage, such political subdivision shall comply with
the requirements of Neb. 77-1633 in lieu of the requirements in divisions (C)
and (D) below.
   (B)   If the annual assessment of property would result in no change or a
decrease in the total property taxes levied by a county, city, village, school
district, learning community, sanitary and improvement district, natural
resources district, educational service unit, or community college, as
determined using the previous year's rate of levy, the village's property tax
request for the current year shall be not more than its property tax request in
the prior year, and the village's rate of levy for the current year shall be
adjusted accordingly when such rate is set by the County Board of Equalization
pursuant to Neb. RS 77-1601. The Board of Trustees shall pass a resolution or
ordinance to set the amount of its property tax request after holding the
public hearing required in division (C) below. If the Board of Trustees seeks
to set its property tax request at an amount that exceeds its property tax
request in the prior year, it may do so, subject to the limitations provided in
the School District Property Tax Limitation Act, Neb. RS 79-3401 et seq., and
the Property Tax Growth Limitation Act, Neb. RS 13-3401 et seq., after holding
the public hearing required in division (C) below and by passing a resolution
or ordinance that complies with division (D) below. If any county, village,
school district, or community college seeks to increase its property tax
request by more than the allowable growth percentage, such political
subdivision shall comply with the requirements of Neb. RS 77-1633 in lieu of
the requirements in divisions (C) and (D) below.
   (C)   The resolution or ordinance required under this section shall only be
passed after a special public hearing called for the purpose is held and after
notice is published in a newspaper of general circulation in the area of the
village at least four calendar days prior to the hearing. For the purposes of
such notice, the four calendar days shall include the day of publication but
not the day of the hearing. If the village's total operating budget, not
including reserves, does not exceed $10,000 per year or $20,000 per biennial
period, the notice may be posted at the Board of Trustees's principal
headquarters.
   (D)   The hearing notice shall contain the following information:
      (1)   The certified taxable valuation under Neb. RS 13-509 for the prior
year, the certified taxable valuation under Neb. RS 13-509 for the current
year, and the percentage increase or decrease in such valuations from the prior
year to the current year;
      (2)   The dollar amount of the prior year's tax request and the property
tax rate that was necessary to fund that tax request;
      (3)   The property tax rate that would be necessary to fund last year's
tax request if applied to the current year's valuation;
      (4)   The proposed dollar amount of the tax request for the current year
and the property tax rate that will be necessary to fund that tax request;
      (5)   The percentage increase or decrease in the property tax rate from
the prior year to the current year; and
      (6)   The percentage increase or decrease in the total operating budget
from the prior year to the current year.
   (E)   Any resolution or ordinance setting a village's property tax request
under Neb. RS 77-1632 at an amount that exceeds the village's property tax
request in the prior year shall include, but not be limited to, the following
information:
      (1)   The name of the village;
      (2)   The amount of the property tax request;
      (3)   The following statements:
         (a)   The total assessed value of property differs from last year's
total assessed value by ___ percent;
         (b)   The tax rate which would levy the same amount of property taxes
as last year, when multiplied by the new total assessed value of property,
would be $ ___ per $100 of assessed value;
         (c)   The Village of Elm Creek proposes to adopt a property tax
request that will cause its tax rate to be $ ___ per $100 of assessed value;
and
         (d)   Based on the proposed property tax request and changes in other
revenue, the total operating budget of the Village of Elm Creek will exceed
last year's by ___ percent; and
      (4)   The record vote of the Board of Trustees in passing such resolution
or ordinance.
   (F)   Any resolution or ordinance setting a property tax request under this
section shall be certified and forwarded to the County Clerk on or before
October 15 of the year for which the tax request is to apply.
(1991 Code, § 1-824) (Ord. 539, passed 8-21-1997; Ord. 551, passed 6-18-1998;
Ord. 2002-05, passed 2-21-2002; Ord. 2019-32, passed 11-20-2019; Ord. 2021-33,
passed 12-21-2021; Ord. 2024-2, passed 1-18-2024; Ord. 2025-11, passed 1-15-
2025)
Statutory reference:
   For similar state law, see Neb. RS 77-1632
§ 33.20 PROPERTY TAX LEVY; MAXIMUM; AUTHORITY TO EXCEED.
   (A)   Property tax levies for the support of the village for fiscal years
beginning on or after July 1, 1998, shall be limited to the amounts set forth
in this division (A), except as provided in division (C). The village may levy
a maximum levy of $0.45 per $100 of taxable valuation of property subject to
the levy plus an additional $0.05 per $100 of taxable valuation to provide
financing for the village's share of revenue required under an agreement or
agreements executed pursuant to the Interlocal Cooperation Act or the Joint
Public Agency Act. The maximum levy shall include amounts levied to pay for
sums to support a library pursuant to Neb. RS 51-201, museum pursuant to Neb.
RS 51-501, visiting community nurse, home health nurse, or borne health agency
pursuant to Neb. RS 71-1637, or statue, memorial, or monument pursuant to Neb.
RS 80-202. Property tax levies for judgments, except judgments or orders from
the Commission of Industrial Relations, obtained against the village which
require or obligate the village to pay that judgment, to the extent the
judgment is not paid by liability insurance coverage of the village, for
preexisting lease-purchase contracts approved prior to July 1, 1998, for bonded
indebtedness approved according to law and secured by a levy on property, and
for payments by a public airport to retire interest-free loans from the
Department of Aeronautics in lieu of bonded indebtedness at a lower cost to the
public airport are not included in the levy limits established by this division
(A). The limitations on tax levies provided in this division (A) are to include
all other general or special levies provided by law. Notwithstanding other
provisions of law, the only exceptions to the limits in this division (A) are
those provided by or authorized by this section. Tax levies in excess of the
limitations in this section shall be considered unauthorized levies under Neb.
RS 77-1606 unless approved under division (C).
(Neb. RS 77-3442)
   (B)   (1)   All city airport authorities established under the Cities
Airport Authorities Act, and community redevelopment authorities established
under the Community Development Law may be allocated property taxes as
authorized by law which are authorized by the village and are counted in the
village levy limit provided by division (A), except that such limitation shall
not apply to property tax levies for preexisting lease-purchase contracts
approved prior to July l, 1998, for bonded indebtedness approved according to
law and secured by a levy on property, and for payments by a public airport to
retire interest-free loans from the Department of Aeronautics in lieu of bonded
indebtedness at a lower cost to the public airport. The Board of Trustees shall
review and approve or disapprove the levy request of the political subdivisions
subject to this division (B). The Board of Trustees may approve all or a
portion of the levy request and may approve a levy request that would allow a
levy greater than that permitted by law. The levy allocated by the village may
be exceeded as provided in division (C).
      (2)   On or before August 1, all political subdivisions subject to
village levy authority under this division (B) shall submit a preliminary
request for levy allocation to the Board of Trustees. The preliminary request
of the political subdivision shall be in the form of a resolution adopted by a
majority vote of members present of the political subdivision's governing body.
The failure of a political subdivision to make a preliminary request shall
preclude that political subdivision from using procedures set forth in Neb. RS
77-3444 to exceed the final levy allocation as determined in this division (B).
      (3)   (a)   The Board of Trustees shall:
            1.   Adopt a resolution by a majority vote of members present which
determines a final allocation of levy authority to its political subdivisions;
and
            2.   Forward a copy of that resolution to the chairperson of the
governing body of each of its political subdivisions.
         (b)   No final levy allocation shall be changed after September 1
except by agreement between both the Board of Trustees and the governing body
of the political subdivision whose final levy allocation is at issue.
(Neb. RS 77-3443)
   (C)   (1)   The village may exceed the limits provided in division (A) by an
amount not to exceed a maximum levy approved by a majority of registered voters
voting on the issue in a primary, general, or special election at which the
issue is placed before the registered voters. A vote to exceed the limits must
be approved prior to October 10 of the fiscal year which is to be the first to
exceed the limits.
      (2)   The Board of Trustees may call for the submission of the issue to
the voters:
         (a)   By passing a resolution calling for exceeding the limits by a
vote of at least two-thirds of the members of the Board of Trustees and
delivering a copy of the resolution to the County Clerk or Election
Commissioner of every county which contains all or part of the village; or
         (b)   Upon receipt of a petition by the County Clerk or Election
Commissioner of every county containing all or part of the village requesting
an election signed by at least 5% of the registered voters residing in the
village.
      (3)   The resolution or petition shall include the amount of levy which
would be imposed in excess of the limits provided in division (A) and the
duration of the excess levy authority. The excess levy authority shall not have
a duration greater than five years. Any resolution or petition calling for a
special election shall be filed with the County Clerk or Election Commissioner
on or before the fifth Friday prior to the election, and the time of
publication and providing a copy of the notice of election required in Neb. RS
32-802 shall be no later than 20 days prior to the election.
      (4)   The County Clerk or Election Commissioner shall place the issue on
the ballot at an election as called for in the resolution or petition which is
at least 31 days after receipt of the resolution or petition. The election
shall be held pursuant to the Election Act. For petitions filed with the County
Clerk or Election Commissioner on or after May 1, 1998, the petition shall be
in the form as provided in Neb. RS 32-628 through 32-631.
      (5)   Any excess levy authority approved under this division (C) shall
terminate pursuant to its terms, on a vote of the Board of Trustees to
terminate the authority to levy more than the limits, at the end of the fourth
fiscal year following the first year in which the levy exceeded the limit, or
as provided in division (C)(9), whichever is earliest.
      (6)   The Board of Trustees may pass no more than one resolution calling
for an election pursuant to this division (C) during any one calendar year.
Only one election may be held in any one calendar year pursuant to a petition
initiated under this division (C). The ballot question may include any terms
and conditions set forth in the resolution or petition and shall include the
language specified in Neb. RS 77-3444.
      (7)   If a majority of the votes cast upon the ballot question are in
favor of the tax, the County Board shall authorize a tax in excess of the
limits in division (A), but the tax shall not exceed the amount stated in the
ballot question. If a majority of those voting on the ballot question are
opposed to the tax, the Board of Trustees shall not impose the tax.
      (8)   In lieu of the election procedures in this division (C), the
village may approve a levy in excess of the limits in division (A) for a period
of one year at a meeting of the residents of the village, called after notice
is published in a newspaper of general circulation in the village at least 20
days prior to the meeting. At least 10% of the registered voters residing in
the village shall constitute a quorum for purposes of taking action to exceed
the limits or final levy allocation. A record shall be made of the registered
voters residing in the political subdivision or village who are present at the
meeting. The method of voting at the meeting shall protect the secrecy of the
ballot. If a majority of the registered voters present at the meeting vote in
favor of exceeding the limits, a copy of the record of that action shall be
forwarded to the County Board prior to October 10 and the County Board shall
authorize a levy as approved by the residents for the year. If a majority of
the registered voters present at the meeting vote against exceeding the limits,
the limit shall not be exceeded and the village shall have no power to call for
an election under this division (C).
      (9)   (a)   The village may rescind or modify a previously approved
excess levy authority prior to its expiration by a majority of registered
voters voting on the issue in a primary, general, or special election at which
the issue is placed before the registered voters. A vote to rescind or modify
must be approved prior to October 10 of the fiscal year for which it is to be
effective.
         (b)   The Board of Trustees may call for the submission of the issue
to the voters:
            1.   By passing a resolution calling for the rescission on
modification by a vote of at least two-thirds of the members of the Board of
Trustees and delivering a copy of the resolution to the County Clerk or
Election Commissioner of every county which contains all or part of the
village; or
            2.   Upon receipt of a petition by the County Clerk or Election
Commissioner of every county containing all or part of the village requesting
an election signed by at least 5% of the registered voters residing in the
village.
         (c)   The resolution or petition shall include the amount and the
duration of the previously approved excess levy authority and a statement that
either the excess levy authority will be rescinded or the excess levy authority
will be modified. If the excess levy authority will be modified, the amount and
duration of the modification shall be stated. The modification shall not have a
duration greater than five years. The County Clerk or Election Commissioner
shall place the issue on the ballot at an election as called for in the
resolution or petition which is at least 31 days after receipt of the
resolution or petition, and the time of publication and providing a copy of the
notice of election required in Neb. RS 32-802 shall be no later than 20 days
prior to the election. The election shall be held pursuant to the Election Act.
(Neb. RS 77-3444) (1991 Code, § 1-825) (Ord. 2002-04, passed 2-21-2002; Ord.
2005-10, passed 5-2-2005; Ord. 2022-5, passed 12-19-2022)
§ 33.21 REVISION OF BUDGET.
   (A)   (1)   Unless otherwise provided by law, the Board of Trustees may
propose to revise the previously adopted budget statement and shall conduct a
public hearing on that proposal whenever during the current fiscal year it
becomes apparent to the Board of Trustees that:
         (a)   There are circumstances which could not reasonably have been
anticipated at the time the budget for the current year was adopted;
         (b)   The budget adopted violated Neb. RS 13-518 through 13-522, such
that the revenue of the current fiscal year for any fund thereof will be
insufficient, additional expenses will be necessarily incurred, or there is a
need to reduce the budget requirements to comply with Neb. RS 13-538 through
13-522; or
         (c)   The Board of Trustees has been notified by the Auditor of Public
Accounts of a mathematical or accounting error or noncompliance with the
Nebraska Budget Act, being Neb. RS 13-501 to 13-513.
      (2)   The public hearing requirement shall not apply to emergency
expenditures pursuant to Neb. RS 81-829.51.
   (B)   Notice of the time and place of the hearing shall be published at
least five days prior to the date set for hearing in a newspaper of general
circulation within the Board’s jurisdiction. This published notice shall set
forth:
      (1)   The time and place of the hearing:
      (2)   The amount in dollars of additional or reduced money required and
for what purpose;
      (3)   A statement setting forth the nature of the unanticipated
circumstances and, if the budget requirements are to be increased, the reasons
why the previously adopted budget of expenditures cannot be reduced during the
remainder of the current year to meet the need for additional money in that
manner;
      (4)   A copy of the summary of the originally adopted budget previously
published; and
      (5)   A copy of the summary of the proposed revised budget.
   (C)   At the hearing, any taxpayer may appear or file a written statement
protesting any application for additional money. A written record shall be kept
of all such hearings.
   (D)   Upon conclusion of the public hearing on the proposed revised budget
and approval of the proposed revised budget by the Board of Trustees, the Board
of Trustees shall file with the County Clerk of the county or counties in which
the Board of Trustees is located, and with the Auditor of Public Accounts, a
copy of the revised budget as adopted. The Board of Trustees may then issue
warrants in payment for expenditures authorized by the adopted revised budget.
These warrants shall be referred to as registered warrants and shall be repaid
during the next fiscal year from funds derived from taxes levied therefor.
   (E)   Within 30 days after the adoption of the budget under §
33.03, the Board of Trustees may, or within 30 days after notification of an
error by the Auditor of Public Accounts, the Board of Trustees shall correct an
adopted budget which contains a clerical, mathematical, or accounting error
which does not affect the total amount budgeted by more than 1% or increase the
amount required from property taxes. No public hearing shall be required for
such a correction. After correction, the Board of Trustees shall file a copy of
the corrected budget with the County Clerk of the county or counties in which
the Board of Trustees is located and with the Auditor of Public Accounts. The
Board of Trustees may then issue warrants in payment for expenditures
authorized by the budget.
(1991 Code, § 1-826) (Ord. 2016-12, passed 3-24-2016)
§ 33.22 PROPOSED BUDGET STATEMENT; HEARING; ADOPTION; CERTIFICATION OF TAX
AMOUNT.
   (A)   The Board of Trustees shall each year or biennial period conduct a
public hearing on its proposed budget statement. Such hearing shall be held
separately from any regularly scheduled meeting of the governing body and shall
not be limited by time. Notice of the place and time of the hearing, together
with a summary of the proposed budget statement, shall be published at least
four calendar days prior to the date set for hearing in a newspaper of general
circulation within the village's jurisdiction. For purposes of such notice, the
four calendar days shall include the day of publication but not the day of
hearing. When the total operating budget, not including reserves, does not
exceed $10,000 per year or $20,000 per biennial period, the proposed budget
summary may be posted at the Board of Trustees's principal headquarters. At
such hearing, the governing body shall make at least three copies of the
proposed budget statement available to the public and shall make a presentation
outlining key provisions of the proposed budget statement, including, but not
limited to, a comparison with the prior year's budget. Any member of the public
desiring to speak on the proposed budget statement shall be allowed to address
the governing body at the hearing and shall be given a reasonable amount of
time to do so.
   (B)   After the hearing, the proposed budget statement shall be adopted, or
amended and adopted as amended, and a written record shall be kept of the
hearing. The amount to be received from personal and real property taxation
shall be certified to the levying board after the proposed budget statement is
adopted or is amended and adopted as amended. The certification of the amount
to be received from personal and real property taxation shall specify
separately the amount to be applied to the payment of principal or interest on
bonds issued or authorized to be issued by the Board of Trustees or the legal
voters of the political subdivision and the amount to be received for all other
purposes.
   (C)   If the adopted budget statement reflects a change from that shown in
the published proposed budget statement, a summary of the changes shall be
published within 20 calendar days after its adoption in the manner provided in
this section, but without provision for hearing, setting forth the items
changed and the reasons for the changes.
   (D)   Upon approval by Board of Trustees, the budget shall be filed with the
Auditor of Public Accounts. The Auditor may review the budget for errors in
mathematics, improper accounting, and noncompliance with the Nebraska Budget
Act or Neb. RS 13-518 to 13-522. If the Auditor detects such errors, he or she
shall immediately notify the Board of such errors. The Board shall correct any
such error as provided in § 35.34. Warrants for the payment of expenditures
provided in the budget adopted under this section shall be valid
notwithstanding any errors or noncompliance for which the Auditor has notified
the Board.
(Neb. RS 13-506)
   (E)   When a levy increase has been authorized by vote of the electors, the
adopted budget statement shall indicate the amount of the levy increase.
(Neb. RS 13-507)
(Ord. 2018-14, passed 5-24-2018; Ord. 2021-7, passed 1-28-2021; Ord. 2022-12,
passed 12-19-2022)
Statutory reference:
   For similar state law, see Neb. RS 13-506 and 13-507
§ 33.23 DEBT COLLECTION; AUTHORITY TO CONTRACT WITH COLLECTION AGENCY.
   (A)   The village may contract to retain a collection agency licensed
pursuant to the Collection Agency Act, within or without this state, for the
purpose of collecting public debts owed by any person to the village.
   (B)   No debt owed pursuant to division (A) of this section may be assigned
to a collection agency unless:
      (1)   There has been an attempt to advise the debtor by first-class mail,
postage prepaid, at the last known address of the debtor:
         (a)   Of the existence of the debt; and
         (b)   That the debt may be assigned to a collection agency for
collection if the debt is not paid; and
      (2)   At least 30 days have elapsed from the time the notice was sent.
   (C)   A collection agency which is assigned a debt under this section shall
have only those remedies and powers which would be available to it as an
assignee of a private creditor.
   (D)   For purposes of this section, debt shall include all delinquent fees
or payments except delinquent property taxes on real estate. In the case of
debt arising as a result of an order or judgment of a court in a criminal or
traffic matter, a collection fee may be added to the debt. The collection fee
shall be $25 or 4.5% of the debt, whichever is greater. The collection fee
shall be paid by the person who owes the debt directly to the person or agency
providing the collection service.
(Ord. 2021-18, passed 1-28-2021)
Statutory reference:
   Collection Agency Act, see Neb. RS 45-623
§ 33.24 PROPERTY TAX REQUEST; INCREASE BY MORE THAN ALLOWABLE GROWTH
PERCENTAGE; PROCEDURE FOR SETTING.
   (A)   For purposes of this section, POLITICAL SUBDIVISION means any county,
city, school district, or community college.
   (B)   If any political subdivision seeks to increase its property tax
request by more than the allowable growth percentage, such political
subdivision may do so, subject to the limitations provided in the School
District Property Tax Limitation Act, Neb. RS 79-3401 et seq., and the Property
Tax Growth Limitation Act, Neb. RS 13-3401 et seq., if the following
requirements are met:
      (1)   A public hearing is held and notice of such hearing is provided in
compliance with division (C) below; and
      (2)   The governing body of such political subdivision passes a
resolution or an ordinance that complies with division (D) below.
   (C)   (1)   Each political subdivision within a county that seeks to
increase its property tax request by more than the allowable growth percentage
shall participate in a joint public hearing. Each such political subdivision
shall designate one representative to attend the joint public hearing on behalf
of the political subdivision. If a political subdivision includes area in more
than one county, the political subdivision shall be deemed to be within the
county in which the political subdivision's principal headquarters are located.
At such hearing, there shall be no items on the agenda other than discussion on
each political subdivision's intent to increase its property tax request by
more than the allowable growth percentage.
      (2)   At least one elected official from each participating political
subdivision shall attend the joint public hearing. An elected official may be
the designated representative from a participating political subdivision. The
presence of a quorum or the participation of elected officials at the joint
public hearing does not constitute a meeting as defined by Neb. RS 84-1409 of
the Open Meetings Act.
      (3)   The joint public hearing shall be held on or after September 14 and
prior to September 24 and before any of the participating political
subdivisions file their adopted budget statement pursuant to Neb. RS 13-508.
      (4)   The joint public hearing shall be held after 6:00 p.m. local time
on the relevant date.
      (5)   (a)   The joint public hearing shall be organized by the County
Clerk or his or her designee. At the joint public hearing, the designated
representative of each political subdivision shall give a brief presentation on
the political subdivision's intent to increase its property tax request by more
than the allowable growth percentage and the effect of such request on the
political subdivision's budget.
         (b)   The presentation shall include:
            1.   The name of the political subdivision;
            2.   The amount of the property tax request; and
            3.   The following statements:
               a.   The total assessed value of property differs from last
year's total assessed value by __ percent;
               b.   The tax rate which would levy the same amount of property
taxes as last year, when multiplied by the new total assessed value of
property, would be $ ___ per $100 of assessed value;
               c.   The (name of political subdivision) proposes to adopt a
property tax request that will cause its tax rate to be $ ___ per $100 of
assessed value;
               d.   Based on the proposed property tax request and changes in
other revenue, the total operating budget of (name of political subdivision)
will exceed last year's by ___ percent; and
               e.   To obtain more information regarding the increase in the
property tax request, citizens may contact the (name of political subdivision)
at (telephone number and email address of political subdivision).
      (6)   Any member of the public shall be allowed to speak at the joint
public hearing and shall be given a reasonable amount of time to do so.
      (7)   Notice of the joint public hearing shall be provided:
         (a)   By sending a postcard to all affected property taxpayers. The
postcard shall be sent to the name and address to which the property tax
statement is mailed;
         (b)   By posting notice of the hearing on the home page of the
relevant county's website, except that this requirement shall only apply if the
county has a population of more than 10,000 inhabitants; and
         (c)   By publishing notice of the hearing in a legal newspaper in or
of general circulation in the relevant county.
      (8)   Each political subdivision that participates in the joint public
hearing shall electronically send the information prescribed in division (C)(9)
below to the County Assessor by September 4. The County Clerk shall notify the
County Assessor of the date, time, and location of the joint public hearing not
later than September 4. The County Clerk shall notify each participating
political subdivision of the date, time, and location of the joint public
hearing. The County Assessor shall send the information required to be included
on the postcards pursuant to division (C)(9) below to a printing service
designated by the County Board. The initial cost for printing the postcards
shall be paid from the county's General Fund. Such postcards shall be mailed at
least seven calendar days before the joint public hearing. The cost of creating
and mailing the postcards, including staff time, materials, and postage, shall
be charged proportionately to the political subdivisions participating in the
joint public hearing based on the total number of parcels in each participating
political subdivision. Each participating political subdivision shall also
maintain a prominently displayed and easily accessible link on the home page of
the political subdivision's website to the political subdivision's proposed
budget, except that this requirement shall not apply if the political
subdivision is a county with a population of less than 10,000 inhabitants, a
village with a population of less than 1,000 inhabitants, or, for joint public
hearings prior to January 1, 2024, a school district.
      (9)   (a)   The postcard sent under this division (C) and the notice
posted on the county's website, if required under division (C)(7)(b) above, and
published in the newspaper shall include the date, time, and location for the
joint public hearing, a listing of and telephone number for each political
subdivision that will be participating in the joint public hearing, and the
amount of each participating political subdivision's property tax request.
         (b)   The postcard shall also contain the following information:
            1.   The following words in capitalized type at the top of the
postcard: “NOTICE OF PROPOSED TAX INCREASE;”
            2.   The name of the county that will hold the joint public
hearing, which shall appear directly underneath the capitalized words described
in division (C)(9)(b)l. above;
            3.    The following statement: “The following political
subdivisions are proposing a revenue increase which would result in an overall
increase in property taxes in (insert current tax year). THE ACTUAL TAX ON YOUR
PROPERTY MAY INCREASE OR DECREASE. This notice contains estimates of the tax on
your property as a result of this revenue increase. These estimates are
calculated on the basis of the proposed (insert current tax year) data. The
actual tax on your property may vary from these estimates.”
            4.   The parcel number for the property;
            5.   The name of the property owner and the address of the
property;
            6.   The property's assessed value in the previous tax year;
            7.   The amount of property taxes due in the previous tax year for
each participating political subdivision;
            8.   The property's assessed value for the current tax year;
            9.   The amount of property taxes due for the current tax year for
each participating political subdivision;
            10.   The change in the amount of property taxes due for each
participating political subdivision from the previous tax year to the current
tax year; and
            11.   The following statement: “To obtain more information
regarding the tax increase, citizens may contact the political subdivision at
the telephone number provided in this notice.”
   (D)   (1)   After the joint public hearing required in division (C) above,
the governing body of each participating political subdivision shall pass an
ordinance or resolution to set such political subdivision's property tax
request.
      (2)   If the political subdivision is increasing its property tax request
over the amount from the prior year, including any increase in excess of the
allowable growth percentage, then such ordinance or resolution shall include,
but not be limited to, the following information:
         (a)   The name of the political subdivision;
         (b)   The amount of the property tax request;
         (c)   The following statements:
            1.   The total assessed value of property differs from last year's
total assessed value by percent;
            2.   The tax rate which would levy the same amount of property
taxes as last year, when multiplied by the new total assessed value of
property, would be $___ per $100 of assessed value;
            3.    The (name of political subdivision) proposes to adopt a
property tax request that will cause its tax rate to be $ ___ per $100 of
assessed value; and
            4.   Based on the proposed property tax request and changes in
other revenue, the total operating budget of (name of political subdivision)
will exceed last year's by __ percent.
         (d)   The record vote of the governing body in passing such resolution
or ordinance.
   (E)   Any resolution or ordinance setting a property tax request under this
section shall be certified and forwarded to the County Clerk on or before
October 15 of the year for which the tax request is to apply.
   (F)   (1)   The County Clerk, or his or her designee, shall prepare a report
which shall include:
         (a)   The names of the representatives of the political subdivisions
participating in the joint public hearing;
         (b)   The name and address of each individual who spoke at the joint
public hearing, unless the address requirement is waived to protect the
security of the individual, and the name of any organization represented by
each such individual;
         (c)   The name of each potitical subdivision that participated in the
joint public hearing;
         (d)   The real growth value and real growth percentage for each
participating political subdivision;
         (e)   The amount each participating political subdivision seeks to
increase its property tax request in excess of the allowable growth percentage;
and
         (f)   The number of individuals who signed in to attend the joint
public hearing.
      (2)   Such report shall be delivered to the political subdivisions
participating in the joint public hearing within ten days after such hearing.
(Neb. RS 77-1633)
(Ord. 2021-34, passed 12-21-2021; Ord. 2022-10, passed 12-19-2022; Ord. 2024-1,
passed 1-18-2024; Ord. 2025-10, passed 1-15-2025)
Statutory reference:
   For similar state law, see Neb. RS 77-1633
§ 33.25 PROPRIETARY FUNCTIONS; FISCAL YEAR; BUDGET STATEMENTS; FILING; HEARING;
ADOPTION; RECONCILIATION.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      PROPRIETARY FUNCTION. A water supply or distribution utility, a
wastewater collection or treatment utility, an electric generation,
transmission, or distribution utility, a gas supply, transmission, or
distribution utility, an integrated solid waste management collection,
disposal, or handling utility, or a hospital or a nursing home owned by the
village.
      SUBSIDIZATION. The costs of operation of a proprietary function are
regularly financed by appropriations from the village's general fund in excess
of the amount paid by the village to the proprietary function for actual
service or services received.
   (B)   The Board of Trustees may establish a separate fiscal year for each
proprietary function, except that any proprietary function which is subsidized
by appropriations from the village's general fund shall have the same fiscal
year as the village.
   (C)   (1)   At least 30 days prior to the start of the fiscal year of each
proprietary function, a proposed proprietary budget statement shall be prepared
in writing and filed with the Village Clerk containing the following
information:
         (a)   For the immediately preceding fiscal year, the revenue from all
sources, the unencumbered cash balance at the beginning and end of the year,
the amount received by taxation, and the amount of actual expenditure;
         (b)   For the current fiscal year, actual and estimated revenue from
all sources separately stated as to each such source, the actual unencumbered
cash balance available at the beginning of the year, the amount received from
taxation, and the amount of actual and estimated expenditure, whichever is
applicable;
         (c)   For the immediately ensuing fiscal year, an estimate of revenue
from all sources separately stated as to each such source; the actual or
estimated unencumbered cash balance, whichever is applicable, to be available
at the beginning of the year; the amounts proposed to be expended during the
fiscal year; and the amount of cash reserve based on actual experience of prior
years; and
         (d)   A uniform summary of the proposed budget statement, which shall
include a total of all funds maintained for the proprietary function.
      (2)   The statement shall contain the estimated cash reserve for each
fiscal year and shall note whether or not the reserve is encumbered. The cash
reserve projections shall be based upon the actual experience of prior years.
      (3)   Each proprietary budget statement shall be filed on forms
prescribed and furnished by the Auditor of Public Accounts following
consultation with representatives of such governing bodies as operate
proprietary functions subject to the provisions of the Municipal Proprietary
Function Act.
   (D)   (1)   After a proposed proprietary budget statement is filed with the
Village Clerk, the Board of Trustees shall conduct a public hearing on the
statement. Notice of the time and place of the hearing, a summary of the
proposed proprietary budget statement, and notice that the full proposed
proprietary budget statement is available for public review with the Village
Clerk during normal business hours shall be published one time at least five
days prior to the hearing in a legal newspaper in or of general circulation
within the Board's jurisdiction or by mailing to each resident within the
Board's jurisdiction.
      (2)   After the hearing, the proposed proprietary budget statement shall
be adopted or amended and adopted as amended, and a written record shall be
kept of the hearing. If the adopted proprietary budget statement reflects a
change from the proposed proprietary statement presented at the hearing, a copy
of the adopted proprietary budget statement shall be filed with the Village
Clerk within 20 days after its adoption and published in a legal newspaper in
or of general circulation within the Board's jurisdiction or by mailing to each
resident within the Board's jurisdiction.
   (E)   If the actual expenditures for a proprietary function exceed the
estimated expenditures in the proprietary budget statement during its fiscal
year, the Board of Trustees shall adopt a proprietary function reconciliation
statement within 90 days after the end of the fiscal year which reflects any
difference between the adopted proprietary budget statement for the previous
fiscal year and the actual expenditures and revenue for that fiscal year. After
the adoption of a proprietary function reconciliation statement, it shall be
filed with the Village Clerk and published in a legal newspaper in or of
general circulation within the Board's jurisdiction or by mailing to each
resident within the Board's jurisdiction. If the difference between the adopted
proprietary budget for the previous fiscal year and the actual expenditures and
revenues for that fiscal year is greater than 10%, the proprietary function
reconciliation statement shall only be adopted following a public hearing.
   (F)   If the budget of a proprietary function is included in the village
budget statement created pursuant to the Nebraska Budget Act, the Municipal
Proprietary Function Act need not be followed for that proprietary function.
Any income from a proprietary function which is transferred to the general fund
of the village shall be shown as a source of revenue in the village budget
statement created pursuant to the Nebraska Budget Act.
(Ord. 2021-43, passed 12-21-2021)
Statutory reference:
   For similar state law, see Neb. RS 18-2803 through 18-2808
§ 33.26 CREDIT CARDS; AUTHORITY TO ACCEPT.
   (A)   (1)   If authorized by the Board of Trustees, any village official may
accept credit cards, charge cards, or debit cards, whether presented in person
or electronically, or electronic funds transfers as a method of cash payment of
any tax, levy, excise, duty, custom, toll, interest, penalty, fine, license,
fee, or assessment of whatever kind or nature, whether general or special, as
provided by Neb. RS 77-1702.
      (2)   A county treasurer, county official, or political subdivision
official shall not accept a central bank digital currency as a method of cash
payment of any tax, levy, excise, duty, custom, toll, interest, penalty, fine,
license, fee, or assessment of whatever kind or nature.
   (B)   The total amount of the taxes, levies, excises, duties, customs,
tolls, interest, penalties, fines, licenses, fees, or assessments of whatever
kind or nature, whether general or special, paid for by credit card, charge
card, debit card, or electronic funds transfer shall be collected by the
village official.
   (C)   With respect to a facility which it operates in a proprietary
capacity, the Board of Trustees may choose to accept credit cards, charge
cards, or debit cards, whether presented in person or electronically, or
electronic funds transfers as a means of cash payment and may adjust the price
for services to reflect the handling and payment costs.
   (D)   The village official shall obtain, for each transaction, authorization
for use of any credit card, charge card, or debit card used pursuant to this
section from the financial institution, vending service company, credit card or
charge card company, or third-party merchant bank providing that service.
   (E)   (1)   The types of credit cards, charge cards, or debit cards accepted
and the payment services provided shall be determined by the State Treasurer
and the Director of Administrative Services, with the advice of a committee
convened by the State Treasurer and the Director. The Committee shall consist
of the State Treasurer, the Tax Commissioner, the Director, and representatives
from counties, cities, and other political subdivisions as may be appropriate.
      (2)   The Committee shall develop recommendations for the contracting of
such services. The State Treasurer and the Director shall contract with one or
more credit card, charge card, or debit card companies or third-party merchant
banks for services on behalf of the state and those counties, cities, and
political subdivisions that choose to participate in the state contract for
such services. The State Treasurer and the Director shall consider, for the
purpose of this section, any negotiated discount, processing, or transaction
fee imposed by a credit card, charge card, or debit card company or third-party
merchant bank as an administrative expense.
      (3)   If the Board of Trustees chooses not to participate in the state
contract, it may choose the types of credit cards, charge cards, and debit
cards and may negotiate and contract independently or collectively as a
governmental entity with one or more financial institutions, vending service
companies, credit card, charge card, or debit card companies, or third-party
merchant banks for the provision of these services.
   (F)   Subject to the direction of the Board of Trustees, a village official
authorizing the acceptance of credit card or charge card payments shall be
authorized but not required to impose a surcharge or convenience fee upon the
person making a payment by credit card or charge card so as to wholly or
partially offset the amount of any discount or administrative fees charged to
the village, but the surcharge or convenience fee shall not exceed the
surcharge or convenience fee imposed by the credit card or charge card
companies or third-party merchant banks which have contracted under division
(E) above. The surcharge or convenience fee shall be applied only when allowed
by the operating rules and regulations of the credit card or charge card
involved or when authorized in writing by the credit card or charge card
company involved. When a person elects to make a payment to the village by
credit card or charge card and such a surcharge or convenience fee is imposed,
the payment of the surcharge or convenience fee shall be deemed voluntary by
that person and shall be in no case refundable. If a payment is made
electronically by credit card, charge card, debit card, or electronic funds
transfer as part of a system for providing or retrieving information
electronically, the village official shall be authorized but not required to
impose an additional surcharge or convenience fee upon the person making a
payment.
   (G)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      CENTRAL BANK DIGITAL CURRENCY. A digital medium of exchange, token, or
monetary unit of account issued by the United States Federal Reserve System or
any analogous federal agency that is made directly available to the consumer by
such federal entities. CENTRAL BANK DIGITAL CURRENCY includes a digital medium
of exchange, token, or monetary unit of account so issued that is processed or
validated directly by such federal entities.
      ELECTRONIC FUNDS TRANSFER. The movement of funds by nonpaper means,
usually through a payment system, including, but not limited to, an automated
clearinghouse or the Federal Reserve' s Fedwire System.
(Neb. RS 13-609) (Ord. 2025-4, passed 1-15-2025)
CHAPTER 34: ORGANIZATIONS
Section
   
34.01   Standing committees
   
34.02   Planning Commission
   
34.03   Board of Adjustment
   
34.04   Board of Health
   
34.05   Park Board
   
34.06   Housing Agency
   
34.07   Library Board
   
34.08   Parks Department
   
34.09   Community Development Agency
 
   
34.99   Penalty
§ 34.01 STANDING COMMITTEES.
   (A)   At the organizational meeting of the Village Board, the Village
Chairperson shall appoint members of such standing committees as the Village
Board may by ordinance or resolution create. The membership of such standing
committees may be changed at any time by the Village Chairperson. The Village
Chairperson shall be a member ex officio of each standing committee. The
members of the standing committees shall serve a term of office of one year,
unless reappointed.
   (B)   The following standing committees shall be appointed or reappointed
each year until changed by the governing body:
      (1)   Streets;
      (2)   Cemetery;
      (3)   Park;
      (4)   Garbage;
      (5)   Sewer; and
      (6)   Water.
(1991 Code, § 2-101)
§ 34.02 PLANNING COMMISSION.
   (A)   (1)   If the Board of Trustees adopts zoning or other regulations
pursuant to Neb. RS 19-901 et seq., the Planning Commission shall consist of
five, seven, or nine regular members, as specified by the Board of Trustees by
ordinance, who shall represent, insofar as is possible, the different
professions or occupations in the village and shall be appointed by the
Chairperson of the Board of Trustees by and with the approval of a majority
vote of the members elected to the Board. Two of the regular members may be
residents of the area over which the village is authorized to exercise
extraterritorial zoning and subdivision regulation. When there are 200
residents in the area over which the village exercises extraterritorial zoning
and subdivision regulation, one regular member of the Commission shall be a
resident from such area. If it is determined by the Board of Trustees that 200
residents reside in the area subject to extraterritorial zoning or subdivision
regulation, and no such resident is a regular member of the Commission, the
first available vacancy on the Commission shall be filled by the appointment of
such an individual. A number of commissioners equal to a majority of the number
of regular members appointed to the Commission shall constitute a quorum for
the transaction of any business. All regular members of the Commission shall
serve without compensation. The term of each regular member shall be three
years, except that one-third or fewer of the regular members of the first
commission to be so appointed shall serve for terms of one year, one-third or
fewer for terms of two years, and the remaining members for terms of three
years. All regular members shall hold office until their successors are
appointed. Any member may, after a public hearing before the Board of Trustees,
be removed by the Chairperson of the Board with the consent of a majority vote
of the members elected to the Board for inefficiency, neglect of duty, or
malfeasance in office or other good and sufficient cause. Vacancies occurring
otherwise than through the expiration of term shall be filled for the unexpired
portion of the term by the Chairperson of the Board.
      (2)   The Chairperson of the Board of Trustees may, with the approval of
a majority vote of the elected members of the Board, appoint one alternate
member to the Planning Commission. The alternate member shall serve without
compensation and shall hold no other village office. The term of the alternate
member shall be three years, and he or she shall hold office until his or her
successor is appointed and approved. The alternate member may be removed from
office in the same manner as a regular member. If the alternate member position
becomes vacant other than through the expiration of the term, the vacancy shall
be filled for the unexpired portion of the term by the Chairperson of the Board
with the approval of a majority vote of the elected members of the Board. The
alternate member may attend any meeting and may serve as a voting and
participating member of the Commission at any time when less than the full
number of regular Commission members is present and capable of voting.
      (3)   A regular or alternate member of the Planning Commission may hold
any other municipal office except Chairperson, a member of the Village Board of
Trustees, a member of any community redevelopment authority or limited
community redevelopment authority created under Neb. RS 18-2102.01, or a member
of any citizen advisory review committee created under Neb. RS 18-2715.
   (B)   The Commission shall elect its Chairperson from its members and create
and fill such other of its offices as it may determine. The term of the
Chairperson shall be one year, and he or she shall be eligible for reelection.
The Commission shall hold at least one regular meeting in each calendar
quarter, except as provided in this section. The Board of Trustees may require
the Commission to meet more frequently and the Chairperson of the Commission
may call for a meeting when necessary to deal with business pending before the
Commission. If no business is pending before the Commission, the Chairperson
may cancel a quarterly meeting, but no more than three quarterly meetings may
be cancelled per calendar year. The Commission shall adopt rules and
regulations for the transaction of business and shall keep a record of its
resolutions, transactions, findings, and determinations, which shall be a
public record.
   (C)   No member of the Commission shall serve in the capacity of both the
Chairperson and Secretary of the Commission. The Secretary shall keep the full
and correct minutes and records of all meetings and file them with the Village
Clerk where they shall be available for public inspection during office hours.
   (D)   The Board of Trustees may provide the funds, equipment, and
accommodations necessary for the work of the Commission, but the expenditures
of the Commission, exclusive of gifts, shall be within the amounts appropriated
for that purpose by the Board; and no expenditures nor agreements for
expenditures shall be valid in excess of such amounts.
   (E)   (1)   (a)   Except as provided in Neb. RS 19-930 to 19-933, the
Planning Commission shall:
            1.   Make and adopt plans for the physical development of the
village, including any areas outside its boundaries which in the Commission's
judgment bear relation to the planning of such village and including a
comprehensive development plan as defined by Neb. RS 19-903;
            2.   Prepare and adopt such implemental means as a capital
improvement program, subdivision regulations, building codes, and a zoning
ordinance in cooperation with other interested village departments; and
            3.   Consult with and advise public officials and agencies, public
utilities, civic organizations, educational institutions, and citizens with
relation to the promulgation and implementation of the comprehensive
development plan and its implemental programs. The Commission may delegate
authority to any such group to conduct studies and make surveys for the
commission, make preliminary reports on its findings, and hold public hearings
before submitting its final reports.
         (b)   The Board of Trustees shall not take final action on matters
relating to the comprehensive development plan, capital improvements, building
codes, subdivision development, the annexation of territory, or zoning until it
has received the recommendation of the Planning Commission, provided that the
Planning Commission shall make its recommendation so that it is received by the
Board of Trustees within 60 days after the Commission begins consideration of a
matter or within such other number of days as the Board of Trustees has set by
ordinance.
         (c)   A recommendation from the Planning Commission shall not be
required for subdivision of existing lots and blocks whenever all required
public improvements have been installed, no new dedication of public rights-of-
way or easements is involved, and such subdivision complies with the ordinance
requirements concerning minimum areas and dimensions of such lots and blocks,
if the Board of Trustees has designated, by ordinance, an agent pursuant to
Neb. RS 19-916.
      (2)   (a)   The Commission may, with the consent of the Board of
Trustees, in its own name:
            1.   Make and enter into contracts with public or private bodies;
            2.   Receive contributions, bequests, gifts, or grant funds from
public or private sources;
            3.   Expend the funds appropriated to it by the village;
            4.   Employ agents and employees; and
            5.   Acquire, hold, and dispose of property.
         (b)   The Commission may on its own authority make arrangements
consistent with its program, conduct or sponsor special studies or planning
work for any public body or appropriate agency, receive grants, remuneration,
or reimbursement for such studies or work, and at its public hearings, summon
witnesses, administer oaths, and compel the giving of testimony.
      (3)   (a)   The Commission may grant conditional uses or special
exceptions to property owners for the use of their property if the Board of
Trustees has, through a zoning ordinance or special ordinance, generally
authorized the Commission to exercise such powers and has approved the
standards and procedures adopted by the Commission for equitably and
judiciously granting such conditional uses or special exceptions. The granting
of a conditional use permit or special exception shall only allow property
owners to put their property to a special use if it is among those uses
specifically identified in the zoning ordinance as classifications of uses
which may require special conditions or requirements to be met by the owners
before a use permit or building permit is authorized.
         (b)   The power to grant conditional uses or special exceptions shall
be the exclusive authority of the Commission, except that the Board of Trustees
may choose to retain for itself the power to grant conditional uses or special
exceptions for those classifications of uses specified in the zoning ordinance.
The Board may exercise such power if it has formally adopted standards and
procedures for granting such conditional uses or special exceptions in a manner
that is equitable and will promote the public interest.
         (c)   An appeal of a decision by the Commission or Board regarding a
conditional use or special exception shall be made to the district court.
(1991 Code, § 2-201) (Ord. 442, passed 7-15-1993; Ord. 461, passed 5-19-1994;
Ord. 507, passed 1-18- 1996; Ord. 544, passed 1-15-1998; Ord. 570, passed 11-
19-1998; Ord. 2018-10, passed 5-24-2018; Ord. 2021-16, passed 1-28-2021)
Cross-reference:
   Local legislation regarding Planning Commission, see Title XVII
Statutory reference:
   Other provisions on planning commissions, see Neb. RS 19-925 through 19-933
§ 34.03 BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT.
   (A)   The Board of Trustees shall appoint a Board of Adjustment, which shall
consist of five regular members plus one additional member designated as an
alternate who shall attend and serve only when one of the regular members is
unable to attend for any reason. Each member shall be appointed for a term of
three years and shall be removable for cause by the Chairperson of the Board of
Trustees, with the advice and consent of the other members of the Board of
Trustees, upon written charges and after public hearings. Vacancies shall be
filled for the unexpired term of any member whose term becomes vacant. One
member only of the Board of Adjustment shall be appointed from the membership
of the Planning Commission, and the loss of membership on the Planning
Commission by such member shall also result in his or her immediate loss of
membership on the Board of Adjustment and the appointment of another Planning
Commissioner to the Board of Adjustment. If the Board does not include a member
who resides in the extraterritorial zoning jurisdiction of the village, the
first vacancy occurring on the Board of Adjustment after the effective date of
this section shall be filled by the appointment of a person who resides in the
extraterritorial zoning jurisdiction of the village at such time as more than
200 persons reside within such area. Thereafter, at all times, at least one
member of the Board of Adjustment shall reside outside the corporate boundaries
of the village but within its extraterritorial zoning jurisdiction. No member
of the Board of Trustees shall serve as a member of the Board of Adjustment.
   (B)   The members of the Board of Adjustment shall serve without
compensation and may be required, in the discretion of the Board of Trustees,
to give a bond in a sum set by resolution of the Board of Trustees and
conditioned upon the faithful performance of their duties. The Board of
Adjustment shall organize at its first meeting each year after the Board of
Trustees meeting when appointments are regularly made and shall elect from its
membership a Chairperson and Secretary. No member of the Board of Adjustment
shall serve in the capacity of both Chairperson and Secretary of the Board.
   (C)   The Board of Adjustment shall adopt rules in accordance with the
provisions of this section and Neb. RS 19-901 to 19-914. Meetings of the Board
shall be held at the call of the Chairperson and at such other times as the
Board may determine. Special meetings may be also held upon the call of any
three members of the Board. A majority of the Board shall constitute a quorum
for the purpose of doing business. The Chairperson, or in his or her absence
the Acting Chairperson, may administer oaths and compel the attendance of
witnesses. All meetings of the Board shall be open to the public. It shall be
the duty of the Secretary to keep complete and accurate minutes of the Board’s
proceedings, showing the vote of each member upon each question, or, if absent
or failing to vote, indicating such fact, and to keep records of the Board’s
examinations and other official actions, all of which shall be immediately
filed in the office of the Board and shall be public record. The Board shall be
responsible for making such reports and performing such other duties as the
Board of Trustees may designate.
(Ned. RS 19-908)
   (D)   Appeals to the Board of Adjustment may be taken by any person
aggrieved or by any officer, department, board, or bureau of the village
affected by any decision of the administrative officer. Such appeal shall be
taken within a reasonable time, as provided by the rules of the Board, by
filing with the officer from whom the appeal is taken and with the Board a
notice of appeal specifying the grounds thereof. The officer from whom the
appeal is taken shall forthwith transmit to the Board all the papers
constituting the record upon which the action appealed from was taken. An
appeal stays all proceedings in furtherance of the action appealed from, unless
the officer from whom the appeal is taken certifies to the Board, after the
notice of appeal shall have been filed with him or her, that by reason of facts
stated in the certificate a stay would, in his or her opinion, cause imminent
peril to life or property. In such case, proceedings shall not be stayed
otherwise than by a restraining order which may be granted by the Board or by a
court of record on application on notice to the officer from whom the appeal is
taken and on due cause shown. The Board shall fix a reasonable time for the
hearing of the appeal, give public notice thereof, as well as due notice to the
parties in interest, and decide the same within a reasonable time. Upon the
hearing, any party may appear in person or by agent or by attorney.
(Neb. RS 19-909)
   (E)   The Board shall have only the following powers:
      (1)   To hear and decide appeals when it is alleged there is error in any
order, requirement, decision, or determination made by an administrative
official or agency based on or made in the enforcement of any zoning regulation
or any regulation relating to the location or soundness of structures, except
that the authority to hear and decide appeals shall not apply to decisions made
by the Board of Trustees or Planning Commission regarding a conditional use or
special exception;
      (2)   To hear and decide, in accordance with the provisions of any zoning
regulation, requests for interpretation of any map; and
      (3)   When by reason of exceptional narrowness, shallowness, or shape of
a specific piece of property at the time of the enactment of the zoning
regulations, or by reason of exceptional topographic conditions or other
extraordinary and exceptional situation or condition of such piece of property,
the strict application of any zoning regulation would result in peculiar and
exceptional practical difficulties to or exceptional and undue hardships upon
the owner of such property, to authorize, upon an appeal relating to the
property, a variance from such strict application so as to relieve such
difficulties or hardship, if such relief may be granted without substantial
detriment to the public good and without substantially impairing the intent and
purpose of any ordinance or resolution.
   (F)   (1)   No such variance shall be authorized by the Board unless it
finds that:
         (a)   The strict application of the zoning regulation would produce
undue hardship;
         (b)   Such hardship is not shared generally by other properties in the
same zoning district and the same vicinity;
         (c)   The authorization of such variance will not be of substantial
detriment to adjacent property and the character of the district will not be
changed by the granting of the variance; and
         (d)   The granting of such variance is based upon reason of
demonstrable and exceptional hardship as distinguished from variations for
purposes of convenience, profit, or caprice.
      (2)   No variance shall be authorized unless the Board finds that the
condition or situation of the property concerned or the intended use of the
property is not of so general or recurring a nature as to make reasonably
practicable the formulation of a general regulation to be adopted as an
amendment to the zoning regulations.
   (G)   In exercising the powers granted in this section, the Board may, in
conformity with Neb. RS 19-901 to 19-915, reverse or affirm, wholly or partly,
or may modify the order, requirement, decision, or determination appealed from,
and may make such order, requirement, decision, or determination as ought to be
made, and to that end shall have all the powers of the officer from whom the
appeal is taken. The concurring vote of four members of the Board shall be
necessary to reverse any order, requirement, decision, or determination of any
such administrative official, or to decide in favor of the applicant on any
matter upon which it is required to pass under any such regulation or to effect
any variation in such regulation.
(Neb. RS 19-910)
   (H)   Appeals from a decision by the Board may be taken as provided in Neb.
RS 19-912.
(1991 Code, § 2-202) (Ord. 506, passed 1-18-1996; Ord. 2005-25, passed 7-28-
2005)
§ 34.04 BOARD OF HEALTH.
   (A)   For the purpose of promoting public health and enforcing the rules and
regulations and requirements of this section and such rules and regulations as
may from time to time be enacted or adopted, the Chairperson of the Board of
Trustees, the law enforcement officer, and the Village Physician shall
constitute a Board of Health for this village. If the Board of Trustees has not
appointed a Village Physician, the third member shall be a person appointed by
the Board. The Board shall have general supervision over the health of the
village and is hereby authorized to establish quarantine limits within the
village when necessary to prevent the introduction or spread of a contagious
and other infectious disease, to safeguard the health of the people, and to
prevent nuisances and unsanitary conditions.
   (B)   (1)   A majority of the Board of Health shall constitute a quorum and
shall enact rules and regulations which rules and regulations shall have the
force and effect of law to safeguard the health of the people of the village
and to prevent nuisances and unsanitary conditions. Such regulations shall be
adopted only after published notice and a public hearing. Public notice of the
hearing shall be provided in the same manner as notice of meetings of the Board
of Trustees. The notice of the hearing shall contain a statement that copies of
proposed regulations are available for inspection at the office of the Village
Clerk.
      (2)   All regulations adopted by the Board of Health shall be maintained
in written form and shall be available for inspection by the public in the
office of the Village Clerk during regular business hours.
(1991 Code, §§ 2-203, 4-101, 4-102, 4-104)
Statutory reference:
   Authority, see Neb. RS 17-208
§ 34.05 PARK BOARD.
   (A) The governing body shall appoint the Board of Park Commissioners. The
Board shall consist of not less than three members, who shall be resident
freeholders in the municipality. However, one of the members may be a resident
of the area over which the municipality is authorized to exercise
extraterritorial zoning and subdivision regulation. The members of the Board
shall serve a one-year term of office unless reappointed. The Board shall serve
without compensation and may be required, in the discretion of the governing
body, to give a bond in a sum set by resolution of the governing body, and
conditioned upon the faithful performance of its duties. At the time of the
Board's first meeting in June of each year, the Board shall organize by
selecting from their number a Chairperson and Secretary. It shall be the duty
of the Secretary to keep the full and correct minutes and records of all
meetings, and to file the same with the Municipal Clerk where they shall be
available for public inspection at any reasonable time. A majority of the Board
members shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of business. The Board
shall meet at such times as the governing body may designate. Special meetings
may be held upon the call of the Chairperson, or any two of the Board members.
It shall be the duty of the Board to take the immediate charge of all parks and
recreational facilities belonging to the municipality. The Board shall
establish appropriate rules and regulations for the management, use, and
operation of the same. All employees of the municipality doing work in or for
the municipal park shall be under the supervision and direction of the Board.
All actions of the Board shall be subject to the review and control of the
governing body. The Board shall be responsible for making such reports and
performing such other duties as the governing body may, from time to time,
designate. No member of the governing body shall serve as a member of the Park
Commission while serving a term of office as a member of the governing body. No
member of the Park Commission shall serve in the capacity of both the
Chairperson and Secretary of the Board.
(Neb. RS 17-952)
   (B)   The Chairperson and Board of Trustees are hereby authorized and
empowered to receive by gift or devise and to purchase real estate within the
corporate limits of this village, or within five miles thereof, for parks or
public grounds for either recreational or conservational purposes and to
maintain and improve the same.
   (C)   The Park Board may, upon obtaining approval of the Board of Trustees,
employ attendants and workers to beautify and maintain the parks and property
under their control.
(Neb. RS 17-952)
   (D)   There shall be annually levied for the support of the parks owned by
the village, a tax not to exceed the amount authorized to be levied by the
statutes of the State of Nebraska for municipal parks for the year said levy is
made, the same to be collected, expended, and known as the Park Fund, and the
funds so levied and collected shall be used for amusements, for laying out
improvements and beautifying such parks and any swimming pool owned and
operated by the village and for the payment of salaries and wages of persons
employed in the performance of such labor.
(Neb. RS 17-952)
   (E)   All claims against said Park Fund shall be filed with the Village
Clerk, verified by oath of the claimant, audited and allowed by action of the
Chairperson and Board of Trustees at the regular meeting or special meetings of
the Board of Trustees, and warrants drawn against the park funds, shall be paid
by the Village Treasurer out of the Park Fund.
(Neb. RS 17-952)
   (F)   The Park Board shall annually, on or before the regular meeting of the
Board of Trustees in May of each year, make to the Chairperson and Board of
Trustees and file with the Village Clerk a report of its activities for the
past year.
   (G)   Any person who shall violate any of the provisions of this section or
who shall willfully destroy, mutilate, deface, or injure any property or other
thing of value belonging to the village parks shall be deemed guilty of a
misdemeanor and upon conviction thereof shall be punished by a fine in any sum
not exceeding $100 and cost of prosecution.
(1991 Code, §§ 2-204, 2-204.01, 2-204.02, 2-204.03, 2-204.04, 2-204.05, 2-
204.06) (Ord. 2022-4, passed 12-19-2022) Penalty, see §
34.99
§ 34.06 HOUSING AGENCY.
   (A)   (1)   The governing body shall appoint five persons who shall
constitute the Housing Agency and such persons shall be called the
Commissioners. One Commissioner shall be appointed each year. Each Commissioner
shall serve a five-year term of office or until his or her successor is duly
appointed; provided, that all vacancies shall be filled for the unexpired
terms. The governing body may appoint one of its members to serve as one of the
five members of such Housing Agency for such term as the governing body may
determine. No person shall serve as a Commissioner unless he or she resides
within the area of operation of that Housing Agency. A certificate of the
appointment or reappointment of any Commissioner shall be filed with the
Municipal Clerk and such certificate shall be conclusive evidence of the proper
appointment of such Commissioner. A Commissioner shall receive no compensation
for his or her services, but he or she shall be entitled to the necessary
expenses, including travel expenses, incurred in discharge of his or her
duties.
      (2)   A majority of Commissioners shall constitute a quorum of the Agency
for the purpose of conducting its business, exercising its powers, and for all
other purposes. Action may be taken by the Agency upon the vote of the majority
of the Commissioners present unless in any case the bylaws of the Agency shall
require a larger number. The Commissioners shall elect a Chairperson and Vice-
Chairperson from among the Commissioners and shall have the power to employ an
executive director who shall serve as ex officio Secretary of the Agency. The
Agency may also employ legal counsel, or it may call upon the chief law officer
of the municipality, for such services as it may require. It may employ
technical experts and such other officers, agents, and employees as it may
require and shall determine their qualifications, duties, compensations, and
terms of office. The Agency may delegate such other powers and duties to its
agents or employees as it may deem proper.
      (3)   During his or her tenure, and for one year thereafter, no
commissioner, officer, or employee of the Municipal Housing Agency shall
voluntarily acquire any interest, direct or indirect, in any project or in any
property included or planned to be included in any project, or in any contract
or proposed contract relating to any housing project. If any such commissioner,
officer, or employee involuntarily acquires any such interest, or voluntarily
or involuntarily acquired any such interest prior to appointment or employment
as commissioner, officer, or employee, he or she shall immediately disclose his
or her interest in writing to the Agency, and such disclosure shall be entered
upon the minutes of the Agency, and he or she shall not participate in any
action by the Agency relating to the property or contract in which he or she
has any such interest; provided, that nothing herein shall apply to the
acquisition of any interest in notes or bonds of the Agency issued in
connection with any housing project, or to the execution of agreements by
banking institutions for deposit or handling of funds in connection with a
project or to act as trustee under any trust indenture, or to utility services,
the rates for which are fixed or controlled by a governmental agency.
      (4)   The Chairperson may remove a Commissioner for neglect of duty or
misconduct in office in the manner prescribed hereinafter. The Chairperson
shall send a notice of removal to such Commissioner which notice shall contain
a statement containing the charges against him or her. Unless within ten days
from the receipt of such notice, such Commissioner files with the Clerk a
request for a hearing before the governing body, the Commissioner shall be
deemed as removed from office. If a request for a hearing is filed with the
Clerk, the governing body of the municipality shall hold a hearing at which the
Commissioner shall have the right to appear in person or by counsel and the
governing body shall determine whether the removal shall be disapproved or
upheld. If the removal is disapproved, the Commissioner shall continue to hold
his position.
      (5)   The Housing Agency shall keep an accurate account of all its
activities and of all its receipts and disbursements and shall make a report to
the governing body on all such information.
(Neb. RS 71-1524 through 71-1526, 71-1552)
   (B)   The Municipal Housing Agency is owned by the municipality and operated
through the Housing Agency Commission. The Housing Agency shall constitute a
body corporate and politic, and shall have all the powers necessary or
convenient to carry out and effectuate the purposes and provisions of the
Housing Agency Act, being, Neb. RS 71-1572 to 71-15,168.
(Neb. RS 71-1529)
   (C)   Except as otherwise specifically provided, the definitions and terms
set out in the Nebraska Statutes relating to Housing Agencies under the
Nebraska Housing Agency Act, being, Neb. RS 71-1572 to 71-15,168 are hereby
adopted by reference as they now exist or may hereafter be amended.
(Neb. RS 71-1522)
   (D)   The Agency shall at all times observe the following duties with
respect to rentals and tenant selection.
      (1)   It may rent or lease dwelling accommodations therein only to
persons of low income, elderly, or handicapped persons of low income, and
displaced persons in need.
      (2)   There shall be no discrimination in the eligibility or occupancy of
tenants on the basis of race, religion, color, creed, national origin, or
ancestry.
      (3)   The Agency shall not accept any person as a tenant in any dwelling
in the housing project if the applicant has an annual income which equals or
exceeds the amount which the Agency has conclusively determined to be
sufficient to enable one to secure, safe, sanitary, and uncongested dwelling
accommodations within the area served by the Agency and to provide an adequate
standard of living.
      (4)   The Agency may rent or lease to a tenant a dwelling consisting of a
number of rooms which is deemed necessary to provide safe and sanitary
accommodations to the occupants without overcrowding.
      (5)   The Agency shall fix income limits for occupancy and rents after
taking into consideration:
         (a)   The family size, composition, age, physical handicaps, and other
factors which might affect the rent-paying ability of the person; and
         (b)   The economic factors which affect the financial stability and
solvency of the project.
      (6)   The Agency may accept as a tenant any displaced person or persons
in need, regardless of income, but in no event shall such person or persons
remain as a tenant or tenants of the Agency for more than a period of six
months unless such persons also qualify as persons of low income, elderly, or
handicapped persons of low income.
      (7)   All persons of low income, elderly, or handicapped persons of low
income, or displaced persons in need, shall be entitled to the benefits of this
section and the Agency may establish rules and regulations consistent with the
purposes of this section concerning eligibility and occupancy of the housing
project or other such shelter.
      (8)   Nothing herein shall prohibit the right of the Agency to inquire
into the financial condition, family composition, medical, personal, and
employment history of any tenant or prospective tenant.
      (9)   The Agency shall prohibit subletting by tenants.
(Neb. RS 71-1536)
   (E)   The Housing Agency may establish from time to time rules and
regulations consistent with the purposes of this section concerning the
priority of eligible applicants for occupancy. The Agency may give preferential
treatment to applicants who are servicemen or veterans, relatives of servicemen
or veterans, to disabled servicemen or veterans, the elderly or disabled, those
in urgent need of adequate housing or who have no adequate source of income;
provided, that in any such system of priority, displaced persons in need shall
have a priority ahead of all other persons; and provided further, that no
tenant in good standing then in occupancy and qualified for continued occupancy
shall have his or her tenancy terminated in order to provide dwelling units for
classes or categories of applicants as the Agency may establish.
(Neb. RS 71-1547)
   (F)   The Housing Agency shall keep an accurate account of all its
activities and of all its receipts and disbursements and shall make an annual
report at the regular meeting in January of each year to the governing body.
(Neb. RS 71-1552)
(1991 Code, § 2-205, 2-205.01, 2-205.02, 2-205.03, 2-205.04, 2-205.05)
§ 34.07 LIBRARY BOARD.
   (A)   (1)   The Library Board shall consist of five appointed members who
shall be residents of the municipality who shall serve terms of three years.
However, two of the members may be residents of the area over which the
municipality is authorized to exercise extraterritorial zoning and subdivision
regulation. The governing body shall appoint the members of the Library Board
by a majority vote. Neither the Chairperson of the Board nor any member of the
governing body shall be a member of the Library Board. The terms of members
serving on the effective date of a change in the number of members shall not be
shortened, and any successors to those members shall be appointed as the terms
of those members expire. In case of any vacancy by resignation, removal or
otherwise, the governing body shall fill the vacancy for the unexpired term.
      (2)   No member shall receive any pay or compensation for any services
rendered as a member of the Library Board. The governing body may require the
members of the Library Board to give a bond in a sum set by resolution of the
governing body and conditioned upon the faithful performance of their duties.
      (3)   At the time of the Board’s first meeting in December of each year,
the Board shall organize by selecting from their number a Chairperson and
Secretary. No member of the Library Board shall serve in the capacity of both
the Chairperson and Secretary of the Board. It shall be the duty of the
Secretary to keep the full and correct minutes and records of all meetings, and
to file the same with the Municipal Clerk where they shall be available for
public inspection at any reasonable time.
      (4)   A majority of the Board members shall constitute a quorum for the
transaction of business. The Board shall meet at such times as the governing
body may designate. Special meetings may be held upon the call of the
Chairperson or a majority of the members of the Board.
      (5)   The Library Board shall have the authority to appoint a librarian
and all other employees. The Board shall have supervisory authority over all
employees of the library including the librarian.
      (6)   The Library Board shall have general charge of the municipal
library and shall establish appropriate rules and regulations for the
management, operation, and use of the library. All actions of the Board shall
be subject to the review and supervision of the governing body. The Board shall
be responsible for making such reports and performing such additional duties as
the governing body may designate from time to time.
(Neb. RS 51-202)
   (B)   The Library Board shall, on or before the second Monday in February in
each year, make a report to the Village Board of the condition of its trust on
the last day of the prior fiscal year. The report shall show all money received
and credited or expended; the number of materials held, including books, video
and audio materials, software programs, and materials in other formats; the
number of periodical subscriptions on record, including newspapers; the number
of materials added and the number withdrawn from the collection during the
year; the number of materials circulated during the year; and other statistics,
information, and suggestions as the Library Board may deem of general interest
or as the Village Board may require. The report shall be verified by affidavit
of the President and Secretary of the Library Board.
(Neb. RS 51-213)
(1991 Code, § 2-206, 2-206.01) (Ord. 566, passed 11-19-1998; Ord. 2005-30,
passed 7-28-2005; Ord. 2022-4, passed 12-19-2022)
§ 34.08 PARKS DEPARTMENT.
   (A)   The village owns and operates the village parks and other recreational
areas through the Village Administrator. The Board of Trustees, for the purpose
of defraying the cost of the care, management, and maintenance of the village
park may each year levy a tax not exceeding the maximum limit prescribed by
state law on the taxable value of all taxable property within the corporate
limits. The revenue from this tax shall be known as the Park Fund and shall
remain in the custody of the Village Treasurer. The Village Administrator shall
have the authority to adopt rules and regulations for the efficient management
of the village parks and other recreational areas of the village. The Village
Administrator shall not enter into a contract of any nature which involves an
expenditure of funds, except for ordinary operating expenses, unless the
contract has been approved by resolution of the majority of the members of the
Board of Trustees prior to the contractual agreement.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to maliciously or willfully cut
down, injure, or destroy any tree, plant, or shrub. It shall be unlawful for
any person to injure or destroy any sodded or planted area, or injure or
destroy any building, structure, equipment, fence, bench, table, or any other
property of the municipal parks and recreational areas. No person shall commit
any waste on or litter the municipal parks or other public grounds.
(1991 Code, §§ 3-601, 3-602) Penalty, see §
34.99
Cross-reference:
   Park Board, see §
34.05
Statutory reference:
   Recreation centers and areas generally, see Neb. RS 17-948 through 17-952
§ 34.09 COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT AGENCY.
   (A)   There is hereby established, pursuant to Neb. RS 18-2101.01, a
Community Development Agency for the Village of Elm Creek, Nebraska.
   (B)   The elected trustees of the village are hereby designated to be the
Community Development Agency for the village.
   (C)   The Chair of the Board of trustees shall be the Chairperson of the
Community Development Agency; the Vice Chair of the Board of Trustees shall be
the Vice Chairperson; and the Village clerk shall be the Secretary of the
Community Development Agency.
   (D)   The Community Development Agency shall have the power and authority to
exercise those powers and authority granted to a community redevelopment
authority under Neb. RS 18-2101 to 18-2154. The Community Development Agency
shall also have the power and authority to do all community development
activities, and to do all things necessary to cooperate with the federal
government in all matters relating to community development program activities
as a grantee, or as an agent or otherwise, under the provisions of the Federal
Housing and Community Development Act of 1974, as amended through the Housing
and Community Development Amendments of 1981. The Community Development Agency
may levy taxes for the exercise of such jurisdiction and authority and may
issue general obligation bonds, general obligation notes, revenue bonds, and
revenue notes including those general obligation and revenue refunding bonds
and notes for the purposes set forth in such sections and under the powers
granted to any community redevelopment authority described therein.
(Ord. 2019-17, passed 7-25-2019)
§ 34.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person, or any person’s agent or servant, who violates any of the
provisions of this chapter, unless otherwise specifically provided herein,
shall be deemed guilty of an offense and upon conviction thereof shall be fined
in any sum not exceeding $500. A new violation shall be deemed to have been
committed every 24 hours of failure to comply with the provisions of this
chapter.
   (B)   (1)   Whenever a nuisance exists as defined in this chapter, the
municipality may proceed by a suit in equity to enjoin, abate, and remove the
same in the manner provided by law.
      (2)   Whenever, in any action, it is established that a nuisance exists,
the court may, together with the fine or penalty imposed, enter an order of
abatement as a part of the judgment in the case.
(Neb. RS 17-207, 17-505, 18-1720, 18-1722) (1991 Code, § 2-301) (Ord. 2002-07,
passed 2-21-2002)
CHAPTER 35: POLICE AND FIRE DEPARTMENTS
Section
Fire Department
   
35.01   Contracts with rural districts
   
35.02   Fire Chief
   
35.03   Membership
   
35.04   Records
   
35.05   Fires
   
35.06   District fires
   
35.07   Fighting distant fires
   
35.08   Drills
   
35.09   Inspections
   
35.10   Notice of violation
   
35.11   Power of arrest
   
35.12   Fire investigation
Police Department
   
35.25   Duties
   
35.26   Arrest and enforcement jurisdiction
 
   
35.99   Penalty
FIRE DEPARTMENT
§ 35.01 CONTRACTS WITH RURAL DISTRICTS.
   The Board of Trustees is hereby authorized to enter into any contract or
contracts with a rural fire protection district or districts for fire
protection service or fire protection cooperation within terms suitable to all
concerned.
(1991 Code, § 3-401)
§ 35.02 FIRE CHIEF.
   The Fire Chief shall manage the Fire Department, and it shall be his or her
duty to inform the Board of Trustees when any of the fire engines, hose,
ladders, or other apparatus needs repair. Upon the written consent and
directive of the Board of Trustees, the Fire Chief shall cause the repair,
improvement, or maintenance of the equipment and shall personally supervise and
approve of the same. It shall be the duty of the Fire Chief to come before the
Board of Trustees at the regular meeting in January of each year to give an
annual report to the Board of Trustees of the general condition and the
proposed additions or improvements recommended by him or her.
(1991 Code, § 3-402)
Statutory reference:
   Appointment, see Neb. RS 17-107
§ 35.03 MEMBERSHIP.
   (A)   The Fire Department shall consist of so many members as may be decided
by the Board of Trustees. The members may organize themselves in any way they
may decide, subject to the review of the Board of Trustees.
   (B)   The volunteer Fire Department shall not have upon its rolls at one
time more than 25 persons, for each engine and hose company in the Fire
Department, and no hook and ladder company shall have upon its rolls at any one
time more than 25 members. No organization shall be deemed to be a bona fide
fire or hook and ladder company until it has procured for active service
apparatus for the extinguishment or prevention of fires, in case of a hose
company, to the value of $700, and of a hook and ladder company to the value of
$500.
(Neb. RS 35-102)
(1991 Code, § 3-403) (Ord. 2019-1, passed 3-28-2019
Statutory reference:
   General regulations, see Neb. RS 35-101 through 35-103
   Life insurance required, see Neb. RS 35-108
   Witness fees prohibited, see Neb. RS 33-139.01
§ 35.04 RECORDS.
   The Fire Chief shall keep or cause to be kept a record of all meetings of
the Fire Department, the attendance record of all members, a record of all
fires, and shall make a full report of these records to the Village Clerk
during the last week in April each year. The record of any fire shall include
the cause, origin, circumstances, property involved, and whether criminal
conduct may have been involved. In the event of sizable property damage, he or
she shall include the information of whether the losses were covered by
insurance, and if so, in what amount. All records shall be available to the
public at any reasonable time.
(1991 Code, § 3-404)
§ 35.05 FIRES.
   It shall be the duty of the Fire Department to use all proper means for the
extinguishment of fires, to protect property within the village, and to secure
the observance of all ordinances, laws, and other rules and regulations with
respect to fires and fire prevention.
(1991 Code, § 3-405)
§ 35.06 DISTRICT FIRES.
   Upon the permission of the Village Chairperson or Fire Chief, or pursuant to
any agreement with a rural fire district for mutual aid and protection, such
fire equipment of the municipality as may be designated by the governing body
as rural equipment may be used beyond the corporate limits to extinguish a
reported fire.
(1991 Code, § 3-406)
§ 35.07 FIGHTING DISTANT FIRES.
   (A)   Upon the permission of the Fire Chief, such fire equipment of the
village as may be designated by the Board of Trustees as rural equipment may be
used beyond the corporate limits to extinguish reported fires.
   (B)   The firefighters of the village shall be considered as acting in the
performance and within the scope of their duties in fighting fire or saving
property or life outside the corporate limits of the village when directed to
do so by the Chief of the Fire Department or some person authorized to act for
the Chief, and in so doing, may take such fire equipment of the village as may
be designated by the Board of Trustees.
(1991 Code, § 3-407)
§ 35.08 DRILLS.
   The Municipal Fire Department shall hold departmental fire drills at least
six times per year at such times as the members of the Fire Department shall
decide.
(1991 Code, § 3-408)
§ 35.09 INSPECTIONS.
   It shall be the duty of the Fire Chief, when directed to do so by the Board
of Trustees, to inspect or cause to be inspected by Fire Department officers,
members, or some other official as often as may be necessary, but not less than
two times a year, all buildings, premises, and public thoroughfares, except the
interiors of private dwellings, for the purpose of ascertaining and causing to
be corrected any conditions liable to create a fire hazard. The inspection
shall be of the storage, sale, and use of flammable liquids, combustibles, and
explosives; electric wiring and heating; and the means and adequacy of exits,
in case of fire in schools, churches, hotels, halls, theaters, factories,
hospitals, and all other buildings in which numbers of persons congregate from
time to time for any purpose whether publicly or privately owned; the design,
construction, location, installation, and operation of equipment for storing,
handling, and utilizing of liquefied petroleum gases, specifying the
odorization of those gases and the degree thereof; and chemicals, prozylin
plastics, nitrocellulose films, or any other hazardous material that may now or
hereafter exist.
(1991 Code, § 3-409)
§ 35.10 NOTICE OF VIOLATION.
   (A)   Upon the finding that the Municipal Code has been violated, the Fire
Chief shall notify, or cause to be notified, the owner, occupant, or manager of
the premises where a violation has occurred. Notice may be made personally or
by delivering a copy to the premises and affixing it to the door of the main
entrance of the premises. Whenever it may be necessary to serve such an order
upon the owner, the order may be served personally, or by mailing a copy to the
owner’s last known post office address if the owner is absent from the
jurisdiction.
   (B)   Any such order shall be immediately complied with by the owner,
occupant, or manager of the premises or building. The owner, occupant, or
manager may, within five days after such an order by the Chief of the Fire
Department or his or her agent, appeal the order with the Board of Trustees
requesting a review and it shall be the duty of the Board of Trustees to hear
the same within not less than five days nor more than ten days from the time
when the request was filed in writing with the Village Clerk. The Board of
Trustees shall then affirm, modify, or rescind the order as safety and justice
may require and the decision shall then be final, subject only to any remedy
which the aggrieved person may have at law or equity. The order shall be
modified or rescinded only where it is evident that reasonable safety exists
and that conditions necessitate a variance due to the probable hardship in
complying literally with the order of the Fire Chief. A copy of any decision so
made shall be sent to both the Fire Chief and the owner, occupant, or manager
making the appeal.
(1991 Code, § 3-410)
§ 35.11 POWER OF ARREST.
   The Village Fire Chief or the Assistant Fire Chief shall have the power,
during the time of a fire and for a period of 36 hours after its
extinguishment, to arrest any suspected arsonist, or other person hindering or
resisting the firefighting effort, or any person who conducts himself or
herself in a noisy or disorderly manner. The officials shall be severally
vested with the usual powers and authority of municipal police officers to
command all persons to assist them in the performance of their duties.
(1991 Code, § 3-411)
§ 35.12 FIRE INVESTIGATION.
   It shall be the duty of the Fire Department to investigate or cause to be
investigated the cause, origin, and circumstances of every fire occurring in
the village in which property has been destroyed or damaged in excess of $50.
All fires of unknown origin shall be reported, and such officers shall
especially make an investigation and report as to whether such a fire was the
result of carelessness, accident, or design. The investigation shall be begun
within two days of the occurrence of the fire, and the State Fire Marshal shall
have the right to supervise and direct the investigation whenever he or she
deems it expedient or necessary. The officer making the investigation of fires
occurring within the village shall immediately notify the State Fire Marshal
and shall within one week of the occurrence of the fire furnish him or her with
a written statement of all the facts relating to the cause and origin of the
fire, and such further information as he or she may call for.
(1991 Code, § 3-412)
Statutory reference:
   Investigation and report required, see Neb. RS 81-506
POLICE DEPARTMENT
§ 35.25 DUTIES.
   The Police Department shall consist of the Chief of Police and such further
number of regular police officers as may be duly ordered by resolution of the
Board of Trustees. The Chief of Police shall, subject to the direction of the
Board of Trustees, have control and management of all matters relating to the
Police Department, its officers and members, and shall have the custody and
control of all property and books belonging to the Department. The Chief shall
devote his or her whole time to the municipal affairs and interests of the
village and to the preservation of peace, order, safety, and cleanliness
thereof. The Department shall execute and enforce all laws and also the orders
of the Board of Trustees. It shall be the duty of the Department to protect the
rights of persons and property. The Department shall take notice of all
nuisances, impediments, obstructions, and defects in the streets, avenues,
alleys, business places, and residences of the village. The Department shall
execute, or cause to be executed, the processes issued and shall cause all
persons arrested to be brought before the proper court for trial as speedily as
possible. The Chief of Police and all regular and special police officers shall
become thoroughly conversant with the laws of the village and shall see that
the same are strictly enforced and shall make sworn complaints against any
person or persons for violation of the same.
(Neb. RS 16-323, 17-118) (1991 Code, § 3-501)
§ 35.26 ARREST AND ENFORCEMENT JURISDICTION.
   (A)   Every municipal law enforcement officer has the power and authority to
enforce the laws of this state and the municipality or otherwise perform the
functions of that office anywhere within his or her primary jurisdiction.
PRIMARY JURISDICTION means the geographic area within territorial limits of the
municipality.
   (B)   Any municipal law enforcement officer who is within this state, but
beyond his or her primary jurisdiction, has the power and authority to enforce
the laws of this state or any legal ordinance of any city or incorporated
village or otherwise perform the functions of his or her office, including the
authority to arrest and detain suspects, as if enforcing the laws or performing
the functions within his or her primary jurisdiction in the following cases.
      (1)   Any municipal law enforcement officer, if in a fresh attempt to
apprehend a person suspected of committing a felony, may follow such person
into any other jurisdiction in this state and there arrest and detain such
person and return such person to the officer’s primary jurisdiction.
      (2)   Any municipal law enforcement officer, if in a fresh attempt to
apprehend a person suspected of committing a misdemeanor or a traffic
infraction, may follow such person anywhere in an area within 25 miles of the
boundaries of the officer’s primary jurisdiction and there arrest and detain
such person and return such person to the officer’s primary jurisdiction.
      (3)   Any municipal law enforcement officer has such enforcement and
arrest and detention authority when responding to a call in which a local,
state, or federal law enforcement officer is in need of assistance. A law
enforcement officer in need of assistance shall mean:
         (a)   A law enforcement officer whose life is in danger; or
         (b)   A law enforcement officer who needs assistance in making an
arrest and the suspect:
            1.   Will not be apprehended unless immediately arrested;
            2.   May cause injury to himself or herself or others or damage to
property unless immediately arrested; or
            3.   May destroy or conceal evidence of the commission of a crime.
      (4)   If the municipality, under the provisions of the Interlocal
Cooperation Act or the Joint Public Agency Act, enters into a contract with any
other municipality or county for law enforcement services or joint law
enforcement services, law enforcement personnel may have such enforcement
authority within the jurisdiction of each of the participating political
subdivisions if provided for in the agreement. Unless otherwise provided in the
agreement, the municipality shall provide liability insurance coverage for its
own law enforcement personnel as provided in Neb. RS 13-1802.
   (C)   When probable cause exists to believe that a person is operating or in
the actual physical control of any motor vehicle, motorboat, or aircraft while
under the influence of alcoholic liquor or of any drug or otherwise in
violation of Neb. RS 28-1465, 28-1466, 28-1472, 37-1254.01, 37-1254.02, 60-
4,163, 60-4,164, 60-6,196, 60-6,197, 60-6,211.01, or 60-6,211.02, a municipal
law enforcement officer has the power and authority to do any of the following
or any combination thereof:
      (1)   Transport such person to a facility outside of the law enforcement
officer’s primary jurisdiction for appropriate chemical testing of the person;
      (2)   Administer outside of the law enforcement officer’s primary
jurisdiction any post-arrest test advisement to the person; or
      (3)   With respect to such person, perform other procedures or functions
outside of the law enforcement officer’s primary jurisdiction which are
directly and solely related to enforcing the laws that concern a person
operating or being in the actual physical control of any motor vehicle,
motorboat, or aircraft while under the influence of alcoholic liquor or of any
other drug or otherwise in violation of Neb. RS 28-1465, 28-1466, 28-1472, 37-
1254.01, 37-1254.02, 60-4,163, 60-4,164, 60-6,196, 60-6,197, 60-6,211.01, or
60-6,211.02.
(Neb. RS 29-215)
   (D)   If municipal law enforcement personnel are rendering aid in their law
enforcement capacity outside the limits of the municipality in the event of
disaster, emergency, or civil defense emergency or in connection with any
program of practice or training for such disaster, emergency, or civil defense
emergency when such program is conducted or participated in by the Nebraska
Emergency Management Agency or with any other related training program, the law
enforcement personnel have the power and authority to enforce the laws of this
state or any legal ordinances or resolutions of the local government where they
are rendering aid or otherwise perform the functions of their office, including
the authority to arrest and detain suspects, as if enforcing the laws or
performing the functions within their primary jurisdiction. The municipality
shall self-insure or contract for insurance against any liability for personal
injuries or property damage that may be incurred by it or by its personnel as
the result of any movement made pursuant to this section.
(Neb. RS 81-829.65)
(1991 Code, § 3-502) (Ord. 494, passed 2-16-1995; Ord. 567, passed 11-19-1998;
Ord. 2005-17, passed 6-23-2005)
§ 35.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person, or any person’s agent or servant, who violates any of the
provisions of this chapter, unless otherwise specifically provided herein,
shall be deemed guilty of an offense and upon conviction thereof shall be fined
in any sum not exceeding $500. A new violation shall be deemed to have been
committed every 24 hours of failure to comply with the provisions of this
chapter.
   (B)   (1)   Whenever a nuisance exists as defined in this chapter, the
municipality may proceed by a suit in equity to enjoin, abate, and remove the
same in the manner provided by law.
      (2)   Whenever, in any action, it is established that a nuisance exists,
the court may, together with the fine or penalty imposed, enter an order of
abatement as a part of the judgment in the case.
(Neb. RS 17-207, 17-505, 18-1720, 18-1722) (1991 Code, § 3-901) (Ord. 2002-07,
passed 2-21-2002)
CHAPTER 36: VILLAGE POLICIES
Section
   
36.01   Intergovernmental Risk Management
   
36.02   Hazard Mitigation Plan
§ 36.01 INTERGOVERNMENTAL RISK MANAGEMENT.
   The governing body and any one or more public agencies, as defined in Neb.
RS 44-4303, may make and execute an agreement providing for joint and
cooperative action in accordance with Neb. RS 44-4301 through 44-4339 to form,
become members of, and operate a risk management pool for the purpose of
providing to members risk management services and insurance coverages in the
form of group self-insurance or standard insurance, including any combination
of group self-insurance and standard insurance, to protect members against
losses arising from any of the following:
   (A)   General liability;
   (B)   Damage, destruction, or loss of real or personal property, including,
but not limited to, loss of use or occupancy, and loss of income or extra
expense resulting from loss of use or occupancy;
   (C)   Errors and omissions liability; and
   (D)   Workers’ compensation liability.
(Neb. RS 44-4301 through 44-4339) (1991 Code, § 1-1001)
§ 36.02 HAZARD MITIGATION PLAN.
   The governing body of the village hereby adopts the Central Platte Natural
Resources District Multi- Jurisdictional Hazard Mitigation Plan update in its
entirety.
(Res. 2017-2, passed 9-12-2017)
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
   Chapter
      
50.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
51.   GARBAGE DISPOSAL
      
52.   WATER DEPARTMENT
      
53.   SEWER DEPARTMENT
CHAPTER 50: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
50.01   Discontinuance of service, notice procedure
   
50.02   Diversion of services; civil action
   
50.03   Lien
   
50.04   Diversion of services, meter tampering, unauthorized reconnection,
prohibited; evidence
§ 50.01 DISCONTINUANCE OF SERVICE, NOTICE PROCEDURE.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      DOMESTIC SUBSCRIBER. Shall not include municipalities, cities, villages,
political subdivisions, companies, corporations, partnerships, limited
liability companies, or businesses of any nature.
   (B)   No public or private utility company, including any utility owned and
operated by the village, furnishing water, natural gas, or electricity at
retail in this village shall discontinue service to any domestic subscriber for
nonpayment of any past-due account unless the utility company first gives
notice to any subscriber whose service is proposed to be terminated. Such
notice shall be given in person, by first-class mail, or by electronic
delivery, except that electronic delivery shall only be used if the subscriber
has specifically elected to receive such notices by electronic delivery. If
notice is given by first-class mail or electronic delivery, such notice shall
be conspicuously marked as to its importance. Service shall not be discontinued
for at least seven days after notice is sent or given. Holidays and weekends
shall be excluded from the seven days. A public or private utility company
shall not charge a fee for the discontinuance or reconnection of utility
service that exceeds the reasonable costs of providing such service.
   (C)   The notice required by division (B) shall contain the following
information:
      (1)   The reason for the proposed disconnection;
      (2)   A statement of the intention to disconnect unless the domestic
subscriber either pays the bill or reaches an agreement with the utility
regarding payment of the bill;
      (3)   The date upon which service will be disconnected if the domestic
subscriber does not take appropriate action;
      (4)   The name, address, and telephone number of the utility's employee
or department to whom the domestic subscriber may address an inquiry or
complaint;
      (5)   The domestic subscriber's right, prior to the disconnection date,
to request a conference regarding any dispute over such proposed disconnection;
      (6)   A statement that the utility may not disconnect service pending the
conclusion of the conference;
      (7)   A statement to the effect that disconnection shall be postponed or
prevented upon presentation of a duly licensed physician's, physician
assistant's, or advanced practice registered nurse's certificate, which shall
certify that a domestic subscriber or resident within such subscriber's
household has an existing illness or handicap which would cause such subscriber
or resident to suffer an immediate and serious health hazard by the
disconnection of the utility's service to that household. Such certificate
shall be filed with the utility within five days of receiving notice under this
section, excluding holidays and weekends, and will prevent the disconnection of
the utility's service for a period of at least 30 days from such filing. Only
one postponement of disconnection shall be required under this division for
each incidence of nonpayment of any past-due account;
      (8)   The cost that will be borne by the domestic subscriber for
restoration of service;
      (9)   A statement that the domestic subscriber may arrange with the
utility for an installment payment plan;
      (10)   A statement to the effect that those domestic subscribers who are
welfare recipients may qualify for assistance in payment of their utility bill
and that they should contact their caseworker in that regard; and
      (11)   Any additional information not inconsistent with this section
which has received prior approval from the Board of Trustees, in the case of a
village utility, or the board of directors or administrative board of any other
utility.
   (D)   The utility shall establish a third-party notice procedure for the
notification of a designated third party of any proposed discontinuance of
service and shall advise its subscribers, including new subscribers, of the
availability of such procedures.
   (E)   The provisions of Neb. RS 70-1608 through 70-1614 shall apply to
disputes over a proposed discontinuance of service.
   (F)   The procedures adopted for resolving utility bills by the Board of
Trustees for any village utility, one copy of which is on file in the office of
the Village Clerk, are hereby incorporated by reference in addition to any
amendments thereto and are made a part of this section as though set out in
full.
   (G)   This section shall not apply to any disconnections or interruptions of
services made necessary by the utility for reasons of repair or maintenance or
to protect the health or safety of the domestic subscriber or of the general
public.
(1991 Code, § 3-301) (Ord. 2021-15, passed 1-28-2021)
Statutory reference:
   Utility discontinuance regulated, see Neb. RS 70-1602, 70-1605 through 70-
1607, 70-1615
§ 50.02 DIVERSION OF SERVICES; CIVIL ACTION.
   (A)   For purposes of this section, the definitions found in Neb. RS 25-
21,275 shall apply.
   (B)   (1)   (a)   The municipality may bring a civil action for damages
against any person who commits, authorizes, solicits, aids, abets, or attempts:
            1.   Bypassing;
            2.   Tampering; or
            3.   Unauthorized metering when such act results in damages to a
municipal utility.
         (b)   The municipality may bring a civil action for damages pursuant
to this section against any person receiving the benefit of utility service
through means of bypassing, tampering, or unauthorized metering.
      (2)   In any civil action brought pursuant to this section, the
municipality shall be entitled, upon proof of willful or intentional bypassing,
tampering, or unauthorized metering to recover as damages:
         (a)   The amount of actual damage or loss if the amount of the damage
or loss is susceptible of reasonable calculation; or
         (b)   Liquidated damages of $750 if the amount of actual damage or
loss is not susceptible of reasonable calculation.
      (3)   In addition to damage or loss under divisions (B)(2)(a) or (B)(2)
(b), the municipality may recover all reasonable expenses and costs incurred on
account of the bypassing, tampering, or unauthorized metering, including, but
not limited to, disconnection, reconnection, service calls, equipment, costs of
the suit, and reasonable attorneys’ fees in cases within the scope of Neb. RS
25-1801.
(Neb. RS 25-21,276)
   (C)   (1)   There shall be a rebuttable presumption that a tenant or
occupant at any premises where bypassing, tampering, or unauthorized metering
is proven to exist caused or had knowledge of such bypassing, tampering, or
unauthorized metering if the tenant or occupant:
         (a)   Had access to the part of the utility supply system on the
premises where the bypassing, tampering, or unauthorized metering is proven to
exist; and
         (b)   Was responsible or partially responsible for payment, either
directly or indirectly, to the utility or to any other person for utility
services to the premises.
      (2)   There shall be a rebuttable presumption that a customer at any
premises where bypassing, tampering, or unauthorized metering is proven to
exist caused or had knowledge of such bypassing, tampering, or unauthorized
metering if the customer controlled access to the part of the utility supply
system on the premises where the bypassing, tampering, or unauthorized metering
was proven to exist.
(Neb. RS 25-21,277)
   (D)   The remedies provided by this section shall be deemed to be
supplemental and additional to powers conferred by existing laws. The remedies
provided in this section are in addition to and not in limitation of any other
civil or criminal statutory or common-law remedies.
(Neb. RS 25-21,278)
(1991 Code, § 3-302) (Ord. 2005-14, passed 5-26-2005)
§ 50.03 LIEN.
   In addition to all other remedies, if a customer shall for any reason remain
indebted to the municipality for utilities service furnished, the amount due,
together with any rents and charges in arrears, shall be considered a
delinquent utility rent which is hereby declared to be a lien upon the real
estate for which the same was furnished. The Municipal Clerk shall notify in
writing, or cause to be notified in writing, all owners of premises or their
agents whenever their tenants or lessees are 60 days or more delinquent in the
payment of the utilities rent. It shall be the duty of the Municipal Clerk to
report to the Board of Trustees a list of all unpaid accounts due for utilities
service together with a description of the premises served. The report shall be
examined and, if approved by the Board of Trustees, shall be certified by the
Municipal Clerk to the County Clerk to be collected as a special tax in the
manner provided by law.
(1991 Code, § 3-303)
Statutory reference:
   Assessments authorized, see Neb. RS 18-503
   Lien authorized for water and sewer delinquency, see Neb. RS 17-538 and 17-
925.01
§ 50.04 DIVERSION OF SERVICES, METER TAMPERING, UNAUTHORIZED RECONNECTION,
PROHIBITED; EVIDENCE.
   (A)   It is an offense for any person:
      (1)   To connect any pipe or conduit supplying water, without the
knowledge and consent of the municipality, in such manner that any portion
thereof may be supplied to any instrument by or at which water may be consumed
without passing through the meter made or provided for measuring or registering
the amount or quantity thereof passing through it;
      (2)   To knowingly use or knowingly permit the use of water obtained
unlawfully pursuant to this section;
      (3)   To reconnect water service without the knowledge and consent of the
municipality if the service has been disconnected pursuant to Neb. RS 70-1601
to 70-1615 or §
50.01 of this code; or
      (4)   To willfully injure, alter, or by any instrument, device, or
contrivance in any manner interfere with or obstruct the action or operation of
any meter made or provided for measuring or registering the amount or quantity
of water passing through it, without the knowledge and consent of the
municipality.
   (B)   Proof of the existence of any pipe or conduit connection or
reconnection or of any injury, alteration, interference, or obstruction of a
meter is prima facie evidence of the guilt of the person in possession of the
premises where such connection, reconnection, injury, alteration, interference,
or obstruction is proved to exist.
(Neb. RS 28-515.02) (1991 Code, § 3-304) (Ord. 2005-13, passed 5-26-2005)
Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 51: GARBAGE DISPOSAL
Section
   
51.01   Garbage; defined
   
51.02   Rubbish and trash; defined
   
51.03   Waste; defined
   
51.04   Garbage; trash, and waste
   
51.05   Dead animals
   
51.06   Garbage and refuse collection; authority
   
51.07   Garbage and refuse collection; notice; removal
   
51.08   Garbage and refuse collection; nuisance
   
51.09   Garbage and refuse collection; lien
   
51.10   Disposal; containers
   
51.11   Disposal; approved sites
   
51.12   Collection; frequency
   
51.13   Collection; container location
   
51.14   Collection; licensing
   
51.15   Collection; vehicles
   
51.16   Garbage collection fees
   
51.17   Garbage; mandatory village-wide collection
   
51.18   Solid waste; hazardous items and items requiring special handling or
disposal
   
51.19   Garbage dumpster rental
§ 51.01 GARBAGE; DEFINED.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definition shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   GARBAGE. Kitchen refuse, decayed waste, dead animals, or anything that may
decompose and become offensive to the public health.
(1991 Code, § 4-201)
§ 51.02 RUBBISH AND TRASH; DEFINED.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definition shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   RUBBISH and TRASH. Discarded machinery, chips, pieces of wood, sticks, dead
trees, branches, bottles, broken glass, crockery, tin cans, boxes, papers,
rags, or any other litter or debris that is not an immediate hazard to the
health of the residents of the municipality.
(1991 Code, § 4-202)
§ 51.03 WASTE; DEFINED.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definition shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   WASTE. As used herein shall mean cinders, ashes, plaster, brick, stone,
sawdust, or sand.
(1991 Code, § 4-203)
§ 51.04 GARBAGE; TRASH, AND WASTE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to keep in, on, or about any dwelling,
building, or premises, or any other place in the municipality, decayed
vegetable or animal substance, garbage, or refuse matter of any kind that may
be injurious to the public health or offensive to the residents of the
municipality unless the same is kept in receptacles that have been designated
and approved in any garbage collection contract which the municipality has
entered into pursuant to §
51.17. It shall be unlawful to throw or sweep into the streets, alleys, parks,
or other public grounds any dirt, paper, nails, pieces of glass, refuse, waste,
or rubbish of any kind. No person may permit garbage, rubbish, waste, or refuse
to collect and all persons shall remove the same from their property within 24
hours after being notified to do so by the Chief of Police, who shall represent
the Board of Health. Any person having garbage, rubbish, waste, or refuse that
is subject to decay or fermentation within a short period of time shall be
required to place the same in receptacles that have been provided pursuant to
any garbage contract entered into by the municipality under §
51.17.
(Neb. RS 19-2106) (1991 Code, § 4-204) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 51.05 DEAD ANIMALS.
   All dead animals shall be immediately removed and buried by the owner of
such animals; and if the owner of such animal cannot be found within two hours
after discovering the same, then such animal shall be removed by and at the
expense of the municipality. Dead animals shall not be buried within the
corporate limits of the municipality, nor within one mile thereof, nor in or
above the course of groundwater that is used for drinking purposes by the
municipality or its inhabitants. Such animals may, however, be buried in the
municipal dumping ground.
(Neb. RS 17-207) (1991 Code, § 4-205)
§ 51.06 GARBAGE AND REFUSE COLLECTION; AUTHORITY.
    The owner, duly authorized agent, or tenant of any lot or land within the
corporate limits or extraterritorial zoning jurisdiction of the village) shall
remove garbage or refuse found upon the lot, land, streets, roads, or alleys
abutting the lot or land which constitutes a public nuisance.
(1991 Code, § 4-206) (Ord. 2021-36, passed 12-21-2021)
§ 51.07 GARBAGE AND REFUSE COLLECTION; NOTICE; REMOVAL.
    Notice that removal of garbage or refuse is necessary shall be given to
each owner or owner's duly authorized agent and to the tenant if any. The
notice shall be provided by personal service or by certified mail. After
providing the notice, the village shall, in addition to other proper remedies,
remove the garbage or refuse, or cause it to be removed, from the lot, land,
streets, roads, or alleys.
(1991 Code, § 4-207) (Ord. 2021-36, passed 12-21-2021)
§ 51.08 GARBAGE AND REFUSE COLLECTION; NUISANCE.
    If the Chairperson declares that the accumulation of garbage or refuse upon
any lot or land constitutes an immediate nuisance and hazard to public health
and safety, the village shall remove the garbage or refuse, or cause it to be
removed, from the lot or land within 48 hours after notice by personal service
or following receipt of a certified letter in accordance with § 51.07 if the
garbage or refuse has not been removed.
(1991 Code, § 4-208) (Ord. 2021-36, passed 12-21-2021)
§ 51.09 GARBAGE AND REFUSE COLLECTION; LIEN.
    Whenever the village removes any garbage or refuse, or causes it to be
removed, from any lot or land pursuant to this section, it shall, after a
hearing conducted by the Board of Trustees, assess the cost of the removal
against the lot or land.
(1991 Code, § 4-209) (Ord. 2021-36, passed 12-21-2021)
Statutory reference:
   For similar state law, see Neb. RS 18-1752
§ 51.10 DISPOSAL; CONTAINERS.
   Refuse containers shall be made of durable, water-tight, rust-resistant
material having a close-fitting lid and shall be adaptable for mechanical
unloading by the village garbage truck, which containers shall be approved for
use by the village. It shall be unlawful to permit the accumulation or residue
of liquids, solids, or a combination of such material on the bottom or sides of
containers. The interior of containers shall be kept clean by a thorough
rinsing and draining as often as necessary. Each householder, commercial
establishment, or person having refuse shall provide himself or herself with
approved refuse containers and shall place and keep all refuse therein, except
as otherwise provided in this chapter. It shall be unlawful to place refuse in
any street, alley, stream, body of water, or any other public place, or upon
private property unless such refuse is placed in an approved container.
(1991 Code, § 4-210) (Ord. 2003-01, passed 2-27-2003) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 51.11 DISPOSAL; APPROVED SITES.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to dump, burn, bury, destroy, or otherwise
dispose of refuse within the jurisdictional limits of the municipality except
at an approved refuse disposal site.
   (B)   The municipality may acquire by lease or purchase a suitable place or
places wherein yard waste may be deposited by residents of the municipality.
All such places shall be appropriately posted by signs designating the
particular site as an approved yard waste site and specifying the particular
type of yard waste allowed to be deposited at such site. For the purposes of
this chapter, the term YARD WASTE shall be defined to include only the
following:
      (1)   Compost material. Shall consist only of plant material, leaves, and
grass clippings collected as a result of the care of lawns and gardens; and
      (2)   Tree limbs. Shall consist only of tree limbs and branches three
inches or less in diameter.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful:
      (1)   For any nonresident of the municipality to deposit yard waste or
any other refuse at the municipal compost site or at the municipal tree limb
site;
      (2)   For anyone to deposit anything but compost material at the
designated municipal compost site; and
      (3)   For anyone to deposit anything but tree limbs of the aforementioned
size at the designated municipal tree limb site.
   (D)   The governing body of the municipality is empowered to establish and
promulgate from time to time, by resolution, such rules and regulations as it
may deem appropriate and necessary for the operation and/or use of the
municipal compost and tree limb sites.
(1991 Code, § 4-211) (Ord. 552, passed 6-18-1998) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 51.12 COLLECTION; FREQUENCY.
   Refuse shall be collected once weekly for residential customers and twice
weekly for commercial customers. Hotels, restaurants, institutions, and
commercial establishments may be required to have more frequent collection if
determined by the governing body to be essential to protect the public health.
(1991 Code, § 4-212)
§ 51.13 COLLECTION; CONTAINER LOCATION.
   Refuse containers shall, for the purpose of collection, be placed at ground
level and be made readily accessible to the collector. They shall be placed on
the side of the street from which collection is to be made. Householders,
commercial establishments, or other persons may, by contract with collectors,
be permitted to place containers at agreed places upon their premises.
(1991 Code, § 4-213)
§ 51.14 COLLECTION; LICENSING.
   No person shall collect, remove, haul, or convey any refuse through or upon
any of the streets or alleys of the municipality or dispose of the same in any
manner or place without first complying with the licensing requirements for
collectors as provided in Title XI of this Code. It shall be unlawful to permit
an unlicensed collector to collect or remove refuse from a household,
institution, or commercial enterprise. No licensed collector shall make any
change in the arrangements for disposal of refuse collection by him or her
without first receiving the approval of the governing body.
(1991 Code, § 4-214) (Ord. 450, passed 12-21-1993) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 51.15 COLLECTION; VEHICLES.
   All vehicles used for collection of garbage shall be equipped with
compacting devices or equivalent types of closed bodies and shall have enclosed
cargo space. It shall be unlawful to collect, haul, transport, or convey
garbage in unenclosed vehicles.
(1991 Code, § 4-215) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 51.16 GARBAGE COLLECTION FEES.
   (A)   As a monthly garbage collection fee to be charged each user of the
municipal garbage collection system provided by Ravenna Sanitation, L.L.C. and
collected by the Village of Elm Creek, the following classes of users and
schedule of rates, fees, and charges are hereby established and set.
      (1)   Class I user: residential user.
         (a)   Weekly pickup: $13.50 per month.
         (b)   Toters: a second 96-gallon toter will be available upon request
to residential customers for an additional monthly rate of $4.50.
         (c)   An administrative fee of $1 shall be charged to each user per
month.
      (2)   Class II user: commercial, industrial or school user.
         (a)   Monthly rate for once per week commercial pickup:
 
1 yard                          $29
1.5 yard                        $36
2 yard                          $47
3 yard                          $73
4 yard                          $96
*Commercial tote, extra service $18
 
         (b)   Commercial pickup for two times per week shall be an additional
80% of the monthly rate.
         (c)   Schools within the corporate limits shall be serviced through a
combination of commercial containers tailored to the school's requirements at
the above-listed commercial rates.
         (d)   An administrative fee of $1 shall be charged to each user per
month.
   (B)   For connections with and services from the village’s garbage
collection system outside the corporate limits of the village, each owner/user
shall, subject to acceptance of service and determination by the Chairperson
and Village Board of Trustees, pay a rental or user charge not less than twice
that prescribed for users within the corporate limits of the village.
(1991 Code, § 4-216) (Ord. 596, passed 9-19-2000; Ord. 2005-43, passed 10-27-
2005; Ord. 2017-1, passed 6-22-2017; Ord. 2020-1, passed 7-23-2020; Ord. 2023-
2, passed 4-27-2023)
§ 51.17 GARBAGE; MANDATORY VILLAGE-WIDE COLLECTION.
   All residents of the village shall have their garbage, rubbish, trash, and
waste collected by the village garbage service or by the disposal collection
company with which the village contracts for service, if any.
(1991 Code, § 4-217) (Ord. 450, passed 12-21-1993)
§ 51.18 SOLID WASTE; HAZARDOUS ITEMS AND ITEMS REQUIRING SPECIAL HANDLING OR
DISPOSAL.
   (A)   No person shall put out any of the items specified below to be
collected by the municipal solid waste collector for land disposal:
      (1)   Yard waste from April 1 through November 30 of each year unless
such yard waste has been separated from its source and is put out for separate
collection and delivery to the landfill for the purpose of soil conditioning or
composting under the conditions otherwise specified;
      (2)   Lead-acid batteries;
      (3)   Waste oil;
      (4)   Waste tires in any form except tires that are nonrecyclable. Tires
are not considered disposed if they meet the requirements of Neb. RS 13-2039;
      (5)   Discarded household appliances; and/or
      (6)   Unregulated hazardous wastes, except household hazardous wastes,
which are exempt from the regulations under the Environmental Protection Act.
   (B)   Any such items shall be disposed of only as permitted under the
Nebraska Integrated Solid Waste Management Act, being, Neb. RS 13-2001 to 13-
2043 or any amendments thereof.
(Neb. RS 13-2039)
   (C)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      LAND DISPOSAL. Includes, but is not limited to, incineration at a
landfill.
      NONRECYCLABLE TIRE. A press-on solid tire, a solid pneumatic shaped tire,
or a foam pneumatic tire.
(Neb. RS 13-2039)
      WASTE TIRE. A tire that is no longer suitable for its original intended
purpose because of wear, damage, or defect.
(Neb. RS 13-2013.02)
      YARD WASTE. Grass and leaves.
(Neb. RS 13-2016.01)
(1991 Code, § 4-218) (Ord. 2005-24, passed 6-25-2005) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 51.19 GARBAGE DUMPSTER RENTAL.
   The cost to rent a one and one-half yard garbage dumpster will be as
follows:
   (A)   Twenty five dollars for up to two weeks/14 days; and
   (B)   Fifty dollars for up to one month/30 days.
(Res. 2015-2, passed 4-23-2015)
CHAPTER 52: WATER DEPARTMENT
Section
   
52.01   Operation and funding
   
52.02   Definitions
   
52.03   Consumer’s application
   
52.04   Service to nonresidents
   
52.05   Water contract
   
52.06   Installation procedure
   
52.07   Installation expense
   
52.08   Repairs and maintenance
   
52.09   Rates
   
52.10   Bulk rates
   
52.11   Minimum rates
   
52.12   Water bills
   
52.13   Lien
   
52.14   Single premises
   
52.15   Restricted use
   
52.16   Fire hydrants
   
52.17   Pollution
   
52.18   Mandatory hook-up and connection to water system
   
52.19   Water service contracts
   
52.20   Police reports
   
52.21   Inspection
   
52.22   Destruction of property
   
52.23   Swing valve required
   
52.24   (Reserved)
   
52.25   Irrigation of wells, cross-connections; prohibited; registration
   
52.26   Prohibition of lead pipes, solder, and flux
   
52.27   Unsafe physical connection to water distribution system prohibited;
potential backflow hazards; customer assessment
   
52.28   Backflow prevention devices required; customer installation and
maintenance testing
§ 52.01 OPERATION AND FUNDING.
   The village owns and operates the Water Department through the Board of
Trustees or its authorized agent. The Board of Trustees, for the purpose of
defraying the cost of the care, management, and maintenance of the Water
Department, may each year levy a tax not exceeding the maximum limit prescribed
by state law, on the taxable value of all taxable property within the corporate
limits that is subject to taxation. The revenue from the tax shall be known as
the Water Fund and shall remain in the custody of the Village Treasurer. The
Board of Trustees or its authorized agent shall have the direct management and
control of the Water Department. The Board of Trustees shall have the authority
to adopt rules and regulations for the sanitary and efficient management of the
Water Department. The Board of Trustees shall set the rates to be charged for
services rendered and shall file a copy of the rates in the office of the
Village Clerk for public inspection at any reasonable time.
(1991 Code, § 3-101)
Statutory reference:
   Bonds, interest, and taxing authority, see Neb. RS 17-534
   Public utility extension and improvements, see Neb. RS 19-1305
   Waterworks acquisition and construction authorized, see Neb. RS 17-531
§ 52.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   MAIN. Any pipe other than a supply or service pipe that is used for the
purpose of carrying water to, and dispersing the same in the municipality.
   SEPARATE PREMISES. More than one consumer procuring water from the same
service or supply pipe. The second premises may be a separate dwelling,
apartment, building, or structure used for a separate business.
   SERVICE PIPE. Any pipe extending from the shut-off, stop box, or curb cock
at or near the lot line to and beyond the property line of the consumer to the
location on the premises where the water is to be dispersed.
   SUPPLY PIPE. Any pipe tapped into a main and extending from there to a point
at or near the lot line of the consumer’s premises where the shut-off, stop
box, or curb cock is located.
(1991 Code, § 3-102)
§ 52.03 CONSUMER’S APPLICATION.
   Every person or persons desiring a supply of water must make application
therefor to the Utilities Superintendent. The Superintendent may require any
applicant to make a service deposit in such amount as has been set by the
governing body and placed on file at the office of the Municipal Clerk. Water
may not be supplied to any house or private service pipe except upon the order
of the Superintendent.
(Neb. RS 17-537) (1991 Code, § 3-103)
§ 52.04 SERVICE TO NONRESIDENTS.
   The Department shall not supply water service to any person outside the
corporate limits without special permission from the governing body; provided,
the entire cost of laying mains, service pipe, and supply pipe shall be paid by
the consumer. Nothing herein shall be construed to obligate the municipality to
provide water service to nonresidents.
(Neb. RS 19-2701) (1991 Code, § 3-104)
§ 52.05 WATER CONTRACT.
   The municipality, through its Water Department, shall furnish water to
persons within its corporate limits whose premises abut a street or alley in
which a commercial main now is or may hereafter be laid. The municipality may
furnish water to persons within its corporate limits whose premises do not abut
a street or alley in which a municipal commercial main is now or may hereafter
be laid and may also furnish water to persons whose premises are situated
outside the corporate limits of the municipality, as and when, according to
law, the governing body may see fit to do so. The rules, regulations, and water
rates hereinafter named in this chapter, shall be considered part of every
application hereafter made for water service and shall be considered a part of
the contract between every consumer now or hereafter served. Without further
formality, the making of application on the part of any applicant or the use or
consumption of water service by present consumers thereof and the furnishing of
water service to said consumer shall constitute a contract between the consumer
and the municipality, to which said contract both parties are bound. If the
consumer shall violate any of the provisions of said contract or any reasonable
rules and regulations that the governing body may hereafter adopt, the
Utilities Superintendent or his or her agent, may cut off or disconnect the
water service from the building or premises or place of such violation. No
further connection for water service to said building, premise, or place shall
again be made save or except by order of said Superintendent or his or her
agent.
(1991 Code, § 3-105)
§ 52.06 INSTALLATION PROCEDURE.
   (A)   In making excavations in streets, alleys, or sidewalks for the purpose
of installing pipe, or making repairs, the paving, stones, and earth must be
removed and deposited in a manner that will occasion the least inconvenience to
the public and provide for adequate drainage. No person shall leave an
excavation made in the street, alley, or sidewalk open at any time without a
barricade, and during the night, warning lights. After service pipes are laid,
the streets alleys and sidewalks shall be restored to good condition. If the
excavation in any street, alley, or sidewalk is left open or unfinished for a
period of 24 hours or more, the Utilities Superintendent shall have the duty to
finish or correct the work, and all expenses so incurred shall be charged to
the consumer. All installations or repairs of pipes require two inspections by
the Utilities Superintendent. The first inspection shall be made when
connections or repairs are completed and before the pipes are covered. The
second inspection shall be made after the dirt work is completed and the
service is restored. It is the customer’s responsibility to notify the
Superintendent at the time the work is ready for each inspection. All
installation shall be done under the supervision and strictly in accordance
with the rules, regulations, and specifications prescribed for such
installation by the Utilities Superintendent; provided that the said rules,
regulations, and specifications have been reviewed and approved by the
governing body.
(Neb. RS 17-537) (1991 Code, § 3-106)
§ 52.07 INSTALLATION EXPENSE.
   The municipality shall pay the cost of tapping the main. No person other
than the Utilities Superintendent or his or her duly authorized agent shall tap
the water main. The customer shall pay a tap fee in such sum as the Utilities
Superintendent shall require in each case; provided, that a tap for a three-
quarter inch pipe shall be deemed to be the minimum or base tap fee. The
customer shall at his or her own expense bring water service from the curb box
to his or her residence. Nonresidents shall pay such tap fees and installation
charges in such sums as the Utilities Superintendent, pursuant to resolution of
the governing body, shall in each case fix. The extension of commercial mains
into unsupplied territory within the corporate limits may be made by means of
water extension districts.
(Neb. RS 17-542) (1991 Code, § 3-107) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 52.08 REPAIRS AND MAINTENANCE.
   The municipality shall repair or replace, as the case may be, the curb stop,
the stop box, and all fittings required for connection of copper tubing at the
main. The customer shall bear the expense of all other costs that are necessary
to bring water service from the main to the place of dispersement. When leaks
occur in service pipes, the Utilities Superintendent shall shut off water
service until the leak is repaired at the expense of the customer to the
satisfaction of the Utilities Superintendent. All water meters shall be kept in
repair by the municipality at the expense of the municipality. When meters are
worn out, they shall be replaced and reset by the municipality at the expense
of the municipality; provided, that if the customer permits or allows a water
meter to be damaged, injured, or destroyed through his or her own recklessness,
carelessness, or neglect so that the meter must be repaired or replaced, the
Utilities Superintendent shall bill and collect from the customer the cost of
such meter repair or replacement in the same manner as water rent is collected.
Permitting a water meter to be damaged or destroyed by freezing shall always be
considered negligence on the part of the customer. All meters shall be tested
at the customer’s request at the expense of the customer any reasonable number
of times; provided that if the test shows the water meter to be running 2% or
more fast, the expense of such test shall be borne by the municipality. The
municipality reserves the right to test any water service meter at any time,
and if said meter is found to be beyond repair, the municipality shall always
have the right to place a new meter on the customer’s water service fixtures at
municipal expense. Should a consumer’s meter fail to register properly, the
customer shall be charged for water during the time the meter is out of repair
on the basis of semi-annual consumption during the same semi-annual period of
the preceding year; provided, that if no such basis for comparison exists, the
customer shall be charged such amount as may reasonably fixed by the Utilities
Superintendent. It shall be unlawful for any person to tamper with any water
meter, or by any means device to divert water from the service pipe so that the
same shall not pass through said meter, or while passing through said meter, to
cause the same to register inaccurately.
(Neb. RS 17-537) (1991 Code, § 3-108) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 52.09 RATES.
    As a monthly tariff to be charged each consumer of water from the
waterworks system of the village, the following classes of users and monthly
schedule of rates, fees, and charges are hereby established and set in
accordance with §
52.01 of this code.
   (A)   Class I user: residential service connection.
      (1)   Single-family dwellings: a rate charge of $24.25 per month for each
month of service.
      (2)   Duplexes or other multi-family dwellings including rental units in
any single- family dwelling: a rate charge of $24.25 per month for each
occupied unit for each month of service.
      (3)   Apartment houses: a rate charge of $24.25 per month for each
occupied apartment for each month of service.
      (4)   Vacant lots (as shown by the official plat of the village) served
directly from the main: a rate charge of $24.25 per month for the six-month
period of April, May, June, July, August and September for each month of
service.
      (5)   Mobile home court: a rate charge of $24.25 per month for each
occupied unit in place.
      (6)   Housing authority: a rate charge of $24.25 per month for each
occupied unit for each month of service.
   (B)   Class II user: commercial or industrial service connection.
      (1)   Schools: a rate charge of $270.50 per month for each month of
service.
      (2)   Car wash: a rate charge of $61.50 per month for each month of
service.
      (3)   Laundromat: a rate charge of $51.25 per month for each month of
service.
      (4)   All other commercial or industrial users: a rate charge of $24.25
per month for each month of service.
   (C)   Services outside corporate limits of village. For connections with and
services from the village's water system outside the corporate limits of the
village, each owner/user shall, subject to acceptance of service and
determination by the Chairperson and Village Board of Trustees, pay a rental or
user charge not less than twice that prescribed above for users within the
corporate limits of the village. §
52.04 of the code shall be controlling in all such instances.
(1991 Code, § 3-109) (Ord. 2010-10, passed 12-16-2010; Ord. 2017-2, passed 6-
22-2017; Ord. 2024-8, passed 6-18-2024)
§ 52.10 BULK RATES.
    The cost to purchase bulk water will be $0.05/gallon with a minimum charge
of $20.
(1991 Code, § 3-109.01) (Res. 2015-3, passed 4-23-2015; Ord. 2024-9, passed 6-
18-2024)
§ 52.11 MINIMUM RATES.
   All water consumers shall be liable for the minimum rate provided by
ordinance unless and until the consumer shall, by written order, direct the
Utilities Superintendent to shut off the water at the stop box, in which case
he or she shall not be liable thereafter for water rental until the water is
turned on again.
(Neb. RS 17-542) (1991 Code, § 3-110)
§ 52.12 WATER BILLS.
   Water bills shall be due and payable monthly in advance at the office of the
Municipal Clerk. The Municipal Clerk shall charge and collect from each
customer for the amount of water consumed together with any other charges,
properly itemized, due the Water Department. Bills shall be due by the tenth
day of the billing month and shall be payable by the twentieth day of each
billing month. Bills paid after the twentieth day shall have a penalty charge
added thereto in an amount set by resolution of the governing body and on file
at the office of the Municipal Clerk. Bills not paid by the thirtieth day of
each billing month shall be deemed to be delinquent. Upon being deemed to be
delinquent, as herein defined, the Municipal Clerk shall give a written notice
to the customer of such delinquency and shall demand payment immediately. In
the event that the bill is not paid within seven days after sending of said
notice, it shall be discretionary with the Superintendent to cut off service at
any time; provided, if the delinquent customer is a known welfare recipient, it
shall be the duty of the Municipal Clerk to notify the customer and the County
Welfare Department by certified mail of the proposed termination. The Utilities
Superintendent shall assess an additional fee set by resolution of the
governing body and on file at the office of the Municipal Clerk in the event
that the water is shut off for the nonpayment of any water bill, to compensate
the municipality for the additional hookup necessary to again provide water
service to the delinquent customer.
(Neb. RS 17-542, 70-1605) (1991 Code, § 3-111)
§ 52.13 LIEN.
   In addition to all other remedies, if a customer shall for any reason remain
indebted to the municipality for water service furnished, such amount due,
together with any rents and charges in arrears, shall be considered a
delinquent water rent which is hereby declared to be a lien upon the real
estate for which the same was used. The Municipal Clerk shall notify in writing
or cause to be notified in writing, all owners of premises or their agents
whenever their tenants or lessees are 60 days or more delinquent in the payment
of water rent. It shall be the duty of the Utilities Superintendent on June 1
of each year to report to the governing body a list of all unpaid accounts due
for water, together with a description of the premises upon which the same was
used. The report shall be examined, and if approved by the governing body,
shall be certified by the Municipal Clerk to the County Clerk to be collected
as a special tax in the manner provided by law.
(Neb. RS 17-538) (1991 Code, § 3-112)
§ 52.14 SINGLE PREMISES.
   No consumer shall supply water to other families or allow them to take water
from his or her premise, nor after water is supplied into a building shall any
person make or employ a plumber or other person to make a tap or connection
with the pipe upon the premises for alteration, extension, or attachment
without the written permission of the Utilities Superintendent. It shall
further be unlawful for any person to tamper with any water meter or by means
of any contrivance or device to divert the water from the service pipe so that
the water will not pass through the meter, or while passing through said meter
to cause the meter to register inaccurately.
(Neb. RS 17-537) (1991 Code, § 3-113) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 52.15 RESTRICTED USE.
   The governing body or the Utilities Superintendent may order a reduction in
the use of water or shut off the water on any premises in the event of a water
shortage due to fire or other good and sufficient cause. The municipality shall
not be liable for any damages caused by shutting off the supply of water of any
consumer while the system or any part thereof is undergoing repairs, or when
there is a shortage of water due to circumstances over which the municipality
has no control.
(Neb. RS 17-537) (1991 Code, § 3-114)
§ 52.16 FIRE HYDRANTS.
   All hydrants for the purpose of extinguishing fires are hereby declared to
be public hydrants, and it shall be unlawful for any person other than members
of the Municipal Fire Department under the orders of the Fire Chief or the
Assistant Fire Chief; or members of the Water Department to open or attempt to
open any of the hydrants and draw water from the same, or in any manner to
interfere with the hydrants.
(1991 Code, § 3-115) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 52.17 POLLUTION.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to pollute or attempt to pollute any
stream or source of water for the supply of the Municipal Water Department.
(Neb. RS 17-536) (1991 Code, § 3-116) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 52.18 MANDATORY HOOK-UP AND CONNECTION TO WATER SYSTEM.
   All residents of the village shall be required to subscribe to village
utility services. Said residents shall be subject to the assessment and payment
of charges for such utility services as set from time to time by the governing
body.
   (A)   The village through its Water Department shall furnish water to
persons within its corporate limits whose premises abut a street or alley in
which a commercial main now is or may hereafter be laid. All persons whose
property is within 300 feet of a water main shall be required, upon notice by
the governing body, to hook up with the municipal water system.
   (B)   The village may furnish water service to persons within its corporate
limits whose premises are not within 300 feet of a water main with permission
from the governing body, provided that the entire cost of pipe and other
installation charges shall be paid by such consumer. Nothing herein shall be
construed to obligate the village to provide water service to persons whose
property line is not within 300 feet of a water main.
   (C)   In the event any owner, occupant, or lessee shall neglect, fail, or
refuse to make such connection within a period of ten days after the notice has
been given to do so by regular mail or by publication in a newspaper in or of
general circulation in the village, the governing body shall have the power to
cause the same to be done, to assess the cost thereof against the property, and
to collect the water bills in the manner provided for collection of other
special taxes or assessments or to collect in the manner provided for the
collection of water bills as provided herein.
   (D)   Private wells previously constructed and operating prior to the
village's establishment of its water system shall be permitted to operate,
providing that such wells comply with other existing, applicable ordinances and
do not violate applicable state laws or regulations promulgated by the Nebraska
Department of Health and Human Services.
(Ord. 2024-14, passed 10-17-2024)
§ 52.19 WATER SERVICE CONTRACTS.
   Contracts for water service are not transferable. Any person wishing to
change from one location to another shall make a new application and sign a new
contract. If any consumer shall move from the premises where service is
furnished, or if the said premises is destroyed by fire or other casualty, he
or she shall at once inform the Utilities Superintendent who shall cause the
water service to be shut off at the said premise. If the consumer should fail
to give such notice, he or she shall be charged for all water used on the said
premises until the Utilities Superintendent is otherwise advised of such
circumstances.
(Neb. RS 17-537) (1991 Code, § 3-118)
§ 52.20 POLICE REPORTS.
   It shall be the duty of the Municipal Police Department to report to the
Utilities Superintendent all cases of leakage and waste in the use of water and
all violations of the Municipal Code relating to the Water Department. It shall
have the additional duty of enforcing the observance of all such regulations.
(1991 Code, § 3-119)
§ 52.21 INSPECTION.
   The Utilities Superintendent, or his or her duly authorized agents, shall
have free access, at any reasonable time, to all parts of each premises and
building to, or in which, water is delivered for the purpose of examining the
pipes, fixtures, and other portions of the system to ascertain whether there is
any disrepair or unnecessary waste of water.
(Neb. RS 17-537) (1991 Code, § 3-120)
§ 52.22 DESTRUCTION OF PROPERTY.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to willfully or carelessly break,
injure, or deface any building, machinery, apparatus, fixture, attachment, or
appurtenance of the Municipal Water Department. No person may deposit anything
in a stop box or commit any act tending to obstruct or impair the intended use
of any of the abovementioned property without the written permission of the
Utilities Superintendent.
(1991 Code, § 3-121) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 52.23 SWING VALVE REQUIRED.
   To prevent the siphoning of water from a structure back into the municipal
water system when it becomes necessary to disrupt water service and to prevent
damage to customer’s property caused by such siphoning, all customers applying
for new water service and all customers presently serviced may be required in
the discretion of the Utilities Superintendent to have placed on the line a
swing valve (backflow prevention device) of such size and at such location as
is approved by the Utilities Superintendent. If a present customer is required
to place a swing valve on his or her line, the Municipal Clerk or Utilities
Superintendent shall give the property owner notice by personally serving
written notice or by registered letter or certified mail, directed to the last-
known address of such owner or the agent of such owner, directing the placement
of such swing valve. If within 30 days of mailing or giving such notice, the
property owner fails or neglects to cause such placements to be made, the
Utilities Superintendent may cause such work to be done and assess the cost
upon the property served by such water line. Reasons for requiring swing valves
includes, but is not limited to, installation of an underground sprinkler
system, installations or replacement of a water heater, and installation or
replacement of a water softener.
(Neb. RS 17-537) (1991 Code, § 3-122)
§ 52.24 (RESERVED).
§ 52.25 IRRIGATION OF WELLS, CROSS-CONNECTIONS; PROHIBITED; REGISTRATION.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person or persons to dig, drill, or
construct a water well or test hole within the service area of the village
water system, for use for any reason, except that the Village Board may grant
written permission to operate an irrigation well, in the Alluvium (shallow)
aquifer, but not in the Ogallala (deep) aquifer, for commercial irrigation
purposes, for a parcel of land which shall not be less than five acres in size.
No such water well shall be allowed to limit the location of any potable water
well for human consumption, which is intended to become a part of the village
water system.
   (B)   No cross-connections shall be allowed from a non-municipal water well
or from the village water system, to or from the sanitary or storm sewer. The
Utility Superintendent may inspect a premises when necessary to determine that
no such cross-connection or cross-connections exist. If the Utility
Superintendent of the village finds that a cross-connection exists, he or she
shall order the use of the private water well to be permanently discontinued
and the installation of a backflow preventer or backsiphonage device. The
owner, tenant, and lessee shall be liable severally or jointly for all damages
to the village water system and users caused by such cross-connections.
   (C)   All water wells presently existing within the service area of the
village water system shall be registered with the Village Clerk within 60 days
of the effective date of this regulation. All registration forms shall be in
writing and shall set forth:
      (1)   Location of well;
      (2)   Use of water from well or use of the well hole;
      (3)   Depth of well;
      (4)   Size and kind of casing installed; and
      (5)   Pumping equipment used.
   (D)   No existing private water well shall be modified in any manner,
including capping, without written permission from the Village Utility
Superintendent and the Village Board.
(1991 Code, § 3-124) (Ord. 2001-599, passed 8-16-2001) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 52.26 PROHIBITION OF LEAD PIPES, SOLDER, AND FLUX.
   (A)   Any pipe, solders, or flux used in the installation or repair of any
residential or nonresidential facility which is connected to the public water
supply system shall be lead free.
   (B)   For purposes of this section, LEAD FREE shall mean:
      (1)   Solders and flux: not more than 0.2% lead; and
      (2)   Pipe and pipe fittings: not more than 8% lead.
(Neb. RS 71-5301) (1991 Code, § 3-125)
§ 52.27 UNSAFE PHYSICAL CONNECTION TO WATER DISTRIBUTION SYSTEM PROHIBITED;
POTENTIAL BACKFLOW HAZARDS; CUSTOMER ASSESSMENT.
   No customer or other person shall cause, allow, or create any physical
connection between the municipal water distribution system and any pipes,
pumps, hydrants, tanks, steam condensate returns engine jackets, heat
exchangers, other water supplies or any other connection whereby potentially
unsafe or contaminating materials may be discharged or drawn into the municipal
water distribution system. At least one time every five years, customers of the
municipal water distribution and supply system shall be required to assess and
report potential backflow and backsiphonage hazards to the municipality on a
form supplied by the municipality to the customer. The customer shall take any
steps necessary for protection of public health and safety as determined by the
Utilities Superintendent.
(Ord. 448, passed 12-21-1993) (1991 Code, § 3-126) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 52.28 BACKFLOW PREVENTION DEVICES REQUIRED; CUSTOMER INSTALLATION AND
MAINTENANCE TESTING.
   (A)   A customer of the Municipal Water Department may be required by the
Utilities Superintendent to install and maintain a properly located backfow
prevention device at his or her expense appropriate to the potential hazards
set forth in Title 179, Nebraska Department of Health, and approved by the
Utilities Superintendent.
   (B)   The customer shall make application to the Utilities Superintendent to
install a required backfow prevention device on a form provided by the
municipality. The application shall contain at a minimum the name and address
of the applicant, the type of potential hazard required, protection, and the
type of backflow device to be installed including brand and model number.
   (C)   The Utilities Superintendent shall approve or disapprove the
application based on his or her opinion of whether such installation will
protect the municipal water distribution system from potential backflow and
backsiphonage hazards.
   (D)   The installation of the device shall be subject to all other sections
of this code dealing with installation of plumbing, including the use of a
plumber licensed by the municipality if applicable.
   (E)   Such customer shall also certify to the municipality at least one time
annually that the backflow prevention device has been tested by a Nebraska
Department of Health Grade VI Certified Water Operator if the device is
equipped with a test port. Such certification shall be made on a form available
at the office of the Municipal Clerk.
   (F)   Any decision of the Utilities Superintendent may be appealed to the
Board.
(1991 Code, § 3-127) (Ord. 449, passed 12-21-1993)
CHAPTER 53: SEWER DEPARTMENT
Section
General Provisions
   
53.001   Operation and funding
   
53.002   Definition of terms
   
53.003   Application for permit
   
53.004   Sewer contract
   
53.005   Service contracts
   
53.006   Rate setting
   
53.007   Surcharges
   
53.008   Fees; collection of sewer use fees
   
53.009   User charge review
   
53.010   User notification
   
53.011   Classification
   
53.012   Sanitary supply system; destruction of property
Public and Private Sewers
   
53.025   Public sewers required; unlawful deposit of wastes
   
53.026   Public sewers required; unlawful discharge of un-treated sewage
   
53.027   Public sewers required; cesspools, privies, and septic tanks
prohibited
   
53.028   Mandatory hook-up and connection to sewer system
   
53.029   Private sewage disposal; when applicable
   
53.030   Private sewage disposal system; permit required
   
53.031   Private sewage disposal system; permit, when effective; inspections
   
53.032   Private sewage disposal system; specifications
   
53.033   Private sewage disposal system; maintenance
   
53.034   Private sewage disposal system; additional requirements
Installation
   
53.045   Building sewer installation; permit required
   
53.046   Building sewer installation; classification; permit application
   
53.047   Building sewer installation; expense
   
53.048   Installation expense
   
53.049   Repairs and replacement
   
53.050   Building sewer installation; single premises
   
53.051   Building sewer installation; use of existing sewers
   
53.052   Building sewer installation; construction codes
   
53.053   Building sewer installation; unlawful connection
   
53.054   Building sewer installation; inspections
   
53.055   Building sewer installation; excavations
   
53.056   Installation procedure
Prohibited Discharges
   
53.070   Prohibited discharges; stormwater, surface water, groundwater, cooling
water, and process water
   
53.071   Hazardous and prohibited discharges; flammable, toxic, corrosive, and
obstructive substances; preliminary treatment
   
53.072   Hazardous and prohibited discharges; specific prohibitions as
determined by Superintendent
   
53.073   Discharge of hazardous and prohibited substances; rejection,
pretreatment, control of discharge rate or use fee surcharge
   
53.074   Grease, oil, and sand interceptors; when required
   
53.075   Preliminary treatment or flow equalizing facilities; maintenance by
owner
   
53.076   Control manholes/sampling stations; when required; installation and
maintenance
   
53.077   Control manholes/sampling stations; method
   
53.078   Hazardous and prohibited substances; special exceptions permitted; use
fee surcharge
Compliance
   
53.090   Compliance with chapter; inspections generally
   
53.091   Compliance with chapter; inspections; injury liability
   
53.092   Compliance with chapter; inspections; easements
   
53.093   Violation; notice and liability
   
53.094   Municipal powers
   
53.095   Sump pumps
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 53.001 OPERATION AND FUNDING.
   (A)   The village owns and operates the village sewer system through the
Board of Trustees or its authorized agent.
   (B)   For the purpose of defraying the cost of the maintenance and repairing
of any sewer or water utilities in the village, the Board of Trustees may each
year levy a tax not exceeding the maximum limit prescribed by state law on the
taxable value of all the taxable property in the village. The revenue from the
tax shall be known as the Water and Sewer Maintenance Fund and shall be used
exclusively for the purpose of maintenance and repairs of the water and sewer
system.
   (C)   The Board of Trustees or its authorized agent shall have the direct
management and control of the Sewer Department, shall faithfully carry out the
duties of the office, and shall have the authority to adopt rules and
regulations for the sanitary and efficient management of the Department subject
to the supervision and review of the Board of Trustees. The Board of Trustees
shall set the rates to be charged for services rendered by ordinance and shall
file a copy of the rates in the office of the Village Clerk for public
inspection at any reasonable time.
(1991 Code, § 3-201)
Statutory reference:
   Sewage and drainage districts; authority to regulate, see Neb. RS 17-149
   Taxing authority, see Neb. RS 17-925.01
§ 53.002 DEFINITION OF TERMS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BIOCHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND (BOD). The quantity of oxygen utilized in the
biochemical oxidation of organic matter under standard laboratory procedure in
five days at 20°C, expressed in parts per million by weight.
   BUILDING OR HOUSE DRAIN. That part of the lowest horizontal piping of a
drainage system which receives the discharge from soil, waste, or other
drainage pipes inside the walls of the building and conveys it to the building
sewer, beginning five feet (one and one-half meters) outside the inner face of
the building wall.
   BUILDING OR HOUSE SEWER. That part of a house or building drainage system
extending from the house or building drain to its connection with the main
sewer.
   BUILDING SEWER. The extension from the building drain to the public sewer or
other place of disposal.
   COMBINED SEWER. A sewer receiving both surface runoff and sewage.
   EASEMENT. An acquired legal right for the specific use of land owned by
others.
   FLOATABLE OIL. Oil, fat, or grease in a physical state such that it will
separate by gravity from wastewater by treatment in an approved pretreatment
facility. A wastewater shall be considered free of floatable fat if it is
properly pretreated and the wastewater does not interfere with the collection
system.
   GARBAGE. Solid wastes from the domestic and commercial preparation, cooking,
and dispensing of food, and from the handling, storage, and sale of produce.
   INDUSTRIAL WASTES. The liquid wastes from industrial manufacturing
processes, trade, or business as distinct from sanitary sewage.
   MAY. The act referred to is permissive.
   MUNICIPALITY. The Village of Elm Creek, Nebraska.
   NATURAL OUTLET. Any outlet into a watercourse, pond, ditch, lake, or other
body of surface or groundwater.
   NORMAL SEWAGE. Sewage not exceeding maximum tolerance of contamination of
300 milligrams per liter BOD or 350 milligrams per liter of suspended solids.
   PARTS PER MILLION. A weight-to-weight ratio; the parts-per-million value
multiplied by the factor 8.345 shall be equivalent to pounds per million
gallons of water.
   PERSON. Any individual, firm, company, association, society, corporation, or
group.
   pH. The logarithm of the reciprocal of the weight of hydrogen ions in grams
per liter of solution.
   PLUMBING FIXTURES. Receptacles intended to receive and discharge water
liquid or water-carried wastes into the sewer system with which they are
connected.
   PROPERLY SHREDDED GARBAGE. The wastes from the preparation, cooking, and
dispensing of food that have been shredded to such a degree that all particles
will be carried freely under the flow conditions normally prevailing in public
sewers, with no particle greater than one-half inch (1.27 centimeters) in any
dimension.
   PUBLIC SEWER. A sewer in which all owners of abutting properties have equal
rights and is controlled by public authority.
   REPLACEMENT. Expenditures for obtaining and installing equipment,
accessories, or appurtenances which are necessary during the service life of
the treatment works to maintain the capacity and performance for which such
works were designed and constructed.
   SANITARY SEWER. A sewer which carries sewage and to which storm, surface,
and ground waters are not intentionally admitted.
   SERVICE CHARGE. The basic assessment levied on all users of the public sewer
system whose waste does not exceed in strength the concentration values
established as representative of normal sewage.
   SEWAGE. A combination of the water-carried wastes from residences, business
buildings, institutions, and industrial establishments together with such
ground, surface, and storm waters as may be present.
   SEWAGE TREATMENT PLANT. Any arrangement of devices and structures used for
treating sewage.
   SEWAGE WORKS. All facilities for collecting, pumping, treating, and
disposing of sewage.
   SEWER. A pipe or conduit for carrying sewage.
   SEWER SYSTEM. All facilities for collecting, pumping, treating, and
disposing of sewage.
   SHALL. The act referred to is mandatory.
   SLUG. Any discharge of water, sewage, or industrial waste which in
concentration of any given constituent or in quantity of flow exceeds for any
period of duration longer than 15 minutes more than five times the average 24-
hour concentration or flows during normal operation.
   SOIL PIPE. Any pipe which conveys the discharge of water closets with or
without the discharge from other fixtures to the house or building drain.
   STORM SEWER. A sewer which carries storm and surface waters and drainage,
but excludes sewage and industrial wastes, other than unpolluted cooling water.
   SUPERINTENDENT. The Utilities Superintendent of the Village of Elm Creek, or
his or her authorized deputy, agent, or representative.
   SUSPENDED SOLIDS. Solids that either float on the surface of, or are in
suspension in, water sewage, or other liquids, and are removable by filtering.
   TRAP. A fitting or device so constructed as to prevent the passage of air or
gas through a pipe without materially affecting the flow of sewage or waste
through it.
   TRAP SEAL. The vertical distance between the crown weir and the dip of the
trap.
   WASTEWATER FACILITIES. The structures, equipment, and processes required to
collect, carry away, and treat domestic and industrial wastes and dispose of
the effluent.
   WATERCOURSE. A natural or artificial channel for the passage of water either
continuously or intermittently.
(1991 Code, § 3-202)
§ 53.003 APPLICATION FOR PERMIT.
   Any person wishing to connect with the sewer system shall make an
application therefor to the Utilities Superintendent. The Superintendent may
require any applicant to make a service deposit in such amount as he or she
deems necessary subject to the review of the governing body. Sewer service may
not be supplied to any house or building except upon the written order of the
Utilities Superintendent. The Department shall not supply sewer service to any
person outside the corporate limits without special permission from the
governing body; provided, that the entire cost of pipe and other installation
charges shall be paid by such consumers. Nothing herein shall be construed to
obligate the municipality to provide sewer service to nonresidents.
(Neb. RS 17-149, 18-503) (1991 Code, § 3-203)
§ 53.004 SEWER CONTRACT.
   The municipality, through the Municipal Sewer Department, shall furnish
sewer services to persons within its corporate limits whose premises abut a
street or alley in which a commercial main is now or may hereafter be laid. The
municipality may also furnish sewer service to persons whose premises are
situated outside the corporate limits of the municipality, as and when,
according to law, the governing body may see fit to do so. The rules,
regulations, and sewer rental rates hereinafter named in this chapter shall be
considered a part of every application hereafter made for sewer service and
shall be considered a part of the contract between every customer now or
hereafter served. Without further formality, the making of the application on
the part of any applicant or the use of sewer service by present customers
thereof shall constitute a contract between the customer and the municipality
to which said contract both parties are bound. If the customer shall violate
any of the provisions of said contract or any reasonable rules and regulations
that the governing body may hereafter adopt, the Utilities Superintendent, or
his or her agent, may cut off or disconnect the sewer service from the building
or premises of such violation. No further connection for sewer service to said
building or premises shall again be made, save or except by order of the
Superintendent or his or her agent.
(Neb. RS 17-901, 17-902, 18-503) (1991 Code, § 3-204)
§ 53.005 SERVICE CONTRACTS.
   Contracts for sewer service are not transferable. Any person wishing to
change from one location to another shall make a new application and sign a new
contract. If any customer shall move from the premises where service is
furnished, or if the said premises is destroyed by fire or other casualty, he
or she shall at once inform the Utilities Superintendent who shall cause the
sewer service to be shut off from the said premise. If the customer should fail
to give notice, he or she shall be charged for that period of time until the
official in charge of sewers is otherwise advised of such circumstances.
(Neb. RS 17-901, 17-902, 18-503) (1991 Code, § 3-205)
§ 53.006 RATE SETTING.
    As a monthly sewer use fee to be charged each user of the municipal sewer
system of the village, the following classes of users and monthly schedule of
rates, fees, and charges are hereby established and set in accordance with §
53.008 of this code.
   (A)   Class I user: residential user.
      (1)   Single-family dwellings: a rate charge of $26 per month for each
month of service.
      (2)   Duplexes or other multi-family dwellings including rental units in
any single- family dwelling: a rate charge of $26 per month for each occupied
unit for each month of service.
      (3)   Apartment houses: a rate charge of $26 per month for the first
apartment and a rate charge of $13 per month for each additional apartment.
      (4)   Mobile home court: a rate charge of $26 per month for each occupied
unit in place.
      (5)   Housing authority: a rate charge of $26 per month for each occupied
unit for each month of service.
   (B)   Class II user: commercial or industrial user.
      (1)   Schools: a rate charge of $255 per month for each month of service.
      (2)   All other commercial or industrial users: a rate charge of $26 per
month for each month of service.
   (C)   Services outside corporate limits of village. For connections with and
services from the village's sanitary sewage system outside the corporate limits
of the village, each owner/user shall, subject to acceptance of service and
determination by the Chairperson and Village Board of Trustees, pay a rental or
user charge not less than twice that prescribed above for users within the
corporate limits of the village.
(1991 Code, § 3-206) (Ord. 2010-11, passed 12-16-2010; Ord. 2024-10, passed 6-
1-2024)
§ 53.007 SURCHARGES.
   In addition to other elements of the total user charge system in this
chapter, the ordinance on file with the Municipal Clerk shall provide for the
following surcharges.
   (A)   A high strength waste surcharge established for pollutant levels (BOD,
SS, and the like) which exceed the levels contained in the domestic strength
wastewater of the service area. The surcharge shall be expressed as a formula
with a per unit charge established for each applicable pollutant. (See Appendix
B of 40 C.F.R. § 35.900)
   (B)   The authority and intent shall be established to require each user
discharging any toxic pollutants to pay the increased costs of managing the
effluent or the sludge of the treatment works resulting from such discharge.
(1991 Code, § 3-207)
§ 53.008 FEES; COLLECTION OF SEWER USE FEES.
   (A)   All consumers, regardless of class, shall be charged a flat rate for
the use of the village sewer system. Each multi-family residential dwelling
unit and each unit of the Housing Authority shall be considered as a separate
consumer.
   (B)   The governing body has the power and authority to fix the rates to be
paid by the customers of the Sewer Department. The Municipal Clerk shall have
the duty of collecting the rental fees of the customers of the Sewer Department
monthly. If a customer shall for any reason order the service discontinued or
shall vacate the premise, the amount due under the terms of this chapter
together with any rental fees and charges in arrears shall be considered as a
delinquent sewer rental, which is hereby declared to be a lien upon the
premises or real estate for which or from which the sewer was used or supplied,
and upon the refusal of the customer to pay the said delinquent sewer rental,
it shall be collected by being placed upon the assessment roll and tax books
for collection. Charges shall be delinquent 30 days after the due date. Upon
being deemed delinquent, the chief sewer official shall proceed to give notice
to the delinquent customer and demand payment immediately. In the event the
said bill is not paid within seven days after sending such written notice, it
shall be discretionary with the chief sewer official to cut off service
immediately; proved, that if the delinquent customer is a known welfare
recipient, it shall be the duty of the chief sewer official to notify the
customer and the County Welfare Department by certified mail of the proposed
termination.
(1991 Code, § 3-208)
§ 53.009 USER CHARGE REVIEW.
   The governing body shall review, at least annually, the user charge system
and revise the charges, if necessary, to accomplish the following:
   (A)   Maintain the proportional distribution of operation, maintenance and
replacement (OM&R) costs among users and user classes;
   (B)   Generate adequate revenues to pay the costs of OM&R; and
   (C)   Apply excess revenues collected from a class of users to the costs of
OM&R attributable to that class for the next year and adjust the rates
accordingly.
(1991 Code, § 3-209)
§ 53.010 USER NOTIFICATION.
   Each user will be notified, at least annually, with a regular bill, of the
rate and that portion of the user charges ad valorem taxes which are
attributable to wastewater treatment.
(1991 Code, § 3-210)
§ 53.011 CLASSIFICATION.
   The governing body may classify for the purpose of rental fees the customers
of the Municipal Sewer Department; provided, that such classifications are
reasonable and do not discriminate unlawfully against any consumer or group of
consumers. The classification must be approved by the Environmental Protection
Agency, relative to the user charge grant condition.
(Neb. RS 17-925.02) (1991 Code, § 3-211)
§ 53.012 SANITARY SUPPLY SYSTEM; DESTRUCTION OF PROPERTY.
   No person or persons shall maliciously, willfully, or negligently break,
damage, destroy, uncover, deface, or tamper with any structure, appurtenance,
or equipment which is part of the wastewater facilities. Any person or persons
violating this provision shall be subject to immediate arrest under charge of
disorderly conduct.
(1991 Code, § 3-212)
PUBLIC AND PRIVATE SEWERS
§ 53.025 PUBLIC SEWERS REQUIRED; UNLAWFUL DEPOSIT OF WASTES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to place, deposit, or permit to be
deposited in any unsanitary manner on public or private property within the
municipality or within one mile of the corporate limits thereof, or in any area
under the jurisdiction of said municipality, any human or animal excrement,
garbage, or other objectionable waste.
(1991 Code, § 3-213)
§ 53.026 PUBLIC SEWERS REQUIRED; UNLAWFUL DISCHARGE OF UN-TREATED SEWAGE.
   It shall be unlawful to discharge to any natural outlet within the
municipality, or within one mile of the corporate limits thereof, or in any
area under the jurisdiction of said municipality, any sewage or other polluted
waters, except where suitable treatment has been provided in accordance with
subsequent provisions of this chapter.
(1991 Code, § 3-214)
§ 53.027 PUBLIC SEWERS REQUIRED; CESSPOOLS, PRIVIES, AND SEPTIC TANKS
PROHIBITED.
   Except as hereinafter provided, it shall be unlawful to construct or
maintain any privy, privy vault, septic tank, cesspool, or other facility
intended or used for the disposal of sewage.
(1991 Code, § 3-215)
§ 53.028 MANDATORY HOOK-UP AND CONNECTION TO SEWER SYSTEM.
   (A)   The owner of any house, building, or property used for human
residence, employment, recreation, or other purposes situated within the
municipality and abutting on any street, alley, or right-of-way in which there
is now located or may in the future be located a public sanitary or combined
sewer line within 300 feet is hereby required at his or her expense to connect
such facilities directly with the proper public sewer in accordance with §
53.028(B) and other provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   In the event that any property owner, occupant, or lessee shall
neglect, fail, or refuse to make such a connection with the public sewer within
a period of ten days after notice has been given to him or her to do so by
registered mail or by publication in a newspaper in or of general circulation
in the village, the governing body shall have the power to cause the same to be
done, to assess the cost thereof against the property, and to collect the
assessment thus made in the manner provided for collection of other special
taxes and assessments or to collect in the manner provided for the collection
of sewer bills as provided herein.
   (C)   The village may furnish sewer service to persons within its corporate
limits whose property line is not within 300 feet of the said public sewer with
permission from the governing body, provided that the entire cost of pipe and
other installation charges shall be paid by such consumer. Nothing herein shall
be construed to obligate the village to provide sewer service to persons whose
property line is not within 300 feet of said public sewer.
(Ord. 2024-13, passed 10-17-2024)
§ 53.029 PRIVATE SEWAGE DISPOSAL; WHEN APPLICABLE.
   (A)   Where a public sanitary or combined sewer is not available under the
provisions of § 53.028, the building sewer shall be connected to a private
sewage disposal system complying with the provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   At such time as a public sewer becomes available to a property served
by a private wastewater disposal system, as provided in § 53.028, a direct
connection shall be made to the public sewer within 60 days in compliance with
this chapter, and any septic tanks, cesspools, and similar private wastewater
disposal facilities shall be cleaned of sludge and filled with suitable
material.
(1991 Code, § 3-217)
§ 53.030 PRIVATE SEWAGE DISPOSAL SYSTEM; PERMIT REQUIRED.
   Before commencement of construction of a private sewage disposal system, the
owner shall first obtain a written permit signed by the Superintendent. The
application for such permit shall be made on a form furnished by the
municipality, which the applicant shall supplement by any plans,
specifications, and other information as are deemed necessary by the
Superintendent.
(1991 Code, § 3-218)
§ 53.031 PRIVATE SEWAGE DISPOSAL SYSTEM; PERMIT, WHEN EFFECTIVE; INSPECTIONS.
   A permit for a private sewage disposal system shall not become effective
until the installation is completed to the satisfaction of the Superintendent.
He or she shall be allowed to inspect the work at any stage of construction
and, in any event, the applicant for the permit shall notify the Superintendent
when the work is ready for final inspection, and before any underground
portions are covered. The inspection shall be made within 24 hours of the
receipt of notice by the Superintendent.
(1991 Code, § 3-219)
§ 53.032 PRIVATE SEWAGE DISPOSAL SYSTEM; SPECIFICATIONS.
   The type, capacities, location, and layout of a private sewage disposal
system shall comply with all recommendations of the Department of Public Health
of the State of Nebraska. No permit shall be issued for any private sewage
disposal system employing subsurface soil absorption facilities when the area
of the lot is less than 10,000 square feet. No septic tank or cesspool shall be
permitted to discharge to any natural outlet.
(1991 Code, § 3-220)
§ 53.033 PRIVATE SEWAGE DISPOSAL SYSTEM; MAINTENANCE.
   The owner shall operate and maintain the private sewage disposal facilities
in a sanitary manner at all times, at no expense to the municipality.
(1991 Code, § 3-221)
§ 53.034 PRIVATE SEWAGE DISPOSAL SYSTEM; ADDITIONAL REQUIREMENTS.
   No statement contained in §§
53.029 through
53.033 shall be construed to interfere with any additional requirements that
may be imposed by the Health Officer.
(1991 Code, § 3-222)
INSTALLATION
§ 53.045 BUILDING SEWER INSTALLATION; PERMIT REQUIRED.
   No unauthorized person shall uncover, make any connections with or opening
into, use, alter, or disturb any public sewer or appurtenance thereof without
first obtaining a written permit from the Superintendent.
(1991 Code, § 3-223) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 53.046 BUILDING SEWER INSTALLATION; CLASSIFICATION; PERMIT APPLICATION.
   There shall be two classes of building sewer permits:
   (A)   For residential and commercial service; and
   (B)   For service to establishments producing industrial wastes. In either
case, the owner or his or her agent shall make application on a special form
furnished by the municipality. The permit application shall be supplemented by
any plans, specifications, or other information considered pertinent in the
judgment of the Superintendent.
(1991 Code, § 3-224)
§ 53.047 BUILDING SEWER INSTALLATION; EXPENSE.
   All costs and expense incidental to the installation and connection of the
building sewer shall be borne by the owner. The owner shall indemnify the
municipality from any loss or damage that may directly or indirectly be
occasioned by the installation of the building sewer.
(1991 Code, § 3-225)
§ 53.048 INSTALLATION EXPENSE.
   The customer, upon approval of his or her application for sewer service,
shall pay to the Utilities Superintendent a tap fee which compensate the
municipality for the expense of processing his or her application and tapping
the sewer main. The customer shall pay the cost of installation and materials
from property line to his or her premises as well as the tap fee.
(1991 Code, § 3-226)
§ 53.049 REPAIRS AND REPLACEMENT.
   (A)   The Municipal Sewer Department may require the owner of any property
which is within the municipality and connected to the public sewers or drains
to repair or replace any connection line which serves the owner’s property and
is broken, clogged, or otherwise in need of repair or replacement. The property
owner’s duty to repair or replace such a connection line shall include those
portions upon the owner’s property and those portions upon public property or
easements up to and including the point of junction with the public main.
   (B)   The Municipal Clerk shall give the property owner notice by registered
letter or certified mail, directed to the last known address of such owner or
the agent of such owner, directing the repair or replacement of such connection
line. If within 30 days of mailing such notice the property owner fails or
neglects to cause such repairs or replacements to be made, the Utilities
Superintendent may cause such work to be done and assess the cost upon the
property served by such connection.
(Neb. RS 18-1748) (1991 Code, § 3-227)
§ 53.050 BUILDING SEWER INSTALLATION; SINGLE PREMISES.
   A separate and independent building sewer shall be provided for every
building; except where one building stands at the rear of another on an
interior lot and no private sewer is available or can be constructed to the
rear building through an adjoining alley, court, yard, or driveway, the
building sewer from the front building may be extended to the rear building and
the whole considered as one building sewer, but the municipality does not and
will not assume any obligation or responsibility for damage caused by or
resulting from any such single connection aforementioned.
(1991 Code, § 3-228)
§ 53.051 BUILDING SEWER INSTALLATION; USE OF EXISTING SEWERS.
   Old building sewers may be used in connection with new buildings only when
they are found, on examination and test by the Superintendent, to meet all
requirements of this chapter.
(1991 Code, § 3-229)
§ 53.052 BUILDING SEWER INSTALLATION; CONSTRUCTION CODES.
   (A)   The size, slope, alignment, materials of construction of a building
sewer, and the methods to be used in excavating, placing of the pipe, jointing,
testing, and backfilling the trench, shall all conform to the requirements of
the Building and Plumbing Code or other applicable rules and regulations of the
municipality. In the absence of code provisions, or in amplification thereof,
the materials and procedures set forth in appropriate specifications of the
A.S.T.M. and W.P.C.F. Manual of Practice No. 9 shall apply.
   (B)   Whenever possible, the building sewer shall be brought to the building
at an elevation below the basement floor. In all buildings in which any
building drain is too low to permit gravity flow to the public sewer, sanitary
sewage carried by such building drain shall be lifted by an approved means and
discharged to the building sewer.
   (C)   The connection of the building sewer into the public sewer shall
conform to the requirements of the Building and Plumbing Code or other
applicable rules and regulations of the municipality, or the procedures set
forth in appropriate specifications of the A.S.T.M. and the W P.C.F. Manual of
Practice No. 9. All such connections shall be made gas-tight and water-tight,
and verified by proper testing. Any deviation from the prescribed procedures
and materials must be approved by the Superintendent before installation.
(1991 Code, § 3-230)
§ 53.053 BUILDING SEWER INSTALLATION; UNLAWFUL CONNECTION.
   No person shall make connection of roof downspouts, interior and exterior
foundation drains, areaway drains, or other sources of surface runoff or
groundwater to a building sewer or building drain which in turn is connected
directly or indirectly to a public sanitary sewer unless such connection is
approved by the Superintendent for purposes of disposal of polluted surface
drainage; provided, that if responsibility can be determined, the party
responsible for disposal of polluted surface drainage into the public sanitary
sewer shall pay a user charge equivalent to the cost of treating the polluted
drainage.
(1991 Code, § 3-231)
§ 53.054 BUILDING SEWER INSTALLATION; INSPECTIONS.
   The applicant for the building sewer permit shall notify the Superintendent
when the building sewer is ready for inspection and connection to the public
sewer. The connection and testing shall be made under the supervision of the
Superintendent or his or her representative.
(1991 Code, § 3-232)
§ 53.055 BUILDING SEWER INSTALLATION; EXCAVATIONS.
   All excavations for building sewer installation shall be adequately guarded
with barricades and lights so as to protect the public from hazard. Streets,
sidewalks, parkways, and other public property disturbed in the course of the
work shall be restored in a manner satisfactory to the municipality.
(1991 Code, § 3-233)
§ 53.056 INSTALLATION PROCEDURE.
   In making excavations in streets, alleys, or sidewalks for the purpose of
installing pipe or making repairs, the paving, stones, and earth must be
removed and deposited in a manner that will occasion the least inconvenience to
the public and provide for adequate drainage. No person shall leave an
excavation made in the street, alley, or sidewalk open at any time without a
barricade, and during the night, warning lights. After the house sewer is laid,
the public ways and property shall be restored to good condition. If the
excavation in the public ways and property is left open or unfinished for a
period of 24 hours or more, the Utilities Superintendent shall have the duty to
finish or correct the work, and all expenses so incurred shall be charged to
the owner, occupant, or lessee of the property. All installations or repairs of
pipes require one inspection by the Utilities Superintendent. The inspection
shall be made when connections or repairs are complete and before the pipe is
covered. It is the customer’s responsibility to notify the Utilities
Superintendent at the time the work is ready for the inspection. All
installation shall be done under the supervision and strictly in accordance
with the rules, regulations, and specifications for such installation
prescribed by the Utilities Superintendent; provided, that the said rules,
regulations, and specifications have been reviewed and approved by the
governing body.
(1991 Code, § 3-234) Penalty, see §
10.99
PROHIBITED DISCHARGES
§ 53.070 PROHIBITED DISCHARGES; STORMWATER, SURFACE WATER, GROUNDWATER, COOLING
WATER, AND PROCESS WATER.
   (A)   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged any stormwater,
surface water, groundwater, roof runoff, subsurface drainage, including
interior and exterior foundation drains, uncontaminated cooling water, or
unpolluted industrial waters to any sanitary sewer.
   (B)   Stormwater and all other unpolluted drainage shall be discharged to
such sewers as are specifically designated as combined sewers or storm sewers,
or to a natural outlet approved by the Superintendent. Industrial cooling water
or unpolluted process water may be discharged, on approval of the
Superintendent, to a storm sewer, combined sewer, or natural outlet. The
contributor of any identifiable discharge of polluted water to the sanitary
sewer system shall be held responsible for reimbursing the municipality for
such costs. The costs shall be determined by the Superintendent with the
approval of the governing body.
(1991 Code, § 3-235) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 53.071 HAZARDOUS AND PROHIBITED DISCHARGES; FLAMMABLE, TOXIC, CORROSIVE, AND
OBSTRUCTIVE SUBSTANCES; PRELIMINARY TREATMENT.
   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged any of the following
described waters or wastes to any public sewers:
   (A)   Any gasoline, benzene, naphtha, fuel oil, or other flammable or
explosive liquid, solid, or gas;
   (B)   Any waters or wastes containing toxic or poisonous solids, liquids, or
gases in sufficient quantity, either singly or by interaction with other
wastes, to injure or interfere with any waste treatment process, constitute a
hazard to humans or animals, create a public nuisance, or create any hazard in
the receiving waters of the wastewater treatment plant;
   (C)   Any waters or wastes having a pH lower than 5.5, or having any other
corrosive property capable of causing damage or hazard to structures,
equipment, and personnel of the sewage works;
   (D)   Solid or viscous substances in quantities or of such size capable of
causing obstruction to the flow in sewers, or other interference with the
proper operation of the sewage facilities such as, but not limited to, ashes,
cinders, sand, mud, straw, shavings, metal, glass, rags, feathers, tar,
plastics, wood, unground garbage, whole blood, paunch manure, hair and
fleshings, entrails and paper dishes, cups, milk containers, and the like,
either whole or ground by garbage grinders;
   (E)   Any waters or wastes having:
      (1)   A five day BOD greater than 300 parts per million by weight;
      (2)   Containing more than 350 parts per million by weight of suspended
solids;
      (3)   Having an average daily flow greater than 2% of the average sewage
flow of the municipality; or
      (4)   A chlorine requirement greater than demanded by normal sewage as
evaluated by the municipality’s consulting engineer shall be subject to the
review of the Superintendent.
   (F)   Where necessary in the opinion of the Superintendent, the owner shall
provide, at his or her expense, such preliminary treatment as may be necessary
to:
      (1)   Reduce the biochemical oxygen demand to 300 parts per million by
weight;
      (2)   Reduce the suspended solids to 350 parts per million by weight;
      (3)   Control the quantities and rates of discharge of such waters or
wastes; or
      (4)   Reduce the chlorine requirement to conform with normal sewage.
   (G)   Plans, specifications, and other pertinent information relating to
proposed preliminary treatment facilities shall be submitted for the approval
of the Superintendent and no construction of such facilities shall be commenced
until said approvals are obtained in writing.
(1991 Code, § 3-236) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 53.072 HAZARDOUS AND PROHIBITED DISCHARGES; SPECIFIC PROHIBITIONS AS
DETERMINED BY SUPERINTENDENT.
   (A)   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged the following
described substances, materials, waters, or wastes if it appears likely in the
opinion of the Superintendent that such wastes can harm either the sewers,
sewage treatment process, or equipment; have an adverse effect on the receiving
stream; or can otherwise endanger life, limb, public property; or constitute a
nuisance. In forming his or her opinion as to the acceptability of these
wastes, the Superintendent will give consideration to such factors as the
quantities of subject wastes in relation to flows and velocities in the sewers,
materials of construction of the sewers, nature of the sewage treatment
process, capacity of the sewage treatment plant, and other pertinent factors.
   (B)   The substances prohibited are:
      (1)   Any liquid or vapor having a temperature higher than 150°F (65°C);
      (2)   Any water or waste containing fats, wax, grease, or oils, whether
emulsified or not, in excess of 100 mg/l or containing substances which may
solidify or become viscous at temperatures between 32°F and 150°F (0°C and
65°C);
      (3)   Any garbage that has not been properly shredded. The installation
and operation of any garbage grinder equipped with a motor three-fourths
horsepower (0.76 hp metric) or greater shall be subject to the review and
approval of the Superintendent;
      (4)   Any waters or wastes containing strong acid iron pickling wastes,
or concentrated plating solutions whether neutralized or not;
      (5)   Any water or wastes containing iron, chromium, copper, zinc, and
similar objectionable or toxic substances; or wastes exerting an excessive
chlorine requirement, to such degree that any such material received in the
composite sewage at the sewage treatment works exceeds the limits established
by the Superintendent for such materials;
      (6)   Any waters or wastes containing phenols or other taste- or odor-
producing substances, in such concentrations exceeding limits which may be
established by the Superintendent as necessary, after treatment of the
composite sewage, to meet the requirements of state, federal, or other public
agencies of jurisdiction for such discharge to the receiving waters;
      (7)   Any radioactive wastes or isotopes of such half-life or
concentration as may exceed limits established by the Superintendent in
compliance with applicable state or federal regulations;
      (8)   Any waters of wastes having a pH in excess of 9.5;
      (9)   Materials which exert or cause:
         (a)   Unusual concentrations of inert suspended solids (such as, but
not limited to, Fuller’s earth, lime slurries, and lime residues) or of
dissolved solids, (such as but not limited to, sodium chloride or sodium
sulfate);
         (b)   Excessive discoloration (such as, but not limited to, dye wastes
and vegetable tanning solutions);
         (c)   Unusual BOD, chemical oxygen demand, or chlorine requirements in
such quantities as to constitute a significant load on the sewage treatment
works; or
         (d)   Unusual volume of flow or concentration of wastes constituting
“slugs” as defined herein.
      (10)   Waters or wastes containing substances which are not amenable to
treatment or reduction by the sewage treatment processes employed, or are
amenable to treatment only to such degree that the sewage treatment plant
effluent cannot meet the requirements of other agencies having jurisdiction
over discharge to the receiving waters.
(1991 Code, § 3-237) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 53.073 DISCHARGE OF HAZARDOUS AND PROHIBITED SUBSTANCES; REJECTION,
PRETREATMENT, CONTROL OF DISCHARGE RATE OR USE FEE SURCHARGE.
   (A)   If any waters or wastes are discharged or are proposed to be
discharged to the public sewers, which waters contain the substances or possess
the characteristics enumerated in § 53.072, and which in the judgment of the
Superintendent may have a deleterious effect upon the sewage works, processes,
equipment, or receiving waters, or which otherwise create a hazard to life to
constitute a public nuisance, the Superintendent may:
      (1)   Reject the wastes;
      (2)   Require pretreatment to an acceptable condition for discharge to
the public sewers;
      (3)   Require control over the quantities and rates of discharge; and/or
      (4)   Require payment to cover the added cost of handling and treating
the wastes not covered by existing taxes or sewer charges under the provisions
of this chapter.
   (B)   If the Superintendent permits the pretreatment or equalization of
waste flows, the design and installation of the plants and equipment shall be
subject to the review and approval of the Superintendent, and subject to the
requirements of all applicable codes, ordinances, and laws.
(1991 Code, § 3-238)
§ 53.074 GREASE, OIL, AND SAND INTERCEPTORS; WHEN REQUIRED.
   (A)   Grease, oil, and sand interceptors shall be provided when, in the
opinion of the Superintendent, they are necessary for the proper handling of
liquid wastes containing grease in excessive amounts, or any flammable wastes,
sand, or other harmful ingredients; except that such interceptors shall not be
required for private living quarters or dwelling units. All interceptors shall
be of a type and capacity approved by the Superintendent and shall be located
as to be readily and easily accessible for cleaning and inspection.
   (B)   In the maintaining of these interceptors, the owner(s) shall be
responsible for the proper removal and disposal by appropriate means of the
captured material and shall maintain records of the dates, and means of
disposal which are subject to review by the Superintendent. Any removal and
hauling of the collected materials not performed by owner’s personnel must be
performed by currently licensed waste disposal firms.
(1991 Code, § 3-239)
§ 53.075 PRELIMINARY TREATMENT OR FLOW EQUALIZING FACILITIES; MAINTENANCE BY
OWNER.
   Where preliminary treatment or flow-equalizing facilities are provided for
any waters or wastes, they shall be maintained continuously in satisfactory and
effective operation by the owner at his or her expense.
(1991 Code, § 3-240)
§ 53.076 CONTROL MANHOLES/SAMPLING STATIONS; WHEN REQUIRED; INSTALLATION AND
MAINTENANCE.
   When required by the Superintendent, the owner of any property serviced by a
building sewer carrying industrial wastes shall install a suitable control
manhole together with such necessary meters and other appurtenances in the
building sewer to facilitate observation, sampling, and measurement of the
wastes. Such manhole, when required, shall be accessibly and safely located,
and shall be constructed in accordance with plans approved by the
Superintendent. The manhole shall be installed by the owner at his or her
expense, and shall be maintained by him or her so as to be safe and accessible
at all times.
(1991 Code, § 3-241)
§ 53.077 CONTROL MANHOLES/SAMPLING STATIONS; METHOD.
   All measurements, tests, and analyses of the characteristics of waters and
wastes to which reference is made in this chapter, shall be determined in
accordance with the latest edition of Standard Methods for the Examination of
Water and Wastewater, published by the American Public Health Association, and
shall be determined at the control manhole provided, or upon suitable samples
taken at said control manhole. In the event no special manhole has been
required, the control manhole shall be considered to be the nearest downstream
manhole in the public sewer to the point at which the building sewer is
connected. Sampling shall be carried out by customarily accepted methods to
reflect the effect of constituents upon the sewage works and to determine the
existence of hazards to life, limb, and property. (The particular analyses
involved will determine whether a 24 hour composite of all outfalls of a
premises is appropriate or whether a grab sample or samples should be taken.
Normally, but not always, BOD and suspended solids analyses are obtained from
24 hour composites of all outfalls whereas pHs are determined from periodic
grab samples.)
(1991 Code, § 3-242)
§ 53.078 HAZARDOUS AND PROHIBITED SUBSTANCES; SPECIAL EXCEPTIONS PERMITTED; USE
FEE SURCHARGE.
   No statement contained in this chapter shall be construed as preventing any
special agreement or arrangement between the municipality and any industrial
concern whereby an industrial waste of unusual strength or character may be
accepted by the municipality for treatment, subject to payment therefor, by the
industrial concern.
(1991 Code, § 3-243)
COMPLIANCE
§ 53.090 COMPLIANCE WITH CHAPTER; INSPECTIONS GENERALLY.
   The Superintendent and other duly authorized employees of the municipality
bearing proper credentials and identification shall be permitted to enter all
properties for the purposes of inspection, observation, measurement, sampling,
and testing system in accordance with the provisions of this chapter. The
Superintendent or his or her representatives shall have no authority to inquire
into any processes including metallurgical, chemical, oil, refining, ceramic,
paper, or other industries beyond that point having a direct bearing on the
kind and source of discharge to the sewers or waterways or facilities for waste
treatment.
(1991 Code, § 3-244)
§ 53.091 COMPLIANCE WITH CHAPTER; INSPECTIONS; INJURY LIABILITY.
   While performing the necessary work on private properties referred to in §
53.090, the Superintendent or duly authorized employees of the municipality
shall observe all safety rules applicable to the premises established by the
company and the company shall be held harmless for injury or death to the
municipal employees and the municipality shall indemnify the company against
loss or damage to its property by municipal employees and against liability
claims and demands for personal injury or property damage asserted against the
company and growing out of the gauging and sampling operation, except as such
may be caused by negligence or failure of the company to maintain safe
conditions as required in § 53.075.
(1991 Code, § 3-245)
§ 53.092 COMPLIANCE WITH CHAPTER; INSPECTIONS; EASEMENTS.
   The Superintendent and other duly authorized employees of the municipality
bearing proper credentials and identification shall be permitted to enter all
private properties through which the municipality holds a duly negotiated
easement for the purposes of, but not limited to, inspection, observation,
measurement, sampling, repair, and maintenance of any portion of the sewage
works lying within said easement. All entry and subsequent work, if any, on
said easement, shall be done in full accordance with the terms of the duly
negotiated easement pertaining to the private property involved.
(1991 Code, § 3-246)
§ 53.093 VIOLATION; NOTICE AND LIABILITY.
   (A)   Any person found to be violating any provision of this chapter, except
§
53.078, shall be served by the municipality with written notice stating the
nature of the violation and providing a reasonable time limit for the
satisfactory correction thereof. The offender shall, within the period of time
stated in such notice, permanently cease all violations.
   (B)   Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall
become liable to the municipality for any expense, loss, or damage occasioned
the municipality by reason of such violation.
(1991 Code, § 3-247)
§ 53.094 MUNICIPAL POWERS.
   The municipality has the legal authority to enforce its system of user
charges, industrial cost recovery charge, and sewer use regulations on all
existing or future users of the system whether located inside or outside the
municipal limits.
(1991 Code, § 3-248)
§ 53.095 SUMP PUMPS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to allow the drainage, including water
and other matter, to drain into the municipal sanitary sewer system. Such
drainage from sump pumps may be discharged into the municipal storm sewer
system.
(1991 Code, § 3-250) Penalty, see §
10.99
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
   Chapter
      
70.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
71.   TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
      
72.   PARKING REGULATIONS
      
73.   RECREATIONAL VEHICLES
      
74.   PARKING SCHEDULES
CHAPTER 70: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
70.01   Definitions
   
70.02   Littering
   
70.03   Glass; pointed objects
   
70.04   Signs; defacing or interfering with
   
70.05   Signs, unauthorized display
   
70.06   Motorcycles; helmet required
   
70.07   Child passengers; use of restraint system or occupant protection system
   
70.08   Engine braking; prohibited
   
70.09   Unattended motor vehicle
 
   
70.99   Penalty
§ 70.01 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   The words and phrases used in this chapter pertaining to motor
vehicles and traffic regulations shall be construed as defined in Chapter 60,
Article 6 of the Revised Statutes of Nebraska, 1943, as now existing or
hereafter amended. If not defined in the designated statutes, the word or
phrase shall have its common meaning.
(Neb. RS 60-606 through 60-676)
   (B)   The definition of MOTOR VEHICLE is hereby revised as shown below; all
other terms in the definitions section of the traffic provisions remain the
same.
      MOTOR VEHICLE. Every self-propelled land vehicle, not operated upon
rails, except bicycles, mopeds, self-propelled chairs used by persons who are
disabled, and electric personal assistive mobility devices.
(Neb. RS 60-638)
   (C)   All references to DEPARTMENT OF ROADS shall be updated to DEPARTMENT
OF TRANSPORTATION.
(1991 Code, § 5-101) (Ord. 462, passed 5-19-1994; Ord. 2016-08, passed 3-24-
2016; Ord. 2018-19, passed 5-24-2018)
§ 70.02 LITTERING.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to drop or cause to be left upon any
municipal highway, street, or alley, except at places designated by the
governing body, any rubbish, debris, or waste, and any person so doing shall be
guilty of littering.
(Neb. RS 39-683) (1991 Code, § 5-301) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.03 GLASS; POINTED OBJECTS.
   No person shall throw, cast, lay, or place upon any street any thorns,
nails, tacks, glass, bottles, window glass, or other articles made of, or
containing, glass, and in case of an accident causing the breaking of any glass
upon any street, the owner or person in charge of such glass, or the person
responsible for such breakage, shall at once remove or cause the same to be
removed from the street.
(Neb. RS 39-683) (1991 Code, § 5-302) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.04 SIGNS; DEFACING OR INTERFERING WITH.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to willfully deface, injure, remove,
obstruct, or interfere with any official traffic sign or signal.
(Neb. RS 39-619) (1991 Code, § 5-303) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.05 SIGNS, UNAUTHORIZED DISPLAY.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to maintain or display upon, or in view
of any street, any unofficial sign, signal, or device which purports to be, is
an imitation of, or resembles an official traffic sign or signal which attempts
to direct the movement of traffic, or which hides from view, or interferes with
the effectiveness of any official sign or signal. Every such prohibited sign,
signal, or device is hereby declared to be a public nuisance, and any police
officer is hereby empowered to remove the same or cause it to be removed
without notice.
(Neb. RS 39-618) (1991 Code, § 5-304) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.06 MOTORCYCLES; HELMET REQUIRED.
   A person shall not operate or be a passenger on a motorcycle or moped on any
highway unless such person is wearing a protective helmet of the type and
design manufactured for use by operators of such vehicles and unless such
helmet is secured properly on his or her head with a chin strap while the
vehicle is in motion. All such protective helmets shall be designed to reduce
injuries to the user resulting from head impacts and shall be designed to
protect the user by remaining on the user’s head, deflecting blows, resisting
penetration, and spreading the force of impact. Each such helmet shall consist
of lining, padding, and chin strap and shall meet or exceed the standards
established in the United States Department of Transportation’s Federal Motor
Vehicle Safety Standard No. 218, 49 C.F.R. 571.218, for motorcycle helmets.
(Neb. RS 60-6,278 through 60-6,282) (1991 Code, § 5-305) (Ord. 465, passed 5-
19-1994) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.07 CHILD PASSENGERS; USE OF RESTRAINT SYSTEM OR OCCUPANT PROTECTION
SYSTEM.
   (A)   For purposes of this section, OCCUPANT PROTECTION SYSTEM has the
meaning provided in Neb. RS 60-6,265.
   (B)   (1)   Any person who drives any motor vehicle which has or is required
to have an occupant protection system shall ensure that:
         (a)   All children up to six years of age being transported by such
vehicle use a child passenger restraint system of a type which meets Federal
Motor Vehicle Safety Standard 213 as developed by the National Highway Traffic
Safety Administration, as such standard existed on January 1, 2009, and which
is correctly installed in such vehicle; and
         (b)   All children six years of age and less than 18 years of age
being transported by such vehicle use an occupant protection system.
      (2)   Division (B)(1) above shall apply to every motor vehicle which is
equipped with an occupant protection system or is required to be equipped with
restraint systems pursuant to Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standard 208, as
such standard existed on January 1, 2009, except taxicabs, mopeds, motorcycles,
and any motor vehicle designated by the manufacturer as a 1963 year model or
earlier which is not equipped with an occupant protection system.
   (C)   Whenever any licensed physician determines, through accepted medical
procedures, that use of a child passenger restraint system by a particular
child would be harmful by reason of the child’s weight, physical condition, or
other medical reason, the provisions of division (B) above shall be waived. The
driver of any vehicle transporting such a child shall carry on his or her
person or in the vehicle a signed written statement of the physician
identifying the child and stating the grounds for such waiver.
   (D)   The drivers of authorized emergency vehicles shall not be subject to
the requirements of division (B) above when operating such authorized emergency
vehicles pursuant to their employment.
   (E)   A driver of a motor vehicle shall not be subject to the requirements
of division (B) above if the motor vehicle is being operated in a parade or
exhibition and the parade or exhibition is being conducted in accordance with
applicable state law and local ordinances and resolutions.
(Neb. RS 60-6,267)
   (F)   (1)   A person violating any provision of division (B) above is guilty
of an offense. The failure to provide a child restraint system for more than
one child in the same vehicle at the same time, as required in division (B)
above, shall not be treated as a separate offense.
      (2)   Enforcement of division (B)(1)(b) above shall be accomplished only
as a secondary action when an operator of a motor vehicle has been cited or
charged with a violation of some other offense, unless the violation involves a
person under the age of 18 years riding in or on any portion of the vehicle not
designed or intended for the use of passengers when the vehicle is in motion.
(Neb. RS 60-6,268)
(1991 Code, § 5-306) (Ord. 2002-14, passed 2-21-2002; Ord. 2006-15, passed 5-
26-2005; Ord. 2005-29, passed 7-28-2005)
§ 70.08 ENGINE BRAKING; PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful within the village limits for any operator of a motor
vehicle with a total gross vehicle weight rating of 7,000 pounds or more,
including its towed unit or units, to attempt to retard the forward movement of
said vehicle by initiating a device to contain the engine’s compression, thus
rapidly slowing the engine’s revolutions per minute.
(1991 Code, § 5-307) (Ord. 2007-02, passed 4-26-2007) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person, or any person’s agent or servant, who violates any of the
provisions of this chapter, unless otherwise specifically provided herein,
shall be deemed guilty of an offense and, upon conviction thereof, shall be
fined in any sum not exceeding $500. A new violation shall be deemed to have
been committed every 24 hours of failure to comply with the provisions of this
chapter.
   (B)   (1)   Whenever a nuisance exists as defined in this chapter, the
municipality may proceed by a suit in equity to enjoin, abate, and remove the
same in the manner provided by law.
      (2)   Whenever, in any action, it is established that a nuisance exists,
the court may, together with the fine or penalty imposed, enter an order of
abatement as a part of the judgment in the case.
(Neb. RS 17-207, 17-505, 18-1720, 18-1722) (1991 Code, § 5-701) (Ord. 2002-07,
passed 2-21-2002)
§ 70.09 UNATTENDED MOTOR VEHICLE.
   No person having control or charge of a motor vehicle shall allow such
vehicle to stand unattended on a highway without first doing the following:
   (A)   Stopping the motor of such vehicle;
   (B)   Except for vehicles equipped with motor starters that may be actuated
without a key, locking the ignition, removing the key from the ignition;
   (C)   Effectively setting the brakes thereon; and
   (D)   When standing upon any roadway, turning the front wheels of such
vehicle to the curb or side of such roadway.
(Neb. RS 60-6,168) (Ord. 2018-6, passed 5-24-2018)
CHAPTER 71: TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
Section
   
71.01   Truck routes
   
71.02   Traffic lanes; designation
   
71.03   Arterial streets; designation
   
71.04   Turning: U-turns
   
71.05   Turning; generally
   
71.06   Right-of-way
   
71.07   Right-of-way; slow moving vehicles
   
71.08   Right-of-way; emergency vehicles
   
71.09   Crosswalks
   
71.10   Signs, signals
   
71.11   Signs, traffic control devices, traffic surveillance devices; defacing
or interfering with
   
71.12   School crossing zones; designation
   
71.13   School crossing zones; overtaking and passing
   
71.14   Maximum speed limits
   
71.15   Restrictions on direction of travel
   71.16   General authority
§ 71.01 TRUCK ROUTES.
   The Board of Trustees may, by resolution, designate certain streets in the
municipality that trucks shall travel upon, and it shall be unlawful for
persons operating trucks to travel on other streets than those designated for
trucks, unless to pick up or deliver goods, wares, or merchandise, and in that
event, the operator of the truck shall return to the truck routes as soon as
possible in traveling through or about the municipality. The Board of Trustees
shall cause notices to be posted or shall erect signs indicating the streets so
designated as truck routes.
(1991 Code, § 5-201) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Truck routes authorized, see Neb. RS 60-681
§ 71.02 TRAFFIC LANES; DESIGNATION.
   The Board of Trustees may, by resolution, mark lanes for traffic on street
pavements at such places as it may deem advisable.
(1991 Code, § 5-202)
§ 71.03 ARTERIAL STREETS; DESIGNATION.
   The governing body may, by resolution, designate any street or portion
thereof as an arterial street and shall provide for appropriate signs or
markings when such street has been so designated.
(Neb. RS 39-697) (1991 Code, § 5-203)
§ 71.04 TURNING: U-TURNS.
   No vehicle shall be turned so as to proceed in the opposite direction. No
vehicle shall be turned so as to proceed in the opposite direction at any
intersection or where a sign is posted indicating that U-turns are prohibited.
(Neb. RS 39-651, 39-697) (1991 Code, § 5-204) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 71.05 TURNING; GENERALLY.
   Vehicles turning to the right into an intersecting street shall approach
such intersection in the lane of traffic nearest to the right hand side of the
highway and must turn the corner as near the right hand curb as possible to
keep between the curb to the right and the center of the intersection of the
two streets. The driver of a vehicle intending to turn to the left shall
approach such centerline of the highway, and in turning shall pass as near as
possible to the center of the intersection, passing as closely as practicable
to the right thereof before turning such vehicle to the left. For the purposes
of this section, the center of the intersection shall mean the meeting point of
the medial lines of the highways intersecting one another.
(Neb. RS 39-650) (1991 Code, § 5-205)
§ 71.06 RIGHT-OF-WAY.
   (A)   When two vehicles approach, or enter an intersection at approximately
the same time, the driver of the vehicle on the left shall yield the right-of-
way to the vehicle on the right when the paths of such vehicles intersect and
there is danger of a collision, unless otherwise directed by a municipal police
officer stationed at the intersection.
   (B)   The driver of a vehicle intending to turn to the left within an
intersection, or into an alley, private road, or driveway, shall yield the
right-of-way to any vehicle approaching from the opposite direction which is
within the intersection or so close thereto as to constitute an immediate
hazard.
   (C)   The driver of a vehicle on any street shall yield the right-of-way to
a pedestrian crossing such street within any clearly marked crosswalk, or at
any regular pedestrian crossing at the end of a block where the movement of
traffic is being regulated by traffic officers or traffic direction devices.
Every pedestrian crossing a street at any point other than a pedestrian
crossing, crosswalk, or intersection shall yield the right-of-way to vehicles
upon the street.
   (D)   The driver of a vehicle emerging from or entering an alley, building,
private road, or driveway shall yield the right-of-way to any pedestrian
approaching on any sidewalk.
   (E)   The driver of a vehicle entering a municipal street from a private
road or drive shall yield the right-of-way to all vehicles approaching on such
streets.
   (F)   The driver of a vehicle upon a street shall yield the right-of-way to
authorized emergency vehicles when the latter are operated upon official
business and the drivers thereof make proper use of visual or audible signals.
(Neb. RS 60-6,146 through 60-6,154) (1991 Code, § 5-206) (Ord. 463, passed 5-
19-1994)
§ 71.07 RIGHT-OF-WAY; SLOW MOVING VEHICLES.
   Vehicles moving slowly shall keep as close as possible to the curb on the
right, allowing more swiftly moving vehicles free passage to their left.
Vehicles in motion shall be kept between the curb at the right and the center
of the street.
(Neb. RS 39-622, 39-697) (1991 Code, § 5-207)
§ 71.08 RIGHT-OF-WAY; EMERGENCY VEHICLES.
   Upon the approach of any authorized emergency vehicle, every vehicle within
one block of the route of such emergency vehicle shall immediately stop, except
at the time they are on or crossing a street intersection, in which event, such
vehicle shall drive clear of the street intersection and then stop. Every
vehicle along the route of such emergency vehicle shall immediately move to a
position as near the right hand curb as possible and remain there until such
authorized emergency vehicle or vehicles have passed; provided, said vehicles
are operated on official business and the drivers thereof make use of proper
visual or audible signals.
(Neb. RS 39-640) (1991 Code, § 5-208)
§ 71.09 CROSSWALKS.
   The Board of Trustees may, by resolution, establish and maintain by
appropriate devices, markers, or lines upon the street crosswalks at
intersections where there is particular danger to pedestrians crossing the
street, and at such other places as it may deem necessary.
(1991 Code, § 5-209)
§ 71.10 SIGNS, SIGNALS.
   The Board of Trustees may, by resolution, provide for the placing of stop
signs or other signs, signals, standards, or mechanical devices in any street
or alley under the municipality’s jurisdiction for the purpose of regulating or
prohibiting traffic thereon. The resolution shall describe the portion of the
street or alley wherein traffic is to be regulated or prohibited, the
regulation or prohibition, the location where the sign, signal, standard, or
mechanical device shall be placed, and the hours when the regulation or
prohibition shall be effective. It shall be unlawful for any person to fail,
neglect, or refuse to comply with that regulation or prohibition.
(1991 Code, § 5-210) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Obedience to, placement of, and authority over traffic-control devices, see
Neb. RS 60-6,119 through 60-6,121
§ 71.11 SIGNS, TRAFFIC CONTROL DEVICES, TRAFFIC SURVEILLANCE DEVICES; DEFACING
OR INTERFERING WITH.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to willfully or maliciously deface,
injure, remove, obstruct, knock down, or interfere with any official traffic
sign or signal, traffic control device, or traffic control surveillance device.
(Neb. RS 39-619, 39-619.01) (1991 Code, § 5-211) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 71.12 SCHOOL CROSSING ZONES; DESIGNATION.
   (A)   Neb. RS 60-682.01 provides fines for operating a motor vehicle in
violation of authorized speed limits and states that the fines are doubled if
the violation occurs within a school crossing zone.
   (B)   Neb. RS 60-6,134.01 makes it unlawful for a person operating a motor
vehicle to overtake and pass another vehicle in a school crossing zone in which
the roadway has only one lane of traffic in each direction and provides fines
for violation of that prohibition.
   (C)   The governing body may, by resolution, designate to the public any
area of a roadway, other than a freeway, as a school crossing zone through the
use of a sign or traffic control device as specified by the governing body in
conformity with the Manual on Uniform Traffic Control Devices. Any school
crossing zone so designated starts at the location of the first sign or traffic
control device identifying the school crossing zone and continues until a sign
or traffic control device indicates that the school crossing zone has ended.
(Neb. RS 60-658.01) (1991 Code, § 5-212) (Ord. 571, passed 11-19-1998) Penalty,
see §
10.99
§ 71.13 SCHOOL CROSSING ZONES; OVERTAKING AND PASSING.
   A person operating a motor vehicle may not overtake and pass another vehicle
in any school crossing zone designated by the governing body in which the
roadway has only one lane of traffic in each direction.
(Neb. RS 60-6,134.01) (1991 Code, § 5-213) (Ord. 572, passed 11-19-1998)
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 71.14 MAXIMUM SPEED LIMITS.
   (A)   Except when a special hazard exists that requires lower speed for
compliance with Neb. RS 60-6,185, the limits set forth in this section and Neb.
RS 60-6,187, 60-6,188, 60-6,305, and 60-6,313 shall be the maximum lawful
speeds unless reduced pursuant to division (B), and no person shall drive a
vehicle on a highway at a speed in excess of such maximum limits:
      (1)   Twenty-five miles per hour in any residential district;
      (2)   Twenty miles per hour in any business district;
      (3)   Fifty miles per hour upon any highway that is gravel or not
dustless surfaced;
      (4)   Fifty-five miles per hour upon any dustless-surfaced highway not a
part of the state highway system;
      (5)   Sixty-five miles per hour upon any four-lane divided highway not a
part of the state highway system;
      (6)   Sixty-five miles per hour upon any part of the state highway system
other than an expressway, a super-two highway, or a freeway.
   (B)   The maximum speed limits established in division (A) may be reduced by
the Department of Transportation or the Board of Trustees pursuant to Neb. RS
60-6,188.
   (C)   The Board of Trustees may erect and maintain suitable signs along
highways under its jurisdiction in such number and at such locations as it
deems necessary to give adequate notice of the speed limits established
pursuant to division (A) or (B) upon such highways.
(Neb. RS 60-6,186) (Ord. 2019-2, passed 3-28-2019)
§ 71.15 RESTRICTIONS ON DIRECTION OF TRAVEL.
   (A)   The Board of Trustees with respect to highways under its jurisdiction
may designate any highway, roadway, part of a roadway, or specific lanes upon
which vehicular traffic shall proceed in one direction at all times or at such
times as shall be indicated by traffic control devices.
   (B)   Except for emergency vehicles, no vehicle shall be operated, backed,
pushed, or otherwise caused to move in a direction which is opposite to the
direction designated by competent authority on any deceleration lane,
acceleration lane, access ramp, shoulder, or roadway.
   (C)   A vehicle which passes around a roundabout shall be driven only to the
right of the central island while on the circulatory roadway in such
roundabout.
(Ord. 2021-30, passed 12-21-2021)
Statutory reference:
   For similar state law, see Neb. RS 60-6,138
§ 71.16 GENERAL AUTHORITY.
   (A)   The Board of Trustees may, in its jurisdiction, enact regulations
permitting, prohibiting, and controlling the use of motor vehicles, minibikes,
motorcycles, off-road recreation vehicles of any and all types, electric
bicycles, electric bicycles, other powered vehicles, electric personal
assistive mobility devices, and vehicles which are not self-propelled. Any
person who operates any of such vehicles without the permission of the Board or
its designated representative or in a place, time, or manner which has been
prohibited by the Board shall be guilty of an offense.
   (B)   The Board may further authorize the supervising official of any area
under its ownership or control to permit, control, or prohibit operation of any
motor vehicle, minibike, motorcycle, off-road recreational vehicle of any or
all types, electric bicycles, other powered vehicle, electric personal
assistive mobility device, or vehicle which is not self-propelled on all or any
portion of any area under its ownership or control at any time by posting or,
in case of an emergency, by personal notice. Any person operating any such
vehicle where prohibited, where not permitted, or in a manner so as to endanger
the peace and safety of the public or as to harm or destroy the natural
features or manmade features of any such area shall be guilty of an offense.
(Neb. RS 60-678) (Ord. 2024-4, passed 1-18-2024)
CHAPTER 72: PARKING REGULATIONS
Section
   
72.01   Generally
   
72.02   Designation
   
72.03   Areas of prohibited parking
   
72.04   Obstructing alley
   
72.05   Alleys
   
72.06   Fire hydrants and stations
   
72.07   Street intersections
   
72.08   Obstructing traffic
   
72.09   Curb
   
72.10   Display or repair
   
72.11   Current registration
   
72.12   Time limit
   
72.13   Snow removal
   
72.14   Emergency vehicles
   
72.15   Removal of illegally parked vehicles
§ 72.01 GENERALLY.
   (A)   No person shall park any vehicle, or approach the curb with a vehicle,
except when headed in the direction of the traffic. Vehicles, when parked,
shall stand parallel with and adjacent to the curb or edge of the roadway, in
such manner as to have both right wheels within 12 inches of the curb or edge
of the roadway, and so as to leave at least four feet between the vehicle so
parked and any other parked vehicles, except where the governing body
designates that vehicles shall be parked at an angle so as to have the front
right wheel at the curb or edge of the roadway.
   (B)   Where stalls are designated either on the curb or pavement, vehicles
shall be parked within such stalls. No vehicle shall be parked upon a roadway
when there is a shoulder adjacent to the roadway which is available for
parking.
(Neb. RS 60-680, 60-6,167) (1991 Code, § 5-501) (Ord. 467, passed 5-19-1994)
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 72.02 DESIGNATION.
   The governing body may, by resolution, designate any street, or portion
thereof, where vehicles shall be parked parallel with and adjacent to the curb
or at an angle so as to have the right front wheel at the curb.
(Neb. RS 39-673, 39-697) (1991 Code, § 5-502)
§ 72.03 AREAS OF PROHIBITED PARKING.
   The Board of Trustees may, by resolution, set aside any street, alley,
public way, or portion thereof where the parking of a particular kind or class
of vehicle shall be prohibited, or where the parking of any vehicle shall be
prohibited. No vehicle prohibited from parking thereon shall stand or be parked
adjacent to the curb of the street, alley, public way, or portion thereof,
longer than a period of time necessary to load and unload freight or
passengers.
(1991 Code, § 5-503) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 72.04 OBSTRUCTING ALLEY.
   No vehicle, while parked, shall have any portion thereof projecting into any
alley entrance.
(Neb. RS 39-697) (1991 Code, § 5-504) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 72.05 ALLEYS.
   No vehicle shall be parked in any alley, except for the purpose of loading
or unloading during the time necessary to load or unload, which shall not
exceed the maximum limit of one-half hour. Every vehicle while loading or
unloading in any alley shall be parked in such a manner as will cause the least
obstruction possible to traffic in the alley.
(1991 Code, § 5-505) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 72.06 FIRE HYDRANTS AND STATIONS.
   No vehicle shall be parked within 15 feet in either direction of any fire
hydrant nor within 20 feet of the driveway entrance to any fire station. The
curb space within the area of 15 feet in either direction of the fire hydrant
shall be painted red to indicate this prohibition.
(Neb. RS 60-6,166) (1991 Code, § 5-506) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 72.07 STREET INTERSECTIONS.
   Except in compliance with traffic-control devices, no vehicle shall be
parked or left standing for any purpose, except momentarily to load or
discharge passengers, within 25 feet of the intersection or curb lines, or, if
none, then within 15 feet of the intersection of property lines, nor where the
curb lines are painted red to indicate this prohibition.
(1991 Code, § 5-507) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Authority, see Neb. RS 60-6,166
§ 72.08 OBSTRUCTING TRAFFIC.
   No person shall, except in case of an accident or emergency, stop any
vehicle in any location where that stopping will obstruct any street,
intersection, or entrance to an alley or public or private drive.
(1991 Code, § 5-508) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 72.09 CURB.
   (A)   No vehicle shall park on any street with its left side to the curb,
unless the street has been designated to be a one-way street by the Board of
Trustees. Vehicles must not be parked at any curb in such a position as to
prevent another vehicle already parked at the curb from moving away.
   (B)   It shall be the duty of the Board of Trustees or its agent to cause
the curb space to be painted and keep the same painted as provided in this
chapter. No person, firm, or corporation shall paint the curb of any street or
in any manner set aside or attempt to prevent the parking of vehicles in any
street, or part thereof, except at those places where the parking of vehicles
is prohibited by the provisions of this chapter. The marking or designating of
portions of streets or alleys where the parking of vehicles is prohibited or
limited shall be done only by the municipality through its proper officers, at
the direction of the Board of Trustees.
(1991 Code, § 5-509) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 72.10 DISPLAY OR REPAIR.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to park upon any street, alley, or
public place within this municipality any vehicle displayed for sale. No person
shall adjust or repair any automobile or motorcycle, or race the motor of same,
while standing on the public streets or alleys of this municipality, except in
case of breakdown or other emergency requiring same. No person or employee
connected with a garage or repair shop shall use sidewalks, streets, or alleys
in the vicinity of the garage or shop for the purpose of working on automobiles
or vehicles of any description.
(1991 Code, § 5-510) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 72.11 CURRENT REGISTRATION.
   It shall be unlawful to park or place on the streets, alleys, or other
public property any vehicle without first securing a current registration as
provided by law.
(1991 Code, § 5-512) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 72.12 TIME LIMIT.
   (A)    The Board of Trustees may, by resolution, entirely prohibit or fix a
time limit for the parking and stopping of vehicles on any street, streets,
public parking area, or district designated by that resolution, and the parking
or stopping of any vehicle in any such street, streets, public parking area, or
district for a period of time longer than fixed in the resolution shall
constitute a violation of this chapter.
   (B)   The parking of a motor vehicle on a public street for over 72
consecutive hours is unlawful, except where a different maximum time limit is
posted.
   (C)   Public parking areas. The parking of a motor vehicle, semi-truck and/
or semitrailer, a recreational vehicle, such as Class A, B, or C RVs, pop-up
campers, travel trailers, fifth wheels, toy haulers, truck campers or any
similar recreational vehicle, boat, or any trailer, such as a boat trailer,
camping trailer, hauling trailer, or any other type of trailer, on a public
parking area for over 72 consecutive hours is unlawful, except where a
different maximum time limit is posted. For the purposes of this chapter, a
PUBLIC PARKING AREA is defined as any public parking lot or parking space
within the corporate limits of the village that is not located on a public
street or alley.
(Ord. 2021-23, passed 7-26-2021)
§ 72.13 SNOW REMOVAL.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to park or stand any vehicle on any street or
alley in the municipality at any time within 12 hours after a snowfall of three
inches or more has occurred within a 24-hour period unless the snow has been
removed within that time.
   (B)   The Board of Trustees or the municipal police may order any street or
alley, or portion thereof, vacated for weather emergencies or street
maintenance. Notice shall be given by personally notifying the owner or
operator of a vehicle parked on that street or alley or by posting appropriate
signs along those streets or alleys. These signs shall be posted not less than
four hours prior to the time that the vacation order is to be effective. Any
person parking a vehicle in violation of this section shall be subject to the
penalties provided for violation in this chapter, and the vehicle may be
removed and parked, under the supervision of the municipal police, to a
suitable nearby location without further notice to the owner or operator of the
vehicle.
(1991 Code, § 5-514) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Authority to regulate during snow emergencies, see Neb. RS 17-557
§ 72.14 EMERGENCY VEHICLES.
   The provisions of this chapter regulating the movement, parking, and
standing of vehicles shall not apply to authorized emergency vehicles, as
defined in this title, while the driver of the vehicle is operating the same in
an emergency in the necessary performance of public duties.
(1991 Code, § 5-515)
Statutory reference:
   Privileges of and conditions on authorized emergency vehicles, see Neb. RS
60-6,114
§ 72.15 REMOVAL OF ILLEGALLY PARKED VEHICLES.
   (A)    Whenever any police officer shall find a vehicle standing upon a
street, alley, or public parking area in violation of any of the provisions of
this chapter, that individual may remove the vehicle, have the vehicle removed,
or require the driver or other person in charge of the vehicle to move the
vehicle to a position off the roadway of that street or alley or from that
street, alley, or public parking area.
   (B)   The owner or other person lawfully entitled to the possession of any
vehicle towed or stored shall be charged with the reasonable cost of towing and
storage fees. Any such towing or storage fee shall be a lien upon the vehicle
prior to all other claims. Any person towing or storing a vehicle shall be
entitled to retain possession of the vehicle until the charges are paid. The
lien provided for in this section shall not apply to the contents of any
vehicles.
(1991 Code, § 5-516) (Ord. 2021-23, passed 7-26-2021)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 60-6,165
CHAPTER 73: RECREATIONAL VEHICLES
Section
General Provisions
   
73.01   Bicycle operation
All-Terrain Vehicles, Utility-Type Vehicles and Golf Carts
   
73.10   Definitions
   
73.11   Operation; restrictions
   
73.12   Lights required; when
   
73.13   Equipment required
   
73.14   Modification prohibited
   
73.15   Competitive events; exemptions
   
73.16   Accident; report required
   
73.17   Concurrent state penalty
   
73.18   Registration
   
73.19   Non-registration penalty
   
73.20   Enforcement
 
   
73.99   Violation; penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 73.01 BICYCLE OPERATION.
   (A)   No person shall operate a bicycle on a street or highway within the
municipality with another person on the handlebars or in any position in front
of the operator.
   (B)   No bicycle shall be operated faster than is reasonable and proper, but
every bicycle shall be operated with reasonable regard to the safety of the
operator and any other persons upon the streets and highways.
   (C)   Persons operating bicycles shall observe all traffic signs and stop at
all stop signs.
   (D)   No bicycle shall be operated on any street or highway from sunset to
sunrise without a headlight visible from the front thereof for not less than
500 feet on a clear night and a red reflector on the rear of a type which shall
be visible on a clear night from all distances between 100 feet and 600 feet to
the rear when directly in front of lawful lower beams of headlights on a motor
vehicle. A red light visible from a distance of 500 feet to the rear may be
used in addition to such red reflector.
   (E)   Any person who operates a bicycle upon a street or highway shall not
ride more than single file except on parts of streets or highways set aside for
the exclusive use of bicycles.
   (G)   Any person who operates a bicycle upon a roadway at less than the
normal speed of traffic at the time and place and under conditions then
existing shall ride as near to the right hand curb or right hand edge of the
roadway as practicable except when:
      (1)   Overtaking and passing another bicycle or vehicle proceeding in the
same direction;
      (2)   Preparing for a left turn onto a private road or driveway or at an
intersection;
      (3)   Reasonably necessary to avoid conditions that make it unsafe to
continue along the right hand curb or right hand edge of the roadway, including
fixed or moving objects, stopped or moving vehicles, bicycles, pedestrians,
animals, or surface hazards;
      (4)   Riding upon a lane of substandard width which is too narrow for a
bicycle and a vehicle to travel safely side by side within the lane; or
      (5)   Lawfully operating a bicycle on the paved shoulders of a highway
included in the state highway system as provided in Neb. RS 60-6,142.
   (H)   Any person who operates a bicycle upon a roadway with a posted speed
limit of 35 mph or less on which traffic is restricted to one direction of
movement and which has two or more marked traffic lanes may ride as near to the
left hand curb or left hand edge of the roadway as practicable. Whenever a
person operating a bicycle leaves the roadway to ride on the paved shoulder or
leaves the paved shoulder to enter the roadway, the person shall clearly signal
his or her intention and yield the right-of-way to all other vehicles.
   (I)   No person shall park a bicycle on any sidewalk unless a bicycle stand
is located on said sidewalk.
   (J)   No person shall operate a bicycle on the sidewalks within the business
district.
(Neb. RS 60-6,315, 60-6,317, 60-6,318) (1991 Code, § 5-401) (Ord. 464, passed
5-19-1994) Penalty, see §
73.99
ALL-TERRAIN VEHICLES, UTILITY-TYPE VEHICLES AND GOLF CARTS
§ 73.10 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purposes of this section:
   ALL-TERRAIN VEHICLE. Any motorized off-highway vehicle which (a) is 50
inches or less in width, (b) has a dry weight of 900 pounds or less, (c)
travels on four or more low-pressure tires, (d) is designed for operator use
only with no passengers or is specifically designed by the original
manufacturer for the operator and one passenger, (e) has a seat or saddle
designed to be straddled by the operator, and (f) has handlebars or any other
steering assembly for steering control.
(Neb. RS 60-6,355)
   GOLF CART VEHICLE. A vehicle that has at least four wheels, has a maximum
level ground speed of less than 20 miles per hour, has a maximum payload
capacity of 1,200 pounds, has a maximum passenger capacity of not more than
four persons, is designed and manufactured for operation on a golf course for
sporting and recreational purposes, and is not being operated within the
boundaries of a golf course.
   STREET or HIGHWAY. The entire width between the boundary limits of any
street, road, avenue, boulevard, or way which is publicly maintained when any
part thereof is open to the use of the public for purposes of vehicular travel.
(Neb. RS 60-624)
   UTILITY-TYPE VEHICLE. Any motorized off-highway vehicle which (a) is not
less than 48 inches nor more than 74 inches in width; (b) is not more than 165
inches, including the bumper, in length; (c) has a dry weight of not less than
900 nor more than 2,500 pounds; (d) travels on four or more low-pressure tires;
and (e) is equipped with a steering wheel and bench or bucket-type seating
designed for at least two people to sit side-by-side. UTILITY-TYPE VEHICLE does
not include golf carts or low-speed vehicles.
(Neb. RS 60-6,355)
(Ord. 2022-3, passed 9-22-2022)
§ 73.11 OPERATION; RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   An all-terrain vehicle, utility-type vehicle or golf cart vehicle may
be operated on streets and highways within the corporate limits of the village
only if the operator and the vehicle comply with the provisions of this chapter
and Neb. RS Ch. 60.
   (B)   An all-terrain vehicle, utility-type vehicle or golf cart vehicle may
be operated only between the hours of sunrise and sunset and shall not be
operated at a speed in excess of 30 miles per hour, or 20 miles per hour for a
golf cart vehicle. When operating an all-terrain vehicle, utility-type vehicle
or golf cart vehicle as authorized in division (A) of this section, the
headlight and taillight of the vehicle shall be on and the vehicle shall be
equipped with a bicycle safety flag which extends not less than five feet above
ground attached to the rear of such vehicle. The bicycle safety flag shall be
triangular in shape with an area of not less than 30 square inches and shall be
day-glow in color.
   (C)   Any person operating an all-terrain vehicle, utility-type vehicle or
golf cart vehicle as authorized in division (A) of this section shall have:
      (1)   A valid Class O operator's license; and
      (2)   Liability insurance coverage for the all-terrain vehicle, utility-
type vehicle or golf cart vehicle while operating the all-terrain vehicle,
utility-type vehicle or golf cart vehicle on a street or highway. The person
operating the all-terrain vehicle, utility-type vehicle or golf cart vehicle
shall provide proof of such insurance coverage to any peace officer requesting
such proof within five days of such a request.
   (D)   All-terrain vehicles, utility-type vehicles or golf cart vehicles may
be operated without complying with divisions (B) and (C) of this section on
streets and highways in parades which have been authorized by the state or any
department, board, commission, or political subdivision of the state.
   (E)   An all-terrain vehicle, utility-type vehicle or golf cart vehicle
shall not be operated on any controlled-access highway with more than two
marked traffic lanes. Divisions (A) through (C) and (F) of this section
authorize and apply to operation of an all-terrain vehicle, utility-type
vehicle or golf cart vehicle only on a street or highway other than a
controlled-access highway with more than two marked traffic lanes.
   (F)   Subject to division (E) of this section, the crossing of a street or
highway shall be permitted by an all-terrain vehicle, utility-type vehicle or
golf cart vehicle without complying with divisions (B) and (C) of this section
only if:
      (1)   The crossing is made at an angle of approximately 90 degrees to the
direction of the street or highway and at a place where no obstruction prevents
a quick and safe crossing;
      (2)   The vehicle is brought to a complete stop before crossing the
shoulder or roadway of the street or highway;
      (3)   The operator yields the right-of-way to all oncoming traffic that
constitutes an immediate potential hazard;
      (4)   In crossing a divided highway, the crossing is made only at an
intersection of such highway and another highway; and
      (5)   Both the headlight and taillight of the vehicle are on when the
crossing is made.
(Neb. RS 60-6,356)
   (G)   No passengers shall be allowed in the cargo area of an all-terrain
vehicle or utility-type vehicle.
(Ord. 2022-3, passed 9-22-2022)
§ 73.12 LIGHTS REQUIRED; WHEN.
   Every all-terrain vehicle, utility-type vehicle or golf cart vehicle shall
display a lighted headlight and taillight during the period of sunset to
sunrise and at any time when visibility is reduced due to insufficient light or
unfavorable atmospheric conditions.
(Neb. RS 60-6,357)
(Ord. 2022-3, passed 9-22-2022)
§ 73.13 EQUIPMENT REQUIRED.
   Every all-terrain vehicle, utility-type vehicle or golf cart vehicle shall
be equipped with (1) a brake system maintained in good operating condition; (2)
an adequate muffler system in good working condition; and (3) a U.S. Forest
Service qualified spark arrester.
(Neb. RS 60-6,358)
(Ord. 2022-3, passed 9-22-2022)
§ 73.14 MODIFICATION PROHIBITED.
   No person shall:
   (A)   Equip the exhaust system of an all-terrain vehicle, utility-type
vehicle or golf cart vehicle with a cutout, bypass or similar device; or
   (B)   Operate an all-terrain vehicle, utility-type vehicle or golf cart
vehicle with an exhaust system so modified; or
   (C)   Operate an all-terrain vehicle, utility-type vehicle or golf cart
vehicle with the spark arrester removed or modified except for use in closed-
course competition events.
(Neb. RS 60-6,359)
(Ord. 2022-3, passed 9-22-2022)
§ 73.15 COMPETITIVE EVENTS; EXEMPTIONS.
   All-terrain vehicles, utility-type vehicles or golf cart vehicles
participating in competitive events may be exempted from §§
73.11 to
73.14 at the discretion of the Director of Motor Vehicles of the State of
Nebraska.
Neb. RS 60-6,360)
(Ord. 2022-3, passed 9-22-2022)
§ 73.16 ACCIDENT; REPORT REQUIRED.
   If an accident results in the death of any person or in the injury of any
person which requires the treatment of the person by a physician, the operator
of each all-terrain vehicle, utility-type vehicle or golf cart vehicle involved
in the accident shall give notice of the accident in the same manner as
provided in Neb. RS 60-699.
(Neb. RS 60-6,361)
(Ord. 2022-3, passed 9-22-2022)
§ 73.17 CONCURRENT STATE PENALTY.
   Any violation of §§
73.11 through
73.14 of this chapter which is also a violation under Neb. RS Ch. 60 may be
punished under the penalty provisions of such chapter.
(Neb. RS 60-6, 362)
(Ord. 2022-3, passed 9-22-2022)
§ 73.18 REGISTRATION.
   (A)   An all-terrain vehicle, utility-type vehicle or golf cart vehicle may
be operated on streets and highways within the corporate limits of the village
only if such vehicle is registered by the village, displays a valid
registration sticker and is maintained pursuant to the provisions of this
chapter.
   (B)   Upon proper execution of an application, a registration fee of $25
shall be paid to the village. Such fee shall cover the costs of the initial
inspections and issuance of a registration sticker. Such registration shall be
valid for the calendar year for which such sticker is issued. Replacement
stickers during the same year may be purchased at cost.
   (C)   Upon payment of the fee, an inspection of the vehicle shall be
scheduled by the Village Clerk at its registered location, if within the
village, or at the Village Clerk's office. Such inspection shall be made by
village staff.
   (D)   Upon such inspection, and a determination by village staff that the
vehicle from a visual examination of the vehicle, appears to comply with the
provisions of this chapter, the designated official shall issue and affix a
registration sticker to the vehicle on the front left of the vehicle as may be
determined by the designated official. If an inspection sticker is not issued
after two inspections, the fee shall be forfeited.
   (E)   The inspection and issuance of a registration sticker shall not
relieve the operator or registered owner from compliance with Neb. RS Ch. 60 or
this code, nor is such inspection or issuance intended to create any obligation
on the part of the village for such compliance, nor shall the operator or
registered owner rely on such inspection or issuance as to such compliance.
(Ord. 2022-3, passed 9-22-2022)
§ 73.19 NON-REGISTRATION PENALTY.
   (A)   Notwithstanding any other provision of this code, the sole penalty
regarding failure to register or display a valid registration sticker pursuant
to §
73.18 shall be those penalties contained in this section.
   (B)   Upon the first violation of the provisions of §
73.18, which shall be deemed a violation by both the operator and the
registered owner, a warning may be issued by the enforcement officer.
   (C)   Upon the second violation of the provisions of §
73.18, which shall be deemed a violation by both the operator and the
registered owner, the penalty shall be a $25 fine paid to the village. The
amount of such fine may be adjusted from time to time by village ordinance.
   (D)   Upon either the third violation of the provisions of this chapter,
which shall be deemed a violation by both the operator and the registered
owner, or the failure to pay the fine set out in this section within 14 days of
issuance, the penalties shall be:
      (1)   The immediate revocation of the particular vehicle's registration,
if any; and
      (2)   The immediate suspension of the operator and registration holder
from applying for a registration for a period of one year from the date of such
violation.
   (E)   Such penalties set out in this section may be waived by the Village
Board upon a showing of unusual circumstances not within the control of the
operator or registered owner.
(Ord. 2022-3, passed 9-22-2022)
§ 73.20 ENFORCEMENT.
   Any law enforcement officer of the state or of any political subdivision,
including conservation officers of the Game and Parks Commission, shall be
charged with the enforcement of the provisions of §§
73.10 to
73.16 of this chapter.
(Ord. 2022-3, passed 9-22-2022)
§ 73.99 VIOLATION; PENALTY.
   Any person who shall violate or refuse to comply with the enforcement of any
of the provisions of this chapter, set forth at full length herein or
incorporated by reference, shall be deemed guilty of an offense and upon
conviction thereof shall be fined not more than $500 for each offense. A new
violation shall be deemed to have been committed every 24 hours of such failure
to comply.
(Ord. 2022-3, passed 9-22-2022)
CHAPTER 74: PARKING SCHEDULES
Schedules
   
I.   No parking
SCHEDULE I. NO PARKING.
   (A)   (1)   It is the desire of the village to restrict the parking of
vehicles on Front Street to a one hour period between the hours of 7:00 a.m. to
7:00 p.m. of each day.
      (2)   The procedure for removal of illegally parked vehicles contained in
Ord. 5-516 shall apply.
      (3)   Appropriate signage shall be placed on Front Street in order for
the public to be aware of the restriction.
   (B)   There shall be no parking and the village shall erect, as necessary,
no parking sign(s) along the east side of South Mill Street from Clark Avenue
to Arendt Avenue within the village limits.
(Res. 2011-06, passed 8-25-2011; Res. 2014-11, passed 6-26-2014)
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
90.   NUISANCES; HEALTH AND SANITATION
      
91.   ANIMALS
      
92.   FIRE PROTECTION AND PREVENTION
      
93.   PUBLIC WAYS AND PROPERTY
      
94.   RECREATION AND LEISURE
CHAPTER 90: NUISANCES; HEALTH AND SANITATION
Section
   
90.01   Definition
   
90.02   Abatement procedure
   
90.03   Jurisdiction
   
90.04   Adjoining land owners; intervention before trial
   
90.05   Dead or diseased trees
   
90.06   Inspection
 
   
90.99   Penalty
§ 90.01 DEFINITION.
   (A)   General definition. For the purpose of the is chapter, the following
definition shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      NUISANCE. Consists of doing any unlawful act, or omitting to perform a
duty, or suffering or permitting any condition or thing to be or exist, which
act, omission, condition, or thing either:
         (a)   Injures or endangers the comfort, repose, health or safety of
others;
         (b)   Offends decency;
         (c)   Is offensive to the senses;
         (d)   Unlawfully interferes with, obstructs or tends to obstruct or
renders dangerous for passage any public or private street, highway, sidewalk,
stream, ditch or drainage;
         (e)   In any way renders other persons insecure in life or the use of
property;
         (f)   Essentially interferes with the comfortable enjoyment of life
and property; or
         (g)   Tends to depreciate the value of the property of others.
   (B)   Specific definition. The maintaining, using, placing, depositing,
leaving, or permitting of any of the following specific acts, omissions,
places, conditions, and things caused to be or remain in or upon any private
lot, building, structure or premises, or in or upon any street, avenue, alley,
park or parkway, or at any other public or private place, of any one or more of
the following conditions or things are hereby declared to be and constitute
NUISANCES ; provided that this enumeration shall not be deemed to be
conclusive:
      (1)   Any odorous, putrid, unsound, or unwholesome grain, meat, hides,
skins, feathers, vegetable matter, or the whole or any part of any dead animal,
fish or fowl;
      (2)   Privies, vaults, cesspools, dumps, pits or like places which are
not securely protected from flies or rats, or which are foul or malodorous;
      (3)   The emission of smoke, dust, fumes, gases, mists, odors, or
polluted air from any source that is injurious or dangerous to human health and
safety;
      (4)   Filthy, littered or trash-covered cellars, house-yards, barnyards,
stable-yards, factory-yards, vacant areas in rear of stores, granaries, vacant
lots, houses, buildings or premises;
      (5)   Dead animals or dead animals buried within the corporate limits
and/or the zoning jurisdiction of the municipality;
      (6)   Animal manure in any quantity which is not securely protected from
flies and the elements, or which is kept or handled in violation of any
ordinance of the municipality;
      (7)   Hauling any garbage, waste, or refuse matter through the streets,
alleys, and public ways except when the same is loaded and conveyed in such a
way that none of the contents shall be spilled;
      (8)   Liquid household waste, human excreta, garbage, butcher's trimmings
and offal, parts of fish or any waste vegetable or animal matter in any
quantity; provided, nothing herein contained shall prevent the temporary
retention of waste in receptacles in a manner provided by the Municipal
Administrator, nor the dumping of non-putrefying waste in a place and manner
provided by the Municipal Administrator;
      (9)   Tin cans, bottles, glass, cans, ashes, small pieces of scrap iron,
wire metal articles, bric-a-brac, broken stone or cement, broken crockery,
broken glass, broken plaster, and all trash or abandoned material, unless the
same be kept in covered bins or galvanized iron receptacles;
      (10)   Trash, litter, rags, accumulations of barrels, boxes, crates,
packing crates, mattresses, bedding, excelsior, packing hay, straw or other
packing material, lumber not neatly piled, scrap iron, tin or other metal not
neatly piled, old automobiles or parts thereof, or any other waste materials
when any of said articles or materials create a condition in which flies or
rats may breed or multiply, or which may be a fire danger, or which are so
unsightly as to depreciate property values in the vicinity thereof;
      (11)   Any unsafe building, unsightly building, billboard, or other
structure, or any old, abandoned or partially destroyed building or structure
or any building or structure commenced and left unfinished, which buildings,
billboards or other structures are either a fire hazard, a menace to the public
health or safety, or are so unsightly as to depreciate the value of property in
the vicinity thereof;
      (12)   All places used or maintained as junk yards, or dumping grounds,
or for the wrecking and disassembling of automobiles, trucks, tractors, or
machinery of any kind, or for the storing or leaving of worn-out, wrecked or
abandoned automobiles, trucks, tractors, or machinery of any kind, or of any of
the parts thereof, or for the storing or leaving of any machinery or equipment
used by contractors or builders or by other persons, which said places are kept
or maintained so as to essentially interfere with the comfortable enjoyment of
life or property by others, or which are so unsightly as to tend to depreciate
property values in the vicinity thereof;
      (13)   Stagnant water permitted or maintained on any lot or piece of
ground;
      (14)   Stockyards, granaries, mills, pig pens, cattle pens, chicken pens
or any other place, building or enclosure, in which animals or fowls of any
kind are confined, or premises on which are stored tankage or any other animal
or vegetable matter, or on which any animal or vegetable matter including grain
is being processed, when said places in which said animals are confined, or
said premises on which said vegetable or animal matter is located, are
maintained and kept in such a manner that foul and noxious odors are permitted
to emanate therefrom, to the annoyance of inhabitants of the municipality, or
are maintained and kept in such a manner as to be injurious to the public
health;
      (15)   Dead or diseased trees within the right-of-way of streets and/or
alleys within the corporate limits of the village, or on private property
within the one mile zoning jurisdiction beyond the corporate limits;
      (16)   Any condition which allows the perpetuating of insects and
rodents;
      (17)   Pits or excavations within the municipality not being used for the
purpose of building where such pits or excavations are made and the leaving of
any such pits or excavations in an exposed condition for a period of 24 hours
or longer;
      (18)   Permitting, maintaining or allowing weeds, rank grass, sweet
clover, any growth of worthless vegetation 12 inches or more in height, and
other plants of rank growth as defined by Nebraska Statutes and the Nebraska
Department of Health Regulations on lots and grounds and on the streets and
alleys on which the same abut;
      (19)   The burning or disposal of refuse, sawdust, oil, fuel oil or other
materials in such a manner as to cause or permit ashes, sawdust, suet, gases or
other materials arising from such burning to damage the property of the
residents of the municipality or to injure and endanger the health, comfort or
repose of persons, or to injure the property of any person;
      (20)   The throwing, depositing, placing or accumulation of litter on any
lot, tract or piece of ground within this municipality. LITTER shall include,
but not be limited to:
         (a)   Trash, rubbish, refuse, garbage, paper, rag and ashes;
         (b)   Wood, plaster, cement, brick or stone building rubble;
         (c)   Grass, leaves and worthless vegetation;
         (d)   Offal and dead animals; and
         (e)   Any machine or machines, vehicle or vehicles, wind turbines, or
parts of a machine, vehicle, or wind turbine which have lost their identity,
character, utility or serviceability as such through deterioration, dismantling
or the ravages of time, are inoperative or unable to perform their intended
functions, or are cast off, discarded or thrown away or left as waste, wreckage
or junk;
      (21)   Any vehicle which is not properly registered, or is inoperable,
wrecked, junked, or partially dismantled and remaining longer than 30 days on
private property. This does not apply to a vehicle in an enclosed building, a
vehicle on the premises of a business enterprise operated in a lawful place and
manner, when necessary to the lawful operation of such business enterprise
(such as a licensed salvage dealer, motor vehicle dealer or farm implement
dealer), or a vehicle in an appropriate storage place or depository maintained
in a lawful place and manner, and so long as the premises which said vehicle is
located is not a nuisance and is maintained in a healthful and safe condition.
VEHICLE means the same as defined by Neb. RS 60-136; a motor vehicle, all-
terrain vehicle, minibike, trailer, or semitrailer. PROPERLY REGISTERED means
as required by Nebraska Statutes;
      (22)   Any structure or part of a structure which remains or is damaged
to present a dangerous or unsafe condition to the public including, but not
limited to, structures damaged by fire, damaged by natural events or elements
such as wind, tornadoes, earthquakes, flooding or settling of the ground;
damaged by insect infestation; damaged due to the failure to provide reasonable
maintenance; structures occupied or unoccupied which have broken windows,
animals, insects, transients, or create an attraction to children; structures
which, in the opinion of the Municipal Administrator, present an unsafe or
dangerous condition to those on or near the property; unfinished structures
where no occupancy permit has been issued and any building permit has lapsed
for more than 30 days; after 18 months from the date of the first building
permit and where no inspection for newly completed work has been requested from
the municipality within the last 45 days; or
      (23)   All other things specifically designated as nuisances elsewhere in
this Code.
(1991 Code, §§ 4-301, 4-302) (Ord. 2019-39, passed 11-20-2019) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Authority to regulate and abate nuisances, see Neb. RS 18-1720
§ 90.02    ABATEMENT PROCEDURE.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of every owner or occupant of real estate in the
municipality to keep that real estate free of public nuisances. Upon
determination of the Municipal Administrator that the owner or occupant has
filed to keep that real estate free of public nuisances, notice to abate and
remove the nuisance and notice of the right to a hearing before the Board of
Trustees and the manner in which it may be requested shall be given to the
owner or occupant, or the owner's or occupant's duly authorized agent, by
personal service or certified mail. The notice shall describe the condition as
found by the Municipal Administrator and state that the condition has been
declared a public nuisance and that the condition must be remedied at once.
Within ten days after the receipt of the notice, if the owner or occupant of
the real estate does not request a hearing or fails to comply with the order to
abate and remove the nuisance, the municipality shall have the work done and
may levy and assess the costs and expenses of the work upon the real estate so
benefited in the same manner as other special taxes for improvements are levied
and assessed.
   (B)   If the owner or occupant requests in writing a hearing with the Board
of Trustees, the Board of Trustees shall fix a time and place at which a
hearing will be held. Notice of the hearing shall be given by personal service
or certified mail and require the owner or occupant to appear before the Board
of Trustees to show cause why that condition should not be found to be a public
nuisance and remedied. This notice shall be given not less than seven nor more
than 14 days before the time of the hearing. Upon the date fixed for the
hearing and pursuant to the notice, the Board of Trustees shall hear all
objections made by the owner or occupant and shall hear evidence submitted by
the Municipal Administrator. If, after consideration of all the evidence, the
Board of Trustees finds that the condition is a public nuisance, it shall, by
resolution, order and direct the owner or occupant to remedy the public
nuisance at once. If the owner or occupant refuses or neglects to promptly
comply with the order of the Board of Trustees, the Board of Trustees shall
proceed to cause the abatement of the described public nuisance and may levy
and assess the costs and expenses of the work upon the real estate so benefited
in the same manner as other special taxes for improvements are levied and
assessed.
(1991 Code, § 4-303) (Ord. 2016-01, passed 3-24-2016; Ord. 2019-39, passed 11-
20-2019)
Statutory reference:
   Authority to regulate and abate nuisances, see Neb. RS 18-1720
§ 90.03    JURISDICTION.
   The Municipal Administrator and County Sheriff shall enforce this Municipal
Code against all nuisances. The jurisdiction of the Municipal Administrator,
County Sheriff, and court shall extend to, and the territorial application of
this chapter shall include, all territory adjacent to the limits of the
municipality within one mile thereof and all territory within the corporate
limits.
(1991 Code, § 4-304) (Ord. 2019-39, passed 11-20-2019)
Statutory reference:
   Authority to regulate and abate nuisances, see Neb. RS 18-1720
   Zoning jurisdiction, see Neb. RS 17-1001
§ 90.04    ADJOINING LAND OWNERS; INTERVENTION BEFORE TRIAL.
   In cases of appeal from an action of the Board of Trustees condemning real
property as a nuisance or as dangerous under the police powers of the
municipality, the owners of the adjoining property may intervene in the action
at any time before trial.
(Neb. RS 19-710) (1991 Code, § 4-305)
§ 90.05 DEAD OR DISEASED TREES.
   (A)   It is hereby declared a nuisance for a property owner to permit,
allow, or maintain any dead or diseased trees within the right-of-way of
streets within the corporate limits of the municipality.
   (B)   It is hereby declared a nuisance for a property owner to permit,
allow, or maintain any dead or diseased trees on private property within the
corporate limits of the municipality. For the purpose of carrying out the
provisions of this section, the municipal police shall have the authority to
enter upon private property to inspect the trees thereon.
   (C)   Notice to abate and remove such nuisance and notice of the right to a
hearing and the manner in which it may be requested shall be given to each
owner or owner’s duly authorized agent and to the occupant, if any, by personal
service or certified mail. Within 30 days after the receipt of such notice, if
the owner or occupant of the lot or piece of ground does not request a hearing
or fails to comply with the order to abate and remove the nuisance, the
municipality may have such work done and may levy and assess all or any portion
of the costs and expenses of the work upon the lot or piece of ground so
benefitted in the same manner as other special taxes for improvements are
levied or assessed.
(Neb. RS 17-555, 18-1720, 28-1321) (1991 Code, § 4-306) (Ord. 493, passed 2-16-
1995; Ord. 2016-13, passed 3-24-2016)
§ 90.06 INSPECTION.
   The Municipal Administrator or his/her designee shall have the authority and
it shall be his/her duty to enter into and examine at any and all times all
buildings, lots and places or all descriptions within the municipality for the
purpose of ascertaining the conditions thereof so far as the public health and
safety may be affected thereby. If the property owner or occupant of any
building or premises in the municipality prevents or attempts to prevent any
employee of the municipality or its agent from entering or examining such
building or premises for the purpose described above during reasonable hours,
the municipality may then request an administrative search warrant from the
district court.
(Ord. 2019-39, passed 11-20-2019)
§ 90.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person, or any person’s agent or servant, who violates any of the
provisions of this chapter, unless otherwise specifically provided herein,
shall be deemed guilty of an offense and upon conviction thereof shall be fined
in any sum not exceeding $500. A new violation shall be deemed to have been
committed every 24 hours of failure to comply with the provisions of this
chapter.
   (B)   (1)   Whenever a nuisance exists as defined in this chapter, the
municipality may proceed by a suit in equity to enjoin, abate, and remove the
same in the manner provided by law.
      (2)   Whenever, in any action, it is established that a nuisance exists,
the court may, together with the fine or penalty imposed, enter an order of
abatement as a part of the judgment in the case.
(Neb. RS 17-207, 17-505, 18-1720, 18-1722) (1991 Code, § 4-401) (Ord. 2002-07,
passed 2-21-2002)
CHAPTER 91: ANIMALS
Section
Dogs
   
91.001   Definitions
   
91.002   Limit on number
   
91.003   Business premises
   
91.004   Shelters and enclosures; sanitation
General Provisions
   
91.025   Impounded animals; strays; dogs at large
   
91.026   Impounded animals; notification of owners
   
91.027   Impounded animals; disposition of unredeemed animals
   
91.028   Impounded animals; destruction of animals
   
91.029   Impoundment; unnecessary if owner is known
   
91.030   Damage by dog; liability of owner
   
91.031   Animals and fowl; noisy and offensive
   
91.032   Dangerous dogs; actions required; costs; limitations on transport;
permanent relocation; procedure
   
91.033   Dangerous dogs; confinement required; warning signs
   
91.034   Dangerous dogs; confiscation; when; costs
   
91.035   Dangerous dogs; disposal by court order
   
91.036   Dangerous dogs; violation; penalty
   
91.036.01   Dangerous dogs; serious bodily injury; penalty; defense
   
91.037   Dangerous dogs; violation; conviction; effect
   
91.038   Fighting dogs
   
91.039   Dogs or cats; killing and poisoning
   
91.040   Animals; transient owners
   
91.041   Animal waste
Rabies Control
   
91.050   Rabies vaccination
   
91.051   Rabies tags; required; presumption of violation; display
   
91.052   Rabies vaccination certificate required
   
91.053   Rabies suspected; impoundment; quarantine of animal biting a person
   
91.054   Rabies control; surrender of biting animals; release of uninfected
animals
   
91.055   Rabies control; procedure when suspected animal dies
   
91.056   Rabies control; unauthorized destruction or removal of suspected
animals
   
91.057   Rabies control; cost of confinement
   
91.058   Rabies control; capture impossible
   
91.059   Confinement of female pets in heat
   
91.060   Rabid dogs; proclamation
   
91.061   Definitions
   
91.062   Post-incident management
   
91.063   Domestic or hybrid animal or livestock; post-exposure management
Additional Provisions
   
91.075   Interference with animal control officer
   
91.076   Animal shelter
   
91.077   Right of entry and seizure
   
91.078   Abandonment, neglect and mistreatment
   
91.079   Prohibition
   
91.080   Issuance of special permit
   
91.081   Nuisance
   
91.082   Pitting; prohibited
   
91.083   Pitting; spectators prohibited
 
Chickens
   
91.090   Poultry; chickens; permit requirements; restrictions
DOGS
§ 91.001 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ABANDON. To leave any animal for any length of time without making effective
provisions for its food, water, or other care as is reasonably necessary for
the animal’s health.
   ANIMAL.  Any live vertebrate creature, domestic or wild, including dogs.
   ANIMAL CONTROL AUTHORITY. An entity authorized to enforce the animal control
laws of the village and includes any local law enforcement agency or other
agency designated by the village to enforce the animal control laws of the
village.
   ANIMAL CONTROL OFFICER. Any individual employed, appointed, or authorized by
an Animal Control Authority for the purpose of aiding in the enforcement of
this chapter or any other law or ordinance relating to the licensure of
animals, control of animals, or seizure and impoundment of animals and includes
any state or local law enforcement officer or other employee whose duties in
whole or in part include assignments that involve the seizure and impoundment
of any animal.
   ANIMAL SHELTER. Any premises designated by action of the village for the
purposes of impounding and caring for all animals found running at large in
violation of this chapter.
   ANIMAL WARDEN. A person employed by the village as an animal enforcement
officer.
   AT LARGE. Any animal shall be deemed to be at large when it is off the
property of its owner and not under control of a competent person.
   BEAR BAITING. The pitting of any animal against a bear.
   COCKFIGHTING. The pitting of a fowl against another fowl.
   CRUELLY MISTREAT. To knowingly and intentionally kill, maim, disfigure,
torture, beat, mutilate, burn, scald, or otherwise set upon any animal.
   CRUELLY NEGLECT. To fail to provide any animal in one’s care, whether as
owner or custodian, with food, water, or other care as is reasonably necessary
for the animal’s health.
   DANGEROUS DOG.
      (1)   A dog that, according to the records of an Animal Control Authority
has:
         (a)   Killed a human being;
         (b)   Inflicted injury on a human being that requires medical
treatment;
         (c)   Killed a domestic animal without provocation; or
         (d)   Been previously determined to be a potentially dangerous dog by
an Animal Control Authority, the owner has received notice of such
determination, and the dog inflicts an injury on a human being that does not
require medical treatment, injures a domestic animal, or threatens the safety
of humans or domestic animals.
      (2)   A dog shall not be defined as a dangerous dog under division (1)(b)
of this definition if the individual was tormenting, abusing, or assaulting the
dog at the time of the injury or has, in the past, been observed or reported to
have tormented, abused, or assaulted the dog.
      (3)   A dog shall not be defined as a dangerous dog under division (1)(d)
of this definition if the injury, damage, or threat was sustained by an
individual who, at the time, was committing a willful trespass as defined in
Neb. RS 20-203, 28-520, or 28-521, was committing any other tort upon the
property of the owner of the dog, was tormenting, abusing, or assaulting the
dog, or has, in the past, been observed or reported to have tormented, abused,
or assaulted the dog, or was committing or attempting to commit a crime.
   DOG FIGHTING. The pitting of a dog against another dog.
   DOMESTIC ANIMAL. A cat, a dog, or livestock. Livestock includes buffalo,
deer, antelope, fowl, and any other animal in any zoo, wildlife park, refuge,
wildlife area, or nature center intended to be on exhibit.
   DOMESTIC FARM ANIMAL. Any horse, mule, sheep, cow, goat, swine, or offspring
thereof.
   EXOTIC ANIMAL. Any llama, zebra, buffalo, or animal other than a domestic
animal or domestic farm animal or offspring thereof.
   EXPOSED TO RABIES. An animal has been exposed to rabies within the meaning
of this chapter if it has been bitten by, or been exposed to, any animal known
to have been infected with rabies.
   FOWL. Chickens, turkeys, guinea hens, ducks, swans, ostriches, emus, geese,
or any similar bird.
   HUMANE KILLING. The destruction of an animal by a method, which causes the
animal a minimum of pain and suffering.
   KENNEL OPERATOR. Any person engaged in the commercial business of breeding,
buying, selling, or boarding cats or dogs.
   LAW ENFORCEMENT OFFICER. Any member of the Animal Control Authority, any law
enforcement officer member of the Sheriff’s Department, or any other public
official authorized to enforce animal control laws, rules, regulations, or
ordinances.
   MEDICAL TREATMENT. Treatment administered by a physician or other licensed
health care professional that results in sutures or surgery or treatment for
one or more broken bones.
   OWNER. Any person, firm, corporation, organization, political subdivision,
or department possessing, harboring, keeping, or having control or custody of a
dog.
   POTENTIALLY DANGEROUS ANIMAL. Any animal with a propensity, tendency, or
disposition to attack, to cause injury or damage to otherwise endanger the
safety of human beings or domestic animals.
   POTENTIALLY DANGEROUS DOG.
      (1)   Any dog that when unprovoked:
         (a)   Inflicts an injury on a human being that does not require
medical treatment;
         (b)   Injures a domestic animal; or
         (c)   Chases or approaches a person upon streets, sidewalks, or any
public grounds in a menacing fashion or apparent attitude of attack; or
      (2)   Any specific dog with a known propensity, tendency, or disposition
to attack when unprovoked, to cause injury, or to threaten the safety of humans
or domestic animals.
   PUBLIC NUISANCE. Any animal or animals which:
      (1)   Molests or attacks passersby or passing vehicles;
      (2)   Attacks other animals;
      (3)   Trespasses on school grounds;
      (4)   Is repeatedly at large;
      (5)   Damages private or public property; and/or
      (6)   Barks, whines, or howls in an excessive, continuous, or frequent
manner, disturbing the comfort or repose of the residents of any residential
neighborhood.
   RESTRAINT. Any animal secured by a leash or lead, or under the control of a
responsible person and obedient to that person’s commands, or within the real
property limits of its owner.
   SEVERE INJURY. Any physical injury that results in disfiguring lacerations
requiring multiple sutures or cosmetic surgery, or one or more broken bones.
   SPAYED FEMALE. Any female which has been operated on to prevent conception.
   WILD ANIMALS. Any live monkey (non-human, primate), raccoon, skunk, fox,
poisonous snake, leopard, panther, tiger, lion, lynx, or any other warm-blooded
animal which can normally be found in the wild state.
(1991 Code, § 6-101) (Ord. 589, passed 4-20-2000; Ord. 2021-20, passed 3-25-
2021)
§ 91.002 LIMIT ON NUMBER.
   No owner or keeper of any dogs shall keep, harbor, or maintain in, about, or
upon the premises occupied by such owner as his or her residence more than
three dogs at any one time. The offspring of any dog shall not count toward the
maximum number of dogs allowed for a period of four months after the birth of
said offspring. However, only one exempt litter of dogs may be kept on the
premises at any one time. For the purposes of this chapter, the OWNER or KEEPER
shall include the head of the family and all family members and guests, it
being intended to limit the total number of dogs to three per household or
premises.
(1991 Code, § 6-102) (Ord. 589, passed 4-20-2000) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 91.003 BUSINESS PREMISES.
   No person shall own, keep, harbor, or maintain any dogs in, about, or upon
premises not occupied by the owner or tenant of such premises as a residence
unless such premises is a clinic operated by a licensed veterinarian, a pet
shop, a kennel permitted by the applicable zoning district of the village, or
any animal shelter operated or authorized by the village.
(1991 Code, § 6-103) (Ord. 589, passed 4-20-2000) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 91.004 SHELTERS AND ENCLOSURES; SANITATION.
   (A)   No owner or tenant of any premises shall fail to keep the shelters and
enclosures in which his or her dogs are kept or maintained in a sanitary
condition.
   (B)   At a minimum such persons shall:
      (1)   Remove or dispose of bedding, offal manure, and waste materials
accumulating from such dogs in a sanitary manner at least once every seven
days; and
      (2)   Clean and disinfect said shelters and enclosures so as to prevent
the breeding of flies and insects and the emission of deleterious and offensive
odors therefrom.
(1991 Code, § 6-104) (Ord. 589, passed 4-20-2000) Penalty, see §
10.99
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 91.025 IMPOUNDED ANIMALS; STRAYS; DOGS AT LARGE.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of the Animal Control Authority to capture,
secure, and remove in a humane manner to the Municipal Animal Shelter an animal
violating any of the provisions of this chapter. The animals so impounded shall
be treated in a humane manner and shall be provided with a sufficient supply of
food and fresh water each day.
   (B)   Each impounded animal shall be kept and maintained at the pound for a
period of not less than 96 hours after impoundment unless reclaimed earlier by
the owner. Public notice of impoundment of all animals, including a general
description, shall be posted at the Municipal Clerk’s office within 24 hours
after impoundment, except for on weekends and holidays. Any animal may be
reclaimed by its owner during the period of impoundment by payment of
impoundment, capture, and notice fee, as established by the governing body,
plus veterinarian expenses.
   (C)   In addition, the owner shall then be required to comply with the
licensing and rabies vaccination requirements before the animal will be
released. If the animal is not claimed at the end of the 96 hours after the
public notice has been given, the animal becomes the property of the
municipality. All animals, which shall have remained in the pound for 120 hours
without being claimed, redeemed, or released shall be destroyed and disposed of
in a humane manner. This section shall not apply to rabid dogs or dogs
impounded pursuant to observation of suspected rabies resulting from a human
exposure bite.
(1991 Code, § 6-111) (Ord. 589, passed 4-20-2000)
§ 91.026 IMPOUNDED ANIMALS; NOTIFICATION OF OWNERS.
   Upon impounding any dog or other animal, the agents of the Animal Control
Authority shall make a reasonable effort to notify the owners of such dogs or
other animals so impounded, and inform such owners of the condition whereby
they may regain custody of such animals.
(1991 Code, § 6-112) (Ord. 589, passed 4-20-2000)
§ 91.027 IMPOUNDED ANIMALS; DISPOSITION OF UNREDEEMED ANIMALS.
   Any animal impounded under the provisions of this chapter and not reclaimed
by the owner at the end of the period of impoundment date, in lieu of being
humanely destroyed, may be placed in the custody of some person deemed to be a
responsible and suitable owner, who shall agree to comply with the provisions
of this chapter and such other regulations as shall be fixed by the Animal
Control Authority.
(1991 Code, § 6-113) (Ord. 589, passed 4-20-2000)
§ 91.028 IMPOUNDED ANIMALS; DESTRUCTION OF ANIMALS.
   When, in the judgment of the Animal Control Authority or its agents, an
animal should be destroyed for humane reasons, such animal may not be redeemed.
(1991 Code, § 6-114) (Ord. 589, passed 4-20-2000)
§ 91.029 IMPOUNDMENT; UNNECESSARY IF OWNER IS KNOWN.
   When licensed dogs are found running at large and their ownership is known
to the agents of the Animal Control Authority, such dogs need not be impounded,
but the agent may cite the owners of such dogs to appear in court to answer
charges of violation of this chapter.
(1991 Code, § 6-115) (Ord. 589, passed 4-20-2000)
§ 91.030 DAMAGE BY DOG; LIABILITY OF OWNER.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to allow a dog owned, kept, or harbored
by him or her, or under his or her charge or control, to injure or destroy any
real or personal property of any description belonging to another person. The
owner or possessor of any such dog, in addition to the usual judgment upon
conviction, may be made to be liable to the persons so injured in any amount
equal to the value of the damage so sustained.
(Neb. RS 54-601, 54-602) (1991 Code, § 6-116) (Ord. 589, passed 4-20-2000)
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 91.031 ANIMALS AND FOWL; NOISY AND OFFENSIVE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to own, keep, or harbor any animal,
fowl, or any other creature which by loud, continued, or frequent barking,
howling, yelping, crowing, or utterance of any other sound shall annoy or
disturb a neighborhood or person or which habitually barks, howls, yelps,
crows, or utters any such annoying sound or chases pedestrians, drivers, or
owners of horses or vehicles while they are on any public sidewalks, streets,
or alleys in the municipality. The provisions of this section shall not be
construed to apply to the Municipal Animal Shelter.
(Ord. 589, 4-20-2000) (1991 Code, § 6-117) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 91.032 DANGEROUS DOGS; ACTIONS REQUIRED; COSTS; LIMITATIONS ON TRANSPORT;
PERMANENT RELOCATION; PROCEDURE.
   (A)   A dangerous dog that has been declared as such shall be spayed or
neutered and implanted with a microchip identification number by a licensed
veterinarian within 30 days after such declaration. The cost of both procedures
is the responsibility of the owner of the dangerous dog. Written proof of both
procedures and the microchip identification number shall be provided to the
Animal Control Authority after the procedures are completed.
   (B)   No owner of a dangerous dog shall permit the dog to go beyond the
property of the owner unless the dog is restrained securely by a chain or
leash.
   (C)   Except as provided in division (D) of this section or for a reasonable
veterinary purpose, no owner of a dangerous dog shall transport such dog or
permit such dog to be transported to another county, city, or village in this
state.
   (D)   An owner of a dangerous dog may transport such dog or permit such dog
to be transported to another county, city, or village in this state for the
purpose of permanent relocation of the owner if the owner has obtained written
permission prior to such relocation from the Animal Control Authority of the
county, city, or village in which the owner resides and from the county, city,
or village in which the owner will reside. Each Animal Control Authority may
grant such permission based upon a reasonable evaluation of both the owner and
the dog, including if the owner has complied with the laws of this state and of
the county, city, or village in which he or she resides with regard to
dangerous dogs after the dog was declared dangerous. An Animal Control
Authority shall not grant permission under this division if the county, city,
or village has an ordinance or resolution prohibiting the relocation of
dangerous dogs. After the permanent relocation, the Animal Control Authority of
the county, city, or village in which the owner resides shall monitor the owner
and such dog for a period of at least 30 days but not to exceed 90 days to
ensure the owner's compliance with the laws of this state and of such county,
city, or village with regard to dangerous dogs. Nothing in this division shall
permit the rescindment of the declaration of dangerous dog.
(Ord. 2021-20, passed 3-25-2021)
§ 91.033 DANGEROUS DOGS; CONFINEMENT REQUIRED; WARNING SIGNS.
   (A)   No person, firm, partnership, limited liability company, or
corporation shall own, keep, or harbor or allow to be in or on any premises
occupied by him, her, or it or under his, her, or its charge or control any
dangerous dog without such dog being confined so as to protect the public from
injury.
   (B)   While unattended on the owner's property, a dangerous dog shall be
securely confined, in a humane manner, indoors or in a securely enclosed and
locked pen or structure suitably designed to prevent the entry of young
children and to prevent the dog from escaping. The pen or structure shall have
secure sides and a secure top. If the pen or structure has no bottom secured to
the sides, the sides shall be embedded into the ground at a depth of at least
one foot. The pen or structure shall also protect the dog from the elements.
The pen or structure shall be at least ten feet from any property line of the
owner. The owner of a dangerous dog shall post warning signs on the property
where the dog is kept that are clearly visible from all areas of public access
and that inform persons that a dangerous dog is on the property. Each warning
sign shall be no less than ten inches by 12 inches and shall contain the words
warning and dangerous animal in high-contrast lettering at least three inches
high on a black background.
(Ord. 2021-20, passed 3-25-2021)
§ 91.034 DANGEROUS DOGS; CONFISCATION; WHEN; COSTS.
   Any dangerous dog may be immediately confiscated by an animal control
officer if the owner is in violation of §§
91.032 to
91.036. The owner shall be responsible for the reasonable costs incurred by the
Animal Control Authority for the care of a dangerous dog confiscated by an
animal control officer or for the destruction of any dangerous dog if the
action by the Animal Control Authority is pursuant to law and if the owner
violated §§
91.032 to
91.036.
(Ord. 2021-20, passed 3-25-2021)
§ 91.035 DANGEROUS DOGS; DISPOSAL BY COURT ORDER.
   In addition to any other penalty, a court may order the Animal Control
Authority to dispose of a dangerous dog in an expeditious and humane manner.
(Ord. 2021-20, passed 3-25-2021)
§ 91.036 DANGEROUS DOGS; VIOLATION; PENALTY.
   Except as provided in §
91.036.01, any owner who violates §§
91.032 to
91.036 shall be guilty of a Class IV misdemeanor.
(Ord. 2021-20, passed 3-25-2021)
§ 91.036.01 DANGEROUS DOGS; SERIOUS BODILY INJURY; PENALTY; DEFENSE.
   (A)   Any owner whose dangerous dog inflicts on a human being a serious
bodily injury as defined in Neb. RS 28-109 is guilty of a Class I misdemeanor
for the first offense and a Class IV felony for a second or subsequent offense,
whether or not the same dangerous dog is involved.
   (B)   It is a defense to a violation of division (A) of this section that
the dangerous dog was, at the time of the infliction of the serious bodily
injury, in the custody of or under the direct control of a person other than
the owner or the owner's immediate family.
(Ord. 2021-20, passed 3-25-2021)
§ 91.037 DANGEROUS DOGS; VIOLATION; CONVICTION; EFFECT.
   (A)   Any owner convicted of a violation of §§
91.032 to
91.036 shall not own a dangerous dog within ten years after such conviction.
Any owner violating this division shall be guilty of a Class IIIA misdemeanor,
and the dog shall be treated as provided in division (B) of this section.
   (B)   Except as provided in §
91.036.01, if a dangerous dog of an owner with a prior conviction under §§
91.032 to
91.036 attacks or bites a human being or domestic animal, the owner shall be
guilty of a Class IIIA misdemeanor. In addition, the dangerous dog shall be
immediately confiscated by an Animal Control Authority, placed in quarantine
for the proper length of time, and thereafter destroyed in an expeditious and
humane manner.
(Ord. 2021-20, passed 3-25-2021)
§ 91.038 FIGHTING DOGS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, by agreement or otherwise, to set dogs
to fighting, or by any gesture or word to encourage the same to fight.
(1991 Code, § 6-119) (Ord. 589, passed 4-20-2000; Ord. 2021-20, passed 3-25-
2021) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 91.039 DOGS OR CATS; KILLING AND POISONING.
   It shall be unlawful to kill, administer, or cause to be administered to a
dog or a cat, poison of any sort or in any manner to injure, maim, destroy, or
in any manner attempt to injure, maim, or destroy any dog or cat that is the
property of another person, or to place any poison or poisoned food where the
same is accessible to a dog or cat; provided, this section shall not apply to a
law enforcement official or Municipal Animal Control Authority acting within
his or her power and duty.
(1991 Code, § 6-120) (Ord. 589, passed 4-20-2000; Ord. 2021-20, passed 3-25-
2021) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 91.040 ANIMALS; TRANSIENT OWNERS.
   The provisions of this chapter shall not apply to any animal belonging to
any person or a sojourn or for bench or show purposes in the municipality or
for other purposes; provided the animal remains near its owner or keeper, his
or her motor vehicle, and complies with the requirements of this chapter.
(1991 Code, § 6-123) (Ord. 589, passed 4-20-2000; Ord. 2021-20, passed 3-25-
2021)
§ 91.041 ANIMAL WASTE.
   It shall be unlawful for the owner or anyone having custody, control, or
supervision of any dog, cat, or other animal to allow such animal to defecate
in or on any property owned by the municipality except in designated areas. The
owner of every animal shall be responsible for the immediate removal and proper
disposal of any excreta deposited by his or her animals on public walks,
recreation areas, or private property.
(1991 Code, § 6-124) (Ord. 589, passed 4-20-2000; Ord. 2021-20, passed 3-25-
2021)
RABIES CONTROL
§ 91.050 RABIES VACCINATION.
   (A)   VACCINATION FOR RABIES shall mean the inoculation of an animal with a
rabies vaccine licensed by the United States Department of Agriculture. Such
vaccination must be performed by a duly licensed veterinarian.
   (B)   Every dog four months of age and older shall be vaccinated against
rabies pursuant to Nebraska law. Puppies shall be vaccinated within 30 days
after having reached three months of age. Unvaccinated dogs acquired or moved
into the municipality must be vaccinated within 30 days after purchase or
arrival, unless less than three months of age as specified above. The
provisions of this section with respect to vaccination shall not apply to any
dogs owned by a person temporarily residing within this municipality for less
than 30 days, any dog brought into this village for show purposes, or any dog
brought into this municipality for hunting purposes for a period of less than
30 days; such dogs shall be kept under the strict supervision of the owner.
(1991 Code, § 6-126) (Ord. 589, passed 4-20-2000)
§ 91.051 RABIES TAGS; REQUIRED; PRESUMPTION OF VIOLATION; DISPLAY.
   No person shall own, keep, or harbor any dog within the municipality unless
such dog has a current rabies immunization tag and a municipal dog tag as
provided by this chapter. Any dog found within the municipality which does have
the tag required by the provisions of this chapter is hereby deemed to be in
violation of the provisions of this chapter. Every owner is required to see
that the proper tags are securely fastened to the dog’s choke chain, collar, or
harness which must be worn by the dog at all times.
(1991 Code, § 6-127) (Ord. 589, passed 4-20-2000) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 91.052 RABIES VACCINATION CERTIFICATE REQUIRED.
    Every owner is responsible to obtain and maintain a current rabies
certificate, issued by a competent licensed veterinarian, and to present same
upon demand of the Animal Control Authority or police officer.
(1991 Code, § 6-128) (Ord. 589, passed 4-20-2000)
§ 91.053 RABIES SUSPECTED; IMPOUNDMENT; QUARANTINE OF ANIMAL BITING A PERSON.
   Any dog or other animal suspected of being afflicted with rabies or any dog
not vaccinated in accordance with the provisions in this chapter which has
bitten any person or has caused an abrasion of the skin of any person shall be
seized by a police officer or animal control officer of this village and shall
be impounded under the supervision of a licensed veterinarian or public health
authority, for not less than ten days. If, upon examination by a veterinarian,
the dog or animal has no clinical signs of rabies at the end of such
impoundment, it shall be released to the owner upon payment of the costs of
said impoundment by said owner or, in the case of an unlicensed dog, it shall
be disposed of in accordance with the provisions herein. If the owner of said
dog has proof of vaccination, it shall be confined by the owner or some other
responsible person for a period of at least ten days, at which time the dog
shall be examined by a licensed veterinarian. If no signs of rabies are
observed, the dog may be released from confinement.
(1991 Code, § 6-129) (Ord. 589, passed 4-20-2000)
§ 91.054 RABIES CONTROL; SURRENDER OF BITING ANIMALS; RELEASE OF UNINFECTED
ANIMALS.
   The owner upon demand made by the Animal Control Authority shall forthwith
surrender any animal which has bitten a human, or which is suspected of having
been exposed to rabies, for supervised quarantine which expense shall be borne
by the owner, and may be reclaimed by the owner if adjudged free of rabies,
upon payment of fees.
(1991 Code, § 6-130) (Ord. 589, passed 4-20-2000)
§ 91.055 RABIES CONTROL; PROCEDURE WHEN SUSPECTED ANIMAL DIES.
   When an animal under quarantine has been diagnosed as being rabid, or
suspected by a licensed veterinarian as being rabid, and dies while under such
observation, the Animal Control Authority shall immediately send the head of
such animal to the State Health Department for pathological examination. The
authority shall notify the proper public health officer of reports of human
contacts and diagnosis made of the suspected animal.
(1991 Code, § 6-131) (Ord. 589, passed 4-20-2000)
§ 91.056 RABIES CONTROL; UNAUTHORIZED DESTRUCTION OR REMOVAL OF SUSPECTED
ANIMALS.
   No persons shall kill, or cause to be killed, any rabid animal, any animal
suspected of having been exposed to rabies, or any animal biting a human,
except as provided by this chapter, nor remove same from the municipal limits
without written permission from the Animal Control Authority. The carcass of
any dead animal exposed to rabies shall upon demand be surrendered to the
Animal Control Authority. (1991 Code, § 6-132) (Ord. 589, passed 4-20-2000)
§ 91.057 RABIES CONTROL; COST OF CONFINEMENT.
   If the ownership of any animal which has bitten a person can be established,
the owner shall be liable for the cost of confining it for such length of time
as necessary to establish whether the animal is rabid. If the ownership of such
animal cannot be determined, the cost of confining an animal that is only
suspected of having rabies shall be paid by the municipality.
(1991 Code, § 6-133) (Ord. 589, passed 4-20-2000)
§ 91.058 RABIES CONTROL; CAPTURE IMPOSSIBLE.
   The Animal Control Authority shall have the authority to kill any domestic
animal with the characteristics of rabies, which make capture impossible
because of the danger involved.
(1991 Code, § 6-134) (Ord. 589, passed 4-20-2000)
§ 91.059 CONFINEMENT OF FEMALE PETS IN HEAT.
   Every female dog and cat in heat shall be confined in a building or secure
enclosure in such a manner that such female dog or cat cannot come into contact
with another animal except for controlled or commercial breeding purpose.
(1991 Code, § 6-135) (Ord. 589, passed 4-20-2000)
§ 91.060 RABID DOGS; PROCLAMATION.
   It shall be the duty of the Municipal Board whenever, in its opinion, the
danger to the public safety from rabid dogs is great or imminent, to issue a
proclamation ordering all persons owning, keeping, or harboring any dog to
muzzle the same, or to confine it for a period of not less than 30 days or more
than 90 days from the date of such proclamation, or until such danger is past.
Such dogs may be harbored by any good and sufficient means in a house, garage,
or yard on the premises wherein the said owner may reside. Upon issuance of the
proclamation, it shall be the duty of all persons owning, keeping, or harboring
any dog to confine the same as herein provided.
(1991 Code, § 6-136) (Ord. 589, passed 4-20-2000)
§ 91.061 DEFINITIONS.
   For purposes of this subchapter the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CAT. A cat which is a household pet.
   DEPARTMENT. The state Department of Health and Human Services.
   DOMESTIC ANIMAL. Any dog of the species Canis familiaris, cat of the species
Felis domesticus, or ferret of the species Mustela putorius furo.
   HYBRID ANIMAL. Any animal which is the product of the breeding of a domestic
dog with a nondomestic canine species.
   OWN. To possess, keep, harbor, or have control of, charge of, or custody of
a domestic or hybrid animal. This term does not apply to domestic or hybrid
animals owned by other persons which are temporarily maintained on the premises
of a veterinarian or kennel operator for a period of not more than 30 days.
   OWNER. Any person possessing, keeping, harboring, or having charge or
control of any domestic or hybrid animal or permitting any domestic or hybrid
animal to habitually be or remain on or be lodged or fed within the person's
house, yard, or premises. This term does not apply to veterinarians or kennel
operators temporarily maintaining on their premises domestic or hybrid animals
owned by other persons for a period of not more than 30 days.
   RABIES CONTROL AUTHORITY. Village health and law enforcement officials who
shall enforce the provisions of this subchapter relating to the vaccination and
impoundment of domestic or hybrid animals. Such public officials shall not be
responsible for any accident or disease of a domestic or hybrid animal
resulting from the enforcement of such sections.
   VACCINATION AGAINST RABIES. The inoculation of a domestic or hybrid animal
with a United States Department of Agriculture-licensed rabies vaccine
administered consistent with its labeling. The vaccination shall be performed
by a veterinarian duly licensed to practice veterinary medicine in the State of
Nebraska or licensed in the state where the vaccination was administered.
(Neb. RS 71-4401) (Ord. 2019-33, passed 11-20-2019)
§ 91.062 POST-INCIDENT MANAGEMENT.
   Any domestic animal which has bitten any person or caused an abrasion of the
skin of any person shall be subjected to post-incident management as provided
in rules and regulations adopted and promulgated by the Department.
(Neb. RS 71-4406) (Ord. 2019-34, passed 11-20-2019)
§ 91.063 DOMESTIC OR HYBRID ANIMAL OR LIVESTOCK; POST-EXPOSURE MANAGEMENT.
   Domestic or hybrid animals or livestock known to have been exposed to a
confirmed or suspected rabid animal shall be subjected to post-exposure
management as provided in rules and regulations adopted and promulgated by the
department.
(Neb. RS 71-4407) (Ord. 2019-37, passed 11-20-2019)
ADDITIONAL PROVISIONS
§ 91.075 INTERFERENCE WITH ANIMAL CONTROL OFFICER.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to hinder, delay, or interfere with any
animal control officer who is performing any duty enjoined upon him or her by
the provisions of this chapter, or to break open or in any manner directly or
indirectly aid, counsel, or advise the breaking open of the Municipal Animal
Shelter, or other vehicle used for collecting or conveying of dogs to the
shelter.
(1991 Code, § 6-137) (Ord. 589, passed 4-20-2000) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 91.076 ANIMAL SHELTER.
   The Animal Shelter shall be safe, suitable, and conveniently located for the
impounding, keeping, and destruction of animals. The said shelter shall be
sanitary, ventilated, and lighted. The location of the Animal Shelter shall be
determined by the Animal Control Authority and shall be the facility of a
licensed veterinarian.
(1991 Code, § 6-138) (Ord. 589, passed 4-20-2000)
§ 91.077 RIGHT OF ENTRY AND SEIZURE.
   For the purposes of discharging the duties imposed by this chapter and to
enforce its provisions, any agent of the Animal Control Authority or any law
enforcement officer is empowered to enter upon any premises upon which an
animal is kept or harbored. Any agent of the Animal Control Authority may enter
the premises where any animal is kept in a reportedly cruel or inhumane manner
and demand to examine such animal and to take possession of such animal when,
in his or her opinion, it requires humane treatment.
(1991 Code, § 6-139) (Ord. 589, passed 4-20-2000)
§ 91.078 ABANDONMENT, NEGLECT AND MISTREATMENT.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this chapter, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      ABANDON. To leave any animal in one's care, whether as owner or
custodian, for any length of time without making effective provision for its
food, water, or other care as is reasonably necessary for the animal's health.
      ANIMAL. Any vertebrate member of the animal kingdom. ANIMAL does not
include an uncaptured wild creature or a livestock animal as defined in this
section.
      BOVINE. A cow, an ox, or a bison.
      CRUELLY MISTREAT. To knowingly and intentionally kill, maim, disfigure,
torture, beat, mutilate, burn, scald, or otherwise inflict harm upon any
animal.
      CRUELLY NEGLECT. To fail to provide any animal in one's care, whether as
owner or custodian, with food, water, or other care as is reasonably necessary
for the animal's health.
      HUMANE KILLING. The destruction of an animal by a method which causes the
animal a minimum of pain and suffering.
      LAW ENFORCEMENT OFFICER. Any member of the Nebraska State Patrol, any
county or deputy sheriff, any member of the police force of the village or any
other city or village, or any other public official authorized by the village
or any other city or village to enforce state or local animal control laws,
rules, regulations, or ordinances. LAW ENFORCEMENT OFFICER also includes a
special investigator appointed as a deputy state sheriff as authorized pursuant
to Neb. RS 81-201 while acting within the authority of the Director of
Agriculture.
      LIVESTOCK ANIMAL. Any bovine, equine, swine, sheep, goats, domesticated
cervine animals, ratite birds, or poultry.
      OWNER OR CUSTODIAN. Any person owning, keeping, possessing, harboring, or
knowingly permitting an animal to remain on or about any premises owned or
occupied by such person.
      POLICE ANIMAL. A horse or dog owned or controlled by the state or any
county, city, or village for the purpose of assisting a law enforcement officer
in the performance of his or her official enforcement duties.
(Neb. RS 28-1008)
   (B)   Enforcement powers; immunity.
      (1)   A law enforcement officer who has reason to believe that an animal
has been abandoned or is being cruelly neglected or cruelly mistreated may seek
a warrant authorizing entry upon private property to inspect, care for, or
impound the animal.
      (2)   It shall be the duty of a law enforcement officer who has reason to
believe that an animal has been abandoned or is being cruelly neglected or
cruelly mistreated to make prompt investigation of such violation. A law
enforcement officer may, in lieu of making an arrest, issue a citation to the
owner or custodian as prescribed in Neb. RS 29-422 to 29-429.
      (3)   Any law enforcement officer acting under this section shall not be
liable for damage to property if such damage is not the result of the officer's
negligence.
(Neb. RS 28-1012)
   (C)   Violation.
      (1)   A person who intentionally, knowingly, or recklessly abandons,
cruelly neglects, or cruelly mistreats an animal is guilty of an offense.
      (2)   A person commits harassment of a police animal if he or she
knowingly and intentionally teases or harasses a police animal in order to
distract, agitate, or harm the police animal for the purpose of preventing such
animal from performing its legitimate official duties.
(Neb. RS 28-1009)
(1991 Code, § 6-140) (Ord. 589, passed 4-20-2000; Ord. 2022-7, passed 12-19-
2022)
§ 91.079 PROHIBITION.
   From and after the effective date of this chapter, it shall be and hereby is
determined to be unlawful for any person to keep, maintain, or confine any
domestic farm animals, exotic animals, or fowl within the corporate limits of
the village, unless a special permit is issued for such by the Municipal Board.
(1991 Code, § 6-141) (Ord. 589, passed 4-20-2000) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 91.080 ISSUANCE OF SPECIAL PERMIT.
   The Municipal Board is hereby authorized to issue a special permit for
maintenance of domestic farm animals, exotic animals, or fowl within the
corporate limits of the municipality on such terms and conditions as they
determine advisable to minimize noise, odor, and disturbances to neighbors
living adjacent to the property upon which such animals or fowl are maintained.
(1991 Code, § 6-142) (Ord. 589, passed 4-20-2000)
§ 91.081 NUISANCE.
   It is hereby determined to be a nuisance to keep, maintain, or confine any
of the above-named animals and/or fowl without a special permit issued by the
Municipal Board pursuant to §
91.080. No person shall fail to exercise proper care and control of his or her
animals or allow them to become a public nuisance.
(1991 Code, § 6-143) (Ord. 589, passed 4-20-2000) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 91.082 PITTING; PROHIBITED.
   No person shall knowingly promote, engage in, or be employed at dogfighting,
cockfighting, bear baiting, or pitting an animal against another. Nor shall any
person knowingly receive money for the admission of another person to a place
kept for such purpose. Nor shall any person knowingly own, use, train, sell, or
possess an animal for the purpose of animal pitting. Nor shall any person
knowingly permit any act as described in this section to occur on any premises
owned or controlled by him or her.
(1991 Code, § 6-144) (Ord. 589, passed 4-20-2000) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 91.083 PITTING; SPECTATORS PROHIBITED.
   No person shall knowingly and willingly be present at and witness as a
spectator dogfighting, cockfighting, bear baiting, or the pitting of an animal
against another.
(1991 Code, § 6-145) (Ord. 589, passed 4-20-2000) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHICKENS
§ 91.090 POULTRY; CHICKENS; PERMIT REQUIREMENTS; RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to keep or maintain within the
corporate limits any turkeys, ducks, geese, or any other poultry not classified
as chickens (gallus gallus domesticus).
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to own, keep, harbor, or have
under their care, custody, or control any cock or rooster chicken two months of
age or older. The unlawful keeping or harboring of cocks or roosters is hereby
declared to be a public nuisance.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person to own, keep, harbor, or have
under their care, custody, or control any chicken without a valid annual permit
issued by the village. Permits are issued annually and run January 1 through
December 31.
      (1)   Application shall be made to the village and the fee for the permit
shall be $25 per year.
      (2)   The application shall be in writing on a form furnished by the
village. All applications to keep chickens within the corporate limits must be
approved by the village.
      (3)   The permits are issued and valid for the current calendar year. A
person who wishes to continue to keep chickens shall have to renew said permit
on or before the expiration date of the previous permit. The procedures for
renewing said permit shall be the same as those applying for a new permit. If
the permit lapses, chicken facility and run must be removed from property
within seven days of permit expiration date.
      (4)   No permit shall be assignable or transferable either as to
permittee, location, or chickens.
      (5)   Permits will be issued only to owner-occupied, single-family homes
and only in zoning districts R-1 and R-2.
      (6)   A person who has been issued a permit freely and voluntarily
consents to a search and examination of the chicken enclosure in his or her
rear yard upon demand by any law enforcement officer or code enforcement
officer.
   (D)   The requirements for the issuance of a permit by the village to own,
keep, harbor, or have custody or control over a chicken are as follows:
      (1)   No more than ten chickens shall be permitted on any property.
      (2)   The chickens must be housed in a chicken facility and run approved
by the village, such chicken facility and run to be maintained in compliance
with all of the village's requirements as a condition of the permit. The
requirements for the chicken facility and run include:
         (a)   The chicken facility and run must be in good repair, capable of
being maintained in a clean and sanitary condition, free of vermin, obnoxious
smells and substances;
         (b)   The chicken facility and run shall not constitute a nuisance or
disturb neighboring residents due to noise, odor, or threats to public health;
         (c)   The chicken facility and run shall prevent chickens from roaming
at large;
         (d)   The run shall be attached to the coop and constructed to include
metal wire fencing anchored to the ground and a fully enclosed roof or similar
enclosure to prevent escape by chickens and entry by predators and general
members of the public;
         (e)   The chicken facility shall provide not less than three square
feet per occupant chicken and the run shall provide not less than five square
feet per occupant chicken;
         (f)   The chicken facility shall be constructed of durable material
and the flooring of any chicken facility within the coop shall be of a hard-
surface material. The chicken enclosure shall not exceed 80 square feet of
floor area or exceed seven feet in height. Chicken run area shall not require
hard-surface flooring;
         (g)   The chicken facility and run shall not be located in any front
yard of a property and must be located so as to be at least ten feet from the
rear and side property lines, ten feet from any existing structure on property
and at least 20 feet from any neighboring residence; and
         (h)   The chicken facility and run shall comply with all applicable
village building and zoning codes and must be consistent with the requirements
of any land use regulation.
      (3)   Offal, manure, and waste material shall not be permitted to
accumulate nor be confined in any manner that is conducive to the breeding or
attraction of flies, mosquitoes, or other noxious insects or in any manner that
endangers the public health or safety. All permit applicants must provide a
statement of the method in which offal, manure, and waste material accumulating
from the chickens will be sanitarily disposed of at least once every seven
days.
      (4)   All grain, feed, and stuff intended for use as food for chickens
shall be kept in tightly-fitted containers constructed to keep out vermin and
wild animals; and
      (5)   Odors from chickens, chicken manure, or other chicken-related
substances shall not be perceptible beyond the boundaries of the property with
the valid permit for chickens.
      (6)   Chickens shall not be permitted to run at large within the village
limits. No dog, cat or other domesticated animal which kills a chicken
permitted to run at large will, for that reason alone, not be considered a
dangerous or aggressive animal and it will not be the village's responsibility
to enforce its animal control provisions.
      (7)   Any noise from chickens shall not be loud enough beyond the
boundaries of the property with the valid permit for the chickens to disturb
persons of reasonable sensitivity.
      (8)   If the above requirements are not complied with the village may
revoke any valid chicken permit granted under this section and initiate
prosecution for a civil infraction violation. If a permit is revoked, all
chickens must be removed from the property and the village limits within seven
days.
      (9)   A person who has been issued a valid permit shall submit it for
examination upon demand by any law enforcement officer, Animal Control officer
or code enforcement officer.
   (E)   The slaughtering or destruction of chickens within the corporate
limits of the village shall be prohibited.
   (F)   (1)   The keeping or maintaining of such fowl in violation of any
provision of this section shall be considered to be a specific nuisance, in
addition to those identified in §
90.01, and may be abated in accordance with the provisions of §
90.02.
      (2)   In addition to the abatement procedure identified in §
90.02, the Village Board of Trustees shall be authorized to maintain an action
for abatement of such activity.
      (3)   Furthermore, a violation of this section shall result in a penalty
under the general penalty provisions of the §
10.99.
(Ord. 2023-1, passed 2-22-2023; Ord. 2024-6, passed 4-18-2024)
CHAPTER 92: FIRE PROTECTION AND PREVENTION
Section
General Provisions
   
92.001   Preservation of property
   
92.002   Disorderly spectator
   
92.003   Equipment
   
92.004   Interference
   
92.005   Obstruction
   
92.006   Assistance
   
92.007   Driving over hose
   
92.008   Traffic control
   
92.009   False alarm
   
92.010   Pedestrians
Fire Protection
   
92.025   Fire Prevention Code
   
92.026   Fire Code enforcement
   
92.027   Lawful entry
   
92.028   Violation notice
   
92.029   School drills
   
92.030   Fire limits defined
   
92.031   Fire limits building permit
   
92.032   Removal required
   
92.033   Removal or repair required
   
92.034   Fire prohibited
   
92.035   Open burning ban; waiver
Fireworks
   
92.050   Definition
   
92.051   Permitted fireworks
   
92.052   Sale
Explosives
   
92.065   Storage registration
   
92.066   Blasting permits
   
92.067   Discharge of firearms
   
92.068   Slingshots, air guns, BB guns
   
92.069   Other dangerous objects
 
   
92.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 92.001 PRESERVATION OF PROPERTY.
   The Fire Chief, or any officer in charge of the Fire Department, shall have
the authority and power to cause the removal of property whenever it shall
become necessary for the preservation of more valuable property, the protection
of human life, or to prevent the spreading of fire to adjoining property. The
Fire Chief may direct the municipal firefighters to remove any building,
structure, or fence for the purpose of checking the progress of any fire. The
Fire Chief shall have the authority to blow up, or cause to be blown up, with
explosives any building or structure during the progress of a fire for the
purpose of checking the progress of the same.
(1991 Code, § 7-101)
§ 92.002 DISORDERLY SPECTATOR.
   It shall be unlawful for any person during the time of a fire and for a
period of 36 hours after its extinguishment to hinder, resist, or refuse to
obey the Municipal Fire Chief, or to act in a noisy or disorderly manner. The
Fire Chief and Assistant Fire Chief shall have the power and authority during
such time to arrest or command any such person to assist them in the
performance of their official duties. (Neb. RS 28-908) (1991 Code, § 7-102)
Penalty, see §
92.999
§ 92.003 EQUIPMENT.
   It shall be unlawful for any person except the Fire Chief and the members of
the Municipal Fire Department to molest, destroy, handle, or in any other way
to interfere with the use and storage of any of the fire trucks and other
apparatus belonging to the municipality.
(Neb. RS 28-519) (1991 Code, § 7-103) Penalty, see §
92.999
§ 92.004 INTERFERENCE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person or persons to hinder or obstruct the
Municipal Fire Chief or the members of the Fire Department in the performance
of their duty.
(Neb. RS 28-908) (1991 Code, § 7-104) Penalty, see §
92.999
§ 92.005 OBSTRUCTION.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to obstruct the use of a fire hydrant or
have or place any material within 15 feet of the said hydrant. Any vehicle or
material found as an obstruction may be immediately removed by the Fire Chief
or any member of the Fire Department, at the risk, cost, and expense of the
owner or claimant.
(Neb. RS 39-672) (1991 Code, § 7-105) Penalty, see §
92.999
§ 92.006 ASSISTANCE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to refuse, after the command of the Fire
Chief or Assistant Fire Chief, to aid in extinguishing a fire or to assist in
the removal and protection of property.
(Neb. RS 28-908) (1991 Code, § 7-106) Penalty, see §
92.999
§ 92.007 DRIVING OVER HOSE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, without the consent of the Fire Chief
or Assistant Fire Chief, to drive any vehicle over unprotected hose of the Fire
Department.
(Neb. RS 39-682) (1991 Code, § 7-107) Penalty, see §
92.999
§ 92.008 TRAFFIC CONTROL.
   Every vehicle already stationary when the fire alarm shall have been sounded
must remain so for a period of five minutes after the sounding of the fire
alarm. No vehicle, except by the specific direction of the Fire Chief or
Assistant Fire Chief, shall follow, approach, or park closer than 500 feet to
any fire vehicle, or to any fire hydrant to which a hose is connected. Nothing
herein shall be construed to apply to vehicles carrying doctors, members of the
Fire Department, or emergency vehicles.
(Neb. RS 39-681) (1991 Code, § 7-108) Penalty, see §
92.999
§ 92.009 FALSE ALARM.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to intentionally and without good and
reasonable cause raise any false alarm of fire.
(Neb. RS 28-907, 35-520) (1991 Code, § 7-109) Penalty, see §
92.999
§ 92.010 PEDESTRIANS.
   It shall be unlawful for any pedestrian to enter or remain in any street
after a fire alarm shall have sounded until the fire trucks shall have
completely passed.
(Neb. RS 28-908) (1991 Code, § 7-110) Penalty, see §
92.999
FIRE PROTECTION
§ 92.025 FIRE PREVENTION CODE.
   The rules and regulations promulgated by the office of the State Fire
Marshal of the State of Nebraska relating to fire prevention are incorporated
by reference into this Code and made a part of this chapter as though spread at
large herein together with all subsequent amendments thereto. One copy of the
Fire Prevention Code shall be on file with the Municipal Clerk and shall be
available for public inspection at any reasonable time.
(Neb. RS 18-132, 19-902, 19-922, 81-502) (1991 Code, § 7-201)
§ 92.026 FIRE CODE ENFORCEMENT.
   It shall be the duty of all municipal officials to enforce the incorporated
Fire Code provisions and all infractions shall be immediately brought to the
attention of the Fire Chief.
(1991 Code, § 7-202)
§ 92.027 LAWFUL ENTRY.
   It shall be the duty of the owner, lessee, or occupant of any building or
structure, except the interiors of private dwellings, to allow the Fire Chief
to inspect, or cause to be inspected, as often as necessary the said structure
for the purpose of ascertaining and enumerating all conditions therein that are
likely to cause fire, or any other violations of the provisions of the
municipal ordinances affecting the hazard of fire.
(Neb. RS 81-512) (1991 Code, § 7-203)
§ 92.028 VIOLATION NOTICE.
   It shall be the duty of the owner, lessee, or occupant of any building or
structure that was lawfully inspected as hereinbefore prescribed, and who
receives written or verbal notice of a violation of any of the provisions of
the municipal ordinances to correct the condition that violates the said
ordinance or ordinances within five days from the date of receipt of such
notice.
(1991 Code, § 7-204)
§ 92.029 SCHOOL DRILLS.
   It shall be the duty of the officials and teachers of all the schools in the
municipality to cooperate with the Municipal Fire Department in conducting fire
drills in such number and at such times as the Fire Chief shall prescribe;
provided, that at least one fire drill shall be held each month. All doors and
exits leading to the outside of the school shall be kept unlocked during school
hours.
(1991 Code, § 7-205)
§ 92.030 FIRE LIMITS DEFINED.
   The following described territory in the Village of Elm Creek shall be and
constitute the fire limits.
   Starting at a point where the East line of Block 4, Arendt’s Second
Addition, if extended, intersects the center line of the North rail tract of
the Union Pacific Railroad, then North along the East line of said Block 4,
extending to the Northeast corner of said Block 4; then West along the North
line of said Block 4 and the center of Potter Avenue to the center of the
intersection of Potter Avenue in Beecroft Street; then North to the center of
the intersection of Beecroft Street and Calkins Avenue; then West to a point
where the center line of Calkins Avenue if entered, intersects the center of
Easy Street; then South to the center of the North main track of the Union
Pacific Railroad; then Southeast along the center line of said track to the
place of beginning.
(Neb. RS 17-550) (1991 Code, § 7-206)
§ 92.031 FIRE LIMITS BUILDING PERMIT.
   Prior to the moving or construction of any building in the fire limits,
application must be made to the governing body. Construction shall include the
enlarging or alteration of any building in the fire limits. Such application
shall be furnished by the Municipal Clerk and shall require such information as
the governing body deems necessary to determine whether or not to grant a
building permit.
(Neb. RS 17-550) (1991 Code, § 7-207)
§ 92.032 REMOVAL REQUIRED.
   In the event that any wooden or combustible building or structure, or any
non-combustible building, which stands within the fire limits is damaged to the
extent of 50% or more of its value, exclusive of the foundation, it shall not
be repaired or rebuilt, but shall be taken down and removed within 60 days from
the date of such fire or other casualty.
(Neb. RS 17-550) (1991 Code, § 7-208)
§ 92.033 REMOVAL OR REPAIR REQUIRED.
   In the event that a building within the fire limits becomes damaged by fire,
wind, flood, vandalism, or any other cause, to the extent of less than 50% of
its value, exclusive of the foundation, it shall be the duty of the owner,
lessee, or occupant to remove or repair the said building in accordance with
the provisions of this chapter. It shall be unlawful for any person to allow a
building to stand in such damaged or decayed condition. Any such building shall
be removed or repaired within 30 days after receiving notice to do so by the
governing body.
(Neb. RS 17-550) (1991 Code, § 7-209) Penalty, see §
92.999
§ 92.034 FIRE PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to set out a fire on the pavement or
near any curb, now built or hereafter to be built, within the municipality.
(Neb. RS 17-556) (1991 Code, § 7-210) Penalty, see §
92.999
§ 92.035 OPEN BURNING BAN; WAIVER.
   (A)   There shall be a statewide open burning ban on all bonfires, outdoor
rubbish fires, and fires for the purpose of clearing land.
   (B)   The Fire Chief of the Municipal Fire Department or his or her designee
may waive an open burning ban under division (A) above for an area under his or
her jurisdiction by issuing an open burning permit to a person requesting
permission to conduct open burning. The permit issued by the Fire Chief or his
or her designee to a person desiring to conduct open burning shall be in
writing, signed by the Fire Chief or his or her designee, and on a form
provided by the State Fire Marshal.
   (C)   The Municipal Fire Chief or his or her designee may waive the open
burning ban in his or her jurisdiction when conditions are acceptable to the
Chief or his or her designee. Anyone burning in such jurisdiction when the open
burning ban has been waived shall notify the Fire Department of his or her
intention to burn.
   (D)   The Municipal Fire Chief may adopt and promulgate rules and
regulations listing the conditions acceptable for issuing a permit to conduct
open burning under division (B) above.
   (E)   The Municipal Fire Department may charge a fee, not to exceed $10, for
each such permit issued. This fee shall be remitted to the governing body for
inclusion in the general funds allocated to the Fire Department. Such funds
shall not reduce the tax requirements for the Fire Department. No such fee
shall be collected from any state or political subdivision to which such a
permit is issued to conduct open burning under division (B) above in the course
of such state’s or political subdivision’s official duties.
(Neb. RS 81-520.01) (1991 Code, § 7-211) (Ord. 492, passed 2-16-1995)
FIREWORKS
§ 92.050 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   FIREWORKS. Any composition or device designed for the purpose of producing a
visible or audible effect by combustion, deflagration, or detonation and which
meets the definition of common or special fireworks set forth by the U.S.
Department of Transportation in 49 C.F.R.
(Neb. RS 28-1241) (1991 Code, § 7-301)
Statutory reference:
   Authority, see Neb. RS 17-556
§ 92.051 PERMITTED FIREWORKS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to ignite or cause to be exploded
fireworks or firecrackers of any description whatsoever, except sparklers,
vesuvius fountains, spray fountains, torches, color fire cones, star and comet
type color aerial shells without explosive charges for the purpose of making a
noise, color wheels, lady fingers, not exceeding seven-eighths inch in length
or one-eight inch in diameter, total explosive composition not to exceed 50
milligrams each in weight, color wheels, and any other fireworks approved under
Neb. RS 28-1247.
(Neb. RS 28-1241(7))
   (B)   The provisions of this section shall not apply to any fireworks to be
used for purpose of public exhibitions or display under authorization of the
Board of Trustees or to fireworks furnished for agricultural purposes pursuant
to written authorization from the State Fire Marshal.
(1991 Code, § 7-302) Penalty, see §
92.999
Statutory reference:
   Authority, see Neb. RS 17-556
   Prohibitions not applicable, see Neb. RS 28-1245
   Unlawful fireworks, see Neb. RS 28-1244
§ 92.052 SALE.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to sell, hold for sale, or offer
for sale as distributor, jobber, or retailer any fireworks without first
obtaining a license from the State Fire Marshal for that calendar year.
(Neb. RS 28-1246)
   (B)   Licensees shall only sell fireworks that have been approved by the
State Fire Marshal.
(Neb. RS 28-1247)
   (C)   Permissible fireworks may be sold at retail only between June 24 and
July 5 of each year.
(Neb. RS 28-1249)
(1991 Code, § 7-303) Penalty, see §
92.999
EXPLOSIVES
§ 92.065 STORAGE REGISTRATION.
   In addition to notifying the Municipal Fire Department pursuant to Neb. RS
28-1233(3), any person desiring to store or keep for any period of time
explosive materials as defined in Neb. RS 28-1213, or any form of poisonous or
flammable gases or liquefied petroleum gases within the municipality shall
register such information with the Municipal Clerk 24 hours prior to such
storage. The transfer of such explosives or gases to another person within the
municipality shall require the person receiving such explosives or gases to
register the transfer and the new location of the explosives and gases with the
Municipal Clerk. The transfer of explosive materials and gases to a new
location by the owner shall require registration of the new location with the
Municipal Clerk. This section shall not apply to the storage of five gallons or
less of gasoline.
(Neb. RS 17-549, 17-556, 28-1229, 28-1233) (1991 Code, § 7-401) (Ord. 469,
passed 5-19-1994)
§ 92.066 BLASTING PERMITS.
   In addition to notifying the Municipal Fire Department pursuant to Neb. RS
28-1233(3), any person desiring to discharge explosive materials, as defined in
Neb. RS 28-1213, within the municipality shall apply for and secure a permit
from the governing body 24 hours prior to such discharge, and shall discharge
such explosive materials in conformance with the conditions specified in the
permit. In no case shall any person perform blasting operations unless
operating under the direct supervision of a person in possession of a valid
user’s permit issued by the Nebraska State Patrol.
(Neb. RS 17-549, 17-556, 28-1229, 28-1233) (1991 Code, § 7-501) (Ord. 468,
passed 5-19-1994)
§ 92.067 DISCHARGE OF FIREARMS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, except an officer of the law in the
discharge of his or her official duty, to fire or discharge any gun, pistol, or
other fowling piece within the municipality; provided, nothing herein shall be
construed to apply to officially sanctioned public celebrations if the persons
so discharging firearms have written permission from the governing body.
(Neb. RS 17-556) (1991 Code, § 7-502) Penalty, see §
92.999
§ 92.068 SLINGSHOTS, AIR GUNS, BB GUNS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to discharge a slingshot, air gun, BB
gun, or the like, loaded with rock or other dangerous missiles at any time or
under any circumstances within the municipality.
(1991 Code, § 7-503) Penalty, see §
92.999
§ 92.069 OTHER DANGEROUS OBJECTS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to discharge or throw any object in such
a matter that could cause harm, injury, or damage to any person or property.
(1991 Code, § 7-504) Penalty, see §
92.999
§ 92.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person, or any person’s agent or servant, who violates any of the
provisions of this chapter, unless otherwise specifically provided herein,
shall be deemed guilty of an offense and upon conviction thereof shall be fined
in any sum not exceeding $500. A new violation shall be deemed to have been
committed every 24 hours of failure to comply with the provisions of this
chapter.
   (B)   (1)   Whenever a nuisance exists as defined in this chapter, the
municipality may proceed by a suit in equity to enjoin, abate, and remove the
same in the manner provided by law.
      (2)   Whenever, in any action, it is established that a nuisance exists,
the court may, together with the fine or penalty imposed, enter an order of
abatement as a part of the judgment in the case.
(Neb. RS 17-207, 17-505, 18-1720, 18-1722) (1991 Code, § 7-601) (Ord. 2002-07,
passed 2-21-2002)
CHAPTER 93: PUBLIC WAYS AND PROPERTY
Section
Municipal Property
   
93.001   Definition
   
93.002   Maintenance and control
   
93.003   Trees
   
93.004   Obstructions
   
93.005   Sale and conveyance; real property
   
93.006   Sale and conveyance of personal property
   
93.007   Permitted obstructions
   
93.008   Weeds
   
93.009   Overhanging branches
   
93.010   Improvement district; land adjacent
   
93.011   Special improvement district; assessment and creation procedure
   
93.012   Acquisition of property; construction; elections, when required
   
93.013   Acquisition of real property
   
93.014   Acquisition of property; appraisal
   
93.015   Public works involving architecture or engineering; requirements
Sidewalks
   
93.030   Kept clean
   
93.031   Beneath
   
93.032   Repair
   
93.033   Construction by owner
   
93.034   Municipal construction
   
93.035   Construction bids
   
93.036   Construction by petition
   
93.037   New additions
   
93.038   Removal and replacement
   
93.039   Regulation of obstructions
Streets
   
93.050   Names and numbers
   
93.051   Streets; crossings
   
93.052   Widening or opening
   
93.053   Excavation
   
93.054   Driving stakes
   
93.055   Mixing concrete
   
93.056   Harmful liquids
   
93.057   Eave and gutter spouts
   
93.058   Heavy equipment
   
93.059   Construction notice
   
93.060   Pipe lines and wires
   
93.061   Construction assessment
   
93.062   Petition for improvements
   
93.063   Improvement districts; objections
   
93.064   Streets, alleys, walks, malls and other improvements
   
93.065   Improvement of main thoroughfares
   
93.066   Deferral from special assessment
   
93.067   Vacating public ways; definitions and ascertaining damages
   
93.068   Removal of existing pavement; replacing; patching
   
93.069   Requirements of bond from all utility companies and other before
commencement of work involving excavation or removal or pavement or sidewalks
within the village
   
93.070   Cutting curb
Cemeteries
   
93.085   Plot rates
   
93.086   Introduction
   
93.087   Rules and regulations
   
93.088   Definitions
   
93.089   Purchase and ownership
   
93.090   General rules
   
93.091   Interments, disinterments and removals
   
93.092   Sections, lots and grave spaces
   
93.093   Care of the cemetery
   
93.094   Monument and marker regulations
   
93.095   Mausoleums
   
93.096   Fees; charges; permits; payments
 
   
93.999   Violations; Penalty
MUNICIPAL PROPERTY
§ 93.001 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   SIDEWALK SPACE. The portion of a street between curb lines and adjacent
property lines.
(1991 Code, § 8-101)
§ 93.002 MAINTENANCE AND CONTROL.
   The Board of Trustees shall have the care, supervision, and control of all
public highways, bridges, streets, alleys, public squares, and commons within
the village and shall cause the same to be kept open and in repair and free
from nuisances.
(Neb. RS 17-567(1)) (1991 Code, § 8-102)
§ 93.003 TREES.
   No person or persons shall plant, or allow to grow, any tree within the
sidewalk space without first making a written or verbal application to, and
receiving a written permit from the governing body. Any tree planted within the
sidewalk space after the adoption date of this section shall be deemed to be
unlawfully planted and growing and shall, at the discretion of the governing
body, be deemed to be a nuisance. When any such tree is declared to be a
nuisance, the governing body shall order, with proper notice, the tree removed
at the expense of the owner of the property adjacent to the sidewalk space upon
which the tree has been unlawfully planted. If the property owner fails or
neglects to remove or cause to be removed the said tree, the governing body
shall order the same removed and assess the expense of such removal against the
property adjacent to the sidewalk space wherein the tree is planted and
growing. In the event the property owner is a nonresident of the county in
which the property lies, the municipality shall, before levying any special
assessment against that property, send a copy of any notice required by law to
be published by means of certified mail, return receipt requested to the last
known address of the nonresident property owner. The last known address shall
be that address listed on the current tax rolls at the time such required
notice was first published. No fee shall be charged for said permit and nothing
in this section shall be construed to apply to any existing trees now growing
within the sidewalk space.
(Neb. RS 17-557.01, 18-1720) (1991 Code, § 8-103)
§ 93.004 OBSTRUCTIONS.
   (A)   Trees and shrubs growing upon or near the lot line, or upon public
ground, and interfering with the use or construction of any public
improvements, shall be deemed an obstruction under this chapter. Those trees
and shrubs and their roots may be removed by the village at the expense of the
owner of the property upon which the tree is located should the owner fail or
neglect, after notice, to do so. It shall be unlawful for any person, persons,
firm, or corporation to obstruct or encumber, by fences, gates, buildings,
structures, or otherwise, any of the streets, alleys, or sidewalks. The public
ways and property shall be considered to be obstructed when the owner or
occupant of the adjacent property shall permit or suffer to remain on any
premises owned or controlled by him or her any hedge, shrubbery, bush, or
similar growth within two feet adjacent to the lot line, whether there is a
sidewalk abutting or adjoining the premises or not. It shall be the duty of
owners and occupants to at all times keep trimmed and pruned all such similar
growth. Whenever any such growth is allowed to grow within two feet of the lot
line contrary to the provisions of this chapter, the Board of Trustees may pass
a resolution ordering the owner or occupant to remove those obstructions within
five days after having been served with a copy of the resolution by the village
stating that the village will do so and will charge the costs thereof to the
owner or occupant as a special assessment for improvements as herein provided,
or shall collect the same by civil suit brought in the name of the village
against the owner or occupant. It shall be the duty of an owner or occupant
engaged in construction of any building or improvement upon or near the public
ways and property to have all excavations or exposures of any kind protected
and guarded by suitable guards or barricades by day, and by warning lights at
night. In the event of failure, neglect, or refusal to comply with the
provisions of this subchapter, it shall be the duty of the village to stop all
work upon the buildings and improvements until suitable guards are erected and
kept in the manner stated above. Trees and shrubs growing upon the lot line
partially on public ground and partially upon the abutting property, or wholly
upon the abutting property, but so close to the lot line as to interfere with
the making of any public improvement or so that the roots thereof interfere
with any utility wires or pipe, shall be deemed an obstruction, and those
trees, shrubs, and roots may be removed by the village pursuant to the
procedure prescribed above. In the event the property owner is a nonresident of
the county in which the property lies, the village shall, before levying any
special assessment against that property, send a copy of any notice required by
law to be published by means of certified mail, return receipt requested, to
the last known address of the nonresident property owner. The last known
address shall be that address listed on the current tax rolls at the time the
required notice was first published.
   (B)   Persons engaged in the erection, construction, reconstruction,
wrecking, or repairing of any building, or the construction or repair of a
sidewalk along any street, may occupy the public street space with the building
material and equipment as long as is necessary if those persons shall make
application to and receive a permit in writing from the municipal official in
charge of municipal streets to do so, provided that no permit for the occupancy
of the sidewalk space and more than one-third of the roadway of the public
space adjacent to the real estate on which that building is to be constructed,
erected, reconstructed, wrecked, or repaired shall be granted, and provided
further that a suitable passageway for pedestrians shall be maintained within
the public space included in the permit which shall be protected and lighted in
the manner required by the official issuing the permit.
(1991 Code, § 8-104) Penalty, see §
93.999
Statutory reference:
   Authority to regulate and abate obstructions, see Neb. RS 17-557 and 17-
557.01
   Authority to remove obstructions, see Neb. RS 17-555
§ 93.005 SALE AND CONVEYANCE; OF REAL PROPERTY.
    (A)   Except as provided in division (G) of this section, the power of the
village to convey any real property owned by it, including land used for park
purposes and public squares, except real property used in the operation of
public utilities, shall be exercised by resolution, directing the sale at
public auction or by sealed bid of that property and the manner and terms of
such sales, except that the property shall not be sold at public auction or by
sealed bid when:
      (1)   The property is being sold in compliance with the requirements of
federal or state grants or programs;
      (2)   The property is being conveyed to another public agency; or
      (3)   The property consists of streets and alleys.
   (B)   The Board of Trustees may establish a minimum price for real property
at which bidding shall begin or shall serve as a minimum for a sealed bid.
   (C)   After the passage of the resolution directing the sale, notice of all
proposed sales of property described in division (A) of this section and the
terms of such sales shall be published once each week for three consecutive
weeks in a legal newspaper published in or of general circulation in the
village.
   (D)   (1)   If within 30 days after the third publication of the notice a
remonstrance petition against the sale:
         (a)   Conforms to Neb. RS 32-628;
         (b)   Is signed by registered voters of the village equal in number to
30% of the registered voters of the village voting at the last regular village
election held therein; and
         (c)   Is filed with the Board of Trustees, that property shall not
then, nor within one year thereafter, be sold. If the date for filing the
petition falls upon a Saturday, Sunday, or legal holiday, the signatures shall
be collected within the 30-day period, but the filing shall be considered
timely if filed or postmarked on or before the next business day.
      (2)   Upon the receipt of the remonstrance, the Board of Trustees, with
the aid and assistance of the Election Commissioner or County Clerk, shall
determine the validity and sufficiency of signatures on the petition. The Board
of Trustees shall deliver the petition to the Election Commissioner or County
Clerk by hand carrier, by use of law enforcement officials, or by certified
mail, return receipt requested.
      (3)   Upon receipt of the petition, the Election Commissioner or County
Clerk shall issue to the Board of Trustees a written receipt that the petition
is in the custody of the Election Commissioner or County Clerk. The Election
Commissioner or County Clerk shall compare the signature of each person signing
the petition with the voter registration records to determine if each signer
was a registered voter on or before the date on which the petition was filed
with the Board of Trustees. The Election Commissioner or County Clerk shall
also compare the signer's printed name, street and number or voting precinct,
and village or post office address with the voter registration records to
determine whether the signer was a registered voter. The signature and address
shall be presumed to be valid only if the Election Commissioner or County Clerk
determines that the printed name, street and number or voting precinct, and
village or post office address match the registration records and that the
registration was received on or before the date on which the petition was filed
with the Board of Trustees. The determinations of the Election Commissioner or
County Clerk may be rebutted by any credible evidence which the Board of
Trustees finds sufficient. The express purpose of the comparison of names and
addresses with the voter registration records, in addition to helping to
determine the validity of the petition, the sufficiency of the petition, and
the qualifications of the signer, shall be to prevent fraud, deception, and
misrepresentation in the petition process.
      (4)   Upon completion of the comparison of names and addresses with the
voter registration records, the Election Commissioner or County Clerk shall
prepare in writing a certification under seal setting forth the name and
address of each signer found not to be a registered voter and the signature
page number and line number where the name is found, and if the reason for the
invalidity of the signature or address is other than the non-registration of
the signer, the Election Commissioner or County Clerk shall set forth the
reason for the invalidity of the signature. If the Election Commissioner or
County Clerk determines that a signer has affixed his or her signature more
than once to the remonstrance and that only one person is registered by that
name, the Election Commissioner or County Clerk shall prepare in writing a
certification under seal setting forth the name of the duplicate signature and
shall count only the earliest dated signature.
      (5)   The Election Commissioner or County Clerk shall certify to the
Board of Trustees the number of valid signatures necessary to constitute a
valid remonstrance. The Election Commissioner or County Clerk shall deliver the
remonstrance and the certifications to the Board of Trustees within 40 days
after the receipt of the remonstrance from the Board of Trustees. The delivery
shall be by hand carrier, by use of law enforcement officials, or by certified
mail, return receipt requested. Not more than 20 signatures on one signature
page shall be counted.
      (6)   The Board of Trustees shall, within 30 days after the receipt of
the remonstrance and certifications from the Election Commissioner or County
Clerk, hold a public hearing to review the remonstrance and certifications and
receive testimony regarding them. The Board of Trustees shall, following the
hearing, vote on whether or not the remonstrance is valid and shall uphold the
remonstrance if sufficient valid signatures have been received.
   (E)   Real estate now owned or hereafter owned by the village may be
conveyed without consideration to the state for state armory sites or, if
acquired for state armory sites, shall be conveyed strictly in accordance with
the conditions of Neb. RS 18-1001 through 18-1006.
   (F)   Following passage of the resolution directing a sale, publishing of
the notice of the proposed sale, and passing of the 30-day right-of-
remonstrance period, the property shall then be sold. The sale shall be
confirmed by passage of an ordinance stating the name of the purchaser and
terms of the sale.
(Neb. RS 17-503)
   (G)   Divisions (A) through (F) of this section shall not apply to the sale
of real property if the authorizing resolution directs the sale of real
property, the total fair market value of which is less than $5,000. Following
passage of the resolution directing the sale of the property, notice of the
sale shall be posted in three prominent places within the village for a period
of not less than seven days prior to the sale of the property. The notice shall
give a general description of the property offered for sale and state the terms
and conditions of sale. Confirmation of the sale by passage of an ordinance may
be required.
(Neb. RS 17-503.01) (1991 Code, § 8-105) (Ord. 470, passed 5-19-1994; Ord. 505,
passed 1-18-1996; Ord. 549, passed 6-18-1998; Ord. 2005-22, passed 6-23-2005;
Ord. 2018-8, passed 5-24-2018; Ord. 2022-14, passed 12-19-2022)
§ 93.006 SALE AND CONVEYANCE OF PERSONAL PROPERTY.
   The power of the village to convey any personal property owned by it shall
be exercised by resolution directing the sale and the manner and terms thereof.
Following passage of the resolution directing the sale of the property, notice
of the sale shall be posted in three prominent places within the village for a
period of not less than seven days prior to the sale of the property. If the
fair market value of the property is greater than $5,000, notice of the sale
shall also be published once in a legal newspaper published in or of general
circulation in the village at least seven days prior to the sale of the
property. The notice shall give a general description of the property offered
for sale and state the terms and conditions of sale.
(Neb. RS 17-503.02) (1991 Code, § 8-105.01) (Ord. 2005-22, passed 6-23-2005)
§ 93.007 PERMITTED OBSTRUCTIONS.
   Persons engaged in the erection, construction, reconstruction, wrecking, or
repairing of any building, or the construction or repair of a sidewalk along
any street, may occupy the public street space with such building material and
equipment as long as is necessary if such persons shall make application to and
receive a permit in writing from the municipal official in charge of municipal
streets to do so; provided, no permit for the occupancy of the sidewalk space,
and more than one-third of the roadway of the public space adjacent to the real
estate on which said building is to be constructed, erected, reconstructed,
wrecked, or repaired shall be granted; and provided further, a suitable
passageway for pedestrians shall be maintained within the public space included
in the permit which shall be protected and lighted in the manner required by
the official issuing the permit.
(1991 Code, § 8-106)
§ 93.008 WEEDS.
   It is hereby the duty of the Utilities Superintendent or his or her duly
authorized agent to view and inspect the sidewalk space within the corporate
limits for growing weeds during the growing season, and if rank and noxious
weeds are found growing thereon, he or she shall notify the owner or occupant
thereof to cut down those weeds as close to the ground as can be practicably
done and keep the weeds cut thereon in like manner during the growing season
for weeds, provided that any weeds growing in excess of 12 inches on any
sidewalk space shall be considered a violation of this section. In the event
that the owner of the lot or parcel of land abutting that sidewalk space within
the village is a nonresident of the village or cannot be found therein, the
notice may be given to any person having the care, custody, or control of that
lot or parcel of land. In the event that there can be found no one within the
village to whom notice can be given, it shall be the duty of the Utilities
Superintendent or his or her agent to post a copy of the notice on the premises
and then to cut or cause the weeds thereon to be cut as therein provided and
report the cost thereof in writing to the Board of Trustees. The cost shall
then be audited and paid by the village, and the amount thereof shall be
assessed against the lot or parcel of land as a special tax thereon and shall
be collected as are other taxes of the village or may be recovered by civil
suit brought by the village against the owner of the parcel of land. In the
event the property owner is a nonresident of the county in which the property
lies, the village shall, before levying any special assessment against that
property, send a copy of any notice required by law to be published by means of
certified mail, return receipt requested, to the last known address of the
nonresident property owner. The last known address shall be that address listed
on the current tax rolls at the time the required notice was first published.
(1991 Code, § 8-107) Penalty, see §
93.999
Statutory reference:
   Authority, see Neb. RS 17-563
§ 93.009 OVERHANGING BRANCHES.
   The owner or occupant of any lot, piece, or parcel of ground abutting or
adjacent to any street or sidewalk over which there extend the branches of
trees shall at all times keep the branches or limbs thereof trimmed to the
height of at least eight feet above the surface of the walk and at least 14
feet above the surface of the street. Whenever the limbs or branches of any
tree or trees extend over streets or sidewalks contrary to the provisions
herein so as to interfere with the lighting of the street from street lights or
with the convenience of the public using the street or sidewalk, the Board of
Trustees at any regular or special meeting may pass a resolution ordering the
owner or occupant to cut or remove the obstructions within five days after
having received a copy thereof from the Utilities Superintendent stating that
the village will remove the branches and charge the costs thereof to the owner
or occupant as a special assessment for improvements as herein provided, if the
resolution is not complied with. In the event the property owner is a
nonresident of the county in which the property lies, the village shall, before
levying any special assessment against that property, send a copy of any notice
required by law to be published by means of certified mail, return receipt
requested, to the last known address of the nonresident property owner. The
last known address shall be that address listed on the current tax rolls at the
time the required notice was first published.
(1991 Code, § 8-108) Penalty, see §
93.999
Statutory reference:
   Authority to regulate, see Neb. RS 17-557 and 17-557.01
§ 93.010 IMPROVEMENT DISTRICT; LAND ADJACENT.
   Supplemental to any existing law on the subject, a municipality may include
land adjacent to such municipality when creating an improvement district, such
as a sewer, paving, water, water extension, or sanitary sewer extension
district. The governing body shall have power to assess, to the extent of
special benefits, the costs of such improvements upon the properties found
especially benefitted thereby, except as provided in §
93.067.
(Neb. RS 19-2427) (1991 Code, § 8-109)
§ 93.011 SPECIAL IMPROVEMENT DISTRICT; ASSESSMENT AND CREATION PROCEDURE.
   (A)   The municipality’s governing body may, by ordinance, create a special
improvement district for the purpose of replacing, reconstructing, or repairing
an existing street, alley, water line, sewer line, or any other such
improvement.
   (B)   Except as provided in Neb. RS 19-2428 to 19-2431, the governing body
shall have power to assess, to the extent of such benefits, the costs of such
improvements upon the properties found especially benefitted thereby, whether
or not such properties were previously assessed for the same general purpose.
In creating such special improvement district, the governing body shall follow
procedures applicable to the creation and assessment of the same type of
improvement district as otherwise provided by law.
(Neb. RS 18-1751) (1991 Code, § 8-110)
§ 93.012 ACQUISITION OF PROPERTY; CONSTRUCTION; ELECTIONS, WHEN REQUIRED.
   (A)   The municipality is authorized and empowered to purchase, accept by
gift or devise, purchase real estate upon which to erect, and erect a building
or buildings for an auditorium, fire station, municipal building, or community
house for housing municipal enterprises and social and recreation purposes, and
other public buildings, and maintain, manage, and operate the same for the
benefit of the inhabitants of the municipality.
   (B)   Except as provided in division (C) below, before any such purchase can
be made or building erected, the question shall be submitted to the electors of
the municipality at a general municipal election or at an election duly called
for that purpose, or as set forth in Neb. RS 17-954, and be adopted by a
majority of the electors voting on such question.
   (C)   If the funds to be used to finance the purchase or construction of a
building pursuant to this section are available other than through a bond
issue, then either:
      (1)   Notice of the proposed purchase or construction shall be published
in a newspaper of general circulation in the municipality and no election shall
be required to approve the purchase or construction unless within 30 days after
the publication of the notice, a remonstrance against the purchase or
construction is signed by registered voters of the municipality equal in number
to 15% of the registered voters of the municipality voting at the last regular
municipal election held therein and is filed with the governing body. If the
date for filing the remonstrance falls upon a Saturday, Sunday, or legal
holiday, the signatures shall be considered timely if filed or postmarked on or
before the next business day. If a remonstrance with the necessary number of
qualified signatures is timely filed, the question shall be submitted to the
voters of the municipality at a general municipal election or a special
election duly called for that purpose. If the purchase or construction is not
approved, the property involved shall not then, nor within one year following
the election, be purchased or constructed; or
      (2)   The governing body may proceed without providing the notice and
right of remonstrance required in division (C)(1) above if the property can be
purchased below the fair market value as determined by an appraisal, there is a
willing seller, and the purchase price is less than $25,000. The purchase shall
be approved by the governing body after notice and public hearing as provided
in Neb. RS 18-1755.
(Neb. RS 17-953, 17-953.01) (1991 Code, § 8-111) (Ord. 504, passed 1-18-1996)
§ 93.013 ACQUISITION OF REAL PROPERTY.
   When acquiring an interest in real property by purchase or eminent domain,
the municipality shall do so only after the governing body has authorized the
acquisition by action taken in a public meeting after notice and public
hearing.
(Neb. RS 18-1755) (1991 Code, § 8-112) (Ord. 491, passed 2-16-1995)
§ 93.014 ACQUISITION OF PROPERTY; APPRAISAL.
   The municipality shall not purchase, lease-purchase, or acquire for
consideration real property having an estimated value of $100,000 or more
unless an appraisal of such property has been performed by a certified real
estate appraiser.
(Neb. RS 13-403) (1991 Code, § 8-113) (Ord. 490, passed 2-16-1995)
§ 93.015 PUBLIC WORKS INVOLVING ARCHITECTURE OR ENGINEERING; REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Except as provided in division (B) below, the municipality shall not
engage in the construction of any public works involving architecture or
engineering unless the plans, specifications, and estimates have been prepared
and the construction has been observed by an architect, a professional
engineer, or a person under the direct supervision of an architect,
professional engineer, or those under the direct supervision of an architect or
professional engineer.
   (B)   Division (A) above shall not apply to the following activities:
      (1)   Any public works project with contemplated expenditures for the
completed project that do not exceed $86,000;
      (2)   Any alteration, renovation, or remodeling of a building if the
alteration, renovation, or remodeling does not affect architectural or
engineering safety features of the building;
      (3)   Performance by the municipality of professional services for itself
if the municipality appoints a Municipal Engineer or employs a full-time person
licensed under the Engineers and Architects Regulation Act who is in
responsible charge of architectural or engineering work;
      (4)   The practice of any other certified trade or legally recognized
profession;
      (5)   Earthmoving and related work associated with soil and water
conservation practices performed on any land owned by the municipality that is
not subject to a permit from the Department of Natural Resources;
      (6)   The work of employees and agents of the municipality performing, in
accordance with other requirements of law, their customary duties in the
administration and enforcement of codes, permit
programs, and land use regulations and their customary duties in utility and
public works construction, operation, and maintenance;
      (7)   Those services ordinarily performed by subordinates under direct
supervision of a professional engineer or those commonly designated as
locomotive, stationary, marine operating engineers, power plant operating
engineers, or manufacturers who supervise the operation of or operate machinery
or equipment or who supervise construction within their own plant;
      (8)   The construction of water wells as defined in Neb. RS 46-1212, the
installation of pumps and pumping equipment into water wells, and the
decommissioning of water wells, unless such construction, installation, or
decommissioning is required by the municipality to be designed or supervised by
an engineer or unless legal requirements are imposed upon the municipality as a
part of a public water supply; and
      (9)   Any other activities described in Neb. RS 81-3449 to 81-3453.
(Neb. RS 81-3423, 81-3445, 81-3449, and 81-3453) (1991 Code, § 8-114) (Ord.
550, passed 6-18-1998; Ord. 2002-02, passed 2-21-2002; Ord. 2005-31, passed 7-
28-2005; Ord. 2016-10, passed 3-24-2016)
SIDEWALKS
§ 93.030 KEPT CLEAN.
   It shall be unlawful for the occupant of any lot or lots or the owner of any
vacant lot or lots within the corporate limits to allow snow, sleet, mud, ice,
or other substance to accumulate on the sidewalks or to permit any snow, sleet,
ice, mud, or other substance to remain upon the sidewalk. All sidewalks within
the business district shall be cleaned within five hours after the cessation of
a storm, unless the storm or fall of snow shall have taken place during the
night, in which case the sidewalk shall be cleaned before 9:00 a.m. the
following day; provided that sidewalks within the residential areas of the
village shall be cleaned within 24 hours after the cessation of the storm.
(1991 Code, § 8-201) (Ord. 2016-06, passed 3-24-2016) Penalty, see §
93.999
Statutory reference:
   Authority to regulate, see Neb. RS 17-557
§ 93.031 BENEATH.
   No person shall be allowed to keep or use the space beneath the sidewalk
lying between lot line and curb line unless a permit therefor shall have been
obtained from the governing body. Before any permit shall be granted, the
applicant for that permit shall submit plans and specifications of any present
or proposed construction to the Municipal Engineer. Should those plans or
specifications be disapproved by the Engineer, no permit shall be granted
therefor. All permits hereafter granted shall continue only upon the condition
that the party receiving the same shall build, maintain, and keep in repair a
sidewalk over the space used or constructed to be used and pay all damages that
may be sustained by any person by reason of that use or by reason of that
sidewalk being defective or in a dangerous condition. As a condition precedent
to the issuance or continuance of any permit for the use of any space
underneath the municipal sidewalks as herein contemplated, the governing body
may require applicant to furnish a bond to the village as obligee for the
benefit of any person or persons who may suffer any damage or damages by reason
of that use. The bond shall be in that sum as the governing body, in its
discretion, may designate.
(1991 Code, § 8-202) Penalty, see §
93.999
§ 93.032 REPAIR.
   (A)   The governing body may, by resolution, order the repair of a sidewalk
on any lot or piece of ground within the municipality and may assess the
expense thereof on the property in front of which such repairs are made, after
having given notice of its intention to do so:
      (1)   By publication in one issue of a legal newspaper of general
circulation in the municipality; and
      (2)   By either causing a written notice to be served upon the occupant
in possession of the property involved or to be posted upon such premises ten
days prior to the commencement of such repair.
(Neb. RS 17-522)
   (B)   The notice shall:
      (1)   State that the governing body has ordered repair of the sidewalk;
      (2)   Contain the municipality’s estimate of the cost of the repair;
      (3)   Notify the property owner that he or she may, within ten days after
the date of publication of the notice, notify the municipality that he or she
will repair the sidewalk within 30 days after such date of publication; and
      (4)   Notify the property owner that if he or she fails to so notify the
municipality within the ten days or, having so notified the municipality, fails
to repair the sidewalk within the 30 days, the municipality will cause the
sidewalk to be repaired and the expense thereof to be assessed against the
property.
   (C)   (1)   Before the municipality imposes any special assessments for
sidewalk repair, a copy of the notice that is required to be published shall be
mailed to the last known address of all nonresident property owners as shown on
the current tax rolls at the time such notice is first published.
(Neb. RS 13-310)
      (2)   The Municipal Clerk shall mail the notice by certified mail with
return receipt requested. (Neb. RS 13-312)
      (3)   For purposes of this division, NONRESIDENT PROPERTY OWNER means any
person or corporation whose residence and mailing address as shown on the
current tax rolls is outside the boundaries of the county in which the property
subject to assessment is located and who is a record owner of the property.
(Neb. RS 13-314)
   (D)   All sidewalks shall be repaired in conformity with such plans and
specifications as may be approved by the governing body.
   (E)   Assessments made under this section shall be made and assessed in the
manner provided in Neb. RS 17-524.
(1991 Code, § 8-204) (Ord. 2005-32, passed 7-28-2005)
§ 93.033 CONSTRUCTION BY OWNER.
   (A)   Any person desiring to construct or cause to be constructed any
sidewalk shall do so only as herein provided. It shall be unlawful for any
person to construct any sidewalk without first having obtained a permit.
   (B)   The owner shall make application in writing for a permit and file the
application in the office of the Municipal Clerk. The permit shall give a
description of the lot or piece of land along which the sidewalk is to be
constructed. The official in charge of sidewalks shall issue the desired permit
unless good cause shall appear why the permit should be denied, provided that
if it is desired to construct the sidewalk at any other than the regularly
prescribed location, grade, or elevation, the municipal official in charge of
sidewalks shall submit the application to the Board of Trustees, who shall
determine whether the permit should be granted or denied. It shall be unlawful
for any person to construct or cause to be constructed the sidewalk at any
other location, grade, or elevation than so designated by the village. All
sidewalks shall be built and constructed on the established grade or elevation,
and if there is no established grade, then on the grade or elevation indicated
by the municipal official in charge of sidewalks.
(1991 Code, § 8-205) Penalty, see §
93.999
§ 93.034 MUNICIPAL CONSTRUCTION.
   (A)   The Board of Trustees may, by resolution, order the construction of a
sidewalk on any lot or piece of ground within the village. Notice of the Board
of Trustees’ intention to construct the sidewalk shall be given by the
Municipal Clerk by publication of notice one time in a legal newspaper of
general circulation in the village.
   (B)   A copy of the notice shall be personally served upon the occupant in
possession of the property, or, when personal service is not possible, the
notice shall be posted upon the premises ten days prior to the commencement of
construction. The notice required in this section shall be prepared by the
Municipal Attorney in accordance with the provisions of this section. Service
shall include a form of return evidencing personal service or posting as herein
required.
   (C)   The notice shall notify the owner of the premises of the passage of
the resolution ordering the owner to construct or cause to be constructed a
sidewalk within 30 days after the date of publication, and further, that if the
owner fails to construct the sidewalk or cause the same to be done within the
time allowed, the village will cause the sidewalk to be constructed, and the
cost thereof shall be levied and assessed as a special tax against the
premises; provided that the notice shall contain the official estimate of the
cost of construction and no special assessment in excess of this estimate shall
be assessed against the property. In the event the property owner is a
nonresident of the county in which the property lies, the village shall, before
levying any special assessment against that property, send a copy of any notice
required by law to be published by means of certified mail, return receipt
requested, to the last known address of the nonresident property owner. The
last known address shall be that address listed on the current tax rolls at the
time the required notice was first published.
(1991 Code, § 8-206)
Statutory reference:
   Authority to construct and repair, see Neb. RS 17-522 through 17-524
   Authority to construct or otherwise improve through sidewalk district, see
Neb. RS 19-2417 through 19-2419
§ 93.035 CONSTRUCTION BIDS.
   Whenever the municipality shall construct, widen, replace, or reconstruct
any sidewalk, notice prepared by the Municipal Attorney, specifying the work to
be done and calling for bids for doing such work and supplying the necessary
materials and labor shall be published in at least one issue of a legal
newspaper of general circulation in the municipality; provided, bids so invited
shall be filed in the office of the Municipal Clerk within ten days after the
date of publication. Bids shall be opened at the next regular or special
meeting of the governing body, and the governing body shall then award the work
to the lowest responsible bidder. Upon approval of the work, the governing body
may require the contractor to accept payment in certificates issued to him or
her by the Municipal Clerk entitling him or her to all assessments or special
taxes against such real estate whenever such assessments or special taxes shall
be collected together with the interest or penalty collected thereon. Each
certificate shall give the legal description of the lot, lots, or parcel of
ground against which the assessments or special taxes are assessed. Such
certificate or certificates may be assigned and transferred, entitling the
holder to the same rights as if held by the original contractor. The County
Treasurer shall pay over to such contractor or other holder of the certificate
or certificates all assessments or special taxes against such real estate,
together with the interest and penalty thereon, at any time upon presentation
of such certificate or certificates after said assessments or special taxes
against such real estate together with interest or penalty thereon shall have
been collected.
(1991 Code, § 8-207)
§ 93.036 CONSTRUCTION BY PETITION.
   If the owners of the record title representing more than 60% of the front
footage of the directly abutting property, subject to assessment for sidewalk
improvements, petition the governing body to make the same, the governing body
shall proceed in all things as though such construction had been ordered by it.
Upon the petition of any freeholder who is an abutting owner in fee simple of
property subject to assessment for sidewalk improvements, the governing body
may order permanent sidewalks built in accordance with this chapter upon the
freeholder making, executing, and delivering to the municipality an agreement
to the effect that the petitioning freeholder will pay the engineering service
fee and all other incidental construction costs until paid shall be a perpetual
lien upon the real estate along which the freeholder desires such sidewalk to
be constructed and that the petitioner gives and grants to the municipality the
right to assess and levy the costs of such construction against the
freeholder’s real estate abutting the sidewalk improvement and promises to pay
such costs with interest. The total cost of such improvement shall be levied,
allocated, financed, and specially assessed as provided by law. In the event
the property owner is a nonresident of the county in which the property lies,
the municipality shall, before levying any special assessment against that
property, send a copy of any notice required by law to be published by means of
certified mail, return receipt requested to the last known address of the
nonresident property owner. The last known address shall be that address listed
on the current tax rolls at the time such required notice was first published.
(1991 Code, § 8-208)
§ 93.037 NEW ADDITIONS.
   All new residential, business, and industrial additions built after the
adoption of this section shall be required to construct sidewalks in
conformance with the provisions of this chapter and the zoning regulations of
the village.
(1991 Code, § 8-209)
§ 93.038 REMOVAL AND REPLACEMENT.
   An ordinance to provide specifications and procedures to be used in work
involving removal and replacement must be adhered to in §
93.068.
(1991 Code, § 8-210)
§ 93.039 REGULATION OF OBSTRUCTIONS.
   (A)   The municipality shall have the power to remove all obstructions from
the sidewalks, curbstones, gutters, and crosswalks at the expense of the person
placing them there or at the expense of the municipality, and to require and
regulate the planting and protection of shade trees in and along the streets
and the trimming and removing of such trees.
   (B)   The municipality shall have the power to regulate the building of
bulkheads, cellar and basement ways, stairways, railways, windows, doorways,
awnings, hitching posts and rails, lampposts, awning posts, all other
structures projecting upon or over and adjoining, and all other excavations
through and under the sidewalks in the municipality.
(Neb. RS 17-555) (Ord. 2016-09, passed 3-24-2016)
STREETS
§ 93.050 NAMES AND NUMBERS.
   The Board of Trustees may at any time, by ordinance, rename any street or
provide a name for any new street. Buildings used for residence or business
purposes and located along those streets shall retain those numbers as the
Board of Trustees may require. It shall be the duty of the municipal official
in charge of streets, upon the erection of any new building or buildings, to
assign the proper numbers to the building or buildings and give notice to the
owner or owners and occupant or occupants of the same.
(1991 Code, § 8-301) Penalty, see §
93.999
Statutory reference:
   Authority to improve, see Neb. RS 17-509
§ 93.051 STREETS; CROSSINGS.
   The Board of Trustees may order and cause to be constructed, under the
supervision of the municipal official in charge of streets, those street,
avenue, and alley crossings as the Board of Trustees shall deem necessary. When
a petition for the construction of any such crossings is filed by an interested
resident in the office of the Municipal Clerk, the Municipal Clerk shall refer
that application to the Utilities Superintendent, who shall investigate and
make a recommendation to the Board of Trustees. Action by the Board of Trustees
on the application, whether the application is approved or rejected, shall be
considered final.
(1991 Code, § 8-302)
Statutory reference:
   Authority, see Neb. RS 17-509
§ 93.052 WIDENING OR OPENING.
   (A)   The village shall have power to open, widen, or otherwise improve or
vacate any street, avenue, alley, or lane within the limits of the village and
also to create, open, and improve any new street, avenue, alley, or lane. All
damages sustained by the citizens of the village, or by the owners of the
property therein, shall be ascertained in that manner as shall be provided by
ordinance. Whenever any street or alley is vacated, the same shall revert to
the owners of the abutting real estate, one-half on each side thereof, and
become a part of that property. When a portion of a street, avenue, alley, or
lane is vacated only on one side of the center thereof, the title to the land
shall vest in the owner of the abutting property and become a part of that
property.
   (B)   When the village vacates all or any portion of a street, avenue,
alley, or lane, the village shall, within 30 days after the effective date of
the vacation, file a certified copy of the vacating ordinance with the Register
of Deeds for the county in which the vacated property is located to be indexed
against all affected lots.
(Neb. RS 17-558)
   (C)   The village shall have power to create, open, widen, or extend any
street, avenue, alley, off-street parking area, or other public way, or annul,
vacate, or discontinue the same.
(Neb. RS 17-559)
(1991 Code, § 8-303)
§ 93.053 EXCAVATION.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to make an excavation in any street or
streets for any purpose whatsoever unless a written permit is issued by the
Utilities Superintendent authorizing those excavations.
(1991 Code, § 8-304) Penalty, see §
93.999
Statutory reference:
   Authority, see Neb. RS 17-557
§ 93.054 DRIVING STAKES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to drive any peg or stake of any kind
into the pavement in any street or alley without first procuring the written
consent of the Utilities Superintendent.
(1991 Code, § 8-305) Penalty, see §
93.999
Statutory reference:
   Authority, see Neb. RS 17-557
§ 93.055 MIXING CONCRETE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to mix any concrete or plastering
material directly on the street pavement for any reason whatsoever.
(1991 Code, § 8-306) Penalty, see §
93.999
Statutory reference:
   Authority, see Neb. RS 17-557
§ 93.056 HARMFUL LIQUIDS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to place or permit to leak in the gutter
of any street any waste gasoline, kerosene, or high lubricating oils, which
damage or act as a solvent upon the streets.
(1991 Code, § 8-307) Penalty, see §
93.999
Statutory reference:
   Authority, see Neb. RS 17-557
§ 93.057 EAVE AND GUTTER SPOUTS.
   It is hereby declared unlawful for any person to erect or maintain any
dwelling house or business building within the limits of the village where the
dwelling or building abuts on any sidewalk or street without providing proper
guttering and eave spouts to receive the wastewaters that collect on the
sidewalks and streets. All eave spouts erected on any dwelling house or
business building shall be constructed to drain into the alleys, or shall be
buried beneath the sidewalks and drain into the streets where it is found to be
impossible to drain the eave spouts into the alley.
(1991 Code, § 8-308) Penalty, see §
93.999
Statutory reference:
   Authority, see Neb. RS 17-557
§ 93.058 HEAVY EQUIPMENT.
   It shall hereafter be unlawful for any person or persons to move or operate
heavy equipment across any curb, gutter, bridge, culvert, sidewalk, crosswalk,
or crossing on any unpaved street without first having protected that curb,
gutter, bridge, culvert, sidewalk, crosswalk, or crossing with heavy plank
sufficient in strength to warrant against the breaking or damaging of the curb,
gutter, bridge, culvert, sidewalk, crosswalk, or crossing. Hereafter, it shall
be unlawful to run, drive, move, operate, or convey over or across any paved
street a vehicle, machine, or implement with sharp discs or sharp wheels that
bear upon the pavement, with wheels having cutting edges, with wheels having
lugs, any protruding parts, or bolts thereon that extend beyond a plain tire so
as to cut, mark, mar, indent, or otherwise injure or damage any pavement,
gutter, or curb; provided that, where heavy vehicles, structures, and machines
move along paved or unpaved streets, the County Sheriff is hereby authorized
and empowered to choose the route over which the moving of those vehicles,
structures, or machines will be permitted and allowed. Nothing in this section
shall be construed to apply to pneumatic tires with metal or metal-type studs
not exceeding five-sixteenths an inch in diameter inclusive of the stud-casting
with an average protrusion beyond the tread surface of not more than seven-
sixty fourths of an inch between November 1 and April 1; provided that school
buses, mail carrier vehicles, and emergency vehicles shall be permitted to use
metal or metal-type studs all year and it shall be permissible to use farm
machinery with tires having protuberances which will not injure the streets. It
shall be permissible to use tire chains of reasonable proportions upon any
vehicle when required for safety because of snow, ice, or other condition
tending to cause a vehicle to slide or skid. It shall be permissible to use a
rubber tired crane with a fixed load when that vehicle will be transported on a
state highway or on any road within the corporate limits of the municipality,
the municipality in which the crane is intended to be transported has
authorized a permit for the transportation of the crane and specified the route
to be used and the hours during which the crane can be transported, the vehicle
is escorted by another vehicle or vehicles assigned by the municipality, and
the vehicle’s gross weight does not exceed the limits set out in Neb. RS 60-
6,288.
(1991 Code, § 8-309) Penalty, see §
93.999
Statutory reference:
   Rubber-tired cranes, see Neb. RS 60-6,288(2)(j)
   Tire requirements, see Neb. RS 60-6,250
§ 93.059 CONSTRUCTION NOTICE.
   The chief street official shall notify the owners in fee simple of real
estate abutting a street, alley, or a part thereof which is to be put under
contract for paving or repaving. Notice shall also be given to all gas,
electric service, and telephone companies. Notice shall also be given to all
consumers of gas, water, and sewer services which will be discontinued during
such construction. Said notice shall be published one time in a legal newspaper
at least 20 days prior to the beginning of such construction by the party
undertaking such construction and said notice shall state at what date
connections must be made and excavation completed. All gas, water, sewer, and
underground connections must be made prior to the paving or repaving of the
street under construction. After expiration of such time, permits for
excavation will not be issued, nor will excavation be allowed, until after the
completion of the pavement in said street or alley, and the formal final
acceptance thereof by the proper officials of the municipality.
(1991 Code, § 8-310)
§ 93.060 PIPE LINES AND WIRES.
   Poles, wires, gas mains, pipe lines, and other appurtenances of public
service companies shall be located or erected over, upon, or under the streets,
alleys, and common grounds of the village. Application for location of the
above shall be made to the Board of Trustees in writing. Approval by that body
shall be issued in writing. Any public service company granted a right-of-way
for the erection and maintenance of poles, conduits, gas mains, pipe lines, and
wires shall at all times erect and locate their poles, wires, gas mains, pipe
lines, and other appurtenances at those places and in that manner as shall be
designated by the Board of Trustees. Those poles, wires, gas mains, pipe lines,
and other appurtenances shall be removed or relocated by the companies at their
own expense when requested to do so by the Board of Trustees. Any such
relocation shall be ordered by resolution of the Board of Trustees, and the
Municipal Clerk shall notify any and all companies affected. The companies
shall, within 24 hours after receiving notice, at their own expense, cause the
poles, wires, gas mains, pipe lines, or other appurtenances to be removed. The
Board of Trustees shall designate another location as close as possible where
the poles, wires, gas mains, pipe lines, or other appurtenances may be reset or
placed. All poles, wires, gas mains, pipe lines, or other appurtenances shall
be reset, placed, or erected in such a manner that they will not interfere with
the water system, sewerage system, poles, wires, and mains of any public
utility, adjacent buildings, or with travel on the public ways and property.
Whenever possible, all pole lines, wires, gas mains, pipe lines, or
appurtenances shall be confined to the alleys of the village.
(1991 Code, § 8-311) Penalty, see §
93.999
§ 93.061 CONSTRUCTION ASSESSMENT.
   To defray the costs and expenses of street improvements, as may be
authorized by law, the governing body shall have power and authority to levy
and collect special taxes and assessments upon the lots and pieces of ground
adjacent to, abutting upon, or especially benefitting from, the street, avenue,
alley, or sidewalk in whole or in part opened, widened, curbed, curbed and
guttered, graded, paved, repaired, graveled, macadamized, parked, extended,
constructed, or otherwise improved or repaired. The governing body sitting as
the Board of Equalization shall review all such improvements in accordance with
the procedure provided by law. All special assessments shall be made by the
governing body at a regular or special meeting by resolution, taking into
account the benefits derived or injuries sustained in consequence of such
improvements and the amount charged against same. The vote shall be recorded in
the minutes. Notice of the time of holding such meeting and the purpose for
which it is to be held shall be published in some legal newspaper published, or
of general circulation, in the municipality at least four weeks before the same
shall be held. In lieu of such aforementioned notice, personal service may be
had upon the persons owning or occupying the property to be assessed. Such
assessments shall be known as “special assessments for improvements” and with
the cost of notice shall be levied and collected as a special tax in addition
to the taxes for general revenue purposes, subject to the same penalties and
collected in like manner as other municipal taxes and shall be certified to the
County Clerk by the Municipal Clerk forthwith after the date of levy, for
collection by the Treasurer of said county unless otherwise specified. After it
shall become delinquent, said assessment shall draw interest at the legal
interest rate per annum. In the event the property owner is a nonresident of
the county in which the property lies, the municipality shall, before levying
any special assessment against that property, send a copy of any notice
required by law to be published by means of certified mail, return receipt
requested to the last known address of the nonresident property owner. The last
known address shall be that address listed on the current tax rolls at the time
such required notice was first published.
(Neb. RS 17-511, 17-524, 19-2428 through 19-2431, 45-104.01) (1991 Code, § 8-
312)
§ 93.062 PETITION FOR IMPROVEMENTS.
   Whenever a petition signed by the owners of record title representing more
than 60% of the front footage of the property directly abutting upon the
street, streets, alley, alleys, public way, or the public grounds proposed to
be improved, shall be presented and filed with the Municipal Clerk, petitioning
therefor, the governing body shall by ordinance create a paving, graveling, or
other improvement district or districts, and shall cause such work to be done
or such improvement to be made, and shall contract therefor, and shall levy
assessments on the lots and parcels of land abutting on or adjacent to such
street, streets, alley, or alleys, especially benefitted thereby in such
district in proportion to such benefits, to pay the cost of such improvement.
The governing body shall have the discretion to deny the formation of the
proposed district when the area has not previously been improved with a water
system, sewer system, and grading of streets. If the governing body should deny
a requested improvement district formation, it shall state the grounds for such
denial in a written letter to interested parties.
(Neb. RS 17-510) (1991 Code, § 8-313)
§ 93.063 IMPROVEMENT DISTRICTS; OBJECTIONS.
   Whenever the governing body deems it necessary to make any improvements
allowed by statute which are to be funded by a levy of special assessment on
the property especially benefitted, the governing body shall by ordinance
create a paving, graveling, or other improvement district and, after the
passage, approval, and publication or posting of such ordinance, shall publish
notice of the creation of any such district for six days in a legal newspaper
of the municipality, if a daily newspaper, or for two consecutive weeks if it
is a weekly newspaper. If no legal newspaper is published in the municipality,
the publication shall be in a legal newspaper of general circulation in the
municipality. If the owners of the record title representing more than 50% of
the front footage of the property directly abutting on the street or alley to
be improved file with the Municipal Clerk within 20 days after the first
publication of such notice written objections to the creation of such district,
such improvement shall not be made as provided in such ordinance, but such
ordinance shall be repealed. If objections are not filed against the district
in the time and manner prescribed in this section, the governing body shall
immediately cause such work to be done or such improvement to be made, shall
contract for the work or improvement, and shall levy assessments on the lots
and parcels of land abutting on or adjacent to such street or alley especially
benefitted in such district in proportion to such benefits to pay the cost of
such improvement.
(Neb. RS 17-511) (1991 Code, § 8-314) (Ord. 503, passed 1-18-1996)
§ 93.064 STREETS, ALLEYS, WALKS, MALLS AND OTHER IMPROVEMENTS.
   The governing body may grade, partially or to an established grade, change
grade, curb, recurb, gutter, regutter, pave, gravel, regravel, macadamize,
remacadamize, widen, or narrow streets or roadways, resurface or re-lay
existing pavement, or otherwise improve any streets, alleys, public grounds,
public ways, entirely or partially, and streets which divide the municipal
corporate area and the area adjoining the municipality; construct or
reconstruct pedestrian walks, plazas, malls, landscaping, outdoor sprinkler
systems, fountains, decorative water ponds, lighting systems, and permanent
facilities; and construct sidewalks and improve the sidewalk space. These
projects may be funded at public cost or by the levy of special assessments on
the property especially benefitted in proportion to such benefits, except as
provided in Neb. RS 19-2428 through 19-2431. The governing body may by
ordinance create improvement districts, to be consecutively numbered, which may
include two or more connecting or intersecting streets, alleys, or public ways,
and may include two or more types of the improvements authorized under this
section in a single district in one proceeding. All of the improvements which
are to be funded by a levy of special assessment on the property especially
benefitted shall be ordered as provided in Neb. RS 17-510 to 17-512, except as
otherwise provided in Neb. RS 17-509.
(Neb. RS 17-509) (1991 Code, § 8-315) (Ord. 2018-16, passed 5-24-2018)
§ 93.065 IMPROVEMENT OF MAIN THOROUGHFARES.
   The Chairperson and Board of Trustees shall have the power, by a three-
fourths vote of the governing body, to create by ordinance a paving, graveling,
or other improvement district and to order such work done upon any federal or
state highway in the municipality or upon a street or route designated by the
Chairperson and Board of Trustees as a main thoroughfare that connects, on both
ends, to either a federal or state highway or a county road. The governing body
shall contract therefor and shall have the power to assess, to the extent of
special benefits, the costs of such improvements upon the properties found
especially benefitted thereby.
(Neb. RS 17-512) (1991 Code, § 8-316)
§ 93.066 DEFERRAL FROM SPECIAL ASSESSMENT.
   (A)   Whenever the governing body of a municipality creates an improvement
district as specified in §
93.010 which includes land adjacent to the municipality, which is within an
agricultural use zone and is used exclusively for agricultural use, the owners
of record title of such adjacent land may apply for a deferral from special
assessments. For purposes of this section, the terms AGRICULTURAL USE and
AGRICULTURAL USE ZONE shall have the meaning specified in Neb. RS 77-1343.
   (B)   Any owner of record title eligible for the deferral granted by this
section shall, to secure such assessment, make application to the governing
body of the municipality within 90 days after creation of an improvement
district as specified in §
93.011. Any owner of record title who makes application for the deferral
provided by this section shall notify the County Register of Deeds of such
application in writing prior to approval by the governing body. The governing
body shall approve the application of any owner of record title upon
determination that the property is within an agricultural use zone and is used
exclusively for agricultural use, and the owner has met the requirements of
this section.
   (C)   The deferral provided for in this section shall be terminated upon any
of the following events:
      (1)   Notification by the owner of record title to the governing body to
remove such deferral;
      (2)   Sale or transfer to a new owner who does not make a new application
within 60 days of the sale or transfer, except as provided in division (C)(3)
below;
      (3)   Transfer by reason of death of a former owner to a new owner who
does not make application within 125 days of the transfer;
      (4)   The land is no longer being used as agricultural land; or
      (5)   Change of zoning to other than an agricultural zone.
   (D)   Whenever property which has received a deferral pursuant to this
section becomes disqualified for such deferral, the owner of record title of
such property shall pay to the municipality an amount equal to:
      (1)   The total amount of special assessments which would have been
assessed against such property, to the extent of special benefits, had such
deferral not been granted; and
      (2)   Interest upon the special assessments not paid each year at the
rate of 6% from the dates at which such assessments would have been payable if
no deferral had been granted.
   (E)   In cases where the deferral provided by this section is terminated as
a result of a sale or transfer described in division (B) or (C) above, the lien
for assessments and interest shall attach as of the day preceding such sale or
transfer.
(Neb. RS 19-2428 through 19-2431) (1991 Code, § 8-317)
§ 93.067 VACATING PUBLIC WAYS; DEFINITIONS AND ASCERTAINING DAMAGES.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      SPECIAL DAMAGES. Only those losses or damages or injuries which a
property owner suffers that are peculiar or special or unique to his or her
property and which result from the Board of Trustees vacating a street, avenue,
alley, lane, or similar public way. SPECIAL DAMAGES shall not mean those losses
or damages or injuries that a property owner suffers that are in common with
the rest of the village or public at large, even though those losses or damages
or injuries suffered by the property owner are greater in degree than the rest
of the village or public at large.
   (B)   Whenever the Board of Trustees decides that it would be in the best
interests of the village to vacate a street, avenue, alley, lane, or similar
public way, the Board of Trustees shall comply with the following procedure.
      (1)   Notice. Notice shall be given to all abutting property owners
either by first class mail to their last known address, or, if there is no
known address, then by publishing the notice in a newspaper that is of general
circulation in the village. The content of the notice shall advise the abutting
property owners that the Board of Trustees will consider vacating that street,
avenue, alley, lane, or similar public way at its next regular meeting, or, if
a special meeting is scheduled for the discussion, then the date, time, and
place of that meeting.
      (2)   Consent; waiver. The Board of Trustees may have all the abutting
property owners sign a form stating that they consent to the action being taken
by the Board of Trustees and waive their right of access. The signing of this
form shall have no effect on claims for special damages by the abutting
property owners but shall create the presumption that the Board of Trustees’
action was proper. If the abutting property owners do not sign the consent/
waiver form, the Board of Trustees may still proceed with vacating the street,
avenue, alley, lane, or similar public way under the authority granted by Neb.
RS 17-558 and 17-559.
      (3)   Ordinance. The Board of Trustees shall pass an ordinance that
includes essentially the following provisions:
         (a)   A declaration that the action is expedient for the public good
or in the best interests of the village;
         (b)   A statement that the village will have an easement for
maintaining all utilities; and
         (c)   A method or procedure for ascertaining special damages to
abutting property owners.
   (C)   The Chairperson shall appoint three, five, or seven disinterested
residents of the village to a special commission to ascertain the amount of
special damages that the abutting property owners are entitled to receive and
which resulted from the Board of Trustees vacating the street, avenue, alley,
lane, or similar public way. The appointees of the special commission shall be
approved by the Board of Trustees. Only special damages shall be awarded to the
abutting property owners.
   (D)   (1)   In determining the amount of compensation to award the abutting
property owners as special damages, the commission shall use the following
rule.
      (2)   An abutting property owner is entitled to recover as compensation
the difference between the value of the property immediately before and
immediately after the vacating of the street, avenue, alley, lane, or similar
public way. If no difference in value exists, the abutting property owner is
entitled to no compensation.
(1991 Code, §§ 8-318, 8-319)
§ 93.068 REMOVAL OF EXISTING PAVEMENT; REPLACING; PATCHING.
   (A)   It is the intent of the governing body to provide specifications and
procedures to be used by utility companies in work involving the removal of
existing pavement and replacement of fill material and a pavement patch in the
installation, removal, or repair of buried utility lines.
   (B)   Work may be performed by or on behalf of a utility company which
involves the removal of existing pavement for the installation, removal, or
repair of buried utility lines only when the provisions of said ordinance are
met.
   (C)   A plan showing the location of the line and proposed work must be
submitted to the Street Commissioner and Village Clerk for approval at least 48
hours prior to the commencement of any work. All existing pavement shall be cut
square by means of a power driven rotary saw. Pavement removed shall be
disposed of at a site to be determined by the Street Commissioner. Any pavement
undermined as a result of construction shall also be removed at the utility
company’s expense.
   (D)   Barricades and warning signs shall be provided by the utility company
while work is being completed. No trench shall be left open for more than 24
hours and all patches will be installed within seven days from the beginning of
work.
   (E)   Backfill of all utility trenches will be compacted to 95% the maximum
density at optimum moisture content of plus of minus 3%, ASTM D-698. The
pavement patch will be of the same type and equal or better quality as the
existing pavement. The patch will extend one foot on each side of the trench
and be two inches thicker than the existing pavement.
   (F)   Violation of this section will constitute a misdemeanor punishable as
provided by §
93.999.
(1991 Code, § 8-320) Penalty, see §
93.999
§ 93.069 REQUIREMENTS OF BOND FROM ALL UTILITY COMPANIES AND OTHER BEFORE
COMMENCEMENT OF WORK INVOLVING EXCAVATION OR REMOVAL OR PAVEMENT OR SIDEWALKS
WITHIN THE VILLAGE.
   (A)   In addition to above requirements concerning removal of existing
pavement, replacing and patching: any utility company, person, or other entity,
before work may be performed which involves the removal of existing pavement,
excavation, or removal of sidewalks, shall deliver to the Village Clerk to be
filed in the office of the Village Clerk, a bond, with sureties to be approved
by the Village Board of Trustees in the sum of $5,000 or such amount required
by resolution of the Village Board of Trustees for a particular project, which
bond shall contain the condition that said utility company, person, or other
entity shall defend, save, keep harmless, and indemnify the village from all
liability, claims, damages, judgments, costs, and expenses of every nature and
description caused by or growing out of the making of any excavation, hole, or
trench in any street, highway, alley, or thoroughfare, including the pavement,
sidewalk, and sidewalk space in the village; the opening or removal of any
pavement or any sidewalk surface, the placing of any obstruction, barricade
material, equipment or apparatus of any nature in the street, highway, alley or
thoroughfare, including the sidewalk and sidewalk space, and the failure to
properly protect any excavation, hole or trench in any street, highway, alley,
or thoroughfare, including the sidewalk and sidewalk space; and, any and all
negligence on the part of said utility company, individual or other entity in
the use and occupancy of any street, highway, alley, or thoroughfare, including
the sidewalk and sidewalk space, while such work is being conducted.
   (B)   Said bond shall also provide that said utility company, individual, or
other entity shall fill all trenches and replace all pavement in an acceptable
manner as required by Ord. 368 and the Municipal Code. This bond shall provide
that a 30-day written notice shall be given to the Village Clerk in the event
of expiration or of proposed cancellation of such bond.
   (C)   Violation of this shall constitute a misdemeanor punishable as
provided by §
93.999.
(1991 Code, § 8-321) Penalty, see §
93.999
§ 93.070 CUTTING CURB.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to cut into any paving, curb, or
sidewalk for the purpose of constructing a driveway or any other purpose
whatsoever without first having obtained a written permit from the Board of
Trustees therefor. Before any person shall obtain a permit, the person shall
inform the Municipal Clerk of the place where the cutting is to be done, and it
shall be the Utilities Superintendent’s duty to inspect the place of entry into
the paving, sidewalk, or curb, before the same is cut. When cutting into any
paving, it shall be the duty of the party to cut the paving under those rules
and regulations as may be prescribed by the Board of Trustees or the Municipal
Engineer. When the applicant is ready to close the opening made, the applicant
shall inform the Utilities Superintendent, who shall supervise and inspect the
materials used and the work done in closing the opening. It shall be
discretionary with the Board of Trustees to order the Utilities Superintendent,
under the supervision and inspection of the Municipal Engineer or the committee
of the Board of Trustees on the streets and alleys, to do the work of cutting
and closing the paving and charge the costs thereof to the party who obtained
the permit. The Board of Trustees may consent to the work of cutting and
closing the paving to be done by the party holding the permit. Before any
permit is issued by the Board of Trustees, the applicant for the permit shall
deposit with the Municipal Treasurer a sum set by resolution of the Board of
Trustees for all paving, curb, or sidewalk to be cut. This sum shall be set on
a per square foot cost of construction basis. The deposit shall be retained by
the village for the purpose of replacing the paving, curb, or sidewalk, in the
event that the work is done by the village. In the event that the village
elects to require the applicant to replace the paving, curb, or sidewalk, the
deposit shall be retained by the village until the work is completed to the
satisfaction of the Utilities Superintendent or the committee of the Board of
Trustees on streets and alleys. In addition to making the deposit above set
forth, the applicant shall, before any permit is issued, execute a bond to the
village with a good and sufficient surety or sureties to be approved by the
Board of Trustees in a sum set by resolution of the Board of Trustees.
(1991 Code, § 8-401) Penalty, see §
93.999
Statutory reference:
   Authority, see Neb. RS 17-567
CEMETERIES
§ 93.085 PLOT RATES.
   The cemetery plots rates will increase to $250 per plot and the cost for a
cremation grave opening will increase to $100 per cremation grave opening.
(Res. 2015-1, passed 4-23-2015)
§ 93.086 INTRODUCTION. 
   (A)   The Elm Creek Cemetery is owned and managed by the village, and is
governed by the Board of Trustees. It is the desire of the village to make the
cemetery a quiet, beautiful resting place for the deceased, where a sense of
repose will be obtained by dignified monuments and well-maintained landscaping.
In order to accomplish this, the cooperation of every lot owner to comply with
these rules and regulations is required. These rules have been adopted to
ensure the perpetuity and peace of the cemetery and to protect lot owners and
the final resting place of loved ones.
   (B)   These rules govern the use and operation of the Elm Creek Village
Cemetery located in Elm Creek, Buffalo County, Nebraska.
(Res. 2022-23, passed 10-27-2022)
§ 93.087 RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   For the mutual protection of every lot or space purchased these rules and
regulations are hereby adopted as the rules and regulations of the cemetery and
all property owners and visitors within the cemetery, and all lots or spaces
sold, shall be subject to said rules and regulations, and subject, further to
such rules and regulations, amendments, or alterations as shall be adopted by
the village from time to time; and the reference to these rules and regulations
in the certificate of ownership of lots or spaces shall have the same force and
effect as if set forth in full therein.
(Res. 2022-23, passed 10-27-2022)
§ 93.088 DEFINITIONS.
   LOT. A specific group of spaces, plots, or grave sites which are assigned
the same lot number. Within each lot there may be two or five spaces, plots, or
graves.
   MEMORIAL. A monument, marker, table, headstone, tombstone, or crypt
nameplate.
   MONUMENT. A tombstone or memorial of granite, or another approved stone,
which shall extend above the surface of the ground, unless otherwise specified.
   ROW. A linear grouping of lots, established from north to south, and
numbered beginning with one at the far eastern edge of the cemetery.
   SECTION. A grouping of rows divided by vehicular access lanes. Sections are
laid out and made available for sale as the needs of the cemetery dictate.
   SPACE. The ground in the cemetery used, or intended to be used, for burial.
A lot may not be used for any other purpose than as a place of burial for the
deceased or as a memorial for the deceased.
(Res. 2022-23, passed 10-27-2022)
§ 93.089 PURCHASE AND OWNERSHIP.
   All applications for purchase, transfers, assignments or repurchase of the
cemetery grave spaces, interment and disinterment permits shall be made at the
Municipal Clerk's office. Only village staff is empowered to receive any and
all monies or payments and to issue receipts for the same in any and all
transactions involving cemetery property or service.
(Res. 2022-23, passed 10-27-2022)
§ 93.090 GENERAL RULES.
   (A)   The cemetery is open every day of the year weather permitting.
   (B)   No person shall:
      (1)   Operate a motor vehicle within the cemetery except on established
roadways.
      (2)   Dispose of rubbish or debris on any part of the cemetery grounds
except in an approved receptacle provided by the cemetery.
      (3)   Disturb any trees, shrubs, plants or monuments without consent of
the village staff.
      (4)   Consume or carry alcoholic beverages onto cemetery premises.
      (5)   Permit any pets to enter or remain in the cemetery unless such pet
is on a leash.
      (6)   Carry or discharge a fire arm in or adjacent to the cemetery except
those carried by police officers or those carried or fired by an organized
Honor/Color Guard or Firing Squad.
      (7)   Erect a marker, monument or vase without first contacting the
village office and obtaining the necessary authorization.
   (C)   The village has the general oversight of the cemetery and shall
coordinate the time and day of all interments, including disinterments, with
all funeral directors or family members.
   (D)   The Board of Trustees reserves the right for village employees and
those persons necessary to the performance of normal cemetery operations to
enter on or cross over any lot or grave space in the cemetery in performing
such duties as are deemed necessary by village staff.
   (E)   The cemetery and/or village shall not be financially responsible for
any damage to grave spaces, monuments, vases or structures or for flowers or
articles removed from any grave space or lot.
   (F)   The village or its employees assume no liability for property or
physical damage or mental anguish caused or alleged to be caused in the
performance of normal operations or of loss or damage by vandals or any third
party.
   (G)   All traffic rules of the village shall be applicable to operations of
vehicles in the cemetery. No vehicle shall be operated in excess of ten miles
per hour within the cemetery. Any person driving in the cemetery shall be
responsible for any damage done by the vehicle, and/or person of such vehicle.
   (H)   The Village Board of Trustees shall have the right at any time to
amend or change these rules and regulations.
(Res. 2022-23, passed 10-27-2022)
§ 93.091 INTERMENTS, DISINTERMENTS AND REMOVALS.
   (A)   All interments, disinterments and or removals in or from the cemetery
are subject to these rules and the state statutes.
   (B)   Traditional interments are conducted by a licensed funeral director.
   (C)   Interments on Saturday mornings and afternoons, or village-recognized
holidays shall be allowed for religious reasons, extraordinary, or extenuating
circumstances. Sunday funerals shall only be allowed for religious reasons and
shall be charged at the Saturday afternoon or village holiday rate.
   (D)   Interment, interment services, disinterments and/or removals shall be
made under the direction of a licensed funeral director according to the laws
of the State of Nebraska, Buffalo County, the State Board of Health and in the
presence of a licensed mortician (except in the case of a cremation interment
or disinterment).
   (E)   Disinterments or removals will not be permitted on Saturdays, Sundays,
federal or village-recognized holidays.
   (F)   The village shall be given at least one week notice of the intention
to disinter or remove a body from the cemetery or to another part of the
cemetery. When disinterment is made, the village shall permit only the
following persons to be present:
      (1)   A member or members of the immediate family.
      (2)   The mortician conducting the disinterment.
      (3)   A legal enforcement official authorized by a court order.
      (4)   Any other person specifically authorized by law or court order.
      (5)   Any other person(s) that are needed to perform disinterment and/or
re-interment.
   (G)   The interment of two bodies in one grave space will not be permitted
except in the following cases:
      (1)   Two infants.
      (2)   One infant and one cremation.
      (3)   One cremation and one adult burial (where sufficient space is
available).
      (4)   Two cremations.
      (5)   One adult and one infant.
   (H)   No interments of anything other than that of a human being will be
permitted within the cemetery.
   (I)   All cremations shall be buried pursuant to Nebraska Department of
Health Regulations. Interment utilizing above-ground cremation enclosure/
container may be permitted by obtaining prior written authorization from the
village. Such enclosure/container shall meet all cemetery rules and regulation
for lot set back, lot coverage, and shall be placed in conformance with
regulations for monuments and markers.
   (J)   No interments will be permitted until the village has been notified
and all laws and regulations relative to the interment have been complied with.
No interments shall be made until such grave space or spaces have been paid
for.
   (K)   Advance notice of not less than 48 hours must be given to the village,
of the intention to enter the remains of any person who died of a virulent
contagious disease and arrangements made in accordance with the rules of the
State Board of Health made for the protection of the public and the cemetery
employees. If any additional costs are incurred in this process the village
shall bill such cost in addition to the standard cost.
   (L)   The lot owner and/or funeral director shall designate the location of
the graves on the lot to the village staff and any change of location made
after the opening of the grave has began shall be at the expense of the lot
owner/funeral director. When definite information for locating a grave is not
available in ample time for grave preparation to meet the time requested for
interment, the Superintendent will exercise his or her best judgment in
establishing the location in order that the requested time for interment may be
met. The village, cemetery, or its employees assumes no responsibility for any
error in such location. An additional charge will be made for any change
requested.
   (M)   The village and its employees shall not be held responsible for any
orders given by phone, or for any mistake resulting from the lack of precise
and proper instructions as to the particular space, size, or location in a plot
where an interment is desired.
   (N)   The cemetery shall be in no way liable for any delays in the interment
of a body where a protest to the interment has been made or where the rules or
regulations have not been followed. The village shall be under no duty to
recognize any protest to interment unless they are in writing and filed at the
cemetery.
   (O)   All interment shall be contained in a concrete box or vault only,
except for infants or cremation interments, in which case an infant interment
may use a fiberglass casket vault combination. Cremation containers maybe of
any type allowed by Nebraska Department of Health Regulations.
   (P)   Disinterments by heirs of a body so that the grave space or lot may be
sold for profit to themselves or to any other persons, or disinterment contrary
to the written directions of the original grave space or lot owner, shall not
be allowed.
   (Q)   The village and/or its employees shall not be liable for any damages
to any casket, vault, or box incurred in making a removal. Fee charges for such
service are set in Appendix A attached to Ordinance 2022-23 are evaluated
annually.
(Res. 2022-23, passed 10-27-2022)
§ 93.092 SECTIONS, LOTS AND GRAVE SPACES.
   (A)   Generally the cemetery is divided into sections, which are in turn
subdivided into lots, each ranging from two to five grave spaces.
   (B)   All arrangements to purchase a lot or grave space shall be coordinated
with the village, after which the purchaser shall make payment to the village
for such purchase. The purchaser shall receive a cemetery deed from the village
for the lot or grave spaces purchased. A purchaser acquires no right, title, or
interest and may not inter a body or cremation in any grave space in the
cemetery; until he or she has paid in full for said grave space or spaces,
along with any and all interment fees.
   (C)   A lot owner may sell their grave space or spaces, however, the village
shall have no obligation to recognize the transfer without notarized proof of
the transaction.
   (D)   The village shall have the right to refuse to consent to a transfer or
any conveyance of said grave spaces as long as there is any kind of
indebtedness due to the cemetery by a recorded lot or grave space owner.
   (E)   A single interment may not be buried so as to occupy more than one
grave space without written direction from the lot owner or the heirs of that
lot owner.
(Res. 2022-23, passed 10-27-2022)
§ 93.093 CARE OF THE CEMETERY.
   (A)   All grading, general landscape work, and improvements will be made by
the village.
   (B)   All plantings of trees, shrubs, bushes, plants, and flowers shall be
under the direction of the village and any removal or pruning of the above
listed items must also be under village supervision. The village may remove any
unauthorized plantings and the village and its employees shall not be liable
for such removals.
   (C)   Floral arrangements and designs, flowers, shrubs, trees, weeds, or any
herbage or any plastic or any other item may be removed by village employees
whenever they judge them to be unsightly, dangerous, detrimental, diseased or
distracting from the general décor of the cemetery. The village and its
employees shall not be liable for flower pieces, baskets, frames or other
objects left for or after a funeral service or for decoration of a grave during
the winter. The village and its employees shall not be liable for lost,
misplaced or otherwise damaged flower vases unless damaged by the cemetery
personnel in the performance of their duties. The village shall not be
responsible for frozen plants or herbage of any kind, or for plantings or
herbage of any kind, or for plantings damaged by the elements, drought, lack of
water, thieves, vandals, or by other causes beyond its control.
   (D)   Glass containers of any kind are not permitted in the cemetery. The
village is not responsible for any cost of replacement or injury because of
such containers. Alcoholic beverages are prohibited in the cemetery.
   (E)   Flowers can be left in permanent containers all year long and may be
left on graves throughout the winter season. During Memorial Weekend, all
flowers and decorations may be placed the Friday prior to Memorial Day and will
need to be removed prior to the following Monday of the next week. The village
and its employees are not responsible for any items that have been removed,
damaged, or lost during this time, either in the performance of their duties or
by other third parties.
   (F)   Patrons of the cemetery may decorate grave spaces or lots anytime
throughout the year with any items they wish except for any glass items and
alcoholic beverages. The village and its employees, however, are not
responsible for any items that have been moved, damaged or lost during this
time period either in the performance of their duties or by other third
parties.
   (G)   The right to re-plat, re-grade, use property, change boundaries,
remove, re-grade or pave roadways, change location of drives and walks, alter
or change water lines, along with removing or planting trees, and the like is
expressly reserved by the village.
   (H)   Patrons of the cemetery may water grave spaces, lots, trees, and
bushes or flowers only if they are present.
   (I)   Curbing, fences, or hedges around any grave space, or lots are
prohibited.
   (J)   No elevated mounds shall be built over graves and no lots shall be
filled above the level established by the cemetery.
(Res. 2022-23, passed 10-27-2022)
§ 93.094 MONUMENT AND MARKER REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Permanent flower vases, allowed by these rules, separate from the
headstone or monument must be placed at the north and south ends of the
foundation only.
   (B)   The length of a marker or monument (this does not include grave slabs
as they will not be allowed in the cemetery) may not exceed 75% of the width of
a single grave or when two or more adjoining grave spaces are used, the length
may not exceed 75% of the total width of those spaces.
   (C)   The village may charge a fee to the lot owner or person requiring the
movement of a large monument or marker. The village is not responsible for the
replacement of any foundation damage to open a grave.
   (D)   All Memorial foundations shall be placed on solid ground outside of
the actual grave space, except where a concrete box or vault is of sufficient
strength to support the weight of the foundation and memorial and will not
interfere with future grave openings.
   (E)   The wash for any monument or markers shall be level with the ground at
least six inches thick and extend no more than four inches away from the
monument or marker. The lot owner is responsible for maintenance and repairs of
the wash.
   (F)   All monuments or markers shall be no more than 16 inches in width and
be set in a straight line with lot lines. All monument companies shall locate
all corner pins in order to maintain said straight lines.
   (G)   For all large monuments the village reserves the right to regulate the
construction materials, size and design, which will prevent settlement or
damage to the stone work, or regulate that which would detract from the dignity
or appearance of the cemetery.
   (H)   All new ground level vases shall be installed against the monument or
markers as part of the base or wash on the north and south ends only. The only
exception shall be where one vase is being replaced and must match a second
existing vase.
   (I)   No foundation or vase shall extend outside the grave space or lot
owned by a lot owner.
   (J)   No cement shall surround the sides of a monument or marker.
   (K)   All monuments and markers shall be constructed of natural stone of a
quality approved by the village. No artificial stone of any description shall
be permitted.
   (L)   The setting of monuments, markers, or vases and the transportation of
all tools, materials, and the like within the cemetery shall be subject to the
supervision and control of the village. Vehicle traffic will not be permitted
within the cemetery when in the opinion of the village and its employees such
traffic may cause damage to roadways.
   (M)   Monuments or markers shall not be removed unless notice has been given
to the village.
   (N)   No footings, vase placements, marker or monuments shall be constructed
on weeknights or on weekends without authorization from the village.
(Res. 2022-23, passed 10-27-2022)
§ 93.095 MAUSOLEUMS.
   Mausoleums are not allowed within the cemetery.
(Res. 2022-23, passed 10-27-2022)
§ 93.096 FEES; CHARGES; PERMITS; PAYMENTS.
   (A)   The payment of all fees, charges, permits and payments are payable at
the time of service and shall be made at the Village Clerk's office, located at
535 West Boyd Avenue.
   (B)   A schedule of all fees, charges, permits, and payments as established
by the Board of Trustees of the village and stated in Appendix A attached to
Ordinance 2022-23 shall be on file in the office of the Municipal Clerk.
(Res. 2022-23, passed 10-27-2022)
§ 93.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person or any person’s agent or servant who violates any of the
provisions of this chapter, unless otherwise specifically provided herein,
shall be deemed guilty of an offense and upon conviction thereof shall be fined
in any sum not exceeding $500. A new violation shall be deemed to have been
committed every 24 hours of failure to comply with the provisions of this
chapter.
   (B)   (1)   Whenever a nuisance exists as defined in this chapter, the
municipality may proceed by a suit in equity to enjoin, abate, and remove the
same in the manner provided by law.
      (2)   Whenever, in any action, it is established that a nuisance exists,
the court may, together with the fine or penalty imposed, enter an order of
abatement as a part of the judgment in the case.
(Neb. RS 17-207, 17-505, 18-1720, 18-1722) (1991 Code, § 8-501) (Ord. 2002-07,
passed 2-21-2002)
CHAPTER 94: RECREATION AND LEISURE
Section
Municipal Swimming Pool
   
94.01   Operation and funding
   
94.02   Rules and regulations
   
94.03   Admission charge
   
94.04   Rentals
Municipal Library
   
94.15   Operation and funding
   
94.16   Rules and regulations
MUNICIPAL SWIMMING POOL
§ 94.01 OPERATION AND FUNDING.
   The municipality owns and manages the municipal swimming pool. The governing
body, for the purpose of defraying the cost of the management, maintenance, and
improvements of the swimming pool may each year levy a tax not exceeding the
maximum limit prescribed by state law, on the actual valuation of all real
estate and personal property within the municipality that is subject to
taxation. The revenue from the said tax shall be known as the Swimming Pool
Fund and shall include all gifts, grants, deeds of conveyance, bequests, or
other valuable income-producing personal property and real estate from any
source for the purpose of endowing the swimming pool. The Swimming Pool Fund
shall at all times be in the custody of the Municipal Treasurer. The Park Board
shall manage the swimming pool. The Board shall have the power and authority to
hire and supervise the Swimming Pool Manager, life guards, and such other
employees as they may deem necessary and shall pass such rules and regulations
for the operation of the swimming pool as may be proper for its efficient
operation. All actions by the Board shall be under the supervision and control
of the governing body.
(Neb. RS 17-948, 17-951, 17-952) (1991 Code, § 3-701)
§ 94.02 RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   The Park Board shall have the power and authority to enact bylaws, rules,
and regulations for the protection of those using the swimming pool and for the
efficient management thereof. It may provide suitable penalties for the
violation of such bylaws, rules, and regulations subject to the review and
supervision of the governing body.
(Neb. RS 17-949) (1991 Code, § 3-702)
§ 94.03 ADMISSION CHARGE.
   The Board of Park Commissioners may, for the purpose of defraying expenses
involved in maintaining, improving, managing, and beautifying the swimming
pool, make a reasonable admission charge for the use by any person of the
municipal swimming pool. The said charges will be on file at the office of the
Municipal Clerk and shall also be posted in a conspicuous place at the
municipal swimming pool for public inspection. Such rates may be structured for
classes of persons in a reasonable manner; provided, that nothing herein shall
be construed to permit or allow discrimination on the basis of race, creed,
color, or national origin in the classification of persons for admission
charges.
(1991 Code, § 3-703)
§ 94.04 RENTALS.
   The Board of Park Commissioners shall have the authority to rent the
municipal swimming pool to such organizations and other persons as it may in
its discretion see fit, subject to the review of the governing body. The Board
shall prescribe rules and regulations for such rentals and shall require an
appropriate number of qualified lifeguards to be in attendance during the
rental period. Such fees and other costs shall be on file at the office of the
Municipal Clerk and posted in a conspicuous place at the municipal swimming
pool.
(1991 Code, § 3-704)
MUNICIPAL LIBRARY
§ 94.15 OPERATION AND FUNDING.
   The municipality owns and manages the municipal library through the Library
Board. The governing body, for the purpose of defraying the cost of the
management, purchases, improvements, and maintenance of the library may each
year levy a tax not exceeding the maximum limit prescribed by state law, on the
actual valuation of all real estate and personal property within the
municipality that is subject to taxation. The revenue from the said tax shall
be known as the Library Fund and shall include all gifts, grants, deeds of
conveyance, bequests, or other valuable income-producing personal property and
real estate from any source for the purpose of endowing the municipal library.
The Library Fund shall at all times be in the custody of the Municipal
Treasurer. The Board shall have the power and authority to appoint the
librarian and to hire such other employees as it may deem necessary and may
pass such other rules and regulations for the operation of the library as may
be proper for its efficient operation. All actions by the Board shall be under
the supervision and control of the governing body.
(Neb. RS 51-201, 51-202, 51-211) (1991 Code, § 3-801)
§ 94.16 RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   The Library Board shall establish rules and regulations for the governing of
the municipal library for the preservation and efficient management thereof. It
shall fix and impose by general rules, penalties, and forfeitures for injury to
the library grounds, rooms, books, or other property, or for failure to return
a book. All fees, penalties, and forfeitures may be collected in civil action
in the event of failure, neglect, or refusal to pay the said assessments.
(Neb. RS 51-205, 51-214) (1991 Code, § 3-802)
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
110.   GENERAL BUSINESS REGULATIONS
      
111.   BUSINESS AND SALES TAX
      
112.   ALCOHOL
      
113.   TOBACCO
CHAPTER 110: GENERAL BUSINESS REGULATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
110.01   Peddlers and solicitors
   
110.02   Stockyards
Junk yards
   
110.15   Definitions
   
110.16   Regulation
   
110.17   Owner’s responsibility
   
110.18   Inspections
   
110.19   Nuisance
   
110.20   Records
   
110.21   Premises
   
110.22   Rodents
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 110.01 PEDDLERS AND SOLICITORS.
   To prevent the sale of fraudulent, dangerous, and unhealthful goods and
services, and to protect the public by maintaining records of the products sold
and the persons and companies responsible for such sales, all peddlers and
hawkers shall, before doing business within the municipality, register with the
governing body. Registration shall be made to the Municipal Clerk and shall
contain all the necessary information and documents required for the protection
of the residents of the municipality. Any person or persons granted a peddler
and hawker permit shall be subject to any fees, occupation taxes, and other
rules and regulations which the governing body deems appropriate for the
purposes stated herein.
(Neb. RS 17-525) (1991 Code, § 10-201)
§ 110.02 STOCKYARDS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person within the corporate limits to use or
employ any building or premise, now or hereafter erected, or existing in this
municipality, as a stockyard, animal weighing pen, whether temporarily used for
weighing, loading, or unloading during transportation or not, or as a
commercial cattle, hog, sheep, or animal feed lot, or to use or employ
buildings, sheds, or pavilions used as interior sales barns. Nothing herein
shall apply to any person now operating within the corporate limits a
commercial sale barn, stockyard, or animal weighing pen, or who presently uses
or employs buildings, sheds, or pavilions as interior sale barns, but shall
apply to any assignee of such person.
(Neb. RS 17-121, 18-1720) (1991 Code, § 10-601) Penalty, see §
10.99
JUNK YARDS
§ 110.15 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   JUNK. Scrap metals, scrap materials, whether they are liquids, solids, or
gases, branches of trees, and dismantled or wrecked automobiles, tractors, and
machinery or parts thereof.
   JUNK COLLECTOR. Any person going from place to place, or house to house,
collecting or buying iron, copper, brass and zinc scraps, rags, bottles, or old
paper, and selling the same to a junk dealer.
   JUNK DEALER. Any person engaged in the business of buying, selling,
receiving, collecting, or dealing in metal scraps, scrap iron, metals of any
kind and in any form, bottles, rags, and used tires; the dismantling or taking
apart of automobiles, other than for repair, or the wrecking of automobiles;
the storage of automobiles unfit for operation; the storage of automobile
bodies and parts thereof; the storage of automobiles or parts thereof kept for
salvage; the storage of scraps from automobiles; or the storage of iron,
metals, or junk.
   JUNK YARD. Any place in the municipality where or from which any person
shall conduct, engage in, or carry on the business of junk dealer as herein
defined.
(Neb. RS 17-207) (1991 Code, § 10-401)
§ 110.16 REGULATION.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to own, operate, or hold open for public
use any junk yard as herein defined without first obtaining a license to do so
from the municipality. Application for a license to own, operate, or hold open
for public use any junk yard shall be made in writing to the Municipal Clerk
and shall require such information and documents, or copies thereof, that the
governing body deems necessary to determine whether to grant or reject the said
application. Upon approval of the application, the Municipal Clerk shall issue
the license upon the payment of a fee set by resolution of the governing body.
The licensee shall then be subject to any occupation taxes, bond requirements,
and other rules and regulations which the governing body may determine to be
beneficial to the municipality. Any such bond shall be set by resolution of the
governing body and will be conditioned upon the faithful observance of the
provisions of this Municipal Code. The bond shall be held for the benefit of
any person who may suffer damage by the improper management of the said junk
yard.
(Neb. RS 69-202) (1991 Code, § 10-402)
§ 110.17 OWNER’S RESPONSIBILITY.
   The owner of the premises upon which a junk yard is located shall be equally
responsible with the operator, director, or employee thereof to see that the
provisions of this Municipal Code will not be violated. In the event the
provisions of this Municipal Code are violated, he or she shall be equally
liable with the operator, director, or employee for the said violation of the
provisions herein.
(1991 Code, § 10-403)
§ 110.18 INSPECTIONS.
   The municipal police, health officials, and the governing body shall have
the power and authority to inspect and examine the premises on which a junk
yard is located; provided, that the said inspection is at a reasonable time.
Upon a finding that the owner, operator, director, or employee has allowed a
health or safety hazard to develop, the governing body shall give written
notice to the owner to remove the said health hazard within 30 days.
(Neb. RS 69-204) (1991 Code, § 10-404)
§ 110.19 NUISANCE.
   Any junk yard that becomes a danger to the public health, or is not operated
in the manner herein provided, shall be deemed to be a public nuisance after
the said 30-day period of grace. The governing body shall then request the
Municipal Attorney to prosecute the owner, operator, director, or employee of
the said nuisance for violation of the provisions of this section.
(Neb. RS 18-1720) (1991 Code, § 10-405)
§ 110.20 RECORDS.
   Any person who shall be engaged in the junk business shall keep a book which
shall be legibly written in ink at the time of any purchase of goods or
articles at the time the same was received and the name, residence, and
description of the person doing the selling. The said book, as well as the
article purchased, shall be at all reasonable times subject to the inspection
of the governing body or any member of the municipal police.
(Neb. RS 69-204) (1991 Code, § 10-406)
§ 110.21 PREMISES.
   Any area or parcel of land used as a junk yard shall not have more than two
entrances and two exits each of which shall not exceed 15 feet in width at the
perimeter of the premises. Such premises or parcel of land shall be enclosed
with either a solid nontransparent wall or fence or link-weave steel wire, or
combination thereof, with a minimum height of seven feet from the ground level,
except for entrances and exits. The fence shall not contain any poster or
advertising of any kind except one sign of the licensee not exceeding 100
square feet.
(1991 Code, § 10-407)
§ 110.22 RODENTS.
   Any person who owns, operates, directs, or is employed by a junk yard shall
make a diligent and continuous effort to exterminate all rats, mice, and other
harmful rodents frequenting the said junk yard. (Neb. RS 18-1720) (1991 Code, §
10-408)
CHAPTER 111: BUSINESS AND SALES TAX
Section
Occupation Taxes
   
111.01   Amounts
   
111.02   Collection date
   
111.03   Certificates
   
111.04   Failure to pay
Sales and Use Tax
   
111.15   Imposed
   
111.16   Administration of tax
   
111.17   Effective date
   
111.18   Deposit of proceeds
   
111.19   Governing provisions; Nebraska Revenue Act of 1967
   
111.20   Certified map to Tax Commissioner
   
111.21   Certification to Tax Commissioner
   
111.22   Collection of tax
OCCUPATION TAXES
§ 111.01 AMOUNTS.
   For the purpose of raising revenue, an occupation tax is hereby levied on
the following businesses:
   (A)   Retailer of alcoholic liquors within the village for consumption on
the premises and off the premises, sale in the original package only: $100;
   (B)   Retailer of alcoholic liquors within the village for consumption on
the premises: $100;
   (C)   Retail beer only for consumption off the premises, sale in the
original package only $50;
   (D)   Tobacco license: $10; and
   (E)   Pool tables, billiard tables, pinball machines, video games,
shuffleboard, juke boxes, games, and bowling lanes: $10 per machine.
(Neb. RS 17-525) (1991 Code, § 10-701) (Ord. 433, passed 11-19-1992)
§ 111.02 COLLECTION DATE.
   All occupation taxes shall be due and payable on May 1 of each year, except
in the event that the said tax is levied daily, and upon the payment thereof by
any person or persons to the Municipal Clerk, the said Clerk shall give a
receipt, properly dated, and specifying the person paying the said tax, and the
amount paid; provided, occupation taxes collected from Class C liquor licensees
shall be due and payable on November 1. The revenue collected shall then be
immediately deposited into the General Fund by the Municipal Treasurer. The
Municipal Treasurer shall keep an accurate account of all revenue turned over
to him or her. All forms and receipts herein mentioned shall be issued in
duplicate. One copy shall then be kept by each party in the transaction.
(Neb. RS 17-525) (1991 Code, § 10-702)
§ 111.03 CERTIFICATES.
   The receipt issued after the payment of any occupation tax shall be the
occupation tax certificate. The said certificate shall specify the amount of
the tax and the name of the person and business that paid the said tax. The
occupation tax certificate shall then be displayed in a prominent place or
carried in such a way as to be easily accessible while business is being
conducted.
(Neb. RS 17-525) (1991 Code, § 10-703)
§ 111.04 FAILURE TO PAY.
   If any person, company, or corporation fails, or neglects to pay the
occupation taxes as provided herein on the day it becomes due and payable, the
municipality shall then proceed by civil suit to collect the amount due. All
delinquent taxes shall bear interest at the rate of 1% per month until paid.
(Neb. RS 17-525) (1991 Code, § 10-704)
SALES AND USE TAX
§ 111.15 IMPOSED.
   The voters of the village have approved the imposition of a sales and use
tax at the general election held within the village on November 7, 2006. Now,
pursuant to the Local Option Revenue Act (Neb. RS 77-27,142 et seq.), the
village hereby imposes a sales and use tax of 1% upon the same transactions
within the corporate limits of the village on which the State of Nebraska is
authorized to impose a tax pursuant to the provisions of the Nebraska Revenue
Act of 1967, as amended from time to time.
(1991 Code, § 12-101) (Ord. 2006-05, passed 11-16-2006)
§ 111.16 ADMINISTRATION OF TAX.
   The administration of the sales and use tax imposed by this subchapter shall
be by the State Tax Commissioner in accordance with the Local Option Revenue
Act (Neb. RS 77-27,142 et seq.).
(1991 Code, § 12-102) (Ord. 2006-05, passed 11-16-2006)
§ 111.17 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   The sales and use tax imposed by §
111.15 shall become effective on April 1, 2007.
(1991 Code, § 12-103) (Ord. 2006-05, passed 11-16-2006)
§ 111.18 DEPOSIT OF PROCEEDS.
   Proceeds of the tax levied by the village under the provisions of §
111.15 shall be deposited by the village upon receipt thereof in its General
Fund.
(1991 Code, § 12-104) (Ord. 2006-05, passed 11-16-2006)
§ 111.19 GOVERNING PROVISIONS; NEBRASKA REVENUE ACT OF 1967.
   All relevant portions of the Nebraska Revenue Act of 1967, as amended from
time to time, and not inconsistent with the provisions of the Local Option
Revenue Act and this subchapter shall govern transactions, proceedings, and
activities pursuant to any tax imposed under the provisions of the Local Option
Revenue Act and this subchapter.
(1991 Code, § 12-105) (Ord. 2006-05, passed 11-16-2006)
§ 111.20 CERTIFIED MAP TO TAX COMMISSIONER.
   The Village Clerk shall deliver, or cause to be delivered, to the Tax
Commissioner of the State of Nebraska, a certified map of the village, clearly
showing the boundaries thereof upon the passage of this subchapter and shall
thereafter, from time to time, deliver, or cause to be delivered, to the Tax
Commissioner of the State of Nebraska a certified map of the village showing
any additional areas which may become a part of the village after the effective
date of this subchapter.
(1991 Code, § 12-106) (Ord. 2006-05, passed 11-16-2006)
§ 111.21 CERTIFICATION TO TAX COMMISSIONER.
   The Village Clerk shall deliver a certified copy of this subchapter and any
amendments or changes thereto to the State Tax Commissioner in accordance with
such rules and regulations as the State Tax Commissioner may prescribe.
(1991 Code, § 12-107) (Ord. 2006-05, passed 11-16-2006)
§ 111.22 COLLECTION OF TAX.
   Pursuant to the provisions of the Local Option Revenue Act, the State Tax
Commissioner shall collect the tax imposed by §
111.15 concurrently with collection of a state tax in the same manner as the
state tax is collected. The State Tax Commissioner shall remit the monthly
proceeds of the tax to the village after deducting the amount of refunds made
and 3% of the remainder to be credited to the Municipal Equalization Fund, or
such other use as may be directed by state law.
(1991 Code, § 12-108) (Ord. 2006-05, passed 11-16-2006)
CHAPTER 112: ALCOHOL
Section
   
112.01   Definitions
   
112.02   License required
   
112.03   Location restrictions
   
112.04   Dwellings
   
112.05   License displayed
   
112.06   Licensee requirements
   
112.07   License renewal; village powers and duties
   
112.08   Licenses; village powers and duties
   
112.09   Owner of premises
   
112.10   Employer
   
112.11   Minors and incompetents
   
112.12   Credit sales
   
112.13   Original package
   
112.14   Minor’s presence
   
112.15   Hours of sale
   
112.16   Sanitary conditions
   
112.17   Hiring minors
   
112.18   Acquisition and possession
   
112.19   Removal of intoxicated persons from public or quasi-public property
   
112.20   Licensed premises; inspections
   
112.21   Citizen complaints
   
112.22   Catering licenses
   
112.23   Consumption in public places or places open to the public;
restrictions
   
112.24   Keg sales; requirements; prohibited acts
 
   
112.99   Penalty
§ 112.01 DEFINITIONS.
   All words and phrases herein used are to have the definitions applied
thereto, as defined in the Liquor Control Act of the State of Nebraska, being
Neb. RS Ch. 53.
(Neb. RS 53-103) (1991 Code, § 10-101)
§ 112.02 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to manufacture for sale, sell, keep for
sale, or to barter any alcoholic liquors within the municipality unless said
person shall have in full force and effect a license as provided by the
Nebraska Liquor Control Act.
(Neb. RS 53-168.06) (1991 Code, § 10-102) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.03 LOCATION RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   Except as otherwise provided in division (B) of this section, no
license shall be issued for the sale at retail of any alcoholic liquor or for a
bottle club within 150 feet of any church, school, hospital, or home for
indigent persons or for veterans and their wives or children. This prohibition
does not apply to any location within such distance of 150 feet:
      (1)   For which a license to sell alcoholic liquor at retail or for a
bottle club has been granted by the Nebraska Liquor Control Commission for two
years continuously prior to making of application for license;
      (2)   To hotels offering restaurant service, to regularly organized
clubs, or to restaurants, food shops, or other places where sale of alcoholic
liquor is not the principal business carried on, if such place of business so
exempted was established for such purposes prior to May 24, 1935; or
      (3)   To a college or university in the state which is subject to Neb. RS
53-177.01.
   (B)   If a proposed location for the sale at retail of any alcoholic liquor
or for a bottle club is within 150 feet of any church, a license may be issued
if the Commission gives notice to the affected church and holds a hearing as
prescribed in Neb. RS 53-133 if the affected church submits a written request
for a hearing.
(Neb. RS 53-177)
   (C)   Unless otherwise exempted by Neb. RS 177.01, no alcoholic liquor,
other than beer, shall be sold for consumption on the premises within 300 feet
from the campus of any college or university within the village, and no bottle
club shall be operated within 300 feet from the campus of any college, except
that this section:
      (1)   Does not prohibit a nonpublic college or university from
contracting with an individual or corporation holding a license to sell
alcoholic liquor at retail for the purpose of selling alcoholic liquor at
retail on the campus of such college or university at events sanctioned by such
college or university but does prohibit the sale of alcoholic liquor at retail
by such licensee on the campus of such nonpublic college or university at
student activities or events; and
      (2)   Does not prohibit sales of alcoholic liquor by a community college
culinary education program pursuant to Neb. RS 53-124.15.
(Neb. RS 53-177.01)
(1991 Code, § 10-103) (Ord. 2016-02, passed 3-24-2016; Ord. 2019-8, passed 3-
28-2019)
§ 112.04 DWELLINGS.
   Except in the case of hotels and clubs, no alcoholic liquor shall be sold at
retail upon any premises which has any access which leads from such premises to
any other portion of the same building used for dwelling or lodging purposes,
and which is permitted to be used by the public. Nothing herein shall prevent
any connection with such premises, and such other portion of the building which
is used only by the licensee, his or her family, or personal guests.
(Neb. RS 53-178) (1991 Code, § 10-104)
§ 112.05 LICENSE DISPLAYED.
   Every licensee under the Nebraska Liquor Control Act shall cause his or her
license to be framed and hung in plain public view in a conspicuous place on
the licensed premises.
(Neb. RS 53-148) (1991 Code, § 10-105)
§ 112.06 LICENSEE REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   No license shall be issued to:
      (1)   A person who is not a resident of this state, except in case of
railroad, airline, boat, or special party bus licenses;
      (2)   A person who is not of good character and reputation in the
community in which he or she resides;
      (3)   A person who is not a resident of this state and legally able to
work in this state;
      (4)   A person who has been convicted of or has pleaded guilty to a
felony under the laws of this state, any other state, or the United States;
      (5)   A person who has been convicted of or has pleaded guilty to any
Class I misdemeanor pursuant to Neb. RS Chapter 28, Art. 3, 4, 7, 8, 10, 11, or
12, or any similar offense under a prior criminal statute or in another state,
except that any additional requirements imposed by this division on May 18,
1983, shall not prevent any person holding a license on that date from
retaining or renewing that license if the conviction or plea occurred prior to
May 18, 1983;
      (6)   A person whose license issued under the Nebraska Liquor Control Act
has been revoked for cause;
      (7)   A person who at the time of application for renewal of any license
issued under the Act would not be eligible for that license upon initial
application;
      (8)   A partnership, unless one of the partners is a resident of this
state and unless all the members of that partnership are otherwise qualified to
obtain a license;
      (9)   A limited liability company, unless one of the members is a
resident of this state and unless all the members of that company are otherwise
qualified to obtain a license;
      (10)   A corporation, if any officer or director of the corporation or
any stockholder owning in the aggregate more than 25% of the stock of that
corporation would be ineligible to receive a license under this section for any
reason other than the reasons stated in divisions (A)(1) and (A)(3) of this
section, or if a manager of a corporate licensee would be ineligible to receive
a license under this section for any reason. This division shall not apply to
railroad licenses;
      (11)   A person whose place of business is conducted by a manager or
agent, unless that manager or agent possesses the same qualifications required
of the licensee;
      (12)   A person who does not own the premises for which a license is
sought or does not have a lease or combination of leases on the premises for
the full period for which the license is to be issued;
      (13)   Except as provided in this division, an applicant whose spouse is
ineligible under this section to receive and hold a liquor license. Such an
applicant shall become eligible for a liquor license only if the Nebraska
Liquor Control Commission finds from the evidence that the public interest will
not be infringed upon if the license is granted. It shall be prima facie
evidence that when a spouse is ineligible to receive a liquor license, the
applicant is also ineligible to receive a liquor license. This prima facie
evidence shall be overcome if it is shown to the satisfaction of the
Commission:
         (a)   The licensed business will be the sole property of the
applicant; and
         (b)   The licensed premises will be properly operated.
      (14)   A person seeking a license for premises which do not meet
standards for fire safety as established by the State Fire Marshal;
      (15)   A law enforcement officer, except that this division shall not
prohibit a law enforcement officer from holding membership in any nonprofit
organization holding a liquor license or from participating in any manner in
the management or administration of a nonprofit organization; or
      (16)   A person less than 21 years of age.
   (B)   When a trustee is the licensee, the beneficiary or beneficiaries of
the trust shall comply with the requirements of this section, but nothing in
this section shall prohibit any such beneficiary from being a minor or person
who is mentally incompetent.
(1991 Code, § 10-106) (Ord. 498, passed 4-27-1995; Ord. 2021-3, passed 1-28-
2021)
Statutory reference:
   For similar state law, see Neb. RS 53-125
§ 112.07 LICENSE RENEWAL; VILLAGE POWERS AND DUTIES.
   (A)   A retail or bottle club license issued by the Nebraska Liquor Control
Commission and outstanding may be automatically renewed by the Commission in
the absence of a written request by the Board of Trustees to require the
licensee to submit an application for renewal. Any licensed retail premises
located in an area which is annexed to the village shall file a formal
application for a license, and while the application is pending, the licensee
may continue all license privileges until the original license expires or is
canceled or revoked. If that license expires within 60 days following the
annexation date of the area, the license may be renewed by order of the
Commission for not more than one year.
(Neb. RS 53-135)
   (B)   The Village Clerk shall cause to be published in a legal newspaper in
or of general circulation in the municipality, one time between January 10 and
January 30 of each year, individual notice in the form prescribed by law of the
right of automatic renewal of each retail liquor and beer license and each
bottle club license within the municipality, except that notice of the right of
automatic renewal of Class C licenses shall be published between the dates of
July 10 and July 30 of each year. If written protests to the issuance of
automatic renewal of a license are filed in the office of the Village Clerk by
three or more residents of the municipality on or before February 10, or August
10 for Class C licenses, the Board of Trustees shall hold a hearing to
determine whether continuation of the license should be allowed. Upon the
conclusion of any hearing required by this section, the Board of Trustees may
request a licensee to submit an application as provided in Neb. RS 53-135.
(Neb. RS 53-135.01)
(1991 Code, § 10-108) (Ord. 2005-35, passed 7-28-2005; Ord. 2019-7, passed 3-
28-2019)
§ 112.08 LICENSES; VILLAGE POWERS AND DUTIES.
   (A)   The Board of Trustees is authorized to regulate by ordinance, not
inconsistent with the Nebraska Liquor Control Act, the business of all retail,
bottle club, craft brewery, and microdistillery licensees carried on within the
corporate limits of the village.
   (B)   During the period of 45 days after the date of receipt by mail or
electronic delivery from the Nebraska Liquor Control Commission notice and a
copy of an application for a new license to sell alcoholic liquor at retail, a
craft brewery license, or a microdistillery license, the Board of Trustees may
make and submit to the Commission recommendations relative to the granting or
refusal to grant the license to the applicant.
   (C)   The Board of Trustees, with respect to licenses within the corporate
limits of the city, has the following powers, functions, and duties with
respect to retail, bottle club, craft brewery, and microdistillery licenses:
      (1)   To cancel or revoke for cause retail, craft brewery, or
microdistillery licenses to sell or dispense alcoholic liquor or bottle club
licenses issued to persons for premises within its jurisdiction, subject to the
right of appeal to the Nebraska Liquor Control Commission;
      (2)   To enter or to authorize any law enforcement officer to enter at
any time upon any premises licensed under the Nebraska Liquor Control Act to
determine whether any provision of the Act, any rule or regulation adopted and
promulgated pursuant to the Act, or any ordinance, resolution, rule, or
regulation adopted by the Board of Trustees has been or is being violated, and
at that time examine the premises of the licensee in connection with such
determination. Any law enforcement officer who determines that any provision of
the Act, any rule or regulation adopted and promulgated pursuant to the Act, or
any ordinance, resolution, rule, or regulation adopted by the local governing
body has been or is being violated shall report such violation in writing to
the Executive Director of the Commission:
         (a)   Within 30 days after determining that such violation has
occurred;
         (b)   Within 30 days after the conclusion of an ongoing police
investigation; or
         (c)   Within 30 days after the verdict in a prosecution related to
such an ongoing police investigation if the prosecuting attorney determines
that reporting such violation prior to the verdict would jeopardize such
prosecution, whichever is later;
      (3)   To receive a signed complaint from any citizen within its
jurisdiction that any provision of the Act, any rule or regulation adopted and
promulgated pursuant to the Act, or any ordinance, resolution, rule, or
regulation relating to alcoholic liquor has been or is being violated and to
act upon these complaints in the manner provided in the Act;
      (4)   To receive retail, bottle club, craft brewery, and microdistillery
license fees as provided in Neb. RS 53-124 and 53-124.01 and pay the same,
after the license has been delivered to the applicant, to the Village
Treasurer;
      (5)   To examine or cause to be examined any applicant or any retail,
bottle club, craft brewery, or microdistillery licensee upon whom notice of
cancellation or revocation has been served as provided in the Act, to examine
or cause to be examined the books and records of any applicant or licensee,
except as otherwise provided for bottle club licensees under state law, and to
hear testimony and to take proof for its information in the performance of its
duties. For purposes of obtaining any of the information desired, the Board of
Trustees may authorize its agent or attorney to act on its behalf;
      (6)   To cancel or revoke on its own motion any license if, upon the same
notice and hearing as provided in Neb. RS 53-134.04, it determines that the
licensee has violated any of the provisions of the Nebraska Liquor Control Act
or any valid and subsisting ordinance, resolution, rule, or regulation duly
enacted, adopted, and promulgated relating to alcoholic liquor. The order of
cancellation or revocation may be appealed to the Commission within 30 days
after the date of the order by filing a notice of appeal with the Commission.
The Commission shall handle the appeal in the manner provided for hearing on an
application in Neb. RS 53-133;
      (7)   Upon receipt from the Commission of the notice and copy of
application as provided in Neb. RS 53-131, to fix a time and place for a
hearing at which the Board of Trustees shall receive evidence, either orally or
by affidavit from the applicant and any other person, bearing upon the
propriety of the issuance of a license. Notice of the time and place of the
hearing shall be published in a legal newspaper in or of general circulation in
the city, one time not less than seven and not more than 14 days before the
time of the hearing. The notice shall include, but not be limited to, a
statement that all persons desiring to give evidence before the Board of
Trustees in support of or in protest against the issuance of the license may do
so at the time of the hearing. The hearing shall be held not more than 45 days
after the date of receipt of the notice from the Commission, and after the
hearing the Board of Trustees shall cause to be recorded in the minute record
of its proceedings a resolution recommending either issuance or refusal of the
license. The Village Clerk shall mail to the Commission by first class mail,
postage prepaid, a copy of the resolution which shall state the cost of the
published notice, except that failure to comply with this provision shall not
void any license issued by the Commission. If the Commission refuses to issue
such a license, the cost of publication of notice shall be paid by the
Commission from the security for costs;
      (8)   To review and authorize an application by a retail, bottle club,
craft brewery, farm winery, or microdistillery licensee for a temporary
expansion of its licensed premises within the jurisdiction of the local
governing body to an immediately adjacent area owned or leased by the licensee
or to an immediately adjacent street, parking lot, or alley, not to exceed 50
days for calendar year 2020 and, for each calendar year thereafter, not to
exceed 15 days per calendar year, as provided in Neb. RS 53-123.12 and Neb. RS
53-129; and
      (9)   To review and authorize an application by a craft brewery, farm
winery, or microdistillery licensee that holds a promotional farmers market
special designated license for a permit to use such promotional farmers market
special designated license to sell or dispense alcoholic liquor, which the
holder is licensed to produce, at a farmers market within the jurisdiction of
the local governing body as provided in § 14 of this Act. The local governing
body shall electronically notify the Commission within five days after
authorization of any permit pursuant to this division.
   (D)   (1)   When the Nebraska Liquor Control Commission mails or delivers to
the Village Clerk a retail, craft brewery, or microdistillery license issued or
renewed by the Commission, the Clerk shall deliver the license to the licensee
upon receipt from the licensee of proof of payment of:
         (a)   The license fee if by the terms of Neb. RS 53-124 the fee is
payable to the Village Treasurer;
         (b)   Any fee for publication of notice of hearing before the Board of
Trustees upon the application for the license;
         (c)   The fee for publication of notice of renewal, if applicable, as
provided in Neb. RS 53-135.01; and
         (d)   Occupation taxes, if any, imposed by the city, except that Class
J retail licensees shall not be subject to occupation taxes.
      (2)   Notwithstanding any ordinance or charter power to the contrary, the
village shall not impose an occupation tax on the business of any person, firm,
or corporation licensed under the Nebraska Liquor Control Act and doing
business within the corporate limits of the village in any sum which exceeds
two times the amount of the license fee required to be paid under the Act to
obtain that license.
(1991 Code, § 10-109) (Ord. 594, passed 6-15-2000; Ord. 2005-33, passed 7-28-
2005; Ord. 2019-4, passed 3-28-2019; Ord. 2021-2, passed 1-28-2021; Ord. 2021-
35, passed 12-21-2021)
Statutory reference:
   For similar state law, see Neb. RS 53-131, 53-132, 53-134 and 53-134.03
§ 112.09 OWNER OF PREMISES.
   The owner of any premises used for the sale at retail of alcoholic beverages
shall be deemed guilty of a violation of these laws to the same extent as the
said licensee if the owner shall knowingly permit the licensee to use the said
licensed premises in violation of any Municipal Code section or Nebraska
statute.
(Neb. RS 53-1,101) (1991 Code, § 10-110)
§ 112.10 EMPLOYER.
   The employer of any officer, director, manager, or employees working in a
retail liquor establishment shall be held to be liable and guilty of any act or
omission or violation of any law or ordinance, if such act is committed or
omission made with the authorization, knowledge, or approval of the employer or
licensee, and each such act or omission shall be deemed and held to be the act
of the employer, and will be punishable in the same manner as if the said act
or omission had been committed by him or her personally.
(Neb. RS 53-1,102) (1991 Code, § 10-111)
§ 112.11 MINORS AND INCOMPETENTS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person or persons to sell, give away, dispose
of, exchange, permit the sale of, or make a gift of, any alcoholic liquors, or
to procure any such alcoholic liquors to or for any minor, or to any person who
is mentally incompetent.
(Neb. RS 53-180) (1991 Code, § 10-112) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.12 CREDIT SALES.
   No person shall sell or furnish alcoholic liquor at retail to any person or
persons for credit of any kind, barter, or services rendered; provided, nothing
herein contained shall be construed to prevent any club holding a Class C
license from permitting checks or statements for alcoholic liquor to be signed
by members, or guests of members, and charged to the accounts of the said
members or guests in accordance with the bylaws of any such club; and provided
further, nothing herein shall be construed to prevent any hotel or restaurant
holding a retail alcoholic beverage license from permitting checks or
statements for liquor to be signed by regular guests residing in the said
hotel, and charged to the accounts of such guests.
(Neb. RS 53-183) (1991 Code, § 10-113) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.13 ORIGINAL PACKAGE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person or persons who own, manage, or lease any
premises in which the sale of alcoholic beverages is licensed, to have in their
possession for sale at retail any alcoholic liquors contained in casks or other
containers except in the original package. Nothing in this section shall
prohibit the refilling of original packages of alcoholic liquor for strictly
private use and not for resale. (Neb. RS 53-184) (1991 Code, § 10-115) (Ord.
426, passed 4-16-1992) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.14 MINOR’S PRESENCE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person or persons who own, manage, or lease an
establishment selling alcoholic beverages at retail to allow any minor under
the age of 18 years to frequent or otherwise remain in the said establishment
unless the said minor is accompanied by his or her parent or legal guardian,
and unless said minor remains seated with, and under the immediate control of,
the said parent or legal guardian.
(Neb. RS 53-134.03) (1991 Code, § 10-116)
§ 112.15 HOURS OF SALE.
   (A)   For the purposes of this section ON SALE shall be defined as alcoholic
beverages sold at retail by the drink for consumption on the premises of the
licensed establishment. OFF SALE shall be defined as alcoholic beverages sold
at retail in the original container for consumption off the premises of the
licensed establishment.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any licensed person or persons or their
agents to sell any alcoholic beverages within the municipality except during
the hours provided herein.
   (C)   Hours of sale.
      (1)   Alcoholic liquors (except beer and wine).
         (a)   Secular days.
            1.   Off sale: 6:00 a.m. to 1:00 a.m. of the following day.
            2.   On sale: 6:00 a.m. to 1:00 a.m. of the following day.
         (b)   Sundays.
            1.   Off sale: 6:00 a.m. to 1:00 a.m. Monday.
            2.   On sale: 6:00 a.m. to 1:00 a.m. Monday.
      (2)   Beer and wine.
         (a)   Secular days.
            1.   Off sale: 6:00 a.m. to 1:00 a.m. of the following day.
            2.   On sale: 6:00 a.m. to 1:00 a.m. of the following day.
         (b)   Sundays.
            1.   Off sale: 6:00 a.m. to 1:00 a.m. Monday.
            2.   On sale: 6:00 a.m. to 1:00 a.m. Monday.
      (3)   Time period. No person or persons shall consume any alcoholic
beverages on licensed premises for a period of time longer than fifteen minutes
after the time fixed herein for stopping the sale of alcoholic beverages on the
said premises.
(1991 Code, § 10-117) (Ord. 2009-03, passed 8-27-2009) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.16 SANITARY CONDITIONS.
   It shall be unlawful to open for public use any retail liquor establishment
that is not in a clean and sanitary condition. Toilet facilities shall be
adequate and convenient for customers and patrons and said licensed premises
shall be subject to any health inspections the governing body or the municipal
police may make or cause to be made. All applications for liquor licenses shall
be viewed in part from the standpoint of the sanitary conditions, and a report
concerning the said sanitary conditions shall be made at all hearings
concerning the application for, or renewal of, a liquor license.
(Neb. RS 53-118) (1991 Code, § 10-118) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.17 HIRING MINORS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to hire a minor regardless of sex under
the age of 19 years to serve or dispense alcoholic liquors, including beer, to
said licensee’s customers.
(Neb. RS 53-168.06) (1991 Code, § 10-119) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.18 ACQUISITION AND POSSESSION.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to purchase, receive, acquire, accept,
or possess any alcoholic liquor acquired from any other person other than one
duly licensed to handle alcoholic liquor under the Nebraska Liquor Control Act;
provided, nothing in this section shall prevent:
   (A)   The possession of alcoholic liquor for the personal use of the
possessor and his or her family and guests, as long as the quantity of
alcoholic liquor transported, imported, brought, or shipped into the state does
not exceed nine liters in any one calendar month;
   (B)   The making of wine, cider, or other alcoholic liquor by a person from
fruits, vegetables, or grains, or the product thereof, by simple fermentation
and without distillation, if made solely for the use of the maker and his or
her family and guests;
   (C)   Any duly licensed practicing physician or dentist from possessing or
using alcoholic liquor in the strict practice of his or her profession, any
hospital or other institution caring for the sick and diseased persons from
possessing and using alcoholic liquor for the treatment of bona fide patients
of such hospital or other institution, or any drug store employing a licensed
pharmacist from possessing or using alcoholic liquor in compounding of
prescriptions of licensed physicians;
   (D)   The possession and dispensation of wine by an authorized
representative of any church for the purpose of conducting any bona fide rite
or religious ceremony conducted by such church;
   (E)   Persons who are 16 years old or older from carrying alcoholic liquor
from licensed establishments when they are accompanied by a person not a minor;
   (F)   Persons who are 16 years old or older from handling alcoholic liquor
containers and alcoholic liquor in the course of their employment;
   (G)   Persons who are 16 years old or older from removing and disposing of
alcoholic liquor containers for the convenience of the employer and customers
in the course of their employment; or
   (H)   Persons who are 19 years old or older from serving or selling
alcoholic liquor in the course of their employment.
(Neb. RS 53-168.06, 53-175, 53-194.03) (1991 Code, § 10-120) (Ord. 502, passed
1-18-1996) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.19 REMOVAL OF INTOXICATED PERSONS FROM PUBLIC OR QUASI-PUBLIC PROPERTY.
   (A)   Any law enforcement officer with the power to arrest for traffic
violations may take a person who is intoxicated and in the judgment of the
officer dangerous to himself, herself, or others, or who is otherwise
incapacitated, from any public or quasi-public property. An officer removing an
intoxicated person from public or quasi-public property shall make a reasonable
effort to take the intoxicated person to his or her home or to place the person
in any hospital, clinic, or mental health substance use treatment center, or
with a medical doctor as may be necessary to preserve life or to prevent
injury. The effort at placement shall be deemed reasonable if the officer
contacts such facilities or doctor which have previously represented a
willingness to accept and treat such individuals and which regularly do accept
such individuals. If these efforts are unsuccessful or are not feasible, the
officer may then place the intoxicated person in civil protective custody,
except that civil protective custody shall be used only as long as is necessary
to preserve life or to prevent injury, and under no circumstances longer than
24 hours.
   (B)   The placement of the person in civil protective custody shall be
recorded at the facility or jail at which he or she is delivered and
communicated to his or her family or next of kin, if they can be located, or to
the person designated by the person taken into civil protective custody.
   (C)   The law enforcement officer who acts in compliance with this section
shall be deemed to be acting in the course of his or her official duty and
shall not be criminally or civilly liable for these actions.
   (D)   The taking of an individual into civil protective custody under this
section shall not be considered an arrest. No entry or other record shall be
made to indicate that the person has been arrested or charged with a crime.
   (E)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      MENTAL HEALTH SUBSTANCE USE TREATMENT CENTER. Has the same meaning as in
Neb. RS 71-423.
      PUBLIC PROPERTY. Any public right-of-way, street, highway, alley, park,
or other state, county, or city-owned property.
      QUASI-PUBLIC PROPERTY. Private or publicly owned property utilized for
proprietary or business uses which invites patronage by the public or which
invites public ingress and egress.
(Neb. RS 53-1,121) (1991 Code, § 10-121) (Ord. 2019-31, passed 11-20-2019)
§ 112.20 LICENSED PREMISES; INSPECTIONS.
   (A)   The Board of Trustees shall cause frequent inspection to be made on
the premises of all retail licensees and bottle club licensees. If it is found
that any such licensee is violating any provision of this chapter, the Nebraska
Liquor Control Act, or the rules and regulations of the Nebraska Liquor Control
Commission, or is failing to observe in good faith the purposes of this chapter
or the Act, the license may be suspended, canceled, or revoked after the
licensee is given an opportunity to be heard in his or her defense.
   (B)   The Board of Trustees may inspect a charter bus providing service
under a certificate of public convenience and necessity granted by the Public
Service Commission when the owner or operator of the charter allows the
consumption of alcoholic liquor in the charter bus by an individual who is 21
years of age or older so long as the inspection is performed when the bus has
stopped for the purpose of allowing passengers to embark or disembark.
(1991 Code, § 10-122) (Ord. 2005-34, passed 7-28-2005; Ord. 2019-3, passed 3-
28-2019; Ord. 2021-1, passed 1-28-2021)
Statutory reference:
   For similar state statutes, see Neb. RS 53-116.01
§ 112.21 CITIZEN COMPLAINTS.
   Any five residents of the village shall have the right to file a complaint
with the Board of Trustees stating that any retail licensee or bottle club
licensee subject to the jurisdiction of the Board of Trustees has been or is
violating any provision of the Nebraska Liquor Control Act or the rules or
regulations issued pursuant to the Act. The complaint shall be in writing in
the form prescribed by the Board of Trustees and shall be signed and sworn to
by the parties complaining. The complaint shall state the particular provision,
rule, or regulation believed to have been violated and the facts in detail upon
which belief is based. If the Board of Trustees is satisfied that the complaint
substantially charges a violation and that from the facts alleged there is
reasonable cause for that belief, it shall set the matter for hearing within
ten days from the date of the filing of the complaint and shall serve notice
upon the licensee of the time and place of the hearing and of the particular
charge in the complaint. The complaint shall in all cases be disposed of by the
Board of Trustees within 30 days from the date the complaint was filed by
resolution thereof, which resolution shall be deemed the final order for
purposes of appeal to the Nebraska Liquor Control Commission as provided in
Neb. RS 53-1,115.
(Neb. RS 53-134.04) (1991 Code, § 10-123) (Ord. 2005-37, passed 7-28-2005; Ord.
2019-6, passed 3-28-2019)
§ 112.22 CATERING LICENSES.
   (A)   The holder of a license to sell alcoholic liquor at retail issued
under Neb. RS 53-124(5) or a craft brewery license may obtain an annual
catering license by filing an application and license fee with the Nebraska
Liquor Control Commission.
   (B)   Upon receipt from the Commission of the notice and a copy of the
application, as provided in Neb. RS 53-124.12, the governing body shall process
the application in the same manner as provided in §
112.08.
   (C)   The governing body, with respect to catering licensees within its
corporate limits, may cancel a catering license for cause for the remainder of
the period for which such catering license is issued. Any person whose catering
license is canceled may appeal to the District Court.
   (D)   The governing body may impose an occupation tax on the business of a
catering licensee doing business within the liquor license jurisdiction of the
governing body. The tax may not exceed double the license fee for a catering
license.
(Neb. RS 53-124.12) (1991 Code, § 10-124) (Ord. 427, passed 4-16-1992; Ord.
489, passed 2-16-1995; Ord. 554, passed 7-16-1998; Ord. 592, passed 6-15-2000;
Ord. 2005-36, passed 7-28-2005)
§ 112.23 CONSUMPTION IN PUBLIC PLACES OR PLACES OPEN TO THE PUBLIC;
RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   Except when the Nebraska Liquor Control Commission has issued a
license as provided in Neb. RS 53-186(2) or as provided in Neb. RS 60-6,211.08,
it is unlawful for any person to consume alcoholic liquor upon property owned
or controlled by the state or any governmental subdivision thereof unless
authorized by the governing bodies having jurisdiction over such property.
(Neb. RS 53-186)
   (B)   It is unlawful for any person owning, operating, managing, or
conducting any bottle club, dance hall, restaurant, café, or club or any place
open to the general public to permit or allow any person to consume alcoholic
liquor upon the premises except as permitted by a license issued for such
premises pursuant to the Nebraska Liquor Control Act. It is unlawful for any
person to consume alcoholic liquor in any bottle club, dance hall, restaurant,
café, or club or any place open to the general public except as permitted by a
license issued for such premises pursuant to the Act. This division does not
apply to a retail licensee while lawfully engaged in the catering of alcoholic
beverages or to limousines or buses operated under Neb. RS 60-6,211.08.
(Neb. RS 53-186.01) (1991 Code, § 10-127) (Ord. 593, passed 6-15-2000; Ord.
2019-5, passed 3-28-2019) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.24 KEG SALES; REQUIREMENTS; PROHIBITED ACTS.
   (A)   When any person licensed to sell alcoholic liquor at retail sells
alcohol for consumption off the premises in a container with a liquid capacity
of five or more gallons or 18.92 or more liters, the seller shall record the
date of the sale, the keg identification number, the purchaser's name and
address, and the number of the purchaser's motor vehicle operator's license,
state identification card, tribal enrollment card as defined in Neb. RS 28-
1202.03, or military identification, if the military identification contains a
picture of the purchaser, together with the purchaser's signature. This record
shall be on a form prescribed by the State Liquor Control Commission and shall
be kept by the licensee at the retail establishment where the purchase was made
for not less than six months. The records kept pursuant to this section shall
be available for inspection by any law enforcement officer during normal
business hours or at any other reasonable time. Any person violating this
section shall be guilty of an offense.
(Neb. RS 53-167.02)
   (B)   Any person who unlawfully tampers with, alters, or removes the keg
identification number from a container described in division (A) above, or is
in possession of a container described in division (A) above with an altered or
removed keg identification number after the container has been taken from the
licensed premises pursuant to a retail sale and before its return to the
licensed premises or other place where returned kegs are accepted, shall be
guilty of an offense.
(Neb. RS 53-167.03)
(Ord. 2016-07, passed 3-24-2016; Ord. 2025-7, passed 1-15-2025)  Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person, or any person’s agent or servant, who violates any of the
provisions of this chapter, unless otherwise specifically provided herein,
shall be deemed guilty of an offense and upon conviction thereof shall be fined
in any sum not exceeding $500. A new violation shall be deemed to have been
committed every 24 hours of failure to comply with the provisions of this
chapter.
   (B)   (1)   Whenever a nuisance exists as defined in this chapter, the
municipality may proceed by a suit in equity to enjoin, abate, and remove the
same in the manner provided by law.
      (2)   Whenever, in any action, it is established that a nuisance exists,
the court may, together with the fine or penalty imposed, enter an order of
abatement as a part of the judgment in the case.
(Neb. RS 17-207, 17-505, 18-1720, 18-1722) (1991 Code, § 10-901) (Ord. 2002-07,
passed 2-21-2002)
CHAPTER 113: TOBACCO
Section
   
113.01   Definitions
   
113.02   License to sell; issuance
   
113.03   License application
   
113.04   License; term; fees; false swearing; penalty
   
113.05   Rights of licensee
   
113.06   Licenses for sale of tobacco; fees to inure to School Fund
   
113.07   Transfer of tobacco license
   
113.08   Reissuance of revoked and forfeited license
Cross reference:
   Misrepresentation by minor to obtain tobacco; penalty, see §
133.25
   Sale of tobacco to person under age of 19 years; penalty, see §
133.21
   Use of tobacco by person under age of 19 years; penalty, see §
133.20
§ 113.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For purposes of this chapter the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ALTERNATIVE NICOTINE PRODUCT. Any noncombustible product containing nicotine
that is intended for human consumption, whether chewed, absorbed, dissolved, or
ingested by any other means. ALTERNATIVE NICOTINE PRODUCT does not include any
electronic nicotine delivery system, cigarette, cigar, or other tobacco
product, or any product regulated as a drug or device by the United States Food
and Drug Administration under Chapter V of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic
Act.
   CIGARETTE. Any product that contains nicotine, is intended to be burned or
heated under ordinary conditions of use, and consists of or contains:
      (1)   Any roll of tobacco wrapped in paper or in any substance not
containing tobacco;
      (2)   Tobacco, in any form, that is functional in the product which,
because of its appearance, the type of tobacco used in the filler, or its
packaging and labeling, is likely to be offered to, or purchased by, consumers
as a cigarette; or
      (3)   Any roll of tobacco wrapped in any substance containing tobacco
which, because of its appearance, the type of tobacco used in the filler, or
its packaging and labeling, is likely to be offered to, or purchased by,
consumers as a cigarette described in division (2) of this definition.
   ELECTRONIC NICOTINE DELIVERY SYSTEM.
      (1)   Any product or device containing nicotine, tobacco, or tobacco
derivatives that employs a heating element, power source, electronic circuit,
or other electronic, chemical, or mechanical means, regardless of shape or
size, to simulate smoking by delivering the nicotine, tobacco, or tobacco
derivatives in vapor, fog, mist, gas, or aerosol form to a person inhaling from
the product or device.
      (2)   ELECTRONIC NICOTINE DELIVERY SYSTEM includes, but is not limited
to, the following:
         (a)   Any substance containing nicotine, tobacco, or tobacco
derivatives, whether sold separately or sold in combination with a product or
device that is intended to deliver to a person nicotine, tobacco, or tobacco
derivatives in vapor, fog, mist, gas, or aerosol form;
         (b)   Any product or device marketed, manufactured, distributed, or
sold as an electronic cigarette, electronic cigar, electronic cigarillo,
electronic pipe, electronic hookah, or similar products, names, descriptors, or
devices; and
         (c)   Any component, part, or accessory of such a product or device
that is used during operation of the product or device when sold in combination
with any substance containing nicotine, tobacco, or tobacco derivatives.
      (3)   ELECTRONIC NICOTINE DELIVERY SYSTEM does not include the following:
         (a)   An alternative nicotine product, cigarette, cigar, or other
tobacco product, or any product regulated as a drug or device by the United
States Food and Drug Administration under Chapter V of the Federal Food, Drug,
and Cosmetic Act; or
         (b)   Any component, part, or accessory of such a product or device
that is used during operation of the product or device when not sold in
combination with any substance containing nicotine, tobacco, or tobacco
derivatives.
   SELF-SERVICE DISPLAY. A retail display that contains a tobacco product, a
tobacco-derived product, an electronic nicotine delivery system, or an
alternative nicotine product and is located in an area openly accessible to a
retailer's customers and from which such customers can readily access the
product without the assistance of a salesperson. SELF-SERVICE DISPLAY does not
include a display case that holds tobacco products, tobacco-derived products,
electronic nicotine delivery systems, or alternative nicotine products behind
locked doors.
   TOBACCO SPECIALTY STORE. A retail store that:
       (1)   Derives at least 75% of its revenue from tobacco products,
tobacco-derived products, electronic nicotine delivery systems, or alternative
nicotine products; and
      (2)   Does not permit persons under the age of 19 years to enter the
premises unless accompanied by a parent or legal guardian.
(Ord. 2019-38, passed 11-20-2019)
§ 113.02 LICENSE TO SELL; ISSUANCE.
   Licenses for the sale of cigars, tobacco, electronic nicotine delivery
systems, cigarettes, and cigarette material to persons 21 years of age or over
shall be issued to individuals, partnerships, limited liability companies, and
corporations by the Village Clerk upon application duly made as provided in §
113.03.
(Ord. 2019-38, passed 11-20-2019; Ord. 2021-10, passed 1-28-2021)
Statutory reference:
   License required, see Neb. RS 28-1420
   Prohibited sales, see Neb. RS 28-1421
§ 113.03 LICENSE APPLICATION.
   (A)   Every person, partnership, limited liability company, or corporation
desiring a license under Neb. RS 28-1420 through 28-1429 shall file with the
Village Clerk a written application stating:
      (1)   The name of the person, partnership, limited liability company, or
corporation for whom the license is desired;
      (2)   An email address for contacting such person, partnership, limited
liability company, or corporation; and
      (3)   The exact location of the place of business.
   (B)   Each applicant shall also deposit with the application the amount of
the license fee provided in §
113.04.
   (C)   If the applicant is an individual, the application shall include the
applicant's Social Security number.
   (D)   Any Clerk or Finance Department that grants such a license shall
notify the Tax Commissioner of such granting and transmit all applicable
application materials received to the Tax Commissioner.
(Neb. RS 28-1422)
(Ord. 2019-38, passed 11-20-2019; Ord. 2025-8, passed 1-15-2025)
§ 113.04 LICENSE; TERM; FEES; FALSE SWEARING; PENALTY.
   (A)   The term for which such license shall run shall be from the date of
filing such application and paying such license fee to and including December
31 of the calendar year in which application for such license is made.
   (B)   The license fee for any person, partnership, limited liability
company, or corporation selling at retail shall be $10.
   (C)   Any person, partnership, limited liability company, or corporation
selling annually in the aggregate more than 150,000 cigars, packages of
cigarettes, electronic nicotine delivery systems, and packages of tobacco in
any form, at wholesale, shall pay a license fee of $100, and if such combined
annual sales amount to less than 150,000 cigars, packages of cigarettes,
electronic nicotine delivery systems, and packages of tobacco, the annual
license fee shall be $15. No wholesaler's license shall be issued in any year
on a less basis than $100 per annum unless the applicant for the same shall
file with such application a statement duly sworn to by himself or herself, or
if applicant is a partnership, by a member of the firm, or if a limited
liability company, by a member or manager of the company, or if a corporation,
by an officer or manager thereof, that in the past such wholesaler's combined
sales of cigars, packages of cigarettes, electronic nicotine delivery systems,
and packages of tobacco in every form have not exceeded in the aggregate
150,000 annually, and that such sales will not exceed such aggregate amount for
the current year for which the license is to issue. Any person swearing falsely
in such affidavit shall be guilty of an offense, and such wholesaler's license
shall be revoked until the full license fee is paid.
   (D)   If application for license is made after July 1 of any calendar year,
the fee shall be one-half of the fee provided in this section.
(Neb. RS 28-1423) (Ord. 2019-38, passed 11-20-2019)
§ 113.05 RIGHTS OF LICENSEE.
   (A)   The license provided for in §
113.02 shall, when issued, authorize the sale of cigars, tobacco, electronic
nicotine delivery systems, cigarettes, and cigarette material by the licensee
and employees to persons 21 years of age or over, at the place of business
described in the license for the term therein authorized, unless the license is
forfeited as a result of court action as provided in Neb. RS 28-1425.
   (B)   If the license is revoked and forfeited pursuant to Neb. RS 28-1425,
all rights under the license shall at once cease and terminate and a new
license shall not be issued until the expiration of the period provided for in
Neb. RS 28-1429.
(Ord. 2019-38, passed 11-20-2019; Ord. 2021-11, passed 1-28-2021; Ord. 2025-14,
passed 1-15-2025)
Statutory reference:
   Sale of person under 19 prohibited; penalties, see Neb. RS 28-1424 and 28-
1425
§ 113.06 LICENSES FOR SALE OF TOBACCO; FEES INURE TO SCHOOL FUND.
   All money collected as license fees under the provisions of this chapter,
shall be paid over by the clerk receiving it to the treasurer of the School
Fund for the village.
(Ord. 2019-38, passed 11-20-2019)
§ 113.07 TRANSFER OF TOBACCO LICENSE.
   In case of the sale of a business where the owner has a license hereunder,
the licensing authority may authorize such license to be transferred to the
purchaser. In case of a change of location by any licensee hereunder, the
licensing authority may transfer such license to the new location.
(Ord. 2019-38, passed 11-20-2019)
§ 113.08 REISSUANCE OF REVOKED AND FORFEITED LICENSE.
   (A)   If a license issued under Neb. RS 28-1420 through 28-1429 is revoked
and forfeited as provided in Neb. RS 28-1425 for a violation of Neb. RS 28-
1429.04 or 28-1429.05, no new license shall be issued to such licensee until
the expiration of five years after the date of such revocation and forfeiture.
   (B)   If a license issued under Neb. RS 28-1420 through 28-1429 is revoked
and forfeited as provided in Neb. RS 28-1425 for any other violation of Neb. RS
28-1418 through 28-1429.03, 28-1429.06, and 28-1429.07, no new license shall be
issued to such licensee until the expiration of one year after the date of such
revocation and forfeiture except as otherwise provided in Neb. RS 28-1423.
(Neb. RS 28-1429)
(Ord. 2019-38, passed 11-20-2019; Ord. 2025-13, passed 1-15-2025)
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
   Chapter
      
130.   PROPERTY OFFENSES
      
131.   OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC ORDER
      
132.   OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC JUSTICE AND ADMINISTRATION
      
133.   OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC HEALTH AND SAFETY
      
134.   OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC MORALS
CHAPTER 130: PROPERTY OFFENSES
Section
   
130.01   Criminal mischief
   
130.02   Criminal trespass
   
130.03   Radio interference
   
130.04   Injury to trees
   
130.05   Posting
 
   
130.99   Penalty
§ 130.01 CRIMINAL MISCHIEF.
   (A)   A person commits criminal mischief if he or she:
      (1)   Damages property of another intentionally or recklessly;
      (2)   Intentionally tampers with property of another so as to endanger
person or property; or
      (3)   Intentionally or maliciously causes another to suffer pecuniary
loss by deception or threat.
   (B)   Criminal mischief is an offense:
      (1)   If the actor intentionally or maliciously causes pecuniary loss of
$500 or more but less than $1,500; or
      (2)   If the actor intentionally, maliciously, or recklessly causes
pecuniary loss in an amount of less than $500 or if his or her action results
in no pecuniary loss.
(Neb. RS 28-519) (Ord. 2016-04, passed 3-24-2016) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.02 CRIMINAL TRESPASS.
   (A)   A person commits first degree criminal trespass if:
      (1)   He or she enters or secretly remains in any building or occupied
structure, or any separately secured or occupied portion thereof, knowing that
he or she is not licensed or privileged to do so; or
      (2)   He or she enters or remains in or on a public power infrastructure
facility knowing that he or she does not have the consent of a person who has
the right to give consent to be in or on the facility.
   (B)   First degree criminal trespass is a Class I misdemeanor.
   (C)   For purposes of this section, PUBLIC POWER INFRASTRUCTURE FACILITY
means a power plant, an electrical station or substation, or any other facility
which is used by a public power supplier as defined in Neb. RS 70-2103 to
support the generation, transmission, or distribution of electricity and which
is surrounded by a fence or is otherwise enclosed.
(Neb. RS 28-520)
   (D)   (1)   A person commits second degree criminal trespass if, knowing
that he or she is not licensed or privileged to do so, to enter or remain in
any place as to which notice against trespass is given by:
         (a)   Actual communication to the actor; or
         (b)   Posting in a manner prescribed by law or reasonably likely to
come to the attention of intruders; or
         (c)   Fencing or other enclosure manifestly designed to exclude
intruders, except as otherwise provided in division (A) of this section.
      (2)   A person commits second degree criminal trespass if, knowing that
he or she is not licensed or privileged to do so, he or she intentionally
causes an electronic device, such as an unmanned aircraft, to enter into, upon,
or above the property of another, including such property owned by such person
and leased or rented to another, with the intent to observe another person
without his or her consent in a place of solitude or seclusion.
      (3)   For purposes of this section, UNMANNED AIRCRAFT means an aircraft,
including an aircraft commonly known as a drone, which is operated without the
possibility of direct human intervention from within or on the aircraft.
      (4)   Second degree criminal trespass is a Class III misdemeanor, except
as provided for in division (D)(5) of this section.
      (5)   Second degree criminal trespass is a Class II misdemeanor if the
offender defies an order to leave personally communicated to him or her by the
owner of the premises or other authorized person.
(Neb. RS 28-521)
(Ord. 2022-8, passed 12-19-2022) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 130.03 RADIO INTERFERENCE.
   Any person operating, or causing to be operated, any motor, sign, or other
electrical apparatus that is connected with the light and power system shall
equip the apparatus with proper filtering attachments to eliminate
interference, provided that the provisions herein shall not apply to the use of
necessary medical equipment or apparatus where electrical interference cannot
be reasonably and safely eliminated. Any person who so operates or causes to be
operated any such electrical apparatus that interferes habitually with radio
and television reception shall be deemed to be guilty of an offense.
Penalty, see §
130.99
Statutory reference:
   Provisions on nuisances, see Neb. RS 18-1720, 28-1321
§ 130.04 INJURY TO TREES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person purposely or carelessly and without
lawful authority to cut down, carry away, injure, break down, or destroy any
fruit, ornamental, shade, or other tree or trees standing or growing on any
land belonging to another person or persons or on any public land in the
corporate limits. Any public service company desiring to trim or cut down any
tree, except on property owned and controlled by it, shall make an application
to the Board of Trustees to do so, and the written permit of the Board of
Trustees in accordance with its decision to allow such an action shall
constitute the only lawful authority on the part of the company to do so.
(1991 Code, § 6-312) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.05 POSTING.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation to use the
streets, sidewalks, or public grounds of the municipality for signs, signposts,
or the posting of handbills or advertisements without written permission of the
Board of Trustees.
Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person or any person’s agent or servant who violates any of the
provisions of this chapter, unless otherwise specifically provided herein,
shall be deemed guilty of an offense and upon conviction thereof shall be fined
in any sum not exceeding $500. A new violation shall be deemed to have been
committed every 24 hours of failure to comply with the provisions of this
chapter.
   (B)   (1)   Whenever a nuisance exists as defined in this chapter, the
municipality may proceed by a suit in equity to enjoin, abate, and remove the
same in the manner provided by law.
      (2)   Whenever, in any action, it is established that a nuisance exists,
the court may, together with the fine or penalty imposed, enter an order of
abatement as a part of the judgment in the case.
(Neb. RS 17-207, 17-505, 18-1720, 18-1722) (Ord. 2002-07, passed 2-21-2002)
CHAPTER 131: OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC ORDER
Section
   
131.01   Disorderly conduct
   
131.02   Street games
   
131.03   Obstruction of public ways
   
131.04   Obstructing water flow
   
131.05   Curfew; duty of parent or guardian; exemptions
   
131.06   Disturbing the peace
§ 131.01 DISORDERLY CONDUCT.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to engage in conduct or behavior which
disturbs the peace and good order of the municipality by clamor or noise,
intoxication, drunkenness, fighting, or using obscene or profane language in
the streets or other public places or otherwise violating the public peace by
indecent or disorderly conduct or lewd or lascivious behavior.
(1991 Code, § 6-313) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Authority to regulate noise, riots, and routs, see Neb. RS 17-556
§ 131.02 STREET GAMES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to play catch, bat a ball, or kick or
throw a football, or to engage in any exercise or sport, upon the municipal
streets and sidewalks. Nothing herein shall be construed to prohibit or prevent
the Board of Trustees from ordering from time to time certain streets and
public places blocked off for the purpose of providing a safe area to engage in
such exercise and sport.
Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Additional authority, see Neb. RS 17-555, 17-557
§ 131.03 OBSTRUCTION OF PUBLIC WAYS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to erect, maintain, or suffer to remain
on any street or public sidewalk a stand, wagon, display, or other obstruction
inconvenient to or inconsistent with the public use of the same.
(1991 Code, § 6-314) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Additional authority, see Neb. RS 17-555, 17-557
   Penalties for injuring or obstructing roads, see Neb. RS 39-301, 39-302
§ 131.04 OBSTRUCTING WATER FLOW.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to stop or obstruct the passage of water
in a street gutter, culvert, water pipe, or hydrant.
(1991 Code, § 6-315) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Authority to abate nuisances, see Neb. RS 17-555
   Authority to prevent water obstruction, see Neb. RS 17-920
§ 131.05 CURFEW; DUTY OF PARENT OR GUARDIAN; EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any minor under the age of 18 years to
loiter, idle, wander, stroll, or play in or upon any of the streets, roads,
alleys, or parks of the municipality, or other places of public amusement or
recreation therein, after the hour of 11:00 p.m. and until the hour of 5:00
a.m. of the following day on Sunday through Thursday, and after the hour of 12:
30 a.m. and until the hour of 5:00 a.m. on Saturday and Sunday.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any parent, guardian, or any adult person
having the legal care, custody, or control of any minor under the age of 18
years to allow or permit that minor to loiter, wander, stroll, idle, or play in
or about any of the places designated in division (A) above after the hour of
11:00 p.m. and until the hour of 5:00 a.m. of the following day on Sunday
through Thursday, and after the hour of 12:30 a.m. and until the hour of 5:00
a.m. on Saturday and Sunday.
   (C)   It is an exemption to prosecution under divisions (A) and (B) that the
minor was:
      (1)   Accompanied by a parent, guardian, or other adult person having the
legal care, custody, or control of that minor;
      (2)   On an errand at the direction of the minor’s parent, guardian, or
other adult person having the legal care, custody, or control of that minor and
was using a direct route;
      (3)   In a motor vehicle involved in interstate travel;
      (4)   Engaged in an employment activity, including, but not limited to,
newspaper delivery, and was using a direct route;
      (5)   Involved in an emergency;
      (6)   On the sidewalk abutting the minor’s residence or abutting the
residence of a next-door neighbor if the neighbor did not complain to the
police officer about the minor’s presence;
      (7)   Attending an official school or religious activity or returning
home by a direct route from an official school or religious activity;
      (8)   Exercising first amendment rights protected by the U.S.
Constitution, such as the free exercise of religion, freedom of speech, and the
right of assembly; or
      (9)   Married or had been married or had disabilities of minority removed
in accordance with the laws of the state.
(1991 Code, § 6-316) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 131.06 DISTURBING THE PEACE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person intentionally to disturb the peace and
quiet of any person, family, or neighborhood.
(Neb. RS 28-1322) (1991 Code, § 6-325) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 132: OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC JUSTICE AND ADMINISTRATION
Section
   
132.01   Impersonating a public servant
   
132.02   Impersonating a peace officer
   
132.03   Refusing to aid a peace officer
   
132.04   Resisting arrest without the use of a deadly or dangerous weapon
   
132.05   Obstructing a peace officer
   
132.06   Interfering with firefighter
   
132.07   False reporting
   
132.08   Criminal impersonation
§ 132.01 IMPERSONATING A PUBLIC SERVANT.
   It shall be unlawful for any person falsely to pretend to be a public
servant other than a peace officer and perform any act in that pretended
capacity. It is no defense that the office the actor pretended to hold did not
in fact exist.
(Neb. RS 28-609) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 132.02 IMPERSONATING A PEACE OFFICER.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to falsely pretend to be a peace officer
and perform any act in that pretended capacity.
(Neb. RS 28-610) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 132.03 REFUSING TO AID A PEACE OFFICER.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, upon a request by a person known to
that person to be a peace officer, unreasonably to refuse or fail to aid the
peace officer in:
   (A)   Apprehending any person charged with or convicted of any offense
against any of the laws of this state or municipality;
   (B)   Securing the offender when apprehended; or
   (C)   Conveying the offender to the jail of the county.
(Neb. RS 28-903) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 132.04 RESISTING ARREST WITHOUT THE USE OF A DEADLY OR DANGEROUS WEAPON.
   (A)   This section shall apply only to those actions taken to resist arrest
without the use of a deadly or dangerous weapon. It shall be unlawful for any
person, without the use of a deadly or dangerous weapon, while intentionally
preventing or attempting to prevent a peace officer, acting under color of his
or her official authority, from effecting an arrest of the actor or another,
to:
      (1)   Use or threaten to use physical force or violence against the peace
officer or another;
      (2)   Use any other means which creates a substantial risk of causing
physical injury to the peace officer or another; or
      (3)   Employ means requiring substantial force to overcome resistance to
effecting the arrest.
   (B)   It is an affirmative defense to prosecution under this section if the
peace officer involved was out of uniform and did not identify himself or
herself as a peace officer by showing his or her credentials to the person
whose arrest is attempted.
(Neb. RS 28-904) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 132.05 OBSTRUCTING A PEACE OFFICER.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to use or threaten to use violence,
force, physical interference, or obstacle, or intentionally to obstruct,
impair, or hinder the enforcement of the penal law or the preservation of the
peace by a peace officer or judge acting under color of official authority, or
a police animal assisting a peace officer acting pursuant to the peace
officer’s official authority.
(Neb. RS 28-906) (1991 Code, § 6-302) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 132.06 INTERFERING WITH FIREFIGHTER.
   A person commits the offense of interfering with a firefighter if at any
time and place where any firefighter is discharging or attempting to discharge
any official duties, the person willfully:
   (A)   Resists or interferes with the lawful efforts of any firefighter in
the discharge or attempt to discharge an official duty;
   (B)   Disobeys the lawful orders given by any firefighter while performing
his or her duties;
   (C)   Engages in any disorderly conduct which delays or prevents a fire from
being extinguished within a reasonable time; or
   (D)   Forbids or prevents others from assisting or extinguishing a fire, or
exhorts another person, as to whom he or she has no legal right or obligation
to protect or control, not to assist in extinguishing a fire.
(Neb. RS 28-908) (1991 Code, § 6-303) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 132.07 FALSE REPORTING.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to:
      (1)   Furnish material information he or she knows to be false to any
peace officer or other official with the intent to instigate an investigation
of an alleged criminal matter or impede the investigation of an actual criminal
matter;
      (2)   Furnish information he or she knows to be false alleging the
existence of the need for the assistance of an emergency medical service or
out-of-hospital emergency care provider or an emergency in which human life or
property are in jeopardy to any hospital, emergency medical service, or other
person or governmental agency;
      (3)   Furnish any information, or cause such information to be furnished
or conveyed by electric, electronic, telephonic, or mechanical means, knowing
the same to be false concerning the need for assistance of a fire department or
any personnel or equipment of such department;
      (4)   Furnish any information he or she knows to be false concerning the
location of any explosive in any building or other property to any person; or
      (5)   Furnish material information he or she knows to be false to any
governmental department or agency with the intent to instigate an investigation
or to impede an ongoing investigation and which actually results in causing or
impeding such investigation.
   (B)   A person who violates this section commits the offense of false
reporting.
(Neb. RS 28-907) (1991 Code, § 6-328) (Ord. 574, passed 11-19-1998) Penalty,
see §
10.99
§ 132.08 CRIMINAL IMPERSONATION.
   (A)   For purposes of this section:
      (1)   The definitions found in Neb. RS 28-608 shall apply; and
      (2)   The offenses described in division (B) shall exist when the credit,
money, goods, services, or other thing of value that was gained or was
attempted to be gained was less than $500.
   (B)   A person commits criminal impersonation if he or she:
      (1)   Assumes a false identity and does an act in his or her assumed
character with intent to gain a pecuniary benefit for himself, herself, or
another or to deceive or harm another;
      (2)   Pretends to be a representative of some person or organization and
does an act in his or her pretended capacity with the intent to gain a
pecuniary benefit for himself, herself, or another and to deceive or harm
another;
      (3)   Carries on any profession, business, or any other occupation
without a license, certificate, or other authorization required by law; or
      (4)   Without the authorization or permission of another and with the
intent to deceive or harm another:
         (a)   Obtains or records personal identification documents or personal
identifying information; and
         (b)   Accesses or attempts to access the financial resources of
another through the use of a personal identification document or personal
identifying information for the purpose of obtaining credit, money, goods,
services, or any other thing of value.
   (C)   Criminal impersonation does not mean:
      (1)   The lawful obtaining of credit information in the course of a bona
fide consumer or commercial transaction;
      (2)   The lawful, good faith exercise of a security interest or a right
of setoff by a creditor or a financial institution; or
      (3)   The lawful, good faith compliance by any person when required by
any warrant, levy, garnishment, attachment, court order, or other judicial or
administrative order, decree, or directive.
(Neb. RS 28-608) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 133: OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC HEALTH AND SAFETY
Section
General Provisions
   
133.01   Maintaining a nuisance
   
133.02   Appliances in yard
   
133.03   Putting carcass or filthy substance into well, spring, brook, or
stream
   
133.04   Prohibited fences
   
133.05   Weeds; litter; stagnant water
   
133.06   Littering
   
133.07   Raising or producing stagnant water
Substance Offenses
   
133.20   Use of tobacco by persons under the age of 21
   
133.21   Sale of tobacco to persons under the age of 21
   
133.22   Misrepresentation by minor to obtain alcohol
   
133.23   Minors; prohibited acts involving alcoholic liquor
   
133.24   Drinking on public property; open beverage container
   
133.25   Misrepresentation by person under the age of 21 to obtain tobacco
Motor Vehicle and Highway Offenses
   
133.40   Abandoned automobiles
   
133.41   Shooting highway signs, markers, or notices
   
133.42   Removal and possession of highway signs, markers, or notices
   
133.43   Unlicensed or inoperable vehicles
Weapons Offenses
   
133.60   Discharge of firearms
   
133.61   Slingshots, air guns, BB guns
 
   
133.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 133.01 MAINTAINING A NUISANCE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to erect, keep up, or continue and
maintain any nuisance to the injury of any part of the citizens of the
municipality.
(Neb. RS 28-1321(1)) (1991 Code, § 6-305) Penalty, see §
133.99
§ 133.02 APPLIANCES IN YARD.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to permit a refrigerator, icebox,
freezer, or any other dangerous appliance to be in the open and accessible to
children whether on private or public property unless the person first removes
all doors and makes the same reasonably safe.
(1991 Code, § 6-307) Penalty, see §
133.99
Statutory reference:
   Authority to prohibit nuisances within zoning jurisdiction, see Neb. RS 18-
1720, 28-1321
§ 133.03 PUTTING CARCASS OR FILTHY SUBSTANCE INTO WELL, SPRING, BROOK, OR
STREAM.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to put any dead animal, carcass, or part
thereof, or other filthy substance into any well, or into any spring, brook, or
branch of running water, of which use is made for domestic purposes.
(Neb. RS 28-1304) (1991 Code, § 6-311) Penalty, see §
133.99
§ 133.04 PROHIBITED FENCES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to erect, or cause to be erected, and
maintain any barbed wire or electric fence within the corporate limits, without
applying for and receiving an appropriate permit to erect and maintain said
fence.
(Neb. RS 18-1720, 28-1321, 39-307) (Ord. 440, passed 6-17-1993)
§ 133.05 WEEDS; LITTER; STAGNANT WATER.
   (A)   Lots or pieces of ground within the municipality or within its
extraterritorial zoning jurisdiction shall be drained or filled so as to
prevent stagnant water or any other nuisance accumulating thereon.
   (B)   The owner or occupant of any lot or piece of ground within the
municipality or within its extraterritorial zoning jurisdiction shall keep the
lot or piece of ground and the adjoining streets and alleys free of any growth
of 12 inches or more in height of weeds, grasses, or worthless vegetation.
   (C)   The throwing, depositing, or accumulation of litter on any lot or
piece of ground within the municipality or within its extraterritorial zoning
jurisdiction is prohibited.
   (D)   It is hereby declared to be a nuisance to permit or maintain any
growth of 12 inches or more in height of weeds, grasses, or worthless
vegetation on any lot or piece of ground within the municipality or within its
extraterritorial zoning jurisdiction or on the adjoining streets or alleys or
to litter or cause litter to be deposited or remain thereon except in proper
receptacles.
   (E)   Any owner or occupant of a lot or piece of ground shall, upon
conviction of violating this section, be guilty of an offense.
   (F)   (1)   Notice to abate and remove such nuisance shall be given to each
owner or owner's duly authorized agent and to the occupant, if any. The
municipality shall establish the method of notice by ordinance. If notice is
given by first-class mail, such mail shall be conspicuously marked as to its
importance. Within five days after receipt of such notice, the owner or
occupant of the lot or piece of ground may request a hearing with the
municipality to appeal the decision to abate or remove a nuisance by filing a
written appeal with the office of the Clerk. A hearing on the appeal shall be
held within 14 days after the filing of the appeal and shall be conducted by an
elected or appointed officer as designated in the ordinance. The hearing
officer shall render a decision on the appeal within five business days after
the conclusion of the hearing. If the appeal fails, the municipality may have
such work done. Within five days after receipt of such notice,, if the owner or
occupant of the lot or piece of ground does not request a hearing with the
municipality or fails to comply with the order to abate and remove the
nuisance, the municipality may have such work done.
      (2)   The costs and expenses of any such work shall be paid by the owner.
If unpaid for two months after such work is done, the municipality may either:
         (a)   Levy and assess the costs and expenses 6f the work upon the lot
or piece of ground so benefitted as a special assessment in the same manner as
other special assessments for improvements are levied and assessed; or
         (b)   Recover in a civil action the costs and expenses of the work
upon the lot or piece of ground and the adjoining streets and alleys.
   (G)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      LITTER. Includes but is not limited to:
         (a)   Trash, rubbish, refuse, garbage, paper, rags, and ashes;
         (b)   Wood, plaster, cement, brick, or stone building rubble;
         (c)   Grass, leaves, and worthless vegetation except when used as
ground mulch or in a compost pile;
         (d)   Offal and dead animals; and
         (e)   Any machine or machines, vehicle or vehicles, or parts of a
machine or vehicle which have lost their identity, character, utility, or
serviceability as such through deterioration, dismantling, or tire ravages of
time, are inoperative or unable to perform their intended functions, or are
cast off, discarded, or thrown away or left as waste, wreckage, or junk.
      WEEDS. Include, but are not limited to: bindweed (Convolvulus arvensis),
puncture vine (Tribulus terrestris), leafy spurge (Euphorbia esula), Canada
thistle (Cirsium arvense), perennial peppergrass (Lepidium draba), Russian
knapweed (Centaurea picris), Johnson grass (Sorghum halepense), nodding or musk
thistle, quack grass (Agropyron repens), perennial sow thistle (Sonchus
arvensis), horse nettle (Solanum carolinense), bull thistle (Cirsium
lanceolatum), buckthorn (Rharnnus sp.) (tourn), hemp plant (Cannabis sativa),
and ragweed (Ambrosiaceae).
(Neb. RS 17-563) (1991 Code, § 6-308) (Ord. 2016-16, passed 3-24-2016; Ord.
2018-7, passed 5-24-2018) Penalty, see §
133.99
§ 133.06 LITTERING.
   (A)   Any person who deposits, throws, discards, or otherwise disposes of
any litter on any public or private property or in any waters commits the
offense of littering unless:
      (1)   The property is an area designated by law for the disposal of that
type of material and the person is authorized by the proper public authority to
so use the property; or
      (2)   The litter is placed in a receptacle or container installed on the
property for that purpose.
   (B)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      LITTER. Includes all waste material susceptible of being dropped,
deposited, discarded, or otherwise disposed of by any person upon any property
in the state, but does not include wastes of primary processes of farming or
manufacturing.
      WASTE MATERIAL. Any material appearing in a place or in a context not
associated with that material’s function or origin.
   (C)   Whenever litter is thrown, deposited, dropped, or dumped from any
motor vehicle or watercraft in violation of this section, the operator of the
motor vehicle or watercraft commits the offense of littering.
(Neb. RS 28-523) Penalty, see §
133.99
§ 133.07 RAISING OR PRODUCING STAGNANT WATER.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to build, erect, continue, or keep up
any dam or other obstruction in any river or stream of water in the village and
thereby raise an artificial pond or produce stagnant waters which shall be
manifestly injurious to the public health and safety.
(Neb. RS 28-1303) (1991 Code, § 6-310) Penalty, see §
133.99
SUBSTANCE OFFENSES
§ 133.20 USE OF TOBACCO BY PERSONS UNDER THE AGE OF 21.
   Whoever, being a person under the age of 21 years, shall smoke cigarettes or
cigars, use electronic nicotine delivery systems or alternative nicotine
products, or use tobacco in any form whatever, in this village, shall be guilty
of an offense. Any person charged with a violation of this section may be free
from prosecution if he or she furnishes evidence for the conviction of the
person or persons selling or giving him or her the cigarettes, cigars,
electronic nicotine delivery systems, alternative nicotine products, or
tobacco.
(Ord. 2019-38, passed 11-20-2019; Ord. 2021-14, passed 1-28-2021) Penalty, see
§
10.99
Statutory reference:
   For similar state law, see Neb. RS 28-1418
§ 133.21 SALE OF TOBACCO TO PERSONS UNDER THE AGE OF 21.
   (A)   Whoever shall sell, give, or furnish in any way any tobacco in any
form whatever, or any cigars, cigarettes or cigarette paper, electronic
nicotine delivery systems, or alternative nicotine products, to any person
under 21 years of age is guilty of an offense.
   (B)   (1)   In order to further the public policy of deterring licensees or
other persons from violating division (A) of this section, a person who is at
least 15 years of age but under 21 years of age may assist a peace officer in
determining compliance with such division if:
         (a)   The parent or legal guardian of the person has given written
consent for the person to participate in such compliance check if such person
is under 19 years of age;
         (b)   The person is an employee, a volunteer, or an intern with a
state or local law enforcement agency;
         (c)   The person is acting within the scope of his or her assigned
duties as part of a law enforcement investigation;
         (d)   The person does not use or consume a tobacco product as part of
such duties; and
         (e)   The person is not actively assigned to a diversion program, is
not a party to a pending criminal proceeding or a proceeding pending under the
Nebraska Juvenile Code, and is not on probation.
      (2)   Any person under the age of 21 years acting in accordance with and
under the authority of this division shall not be in violation of Neb. RS 28-
1427.
(Ord. 2019-38, passed 11-20-2019; Ord. 2021-13, passed 1-28-2021) Penalty, see
§
10.99
Statutory reference:
   For similar state law, see Neb. RS 28-1419
§ 133.22 MISREPRESENTATION BY MINOR TO OBTAIN ALCOHOL.
   It shall be unlawful for any minor, as defined by Neb. RS 53-103, to obtain
or attempt to obtain alcoholic liquor by misrepresentation of age, or by any
other method, in any tavern or other place where alcoholic liquor is sold.
(Neb. RS 53-180.01) Penalty, see §
133.99
Statutory reference:
   False identification intended for minors, see Neb. RS 53-180.05
   Permitted employment for minors, see Neb. RS 53-168.06
§ 133.23 MINORS; PROHIBITED ACTS INVOLVING ALCOHOLIC LIQUOR.
   (A)   For purposes of this section, the definitions found in Neb. RS 53-103
shall apply, including, but not limited to, the definitions of the terms
ALCOHOLIC LIQUOR, CONSUME, MINOR, SALE, and TO SELL.
   (B)   No minor may sell, dispense, consume, or have in his or her possession
or physical control any alcoholic liquor in any tavern or in any other place,
including public streets, alleys, roads, or highways, upon property owned by
the state or any subdivision thereof, or inside any vehicle while in or on any
other place, including, but not limited to, the public streets, alleys, roads,
or highways, or upon property owned by the state or any subdivision thereof,
except that a minor may consume, possess, or have physical control of alcoholic
liquor in his or her permanent place of residence or on the premises of a place
of religious worship on which premises alcoholic liquor is consumed as a part
of a religious rite, ritual, or ceremony.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person under 21 years of age to
transport, consume, or knowingly possess or have under his or her control beer
or other alcoholic liquor in or transported by any motor vehicle.
(Neb. RS 53-180.02) Penalty, see §
133.99
§ 133.24 DRINKING ON PUBLIC PROPERTY; OPEN BEVERAGE CONTAINER.
   (A)   Except when the Nebraska Liquor Control Commission has issued a
license as provided in Neb. RS 53-186(2), it is unlawful for any person to
consume alcoholic liquor upon property owned or controlled by the state or any
governmental subdivision thereof unless authorized by the governing bodies
having jurisdiction over such property.
(Neb. RS 53-186)
   (B)   (1)   It is unlawful for any person in the passenger area of a motor
vehicle to possess an open alcoholic beverage container while the motor vehicle
is located in a public parking area or on any highway in this municipality.
      (2)   Except as provided in Neb. RS 53-186, it is unlawful for any person
to consume an alcoholic beverage:
         (a)   In a public parking area or on any highway in this municipality;
or
         (b)   Inside a motor vehicle while in a public parking area or on any
highway in this municipality.
      (3)   For the purpose of this division, the following definitions shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning:
         ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE.
            1.   Beer, ale porter, stout, and other similar fermented
beverages, including sake or similar products, of any name or description
containing one-half of 1% or more of alcohol by volume, brewed or produced from
malt, wholly or in part, or from any substitute therefor;
            2.   Wine of not less than 0.5% of alcohol by volume; or
            3.   Distilled spirits which is that substance known as ethyl
alcohol, ethanol, or spirits of wine in any form, including all dilutions and
mixtures thereof from whatever source or by whatever process produced.
ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE does not include trace amounts not readily consumable as a
beverage.
         HIGHWAY. Includes a road or street including the entire area within
the right-of-way.
         OPEN ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE CONTAINER. Includes any bottle, can, or other
receptacle:
            1.   That contains any amount of alcoholic beverage; and
            2.   That is open or has a broken seal; or
            3.   The contents of which are partially removed.
         PASSENGER AREA. Includes the area designed to seat the driver and
passengers while the motor vehicle is in operation and any area that is readily
accessible to the driver or a passenger while in their seating positions,
including any compartments in such area. PASSENGER AREA does not include the
area behind the last upright seat of such motor vehicle if the area is not
normally occupied by the driver or a passenger and the motor vehicle is not
equipped with a trunk.
(Neb. RS 60-6,211.08)
(1991 Code, § 6-327) (Ord. 2002-06, passed 2-21-2002)
§ 133.25 MISREPRESENTATION BY PERSON UNDER THE AGE OF 21 TO OBTAIN TOBACCO.
   Except as provided in §
133.20, any person under the age of 21 years who obtains cigars, tobacco,
cigarettes, or cigarette material, electronic nicotine delivery systems, or
alternative nicotine products from a licensee hereunder by representing that he
or she is of the age of 21 years or over, is guilty of an offense.
(Ord. 2019-38, passed 11-20-2019; Ord. 2021-12, passed 1-28-2021) Penalty, see
§
10.99
Statutory reference:
   For similar state law, see Neb. RS 28-1427
MOTOR VEHICLE AND HIGHWAY OFFENSES
§ 133.40 ABANDONED AUTOMOBILES.
   (A)    For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      ABANDONED VEHICLE.
         (a)   A motor vehicle is an ABANDONED VEHICLE:
            1.   If left unattended, with no license plates or valid in transit
stickers issued pursuant to the Motor Vehicle Registration Act affixed thereto,
for more than six hours on any public property;
            2.   If left unattended for more than 24 hours on any public
property, except a portion thereof on which parking is legally permitted;
            3.   If left unattended for more than 48 hours, after the parking
of such vehicle has become illegal, if left on a portion of any public property
on which parking is legally permitted;
            4.   If left unattended for more than seven days on private
property if left initially without permission of the owner, or after permission
of the owner is terminated;
            5.   If left for more than 30 days in the custody of a village law
enforcement agency after the agency has sent a letter to the last-registered
owner and lienholder under division (D) of this section; or
            6.   If removed from private property by the village pursuant to a
village ordinance or this code.
         (b)   An all-terrain vehicle or minibike is an ABANDONED VEHICLE:
            1.   If left unattended for more than 24 hours on any public
property, except a portion thereof on which parking is legally permitted;
            2.   If left unattended for more than 48 hours, after the parking
of such vehicle has become illegal, if left on a portion of any public property
on which parking is legally permitted;
            3.   If left unattended for more than seven days on private
property if left initially without permission of the owner, or after permission
of the owner is terminated;
            4.   If left for more than 30 days in the custody of a village law
enforcement agency after the agency has sent a letter to the last-registered
owner and lienholder under division (D) of this section; or
            5.   If removed from private property by the village pursuant to a
village ordinance or this code.
         (c)   A mobile home is an ABANDONED VEHICLE if left in place on
private property for more than 30 days after a local governmental unit,
pursuant to an ordinance or resolution, has sent a certified letter to each of
the last-registered owners and posted a notice on the mobile home, stating that
the mobile home is subject to sale or auction or vesting of title as set forth
in Neb. RS 60-1903.
         (d)   No motor vehicle subject to forfeiture under Neb. RS 28-431
shall be an ABANDONED VEHICLE under this section.
      MOBILE HOME. A movable or portable dwelling constructed to be towed on
its own chassis, connected to utilities, and designed with or without a
permanent foundation for year-round living. It may consist of one or more units
that can be telescoped when towed and expanded later for additional capacity,
or of two or more units, separately towable but designed to be joined into one
integral unit, and shall include a manufactured home as defined in Neb. RS 71-
4603. MOBILE HOME does not include a mobile home or manufactured home for which
an affidavit of affixture has been recorded pursuant to Neb. RS 60-169.
      PRIVATE PROPERTY. Any privately owned property which is not included
within the definition of public property.
      PUBLIC PROPERTY. Any public right-of-way, street, highway, alley, or park
or other state, county, or village-owned property.
   (B)   If an abandoned vehicle, at the time of abandonment, has no license
plates of the current year or valid in transit stickers issued pursuant to Neb.
RS 60-376 affixed and is of a wholesale value, taking into consideration the
condition of the vehicle, of $500 or less, title shall immediately vest in the
village. Any certificate of title issued under this division to the village
shall be issued at no cost to the village.
   (C)   (1)   Except for vehicles governed by division (B) of this section,
the village shall make an inquiry concerning the last-registered owner of such
vehicle as follows:
         (a)   Abandoned vehicle with license plates affixed, to the
jurisdiction which issued such license plates; or
         (b)   Abandoned vehicle with no license plates affixed, to the
Department of Motor Vehicles.
      (2)   The village shall notify the last-registered owner, if any, and any
lienholder, if any, within 15 business days that the vehicle in question has
been determined to be an abandoned vehicle and that, if unclaimed, either:
         (a)   It will be sold or will be offered at public auction after five
days from the date such notice was mailed; or
         (b)   Title will vest in the village 30 days after the date such
notice was mailed.
      (3)   If the agency described in division (C)(1)(a) or (b) above also
notifies the village that a lien or mortgage exists, such notice shall also be
sent to the lienholder or mortgagee. Any person claiming such vehicle shall be
required to pay the cost of removal and storage of such vehicle.
      (4)   Title to an abandoned vehicle, if unclaimed, shall vest in the
village:
         (a)   Five days after the date the notice is mailed if the vehicle
will be sold or offered at public auction under division (C)(2)(a) of this
section;
         (b)   Thirty (30) days after the date the notice is mailed if the
village will retain the vehicle; or
         (c)   If the last-registered owner cannot be ascertained, when notice
of such fact is received.
      (5)   After title to the abandoned vehicle vests pursuant to division (C)
(4) of this section, the village may retain for use, sell, or auction the
abandoned vehicle. If the village has determined that the vehicle should be
retained for use, the village shall, at the same time that the notice, if any,
is mailed, publish in a newspaper of general circulation in the jurisdiction an
announcement that the village intends to retain the abandoned vehicle for its
use and that title will vest in the village 30 days after the publication.
   (D)   (1)   If a village law enforcement agency has custody of a motor
vehicle for investigatory purposes and has no further need to keep it in
custody, it shall send a certified letter to each of the last-registered
owners, if any, and lienholders, if any, within 15 calendar days stating that
the vehicle is in the custody of the law enforcement agency, that the vehicle
is no longer needed for law enforcement purposes, and that after 30 days the
agency will dispose of the vehicle,
      (2)   This division shall not apply to motor vehicles subject to
forfeiture under Neb. RS 28-431.
      (3)   No storage fees shall be assessed against the registered owner of a
motor vehicle held in custody for investigatory purposes under this division
(D) unless the registered owner or the person in possession of the vehicle when
it is taken into custody is charged with a felony or misdemeanor related to the
offense for which the law enforcement agency took the vehicle into custody. If
a registered owner or the person in possession of the vehicle when it is taken
into custody is charged with a felony or misdemeanor but is not convicted, the
registered owner shall be entitled to a refund of the storage fees.
   (E)   (1)   A law enforcement agency is authorized to remove an abandoned or
trespassing vehicle from private property upon the request of the private
property owner on whose property the vehicle is located and upon information
indicating that the vehicle is an abandoned or trespassing vehicle. After
removal, the law enforcement agency with custody of the vehicle shall follow
the procedures in Neb. RS 60-1902 and 60-1903.
      (2)   A law enforcement agency is authorized to contact a private towing
service in order to remove an abandoned or trespassing vehicle from private
property upon the request of the private property owner on whose property the
vehicle is located and upon information indicating that the vehicle is an
abandoned or trespassing vehicle. A vehicle towed away under this division is
subject to Neb. RS 52-601.01 to 52-605 and 60-2410 by the private towing
service which towed the vehicle.
      (3)   A private property owner is authorized to remove or cause the
removal of an abandoned or trespassing vehicle from such property and may
contact a private towing service for such removal. A private towing service
that tows the vehicle shall notify, within 24 hours, the designated law
enforcement agency in the jurisdiction from which the vehicle is removed and
provide the registration plate number; the vehicle identification number, if
available; the make, model, and color of the vehicle; the name of the private
towing service; and the location, if applicable, where the private towing
service is storing the vehicle. A vehicle towed away under this division is
subject to Neb. RS 52-601.01 to 52-605 and 60-2410 by the private towing
service that towed the vehicle.
      (4)   For purposes of this section, a trespassing vehicle is a vehicle
that is parked without permission on private property that is not typically
made available for public parking.
   (F)   If a state agency caused an abandoned vehicle described in division
(A)(a)5. or (A)(b)4. under the definition of abandoned vehicle to be removed
from public property in this village, the state agency shall be entitled to
custody of the vehicle. If a state agency caused an abandoned vehicle described
in division (A)(a)1., 2., 3., or 4. or (A)(b)1., 2., or 3. under the definition
of abandoned vehicle to be removed from public property in this village, the
state agency shall deliver the vehicle to the village which shall have custody.
   (G)   Any proceeds from the sale of an abandoned vehicle in the village's
custody less any expenses incurred by the village shall be held by the village
without interest, for the benefit of the owner or lienholders of such vehicle
for a period of two years. If not claimed within such two-year period, the
proceeds shall be paid into the general fund of the village.
   (H)   Neither the owner, owner's agent, owner's employee, lessee, nor
occupant of the premises from which any abandoned vehicle is removed, nor the
village, shall be liable for any loss or damage to such vehicle which occurs
during its removal or while in the possession of the village or its contractual
agent, while in the possession of a private towing service, or as a result of
any subsequent disposition.
   (I)   No person shall cause any vehicle to be an abandoned vehicle as
described in division (A)(a)1., 2., 3., or 4. or (A)(b)1., 2., or 3. under the
definition of abandoned vehicle.
   (J)   No person other than one authorized by the village or appropriate
state agency shall destroy, deface, or remove any part of a vehicle which is
left unattended on a highway or other public place without license plates
affixed or which is abandoned. Anyone violating this division shall be guilty
of an offense.
   (K)   The last-registered owner of an abandoned vehicle shall be liable to
the village for the costs of removal and storage of such vehicle.
   (L)   Any person violating the provisions of this section shall be guilty of
an offense.
(1991 Code, § 6-318) (Ord. 535, passed 6-19-1997; Ord. 2019-9, passed 3-29-
2019; Ord. 2021-44, passed 12-21-2021) Penalty, see §
133.99
Statutory reference:
   For similar state law, see Neb. RS 60-1901, 60-1902, 60-1903, 60-1903.01,
60-1903.02, 60-1904, 60-1905, 60-1906, 60-1907, 60-1908, 60-1909, and 60-1911
§ 133.41 SHOOTING HIGHWAY SIGNS, MARKERS, OR NOTICES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person willfully or maliciously to shoot upon
the public highway and injure, deface, damage, or destroy any signs, monuments,
road markers, traffic-control or surveillance devices, or other public notices
lawfully placed upon the highways.
(Neb. RS 60-6,130(1)) Penalty, see §
133.99
§ 133.42 REMOVAL AND POSSESSION OF HIGHWAY SIGNS, MARKERS, OR NOTICES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, other than those authorized to do so,
to remove any sign, traffic-control or traffic surveillance device placed along
a public street, road, or highway for traffic control, warning, or
informational purposes. Moreover, it shall be unlawful for any person to
possess such a sign or device which has been removed in violation of this
section.
(Neb. RS 60-6,130(3)) (1991 Code, § 6-322) Penalty, see §
133.99
§ 133.43 UNLICENSED OR INOPERABLE VEHICLES.
   No person in charge or control of any property within the municipality,
other than municipal property, whether as owner, tenant, occupant, lessee, or
otherwise, shall store, retain, or keep on, or permit to be stored, retained,
or kept on a private premises any motor vehicle that has been unlicensed for a
period in excess of four months under the laws of the State of Nebraska or
allow any partially dismantled, inoperable, wrecked, junked, or discarded
vehicle, including a motor vehicle body, motor vehicle chassis, or parts
therefrom, to remain on such property longer than seven days. Provided, this
section shall apply to a vehicle in an enclosed building or an appropriate
storage place or depository approved by the governing body of the village and
maintained in a lawful place and manner.
(1991 Code, § 6-326) (Ord. 2011, passed 4-28-2011) Penalty, see §
133.99
WEAPONS OFFENSES
§ 133.60 DISCHARGE OF FIREARMS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, except an officer of the law in the
discharge of official duty, to fire or discharge any gun, pistol, or other
fowling piece within the municipality, except that nothing in this section
shall be construed to apply to officially sanctioned public celebrations if the
persons so discharging firearms have written permission from the Board of
Trustees.
Penalty, see §
133.99
Statutory reference:
   Authority to regulate, see Neb. RS 17-556
§ 133.61 SLINGSHOTS, AIR GUNS, BB GUNS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to discharge a slingshot, air gun, BB
gun, or the like loaded with rock or other dangerous missiles at any time or
under any circumstances within the municipality.
Penalty, see §
133.99
Statutory reference:
   Authority to regulate, see Neb. RS 17-556
§ 133.99 PENALTY.
   (A)      (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which
no specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   (1)   Any vehicle allowed to remain on property within the
municipality in violation of §
133.43 shall constitute a nuisance, and any person violating any provision of §
133.43 shall be guilty of a misdemeanor, and upon conviction thereof, shall be
fined not more than $100 for each violation.
      (2)   A new violation shall be deemed to have been committed each 24-hour
period of such failure to comply.
CHAPTER 134: OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC MORALS
Section
   
134.01   Prostitution
   
134.02   Public indecency
   
134.03   Gambling
§ 134.01 PROSTITUTION.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to perform, offer, or agree to perform
any act of sexual penetration, as defined in Neb. RS 28-318, with any person
not his or her spouse in exchange for money or other things of value.
(Neb. RS 28-801) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 134.02 PUBLIC INDECENCY.
   (A)   A person, 18 years of age or over, commits the offense of public
indecency if such person performs or procures, or assists any other person to
perform, in a public place and where the conduct may reasonably be expected to
be viewed by members of the public:
      (1)   An act of sexual penetration as defined in Neb. RS 28-318;
      (2)   An exposure of the genitals of the body done with intent to affront
or alarm any person; or
      (3)   A lewd fondling or caressing of the body of another person of the
same or opposite sex.
   (B)   It shall not be a violation of this section for an individual to
breast-feed a child in a public place.
(Neb. RS 28-806) (Ord. 2019-28, passed 11-20-2019) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 134.03 GAMBLING.
   (A)    For the purpose of this section, the definitions found in Neb. RS 28-
1101 shall be used.
   (B)   A person commits the offense of promoting gambling if he or she
knowingly:
      (1)   Advances or profits from any unlawful gambling activity by:
         (a)   Engaging in bookmaking;
         (b)   Receiving, in connection with any unlawful gambling scheme or
enterprise, any amount of money played in the scheme or enterprise in any one
day; or
         (c)   Betting something of value in an amount of $500 or more with one
or more persons in one day; or
      (2)   Participates in unlawful gambling as a player by betting less than
$500 in any one day.
   (C)   (1)   A person commits the offense of possession of a gambling device
if he or she manufactures, sells, transports, places, possesses, or conducts or
negotiates any transaction affecting or designed to affect ownership, custody,
or use of any gambling device, knowing that it shall be used in the advancement
of unlawful gambling activity.
      (2)   The owner or operator of a retail establishment who is not a
manufacturer, distributor, or seller of mechanical amusement devices as defined
under the Mechanical Amusement Device Tax Act, shall have an affirmative
defense to possession of a gambling device described in division (C)(1) of this
section if the device bears an unexpired mechanical amusement device decal as
required by such Act. However, such affirmative defense may be overcome if the
owner or operator had actual knowledge that operation of the device constituted
unlawful gambling activity at any time such device was operated on the premises
of the retail establishment.
      (3)   Notwithstanding any other provisions of this division, any
mechanical game or device classified by the federal govermnent as an illegal
gambling device and requiring a federal Gambling Device Tax Stamp as required
by the Internal Revenue Service in its administration of 26 U.S.C. 4461 and
4462, amended July 1, 1965, by Public Law 89-44, is hereby declared to be
illegal.
   (D)   In any prosecution under this section, it shall be an affirmative
defense that the writing, paper, instrument, or article possessed by the
defendant was neither used nor intended to be used in the advancement of an
unlawful gambling activity.
   (E)   Proof of possession of any gambling device shall be prima facie
evidence of possession thereof with knowledge of its contents and character.
   (F)   It shall be no defense to a prosecution under any provision of this
section relating to gambling that the gambling is conducted outside this
village and is not in violation of the laws of the jurisdiction in which it is
conducted.
   (G)   In addition to any other penalty, a sentencing court may order that
any money, securities, negotiable instruments, firearms, conveyances, or
electronic communication devices as defined in Neb. RS 28-833 or any equipment,
components, peripherals, software, hardware, or accessories related to
electronic communication devices, or any gambling devices be forfeited as a
part of the sentence imposed if it finds by clear and convincing evidence
adduced at a separate hearing in the same prosecution, conducted pursuant to
Neb. RS 28-1601, that any or all such property was derived from, used, or
intended to be used to facilitate a violation of this section.
   (H)   In any prosecution for an offense defined in this section, when the
defendant's status as a player constitutes an excusing condition, the fact that
the defendant was a player shall constitute an affirmative defense.
   (I)   Nothing in this section shall be construed to:
      (1)   Apply to or prohibit wagering on the results of horse races by the
parimutuel or certificate method when conducted by licensees within the
racetrack enclosure at licensed horse race meetings; or
      (2)   Prohibit or punish the conducting or participating in any bingo,
lottery by the sale of pickle cards, lottery, raffle, or gift enterprise when
conducted in accordance with the Nebraska Bingo Act, the Nebraska County and
City Lottery Act, the Nebraska Lottery and Raffle Act, the Nebraska Pickle Card
Lottery Act, the Nebraska Small Lottery and Raffle Act, the State Lottery Act,
or Neb. RS 9-701; or
      (3)   Apply to or prohibit the operation of games of chance, whether
using a gambling device or otherwise, by authorized gaming operators within
licensed racetrack enclosures or the participation or playing of such games of
chance, whether participated in or played using a gambling device or otherwise,
by individuals 21 years of age or older within licensed racetrack enclosures as
provided in the Nebraska Racetrack Gaming Act.
   (J)   In any prosecution under this section in which it is necessary to
prove the occurrence of a sporting event, a published report of its occurrence
in any daily newspaper, magazine, or other periodically printed publication of
general circulation shall be admissible in evidence and shall constitute prima
facie evidence of the occurrence of the event.
(Ord. 2019-29, passed 11-20-2019; Ord. 2021-37, passed 12-21-2021) Penalty, see
§
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Authority to restrain and prohibit, see Neb. RS 17-207
   For similar state law, see Neb. RS 28-1102, 28-1103, 28-1104, 28-1107, 28-
1108, 28-1109, 28-1110, 28-1111, 28-1112, 28-1113, and 28-1117
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
   Chapter
      
150.   FLOODPLAIN REGULATIONS
      
151.   MUNICIPAL PLANNING
      
152.   BUILDING REGULATIONS
      
153.   TRAILERS
      
154.   [RESERVED]
      
155.   ZONING AND SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 150: FLOODPLAIN REGULATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
150.01   Statutory authorization, findings of fact and purposes
   
150.02   Land to which chapter applies
   
150.03   Rules for interpretation of district boundaries
   
150.04   Compliance
   
150.05   Abrogation and greater restrictions
   
150.06   Interpretation
   
150.07   Warning and disclaimer of liability
   
150.08   Establishment of zoning districts
   
150.09   Nonconforming use
   
150.10   Amendments
   
150.11   Definitions
Floodplain Management Administration
   
150.30   Designation of Floodplain Administrator
   
150.31   Permits required
   
150.32   Duties of the Floodplain Administrator
   
150.33   Application for permit and demonstration of compliance
   
150.34   Flood data required
   
150.35   Variance and appeals procedure
   
150.36   Conditions for variances
   
150.37   Enforcement
Standards for Floodplain Development
   
150.50   General provisions
   
150.51   Elevation and floodproofing requirements
   
150.52   Design and construction standards
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 150.01 STATUTORY AUTHORIZATION, FINDINGS OF FACT AND PURPOSES.
   (A)   Statutory authorization. The Legislature of the State of Nebraska has
delegated the responsibility to local governmental units to adopt zoning
regulations designed to protect the public health, safety, general welfare, and
property of the people of the state. The Legislature, in Neb. RS 31-1001 to 31-
1023 (as amended), has further assigned the responsibility to adopt,
administer, and enforce floodplain management regulations to the county, city,
or village with zoning jurisdiction over the floodprone area. Therefore, the
Board of Trustees of the Village of Elm Creek, Nebraska ordains as follows.
   (B)   Findings of fact.
      (1)   Flood losses resulting from periodic inundation. The flood hazard
areas of the Village of Elm Creek, Nebraska are subject to inundation that
results in loss of life and property, health and safety hazards, disruption of
commerce and governmental services, extraordinary public expenditures for flood
protection and relief, and impairment of the tax base, all of which adversely
affect the public health, safety, and general welfare.
      (2)   General causes of the flood losses. These flood losses are caused
by the cumulative effect of obstructions in floodplains causing increases in
flood heights and velocities as well as the occupancy of flood hazard areas by
uses vulnerable to floods or hazardous to others that are inadequately elevated
or otherwise unprotected from flood damages.
   (C)   Statement of purpose. It is the purpose of this chapter to promote the
public health, safety, and general welfare and to minimize those losses
described in division (B) above by applying the provisions of this chapter to:
      (1)   Restrict or prohibit uses that are dangerous to health, safety, or
property in times of flooding or cause undue increases in flood heights or
velocities.
      (2)   Require that uses vulnerable to floods, including public facilities
that service such uses, be provided with flood protection at the time of
initial construction.
      (3)   Reduce financial burdens from flood damage borne by the community,
its governmental units, is residents, and its businesses by preventing
excessive and unsafe development in areas subject to flooding.
      (4)   Assure that eligibility is maintained for property owners in the
community to purchase flood insurance from the National Flood Insurance
Program.
   (D)   Adherence to regulations. The regulations of this chapter are in
compliance with the National Flood Insurance Program Regulations as published
in Title 44 of the Code of Federal Regulations and the Nebraska Minimum
Standards for Floodplain Management Programs as published in the Nebraska
Administrative Code Title 455, Chapter 1.
(Ord. 2024-11, passed 7-17-2024)
§ 150.02 LAND TO WHICH CHAPTER APPLIES.
   This chapter shall apply to all lands within the jurisdictions of the
Village of Elm Creek, Nebraska identified on the flood insurance rate map
(FIRM) panels #31019C0535D, #31019C0555D dated November 26, 2010 as Zone A and
within the Zoning District established in §
150.08. In all areas covered by this chapter, no development shall be allowed
except upon the issuance of a floodplain development permit to develop, granted
by the Floodplain Administrator or the governing body under such safeguards and
restrictions as the Board of Trustees or the designated representative may
reasonably impose for the promotion and maintenance of the general welfare,
health of the inhabitants of the community and where specifically noted in §§
150.30 through
150.37 and §§
150.50 through
150.52.
(Ord. 2024-11, passed 7-17-2024)
§ 150.03 RULES FOR INTERPRETATION OF DISTRICT BOUNDARIES.
   The boundaries of the floodway and the flood fringe overlay districts shall
be determined by scaling distances on the official zoning map of on the
effective flood insurance rate map. Where interpretation is needed to the exact
location of the boundaries of the districts as shown on the zoning or other
community map, the Floodplain Administrator shall make the necessary
interpretation. In such cases where the interpretation is contested, the Board
of Trustees will resolve the dispute. The regulatory flood elevation for the
point in question shall be the governing factor in locating the district
boundary on the land. The person contesting the location of the district
boundary shall be given a reasonable opportunity to present their case to the
Board of Trustees and to submit their own technical evidence, if so desired.
(Ord. 2024-11, passed 7-17-2024)
§ 150.04 COMPLIANCE.
   Within identified floodplains of this community, no development shall be
located, extended, converted, or structurally altered without full compliance
with the terms of this chapter and other applicable regulations.
(Ord. 2024-11, passed 7-17-2024)
§ 150.05 ABROGATION AND GREATER RESTRICTIONS.
   This chapter does not intend to repeal, abrogate, or impair any existent
easements, covenants, or deed restrictions. However, where this chapter imposes
greater restrictions, the provision of this chapter shall prevail. All other
ordinances inconsistent with this chapter are hereby repealed to the extent of
the inconsistency only.
(Ord. 2024-11, passed 7-17-2024)
§ 150.06 INTERPRETATION.
   In their interpretation and application, the provisions of this chapter
shall be held to be minimum requirements and shall be liberally construed in
favor of the governing body and shall not be deemed a limitation or repeal of
any other powers granted by state statutes.
(Ord. 2024-11, passed 7-17-2024)
§ 150.07 WARNING AND DISCLAIMER OF LIABILITY.
   The degree of flood protection required by this chapter is considered
reasonable for regulatory purposes and is based on engineering and scientific
methods of study. Larger floods may occur or the flood height may be increased
by manmade or natural causes, such as ice jams and bridge openings restricted
by debris. This chapter does not imply that areas outside floodway and flood
fringe district boundaries or land uses permitted within such districts will be
free from flooding or flood damage. This chapter shall not create liability on
the part of the village or any officer or employee thereof for any flood
damages that may result from reliance on this chapter or any administrative
decision lawfully made thereunder.
(Ord. 2024-11, passed 7-17-2024)
§ 150.08 ESTABLISHMENT OF ZONING DISTRICTS.
   The mapped floodplain areas within the jurisdiction of this chapter are
hereby established as the Floodplain Overlay District, #31019CV0O0A, dated
November 26, 2010, on accompanying FIRM panels as established in §
150.02. The Floodplain Overlay District shall correspond to Flood Zone A.
Within this district, all uses not meeting the standards of this chapter and
those standards of the underlying zoning district shall be prohibited.
(Ord. 2024-11, passed 7-17-2024)
§ 150.09 NONCONFORMING.
   (A)   A structure or use of a structure or premises that was lawful before
the passage or amendment of this chapter, but that is not in conformity with
the provisions of this chapter may be continued subject to the following
conditions:
      (1)   If such use is discontinued for 12 consecutive months, any future
use of the building premises shall conform to this chapter. The Utility
Department shall notify the Municipal Administrator in writing of instances of
nonconforming uses where utility services have been discontinued for a period
of 12 months.
      (2)   Uses or adjuncts thereof that are or become nuisances shall not be
entitled to continue as nonconforming uses.
   (B)   If any nonconforming use or structure is destroyed by any means,
including flood, it shall not be reconstructed if the cost is more than 50% of
the market value of the structure before the damage occurred except that if it
is reconstructed in conformity with the provisions of this chapter. This
limitation does not include the cost of any alteration to comply with existing
state or local health, sanitary, or safety code or regulations or the cost of
any alteration of a structure listed on the National Register of Historic
Places, provided that the alteration shall not preclude its continued
designation.
(Ord. 2024-11, passed 7-17-2024)
§ 150.10 AMENDMENTS.
   (A)    The regulations, restrictions, and boundaries set forth in this
chapter may from time to time be amended, supplemented, changed, or appealed to
reflect any and all changes in federal, state, or local regulations provided,
however, that no such action may be take until after a public hearing in
relation thereto, at which citizens and parties in interest shall have an
opportunity to be heard. Notice of the time and place of such hearing shall be
published in a newspaper of general circulation in the village. At least ten
days shall elapse between the date of this publication and the public hearing.
   (B)   A copy of such amendments will be provided to the Nebraska Department
of Natural Resources and the Federal Emergency Management Agency for review and
approval before being adopted.
(Ord. 2024-11, passed 7-17-2024)
§ 150.11 DEFINITIONS.
   Unless specifically defined below, words or phrases used in this chapter
shall be interpreted so as to give them the meaning they have in common usage
and to give this chapter it's most reasonable application:
   ACCESSORY STRUCTURE. A structure on the same parcel of property as the
principal structure, the use of which is incidental to the use of the principal
structure. Also shall be known as “appurtenant structure.”
   AGRICULTURAL STRUCTURE. For floodplain management purposes shall mean a
walled and roofed structure used exclusively for agricultural purposes or uses
in connection with the production, harvesting, storage, raising, or drying of
agricultural commodities and livestock, including aquatic organisms. Structures
that house tools or equipment used in connection with these purposes or uses
are also considered to have agricultural purposes or uses.
   AREA OF SHALLOW FLOODING. A designated AO or AH zone on a community's flood
insurance rate map (FIRM) with a 1% or greater annual chance of flooding to an
average depth of one to three feet where a clearly defined channel is
unpredictable and where velocity flow may be evident. Such flooding is
characterized by ponding or sheet flow.
   BASE FLOOD. The flood having 1% chance of being equaled or exceeded in any
given year.
   BASE FLOOD ELEVATION. The elevation to which floodwaters are expected to
rise during the base flood.
   BASEMENT. Any area of the building having its floor subgrade (below ground
level) on all sides.
   BUILDING. See definition for “structure.”
   DEVELOPMENT. Any man-made change to improved or unimproved real estate,
including but not limited to the construction, reconstruction, renovation,
repair, expansion or alteration of buildings or other structures; the placement
of manufactured homes; streets arid other paving; utilities; filling, grading,
and excavation; mining; dredging; drilling operations; storage of equipment or
materials; or obstructions.
   DRAINWAY. See definition for “watercourse.”
   EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A manufactured home park or
subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including, at a minimum, the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is complete before the effective date
of the floodplain management regulations adopted by a community.
   EXPANSION TO AN EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. The
preparation of additional sites by the construction of facilities for servicing
the lots on which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads).
   FLOOD or FLOODING. A general and temporary condition of partial or complete
inundation of normally dry land areas.
   FLOOD FRINGE. That area of the floodplain, outside of the floodway, that has
a 1% chance of flood occurrence in any one year.
   FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAP (FIRM). An official map of a community, on which
the flood insurance study has delineated the special flood hazard area
boundaries and the risk premium zones applicable to the community.
   FLOOD INSURANCE STUDY (FIS). The official report provided by the Federal
Emergency Management Agency. The report contains flood profiles, as well as the
flood insurance rate map and the water surface elevation of the base flood.
   FLOODPLAIN. Any land area susceptible to being inundated by water from any
source (see definition of “flooding”). FLOODPLAIN includes flood fringe and
floodway. FLOODPLAIN and “special flood hazard area” are the same for use by
this chapter.
   FLOODPROOFING. Any combination of structural and nonstructural additions,
changes, or adjustments to structures that reduce or eliminate flood damage to
real estate or improved real property, water and sanitary facilities, and
structures and their contents.
   FLOODWAY or REGULATORY FLOODWAY. The channel of a river or other watercourse
and the adjacent land areas that must be reserved in order to discharge the
base flood without cumulatively increasing the water surface elevation more
than one foot.
   FREEBOARD. A factor of safety usually expressed in feet above a flood level
for purposes of floodplain management. FREEBOARD tends to compensate for the
many unknown factors that could contribute to flood heights greater than the
height calculated for a selected size flood and floodway conditions, such as
wave action, clogged bridge openings, and the hydrological effect of
urbanization of the watershed.
   HIGHEST ADJACENT GRADE. The highest natural elevation of the ground surface
prior to construction next to the proposed walls of a structure.
   HISTORIC STRUCTURE. Any structure that is:
      (1)   Listed individually in the National Register of Historic Places (a
listing maintained by the Department of Interior) or preliminarily determined
by the Secretary of the Interior as meeting the requirements for individual
listing on the National Register;
      (2)   Certified or preliminarily determined by the Secretary of the
Interior as contributing to the historical significance of a registered
historic district or a district preliminarily determined by the Secretary to
qualify as a registered historic district;
      (3)   Individually listed on a state inventory of historic places in
states with historic preservation programs which have been approved by the
Secretary of the Interior; or
      (4)   Individually listed on a local inventory of historic places in
communities with historic preservation programs that have been certified
either:
         (a)   By an approved state program as determined by the Secretary of
the Interior or
         (b)   Directly by the Secretary of the Interior in states without
approved programs.
   LOWEST FLOOR. The lowest floor of the lowest enclosed area (including
basement). An unfinished or flood-resistant enclosure, usable solely for
parking of vehicles, building access or storage, in an area other than a
basement area, is not considered a building's lowest floor, provided that such
enclosure is not built or modified so as to render the structure in violation
of the applicable non-elevation design requirements of this ordinance.
   MANUFACTURED HOME. A structure, transportable in one or more sections, which
is built on a permanent chassis and is designed for use with or without a
permanent foundation when attached to the required utilities. The term
MANUFACTURED HOME does not include a “recreational vehicle.”
   MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A parcel (or contiguous parcels) of
land divided into two or more manufactured home lots for rent or sale.
   NEW CONSTRUCTION. For floodplain management purposes, structures for which
the “start of construction” commenced on or after the effective date of the
floodplain management regulation adopted by a community and includes any
subsequent improvements to such structures.
   NEW MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A manufactured home park or
subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including at a minimum, the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is completed on or after the effective
date of floodplain management regulations adopted by a community.
   OBSTRUCTION. Any wall, wharf, embankment, levee, dike, pile, abutment,
projection, excavation (including the alteration or relocation of a watercourse
or drainway), channel rectification, bridge, conduit, culvert, building, stored
equipment or material, wire, fence, rock, gravel, refuse, fill, or other
analogous structure or matter which may impede, retard, or change the direction
of the flow of water, either in itself or by catching or collecting debris
carried by such water, or that is placed where the natural flow of the water
would carry such structure or matter downstream to the damage or detriment of
either life or property. Dams designed to store or divert water are not
obstructions if permission for the construction thereof is obtained from the
Department of Natural Resources pursuant to the Safety of Dams and Reservoirs
Act (Neb. RS 46-1601 to 46-1670 as amended).
   OVERLAY DISTRICT. A district in which additional requirements act in
conjunction with the underlying zoning district(s). The original zoning
district designation does not change.
   POST-FIRM STRUCTURE. A building that was constructed or substantially
improved after December 31, 1974 or on or after the community's initial flood
insurance rate map dated November 26, 2010, whichever is later.
   PRE-FIRM STRUCTURE. A building that was constructed or substantially
improved on or before December 31, 1974 or before the community's initial flood
insurance rate map dated November 26, 2010, whichever is later.
   PRINCIPALLY ABOVE GROUND. At least 51% of the actual cash value of the
structure is above ground.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE. A vehicle which is (i) built on a single chassis; (ii)
400 square feet or less when measured at the largest horizontal projections;
(iii) designed to be self-propelled or permanently towable by a light duty
truck; and (iv) designed primarily not for use as a permanent dwelling but as
temporary living quarters for recreational, camping, travel, or seasonal use.
   REGULATORY FLOOD ELEVATION. The base flood elevation (BFE) plus a freeboard
factor as specified in this chapter.
   SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREA (SFHA). The land in the floodplain within a
community subject to 1% or greater chance of flooding in any given year.
   START OF CONSTRUCTION. The date the floodplain development permit was
issued, provided the actual start of construction, repair, reconstruction,
rehabilitation, addition, placement, or other improvement was within 180 days
of the permit date. START OF CONSTRUCTION also includes substantial
improvement, and means the date the building permit was issued, provided the
actual start of construction, repair, reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition,
placement, or other improvement was within 180 days of the permit date. The
actual start means the first placement of permanent construction of a structure
on a site, such as the pouring of slab or footings, the installation of piles,
the construction of columns, or any work beyond the stage of excavation; or the
placement of a manufactured home on a foundation. Permanent construction does
not include land preparation, such as clearing, grading and filling; nor does
it include the installation of streets and/or walkways; nor does it include
excavation for a basement, footings, piers, or foundations or the erection of
temporary forms; nor does it include the installation on the property of
accessory buildings, such as garages or sheds not occupied as dwelling units or
not part of the main structure. For a substantial improvement, the actual start
of construction means the first alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor, or
other structural part of a building, whether or not the alteration affects the
external dimensions of the building.
   STRUCTURE. A walled and roofed building that is principally above ground, as
well as a manufactured home and a gas or liquid storage tank that is
principally above ground.
   SUBDIVISION. The division or re-division of a lot, tract, or parcel of land
by any means into two or more lots, tracts, parcels, or other divisions of land
including changes in existing lot lines for the purpose, whether immediate or
future, of lease, partition by the court for distribution to heirs or devisees,
transfer of ownership, or building or lot development.
   SUBSTANTIAL DAMAGE. Damage of any origin sustained by a structure whereby
the cumulative cost of restoring the structure to its before-damage condition
would equal or exceed 50% of the market value of the structure before the
damage occurred. Cumulative costs shall include all costs for reconstruction,
rehabilitation, or other improvement of the structure to repair damage incurred
within five years preceding the date of the floodplain development permit.
   SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT. Any reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition, or
other improvement of a structure, the cumulative cost of which equals or
exceeds 50% of the market value of the structure before “start of construction”
of the improvement. This includes structures which have incurred “substantial
damage,” regardless of the actual repair work performed. The term does not,
however, include either (1) any project for improvement of a structure to
correct existing violations of state or local health, sanitary, or safety code
specifications which have been identified by the local code enforcement
official and which are the minimum necessary to assure safe living conditions,
or (2) any alteration of a “historic structure,” provided that the alteration
will not preclude the structure's continued designation as a “historic
structure.” Cumulative costs shall include all costs for reconstruction,
rehabilitation, or other improvement of the structure to repair damage incurred
within five years preceding the date of the floodplain development permit and
shall include any costs resulting from substantial damage.
   VARIANCE. A grant of relief to an applicant from the requirements of this
subchapter that allows construction in a manner otherwise prohibited by this
subchapter where specific enforcement would result in unnecessary hardship.
   VIOLATION. A failure of a structure or other development to be fully
compliant with the community's floodplain management regulations. A structure
or other development without the elevation certificate, other certifications,
or other evidence of compliance required in this chapter is presumed to be in
violation until such time as that documentation is provided.
   WATERCOURSE. Any depression two feet or more below the surrounding land that
serves to give direction to a current of water at least nine months of the year
and that has a bed and well-defined banks.
(Ord. 2024-11, passed 7-17-2024)
FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT ADMINISTRATION
§ 150.30 DESIGNATION OF FLOODPLAIN ADMINISTRATOR.
   The Municipal Administrator of the community is hereby designated as the
community's local Floodplain Administrator. The Floodplain Administrator is
authorized and directed to administer, implement, and enforce all provisions of
this chapter. If the local Floodplain Administrator position is unfilled, the
Chairman of the Board of Trustees shall assume the duties and responsibilities
herein.
(Ord. 2024-11, passed 7-17-2024)
§ 150.31 PERMITS REQUIRED.
   A floodplain development permit shall be required before any development,
construction, or substantial improvement is undertaken. No person, firm,
corporation, government agency, or other entity shall initiate any floodplain
development without first obtaining a floodplain development permit.
(Ord. 2024-11, passed 7-17-2024)
§ 150.32 DUTIES OF THE FLOODPLAIN ADMINISTRATOR.
   Duties of the Municipal Administrator shall include, but not be limited to
the following:
   (A)   Review, approve, or deny all applications for floodplain development
permits.
   (B)   Review all development permit applications to assure that sites are
reasonably safe from flooding and that the permit requirements of this chapter
have been satisfied.
   (C)   Review applications for proposed development to assure that all
necessary permits have been obtained from those federal, state, or local
government agencies from which prior approval is required.
   (D)   Review all subdivision proposals and other proposed new development,
including manufactured home parks or subdivisions, to determine whether such
proposals will be reasonably safe from flooding.
   (E)   Coordinate with the Nebraska Department of Natural Resources to obtain
base flood elevation information when applicable and required.
   (F)   Notify adjacent communities and the Nebraska Department of Natural
Resources prior to any alteration or relocation of a watercourse and submit
evidence of such notification to the Federal Emergency Management Agency.
   (G)   Assure that maintenance is provided within the altered or relocated
portion of the watercourse so that the flood carrying capacity is not
diminished.
   (H)   Verify, record, and maintain record of the actual elevation (in
relation to mean sea level) of the lowest floor, including basement, of all new
or substantially improved structures in the floodplain.
   (I)   Verify, record, and maintain record of the actual elevation (in
relation to mean sea level) to which all new or substantially improved
structures have been floodproofed.
   (J)   Verify, record, and maintain record of all improved or damaged
structures to ensure compliance with standards in applicable sections. Track
value of improvements and market value with permits. Also, ensure consistent
market value estimations to evaluate against damaged or improved values.
   (K)   Ensure comprehensive development plan as amended is consistent with
this chapter.
   (L)   In the event the Floodplain Administrator discovers work done that
does not comply with applicable laws or ordinances, the Floodplain
Administrator shall revoke the permit and work to correct any possible
violation in accordance with this chapter.
(Ord. 2024-11, passed 7-17-2024)
§ 150.33 APPLICATION FOR PERMIT AND DEMONSTRATION OF COMPLIANCE.
   (A)   To obtain a floodplain development permit, the applicant shall first
file an application in writing on a form furnished for that purpose. Every such
application shall:   
      (1)   Identify and describe the proposed development and estimated cost
to be covered by the floodplain development permit.
      (2)   Describe the land on which the proposed development is to be done
by lot, block, tract, and house and streets address, or similar description
that will readily identify and definitely locate the proposed building or
development.
      (3)   Indicate the use or occupancy for which the proposed development is
intended.
      (4)   Be accompanied by plans and specifications for proposed
construction.
      (5)   Be signed by the permittee and authorized agent who may be required
to submit evidence to indicate such authority.
   (B)   If any proposed development is located entirely or partially within a
floodplain, applicants shall provide all information in sufficient detail and
clarity to enable the Floodplain Administrator to determine that:
      (1)   All such proposals are consistent with the need to minimize flood
damage;
      (2)   All utilities and facilities such as sewer, gas, water, electrical,
and other systems are located and constructed to minimize or eliminate flood
damage;
      (3)   Structures will be anchored to prevent flotation, collapse, or
lateral movement;
      (4)   Construction materials are flood resistant;
      (5)   Appropriate practices to minimize flood damage have been utilized;
and
      (6)   Electrical, heating, ventilation, air conditioning, plumbing, and
any other service facilities have been designed and located to prevent entry of
floodwaters.
   (C)   For all new and substantially improved structures, an elevation
certificate based upon the finished construction certifying the elevation of
the lowest floor, including basement, and other relevant building components
shall be provided to the Floodplain Administrator and be completed by a
licensed surveyor, engineer, or architect.
   (D)   When floodproofing is utilized for an applicable structure, a
floodproofing certificate shall be provided to the Floodplain Administrator and
be completed by a licensed professional engineer or architect.
   (E)   Any other such information as reasonably may be required by the
Municipal Administrator shall be provided.
   (F)   Letters of map revision. Federal regulations in Title 44 of the Code
of Federal Regulations, Chapter 1, Part 65.5 and 65.6 allow for changes to the
special flood hazard area through a letter of map revision (LOMR) or a letter
of map revision based on fill (LOMR-F), provided the community determines that
the land and any existing or proposed structures that would be removed from the
floodplain are “reasonably safe from flooding.” The community acknowledgment
form asserting this is required for LOMR and LOMR-F applications and must be
signed by the Floodplain Administrator. The Floodplain Administrator shall not
sign a community acknowledgment form unless all criteria set forth in the
following paragraphs are met:
      (1)   Applicant shall obtain floodplain development permit before
applying for a LOMR or LOMR-F.
      (2)   Applicant shall demonstrate that the property and any existing or
proposed structures will be reasonably safe from flooding, according to the
minimum design standards in FEMA Technical Bulletin 10-01.
      (3)   All requirements listed in the simplified approach in FEMA
Technical Bulletin 10-01 shall be met and documentation from a registered
professional engineer shall be provided. If all of these requirements are not
met, applicant must provide documentation in line with the engineered approach
outlined in FEMA Technical Bulletin 10-01.
(Ord. 2024-11, passed 7-17-2024)
§ 150.34 FLOOD DATA REQUIRED.
   (A)   All Zone A areas on the FIRM are subject to inundation of the base
flood; however, the base flood elevations are not provided. Zone A areas shall
be subject to all development provisions of this chapter. If flood insurance
study data is not available, the community shall utilize any base flood
elevation or floodway data currently available from federal, state, or other
sources, including from a study commissioned by the applicant pursuant to best
technical practices.
   (B)   Until a floodway has been designated, no development or substantial
improvement may be permitted within the floodplain unless the applicant has
demonstrated that the proposed development or substantial improvement, when
combined with all other existing and reasonably anticipated developments or
substantial improvements, will not increase the water surface elevation of the
base flood more than one foot at any location as shown in the flood insurance
study or on base flood elevation determinations.
(Ord. 2024-11, passed 7-17-2024)
§ 150.35 VARIANCE AND APPEALS PROCEDURES.
   (A)   The Board of Trustees as established by the village shall hear and
decide appeals and requests for variances from the requirements of this
chapter.
   (B)   The Board of Trustees shall hear and decide appeals when it is alleged
that there is an error in any requirement, decision, or determination made by
the Municipal Administrator in the enforcement or administration of this
chapter.
   (C)   Any person aggrieved by the decision of the Board of Trustees or any
taxpayer may appeal such decision to the District Court as provided in Neb. RS
23-168 (for counties) and Neb. RS 19-192 (for municipalities).
   (D)   In evaluating such appeals and requests, the Board of Trustees shall
consider technical evaluation, all relevant factors, standards specified in
other sections of this chapter, and:
      (1)   The danger to life and property due to flooding or erosion damage;
      (2)   The danger that materials may be swept onto other lands to the
injury of others;
      (3)   The susceptibility of the proposed facility and its contents to
flood damage and the effect of such damage on the individual owner, future
owners, and neighboring properties;
      (4)   The importance of the services provided by the proposed facility to
the community;
      (5)   The necessity of the facility to have a waterfront location, where
applicable;
      (6)   The availability of alternative locations that are not subject to
flooding or erosion damage for the proposed use;
      (7)   The compatibility of the proposed use with existing and anticipated
development;
      (8)   The relationship of the proposed use to the comprehensive plan and
the floodplain management program for that area;
      (9)   The safety of access to the property in times of flood for ordinary
and emergency vehicles;
      (10)   The expected heights, velocity, duration, rate of rise, and
sediment transport of the floodwaters and the effects of wave action, if
applicable, expected at the site; and
      (11)   The costs of providing government services during and after flood
conditions including emergency management services and maintenance and repair
of public utilities and facilities such as sewer, gas, electrical, water
systems, streets, and bridges.
(Ord. 2024-11, passed 7-17-2024)
§ 150.36 CONDITIONS FOR VARIANCES.
   (A)   Variances shall only be issued upon a showing of good and sufficient
cause and also upon a determination that failure to grant the variance would
result in an exceptional hardship to the applicant.
   (B)   Variances shall only be issued based upon a determination that the
granting of a variance will not result in increased flood heights.
   (C)   Variances shall only be issued based upon a determination that the
granting of a variance will not result in additional threats to public safety,
extraordinary public expense, create nuisances, cause fraud on or victimization
of the public, or conflict with existing local laws or ordinances.
   (D)   Generally, variances may be issued for new construction and
substantial improvements to be erected on a lot of one-half acre or less in
size contiguous to and surrounded by lots with existing structures constructed
below the base flood level, providing divisions (E) through (H) below have been
fully considered. As the lot size increases beyond one-half acre, the technical
justification required for issuing the variance increases.
   (E)   Variances may be issued for the repair or rehabilitation of historic
structures upon a determination that the proposed repair or rehabilitation will
not preclude the structure's continued designation as an historic structure on
the National Register of Historic Places and the variance is the minimum
necessary to preserve the historic character and design of the structure.
   (F)   Variances shall only be issued upon a determination that the variance
in the minimum necessary, considering the flood hazard, to afford relief.
   (G)   The applicant shall be given a written notice over the signature of a
community that the issuance of a variance to construct a structure below the
base flood elevation will result in increased premium rates for flood insurance
up to amounts as high as $25 for $100 of insurance coverage and also that such
construction below the base flood elevation increases risks to life and
property. Such notification shall be maintained with the record of all variance
actions as required by this chapter.
   (H)   All requests for variances and associated actions and documents,
including justification for their issuance, shall be maintained by the
community.
   (I)   Agricultural structures. A variance is authorized to be issued for the
construction or substantial improvement of agricultural structures provided the
requirements of this subchapter and the following are satisfied:
      (1)   Is used exclusively in connection with the production, harvesting,
storage, raising, or drying of agricultural commodities and livestock, or
storage of tools or equipment used in connection with these purposes or uses,
and will be restricted to such exclusive uses.
      (2)   Has low damage potential (amount of physical damage, contents
damage, and loss of function).
      (3)   Does not increase risks and pose a danger to public health, safety,
and welfare if flooded and contents are released, including but not limited to
the effects of flooding on manure storage, livestock confinement operations,
liquified natural gas terminals, and production and storage of highly volatile,
toxic, or water-reactive materials.
      (4)   Complies with the wet floodproofing construction requirements of §
150.51(C) of this chapter.
(Ord. 2024-11, passed 7-17-2024)
§ 150.37 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Violations. Failure to obtain a floodplain development permit or the
failure of a structure or other development to be fully compliant with the
provisions of this chapter shall constitute a violation. A structure or other
development without a floodplain development permit, elevation certificate,
certification by a licensed professional engineer of compliance with these
regulations, or other evidence of compliance is presumed to be in violation
until such time as documentation is provided.
   (B)   Notices. When the Floodplain Administrator or other authorized
community representative determines, based on reasonable grounds, that there
has been a violation of the provisions of this chapter, the Floodplain
Administrator shall give notice of such alleged violation as hereinafter
provided. Such notice shall:
      (1)   Be in writing;
      (2)   Include an explanation of the alleged violation;
      (3)   Allow a reasonable time for the performance of any remedial act
required;
      (4)   Be served upon the property owner or their agent as the case may
require; and
      (5)   Contain an outline of remedial actions that, if taken, will bring
the development into compliance with the provisions of this chapter.
   (C)   Penalties.
      (1)   Violation of the provisions of this chapter or failure to comply
with any of its requirements (including violations of conditions and safeguards
established in connection with grants of variances or special exceptions) shall
constitute a misdemeanor. Any person, firm, corporate, or other entity that
violates this chapter or fails to comply with any of its requirements shall
upon conviction thereof be fined not more than $500, and in addition, shall pay
all costs and expenses involved in the case. Each day such violation continues
shall be considered a separate offense.
      (2)   The imposition of such fines or penalties for any violation or
noncompliance with this chapter shall not excuse the violation or noncompliance
or allow it to continue. All such violations or non-compliant actions shall be
remedied within an established and reasonable time.
      (3)   Nothing herein contained shall prevent the village or other
appropriate authority from taking such other lawful action as is necessary to
prevent or remedy any violation.
(Ord. 2024-11, passed 7-17-2024)
STANDARDS FOR FLOODPLAIN DEVELOPMENT
§ 150.50 GENERAL PROVISIONS.
   (A)   Alteration or relocation of a watercourse.
      (1)   A watercourse or drainway shall not be altered or relocated in any
way that in the event of a base flood or more frequent flood will alter the
flood carrying characteristics of the watercourse or drainway to the detriment
of upstream, downstream, or adjacent locations.
      (2)   No alteration or relocation shall be made until all adjacent
communities that may be affected by such action and the Nebraska Department of
Natural Resources have been notified and all applicable permits obtained.
Evidence of such notification shall be submitted to the Federal Emergency
Management Agency.
   (B)   Encroachments.
      (1)   When proposing to permit any of the following encroachments, the
standards in division (B)(2) below shall apply:
         (a)   Any development in Zone A without a designated floodway that
will cause a rise of more than one foot in the base flood elevation; or
         (b)   Alteration or relocation of a stream; then
      (2)   The applicant shall:
         (a)   Apply to FEMA for conditional approval of such action via the
conditional letter of map revision process (as per Title 44 of the Code of
Federal Regulations, Chapter 1, Part 65.12) prior to the permit for the
encroachments; and
         (b)   Supply the fully approved package to the Floodplain
Administrator including any required notifications to potentially affected
property owners.
(Ord. 2024-11, passed 7-17-2024)
§ 150.51 ELEVATION AND FLOODPROOFING REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Residential structures. In Zone A, all new construction and
substantial improvements shall have the lowest floor, including basement,
elevated to or above one foot above the base flood elevation.
   (B)   Nonresidential structures.
      (1)   In Zone A, all new construction and substantial improvements shall
have the lowest floor, including basement, elevated to or above one foot above
the base flood elevation or, together with attendant utility and sanitary
facilities, floodproofed so that below one foot above the base flood elevation:
         (a)   The structure is watertight with walls substantially impermeable
to the passage of water and
         (b)   The structure has structural components with the capability of
resisting hydrostatic and hydrodynamic loads and effects of buoyancy.
      (2)   A registered professional engineer or architect shall certify that
the standards of this subsection are satisfied. A floodproofing certificate
shall be provided to the Floodplain Administrator as set forth in §§
150.30 through
150.37.
   (C)   Wet-floodproofing for agricultural structures by variance.
      (1)   When owners elect to wet floodproof agricultural structures, the
structure shall:
         (a)   Be anchored to resist flotation, collapse, and lateral movement.
         (b)   Have flood damage-resistant materials below the base flood
elevation in compliance with the definition in §
150.11 “Flood damage resistant materials”.
         (c)   1.   Have mechanical, electrical, and utility equipment elevated
to or above one foot above the base flood elevation or floodproofed so that
below one foot above the base flood elevation they are:
               a.   Watertight and substantially impermeable to the passage of
water; and
               b.   Capable of resisting hydrostatic and hydrodynamic loads and
effects of buoyancy.
            2.   A registered professional engineer or architect shall certify
that the standards of this subsection are satisfied. A floodproofing
certificate shall be provided to the Floodplain Administrator as set forth in
§§
150.30 through
150.37.
         (d)   Have flood openings in compliance with the requirements below:
            1.   The structure shall be designed to automatically provide for
the entry and exit of floodwaters for the purpose of equalizing hydrostatic
forces. Designs for meeting this requirement must either be certified by a
registered professional engineer or architect or meet or exceed the following
minimum criteria:
               a.   A minimum of two openings having a net area of not less
than one square inch for every one square foot of enclosed space,
               b.   The bottom of all openings shall not be higher than one
foot above grade, and
               c.   Openings may be equipped with screens, louvers, valves, or
other coverings or devices provided that they allow the automatic entry and
exit of floodwaters.
         (e)   If the structure is converted to another use, it must be brought
into full compliance with the minimum standards governing such use.
   (D)   Space below lowest floor.
      (1)   Fully enclosed areas below the lowest floor (excluding basements)
and below the base flood elevation shall be used solely for the parking of
vehicles, building access, or limited storage of readily removable items.
      (2)   Fully enclosed areas below the lowest floor (excluding basements)
and below the base flood elevation shall be designed to automatically equalize
hydrostatic flood forces on exterior walls by allowing for the entry and exit
of floodwaters. Designs for meeting this requirement must either be certified
by a registered professional engineer or architect or meet or exceed the
following minimum criteria:
         (a)   A minimum or two openings having a net total area of not less
than one square inch for every one square foot of enclosed space;
         (b)   The bottom of all openings shall not be higher than one foot
above grade; and
         (c)   Openings may be equipped with screens, louvers, valves, or other
coverings or devices provided that they allow the automatic entry and exit of
floodwaters.
   (E)   Accessory structures.
      (1)   Structures accessory to a principal building may have the lowest
floor below one foot above base flood elevation provided that the structure
complies with the following requirements:
         (a)   The structure shall not be used for human habitation.
         (b)   The use of the structure must be limited to parking of vehicles
or storage of items readily removable in the event of a flood warning.
         (c)   The floor area shall not exceed 800 square feet.
         (d)   The structure shall have a low damage potential.
         (e)   The structure must be adequately anchored to prevent flotation,
collapse, or other lateral movement.
         (f)   The structure shall be designed to automatically provide for the
entry and exit of floodwaters for the purpose of equalizing hydrostatic forces.
Designs for meeting this requirement must either be certified by a registered
professional engineer or architect or meet or exceed the following minimum
criteria:
            1.   A minimum of two openings having a net area of not less than
one square inch for every one square foot of enclosed space,
            2.   The bottom of all openings shall not be higher than one foot
above grade, and
            3.   Openings may be equipped with screens, louvers, valves, or
other coverings or devices provided that they allow the automatic entry and
exit of floodwaters.
         (g)   1.   No utilities shall be installed except electrical fixtures
in the structure, which must be elevated to or above one foot above the base
flood elevation or floodproofed so that below one foot above the base flood
elevation they are:
               a.   Watertight and substantially impermeable to the passage of
water; and
               b.   Capable of resisting hydrostatic and hydrodynamic loads and
effects of buoyancy.
            2.   A registered professional engineer or architect shall certify
that the standards of this section are satisfied. A floodproofing certificate
shall be provided to the Floodplain Administrator as set forth in §§
150.30 through
150.37.
         (h)   The structure shall be constructed and placed on the building
site so as to offer the minimum resistance to the flow of floodwaters.
         (i)   If the structure is converted to another use, it must be brought
into full compliance with the minimum standards governing such use.
   (F)   Manufactured homes.
      (1)   (a)   Require that all manufactured homes to be placed or
substantially improved within floodplains on sites:
            1.   Outside of a manufactured home park or subdivision;
            2.   In a new manufactured home park or subdivision;
            3.   In an expansion to an existing manufactured home park or
subdivision; or
            4.   In an existing manufactured home park or subdivision on which
a manufactured home as incurred substantial damage as the result of a flood,
         (b)   Be elevated on a permanent foundation such that the lowest floor
of the manufactured home is at or above one foot above the base flood elevation
and be securely anchored to an adequately anchored foundation system in
accordance with the provisions of this section.
      (2)   Require that manufactured homes to be placed or substantially
improved on sites in an existing manufactured home park or subdivision within
special flood hazard areas that are not subject to the provisions of division
(F)(1) above be elevated so that either;
         (a)   The lowest floor of the manufactured home is at or above one
foot above the base flood elevation, or
         (b)   The manufactured home chassis is supported by reinforced piers
or other foundation elements of at least equivalent strength that are no less
than 36 inches in height above grade; and be securely anchored to an adequately
anchored foundation system in accordance with the provisions of division (F)(4)
below).
      (3)   New manufactured home parks of five acres or 50 lots, whichever is
less, shall follow the standards of §
150.52(H).
      (4)   All manufactured homes shall be anchored to resist flotation,
collapse, or lateral movement. Manufactured homes must be anchored in
accordance with local building codes or FEMA guidelines. In the event that
over-the-top ties to ground anchors are used, the following specific
requirements (or their equivalent) shall be met:
         (a)   Over-the-top ties be provided at each of the four corners of the
manufactured home, with two additional ties per side at intermediate locations
and manufactured homes less than 50 feet long requiring one additional tie per
side;
         (b)   Frame ties be provided at each corner of the manufactured home
with five additional ties per side at intermediate points and manufactured
homes less than 50 feet long requiring four additional ties per side; and
         (c)   Any additions to the manufactured home be similarly anchored.
   (G)   Existing structures.
      (1)   The provisions of this chapter do not require any changes or
improvements to be made to lawfully existing structures. However, when an
improvement is made to a structure in the floodplain, a floodplain development
permit is required and the provisions of division (G)(2) and (3) below shall
apply.
      (2)   Any addition, alteration, reconstruction, or improvement of any
kind to an existing structure where the costs of which would equal or exceed
50% of the pre-improvement market value shall constitute a substantial
improvement and shall fully comply with the provisions of this chapter.
      (3)   Any addition, alteration, reconstruction, or improvement of any
kind to an existing structure that will change the compliance requirements of
the building shall require applicable documentation including an elevation
certificate, floodproofing certificate, or no rise certification.
(Ord. 2024-11, passed 7-17-2024)
§ 150.52 DESIGN AND CONSTRUCTION STANDARDS.
   (A)   Anchoring. All buildings or structures shall be firmly anchored to
prevent flotation, collapse, or lateral movement of the structure resulting
from hydrodynamic and hydrostatic loads, including the effects of buoyancy.
   (B)   Building materials and utilities.
      (1)   All buildings or structures shall be constructed with materials and
utility equipment resistant to flood damage. All buildings or structures shall
also be constructed by methods and practices that minimize flood and flood
related damages.
      (2)   All buildings or structures shall be constructed with electrical,
heating, ventilation, plumbing, air conditioning equipment, and other service
facilities that are designed and/or located so as to prevent water from
entering or accumulating within the components during conditions of flooding.
   (C)   Drainage. Within Zones AO and AH, adequate drainage paths around
structures on slopes shall be required in order to guide floodwaters around and
away from proposed structures.
   (D)   Water supply and sanitary sewer systems.
      (1)   All new or replacement water supply and sanitary sewer systems
shall be located, designed, and constructed to minimize or eliminate flood
damages to such systems and the infiltration of floodwaters into the systems.
      (2)   All new or replacement sanitary sewage systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate discharge from the system into floodwaters.
      (3)   On-site waste disposal systems shall be located and designed to
avoid impairment to them or contamination from them during flooding.
   (E)   Other utilities. All other utilities such as gas lines, electrical,
telephone, and other utilities shall be located and constructed to minimize or
eliminate flood damage to such utilities and facilities.
   (F)   Storage of materials.
      (1)   The storage or processing of materials that are in time of flooding
buoyant, flammable, explosive, or could be injurious to human, animal, or plant
life is prohibited.
      (2)   The storage of other material or equipment may be allowed if not
subject to major damage by floods and firmly anchored to prevent flotation or
if readily removable from the area within the time available after flood
warning.
   (G)   Recreational vehicles. Recreational vehicles to be placed on sites
within the floodplain shall:
      (1)   (a)   Be on site for fewer than 180 consecutive days; and
         (b)   Be fully licensed and ready for highway use, which shall mean it
is on its wheels or jacking system, is attached to the site by only quick-
disconnect type utilities and security devices, and no permanently attached
additions; or
      (2)   Meet the permit requirements and the elevation and anchoring
requirements for manufactured homes of this chapter.
   (H)   Subdivisions. Subdivision proposals and other proposed new
development, including manufactured home parks or subdivisions, shall require
assurance that:
      (1)   All such proposals are consistent with the need to minimize flood
damage;
      (2)   All public utilities and facilities such as sewer, gas, electrical,
and water systems are located, elevated, and constructed to minimize or
eliminate flood damage;
      (3)   Adequate drainage is provided so as to reduce exposure to flood
hazards; and
      (4)   Proposals for development (including proposals for manufactured
home parks and subdivisions) of five acres or 50 lots, whichever is less, where
base flood elevation data are not available, shall be supported by hydrologic
and hydraulic analyses that determine base flood elevations and floodway
information. The analyses shall be prepared by a licensed professional engineer
in a format required by FEMA for conditional letters of map revision and a
letters of map revision.
(Ord. 2024-11, passed 7-17-2024)
CHAPTER 151: MUNICIPAL PLANNING
Section
   
151.01   Comprehensive plan; adopted by reference
§ 151.01 COMPREHENSIVE PLAN; ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   The Village Board of Trustees hereby adopts the Comprehensive Development
Plan for the village, including the zoning jurisdiction extending one mile from
the corporate limits of the village, as recommended by the Elm Creek Planning
Commission after the completion of the required public hearings. The
Comprehensive Development Plan is incorporated by reference as if fully set
forth herein. One copy of the Comprehensive Development Plan is on file at the
office of the Village Clerk and available for inspection at any reasonable
time.
(Neb. RS 18-132) (1991 Code, § 11-101) (Ord. 2019-13, passed 6-13-2019)
CHAPTER 152: BUILDING REGULATIONS
Section
Building Inspector
   
152.01   Power and authority
   
152.02   Right of entry
   
152.03   Time of inspection
   
152.04   Appeal from decision
   
152.05   Barricades and lights
   
152.06   Plans, plats, and the like; municipal officials; duty
Building Permits
   
152.20   General
   
152.21   Limitation
   
152.22   Duplicate to County Assessor
Building Moving
   
152.35   Regulations
   
152.36   Deposit
Unsafe Buildings
   
152.50   Definition
   
152.51   Prohibition
   
152.52   Determination and notice
   
152.53   Hearing and appeal
   
152.54   Emergency
   
152.55   Special assessments
 
   
152.99   Penalty
BUILDING INSPECTOR
§ 152.01 POWER AND AUTHORITY.
   The Building Inspector shall be the municipal official who shall have the
duty of enforcing all building and housing regulations as herein prescribed. He
or she shall inspect all buildings repaired, altered, built, or moved in the
municipality as often as necessary to ensure compliance with all municipal
ordinances. He or she shall have the power and authority to order, at the
direction of the governing body, all work stopped on any construction,
alteration, or relocation which violates any provisions prescribed herein. He
or she shall, at the direction of the governing body, issue permission to
continue any construction, alteration, or relocation when the governing body is
satisfied that no provision will be violated. If the stop order is an oral one,
it shall be followed by a written stop order within one hour. Such written
order may be served by any municipal police officer. In the event that the
governing body fails to appoint a Building Inspector, the Utilities Supervisor
shall be the Building Inspector ex officio.
(1991 Code, § 9-101)
§ 152.02 RIGHT OF ENTRY.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to refuse to allow the Building
Inspector entry into any building or structure where the work of construction,
alteration, repair, or relocation is taking place for the purpose of making
official inspections at any reasonable hour.
(1991 Code, § 9-102) Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.03 TIME OF INSPECTION.
   The Building Inspector, upon notification from the permit holder or his or
her agent, shall make the following inspections of the building or structure
and shall either approve that portion of the construction as completed, or
shall notify the permit holder or his or her agent that the work fails to
comply with the requirements of the Municipal Code. Foundation inspection shall
be made after trenches are excavated and the necessary forms erected; frame
inspection shall be made after the roof, framing, fire-blocking, and backing is
in place and all pipes, chimneys, and vents are complete; and final inspection
shall be made after the building is completed and ready for occupancy. It shall
be unlawful for any person to do work or cause work to be done beyond the point
indicated in each successive inspection without the written approval of the
Building Inspector.
(1991 Code, § 9-103) Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.04 APPEAL FROM DECISION.
   In the event it is claimed that the true intent and meaning of this chapter
has been wrongly interpreted by the Building Inspector; that the time allowed
for compliance with any order of the Building Inspector is too short; or that
conditions peculiar to a particular building make it unreasonably difficult to
meet the literal requirements prescribed by this chapter and the Building
Inspector, the owner, his or her agent, or the occupant may file a notice of
appeal within ten days after the decision or order of the Building Inspector
has been made. The governing body shall hear all appeals and shall have the
power and authority, when appealed to, to modify the decision or order of the
Building Inspector. Such a decision shall be final, subject only to any remedy
which the aggrieved person may have at law or equity. Applications for review
shall be in writing and shall state the reasons why the variance should be
made. A variance shall be granted only where it is evident that reasonable
safety and sanitation is assured and may include conditions not generally
specified by this Code to achieve that end. A copy of any variance so granted
shall be sent to both the Building Inspector and the applicant.
(1991 Code, § 9-104)
§ 152.05 BARRICADES AND LIGHTS.
   It shall be the duty of the owner, tenant, or lessee causing the
construction, demolition, or moving of any building or improvement within the
municipality to have during such work all excavations, open basements, building
materials, and debris protected by suitable guards or barricades by day, and by
warning lights at night. The failure, neglect, or refusal of said persons to
erect such guards shall constitute a violation of this section and the
municipal police or the Building Inspector shall stop all work until guards are
erected and maintained as required.
(1991 Code, § 9-105)
§ 152.06 PLANS, PLATS, AND THE LIKE; MUNICIPAL OFFICIALS; DUTY.
   A municipal official charged with the duty or responsibility of accepting or
approving plans, specifications, geological maps, and reports shall not accept
or approve plans, specifications, plats, or reports which have not been
prepared in accordance with the Geologists Regulation Act.
(Neb. RS 81-3538) (1991 Code, § 9-106) (Ord. 2002-09, passed 2-21-2002; Ord.
2005-39, passed 7-28-2005)
BUILDING PERMITS
§ 152.20 GENERAL.
   Any person desiring to commence or proceed to erect, construct, repair,
enlarge, demolish, or relocate any building, dwelling, or outside structure
including but not limited to fences, self-storage units, carports and cement
pads, satellite dish, or antenna or cause the same to be done, shall file with
the Municipal Clerk an application for a building permit. The application shall
be in writing on a form to be furnished by the Municipal Clerk for that
purpose. Every such application shall set forth the legal description of the
land upon which the construction or relocation is to take place, the nature of
the use or occupancy, the principal dimensions, the estimated cost, the names
of the owner, architect, and contractor, and other such information as may be
requested thereon. The application, plans, and specifications so filed with the
Municipal Clerk shall be checked and examined by the governing body, and if
they are found to be in conformity with the requirements of this chapter and
all other ordinances applicable thereto, the governing body shall authorize the
Municipal Clerk to issue the said applicant a permit upon the payment of the
permit fee set by resolution of the governing body. Whenever there is a
discrepancy between permit application procedures contained herein and those
contained in any building code adopted by reference, the provisions contained
herein shall govern.
(1991 Code, § 9-201) (Ord. 2018-22, passed 9-26-2018)
§ 152.21 LIMITATION.
   If the work for which a permit has been issued shall not have begun within
six months of the date thereof, or if the construction shall be discontinued
for a period of six months, the permit shall be void. Before work can be
resumed, a new permit shall be obtained in the same manner and form as an
original permit.
(1991 Code, § 9-202)
§ 152.22 DUPLICATE TO COUNTY ASSESSOR.
    Whenever a building permit is issued for the erection, alteration, or
repair of any building within the village's corporate limits or
extraterritorial zoning jurisdiction, if the improvement is $2,500 or more, a
duplicate of the permit shall be issued to the County Assessor.
(1991 Code, § 9-203) (Ord. 2005-23, passed 6-23-2005; Ord. 2021-42, passed 12-
21-2021)
Statutory reference:
   For similar state law, see Neb. RS 18-1743
BUILDING MOVING
§ 152.35 REGULATIONS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation to move any
building or structure within the municipality without a written permit to do
so. Application may be made to the Municipal Clerk, and shall include the
present and future location of the building to be moved, the proposed route,
the equipment to be used, and such other information as the governing body may
require. The application shall be accompanied by a certificate issued by the
County Treasurer to the effect that all the provisions regulating the moving of
buildings have been complied with on the part of the owner of the real estate
upon which the said building is presently located. The Municipal Clerk shall
refer the said application to the municipal police for approval of the proposed
route over which the said building is to be moved. Upon approval of the
governing body, the Municipal Clerk shall then issue the said permit; provided,
that a good and sufficient corporate surety bond, check, or cash in an amount
set by motion of the governing body and conditioned upon moving said building
without doing damage to any private or municipal property is filed with the
Municipal Clerk prior to the granting of any permit. No moving permit shall be
required to move a building that is ten feet wide, or less, and 20 feet long,
or less, and when in a position to move, 15 feet high, or less. In the event it
will be necessary for any licensed building mover to interfere with the
telephone or telegraph poles and wires, or a gas line, the company or companies
owning, using, or operating the said poles, wires, or line shall, upon proper
notice of at least 24 hours, be present and assist by disconnecting the said
poles, wires, or line relative to the building moving operation. All expense of
the said disconnection, removal, or related work shall be paid in advance by
the licensee unless such disconnection or work is furnished on different terms
as provided in the said company’s franchise. Whenever the moving of any
building necessitates interference with a water main, sewer main, pipes, or
wire belonging to the municipality, notice in writing of the time and route of
the said building moving operation shall be given to the various municipal
officials in charge of the municipal utility departments who shall proceed in
behalf of the municipality and at the expense of the mover to make such
disconnections and do such work as is necessary.
(Neb. RS 39-6,177 to 39-6,180, 39-6,184) (1991 Code, § 9-301) Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.36 DEPOSIT.
   At such time as the building moving has been completed, the municipal police
shall inspect the premises and report to the Municipal Clerk as to the extent
of damages, if any, resulting from the said relocation and whether any
municipal laws have been violated during the said operation. Upon a
satisfactory report from the municipal police, the Municipal Clerk shall return
the corporate surety bond, cash, or check deposited by the applicant. In the
event the basement, foundation, or portion thereof is not properly filled,
covered, or in a clean and sanitary condition, the governing body may apply the
money deposited for the purpose of defraying the expense of correcting the said
conditions. If the expense of correcting the hazardous condition is greater
than the amount of the deposit set by resolution of the governing body, as
required herein, the governing body may recover such excess expense by civil
suit or otherwise as prescribed by law.
(1991 Code, § 9-302)
UNSAFE BUILDINGS
§ 152.50 DEFINITION.
   The term UNSAFE BUILDING, as used in this subchapter, is hereby defined to
mean and include any building, shed, fence, or other human-made structure which
is dangerous to the public health because of its condition, and which may cause
or aid in the spread of disease or injury to the health of the occupants of it
or neighboring structures; which because of faulty construction, age, lack of
proper repair, or any other cause is especially liable to fire and constitutes
or creates a fire hazard; which by reason of faulty construction or any other
cause is liable to cause injury or damage by the collapse or fall of all or any
part of such structure. Any such unsafe building in the municipality is hereby
declared to be a nuisance.
(Neb. RS 18-1720, 18-1722, 18-1722.01) (1991 Code, § 9-401)
§ 152.51 PROHIBITION.
   It shall be unlawful to maintain or permit the existence of any unsafe
building in the municipality and it shall be unlawful for the owner, occupant,
or person in custody of any dangerous building to permit the same to remain in
an unsafe condition or to occupy such building or permit it to be occupied
while it is in an unsafe condition.
(Neb. RS 18-1720, 18-1722, 18-1722.01) (1991 Code, § 9-402) Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.52 DETERMINATION AND NOTICE.
   (A)   Whenever the Building Inspector, the fire official, the health
official, or the governing body shall be of the opinion that any building or
structure in the municipality is an unsafe building, he or she shall file a
written statement to this effect with the Municipal Clerk. The Clerk shall
thereupon cause the property to be posted accordingly, and shall file a copy of
such determination in the office of the County Register of Deeds, and shall
serve written notice upon the owner thereof, and upon the occupant thereof, if
any, by certified mail or by personal service. Such notice shall state that the
building has been declared to be in an unsafe condition; and that such
dangerous condition must be removed or remedied by repairing or altering the
building or by demolishing it; and that the condition must be remedied within
60 days from the date of receipt. Such notice may be in the following terms.
   “To __________________________________ (owner-occupant of premises) of the
premises known and described as _________________________________.
   “You are hereby notified that ____________________________ (describe
building) on the premises above mentioned has been determined to be an unsafe
building and a nuisance after inspection by ________________________________
The causes for this decision are __________________ (here insert the facts as
to the dangerous condition).
   “You must remedy this condition or demolish the building within 60 days from
the date of receipt of this notice or the municipality will proceed to do so.
Appeal of this determination may be made to the governing body, acting as the
Board of Appeals, by filing with the Municipal Clerk within ten days from the
date of receipt of this notice a request for a hearing.”
   (B)   If the person receiving the notice has not complied therewith or taken
an appeal from the determination of the officer or employee finding that a
dangerous building exists within ten days from the time when this notice is
served upon such person by personal service or certified mail, the Utilities
Supervisor may, upon orders of the governing body, proceed to remedy the
condition or demolish the unsafe building.
(Neb. RS 18-1720, 18-1722, 18-1722.01) (1991 Code, § 9-403)
§ 152.53 HEARING AND APPEAL.
   Upon receiving the notice to repair or demolish the building, the owner of
the building, within the time stipulated, may in writing to the Municipal Clerk
request a hearing before the governing body, sitting as the Board of Appeals,
to present reasons why the building should not be repaired or demolished. The
governing body shall grant such hearing within ten days from the date of
receiving the request. A written notice of the governing body’s decision
following the hearing shall be sent to the property owner by certified mail. If
the governing body rejects the appeal, the owner shall have five days from the
sending of the decision to begin repair or demolition and removal. If after the
five-day period the owner has not begun work, the governing body shall proceed
to cause such work to be done; provided, the property owner may appeal such
decision to the appropriate court for adjudication during which proceedings the
decision of the governing body shall be stayed. Where the municipality has not
adopted a building code, the statutes of Nebraska relating to bonded
indebtedness and collection of delinquent taxes shall apply.
(Neb. RS 18-1720, 18-1722, 18-1722.01) (1991 Code, § 9-404)
§ 152.54 EMERGENCY.
   Where any unsafe building or structure poses an immediate danger to the
health, safety, or general welfare of any person or persons, and the owner
fails to remedy the situation in a reasonable time after notice by the
Utilities Supervisor to do so, the municipality may summarily repair or
demolish and remove such building or structure.
(1991 Code, § 9-405)
§ 152.55 SPECIAL ASSESSMENTS.
   In case the owner of any building or structure shall fail, neglect, or
refuse to comply with notice by or on behalf of the municipality to repair,
rehabilitate, or demolish and remove a building or structure which is unsafe
and a public nuisance, the municipality may proceed with the work specified in
the notice to the property owner. A statement of the cost of such work shall be
transmitted to the governing body, which is authorized to levy the cost as a
special assessment against the land. Such special assessment shall be a lien on
the real estate and shall be collected in the manner provided for special
assessments.
(Neb. RS 18-1720, 18-1722, 18-1722.01) (1991 Code, § 9-406)
§ 152.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person or any person’s agent or servant who violates any of the
provisions of this chapter, unless otherwise specifically provided herein,
shall be deemed guilty of an offense and upon conviction thereof shall be fined
in any sum not exceeding $500. A new violation shall be deemed to have been
committed every 24 hours of failure to comply with the provisions of this
chapter.
   (B)   (1)   Whenever a nuisance exists as defined in this chapter, the
municipality may proceed by a suit in equity to enjoin, abate, and remove the
same in the manner provided by law.
      (2)   Whenever, in any action, it is established that a nuisance exists,
the court may, together with the fine or penalty imposed, enter an order of
abatement as a part of the judgment in the case.
(Neb. RS 17-207, 17-505, 18-1720, 18-1722) (1991 Code, § 9-501) (Ord. 2002-07,
passed 2-21-2002)
CHAPTER 153: TRAILERS
Section
   
153.01   Definitions
   
153.02   Permit required
   
153.03   Maintenance
   
153.04   Inspections
   
153.05   Liability of owner
   
153.06   Management
   
153.07   Revocation of permit
   
153.08   Prohibited location
   
153.09   Prohibited parking
   
153.10   Authorized camp
   
153.11   Alterations and additions
   
153.12   Water supply
   
153.13   Applicability of plumbing, electrical, and building codes
   
153.14   Permitted exceptions
   
153.15   Temporary storage
   
153.16   Location
   
153.17   Mobile home and trailer locations; exceptions authorized by special
use permit
§ 153.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   PERMIT. A written permit issued by the Municipal Clerk permitting the
trailer court to operate under this Municipal Code and any regulations
promulgated thereunder.
   SEMI-TRAILER. Truck trailer supported at the rear by its own wheels and at
the front by a fifth wheel mounted to a tractor or a dolly.
   STREET. Any public street, avenue, road, alley, or highway located in the
municipality and established for the use of vehicles, the boundaries of which
are hereby determined to be the outer boundaries of said street, avenue, road,
or alley, as platted and dedicated as shown by the official records of the
municipality and the county as shown on the official records in the office of
the County Clerk as official streets, avenues, roads, or alleys within the
corporate limits.
   TRAILER CAMP. Any park, trailer park, trailer court, court, camp, site, lot,
parcel, or tract of land designed, maintained, or intended for the purpose of
supplying a location or accommodations for any trailer coach or trailer coaches
and upon which any trailer coach or trailer coaches are parked and shall
include all buildings used or intended for use as part of the equipment thereof
whether a charge is
made for the use of the trailer camp and its facilities or not. TRAILER CAMP
shall not include automobile or trailer sales lots on which unoccupied trailers
are parked for purposes of inspection and sale.
   TRAILER COACH or TRAILER. Any vehicle or structure so designed and
constructed in such manner as will permit occupancy thereof as sleeping
quarters for one or more persons, or the conduct of any business or profession,
occupation, or trade (or use as a selling or advertising device), and so
designed that it is or may be mounted on wheels and used as a conveyance on
highways or municipal streets, propelled or drawn by its own or other motive
power, excepting a device used exclusively upon stationary rails or tracks.
   TRAILER SPACE. A plot of ground within a trailer court, designated for the
accommodation of one trailer coach.
   TRAVEL TRAILER, CAMPER, and CONVERTED BUS. Any portable structure or vehicle
supported upon its own axle or axles used or so constructed as to permit its
being used as a conveyance upon the public streets or highways and duly
licensable as such and constructed in such a manner as will permit occupancy
thereof as a dwelling or sleeping place for one or more persons for a limited
or temporary time or basically designed for travel or camping purposes,
propelled or drawn by its own or other motive power.
(1991 Code, § 10-301) (Ord. O2018-3, passed 4-26-2018)
§ 153.02 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to construct, maintain, operate,
or alter any trailer camp within the corporate limits unless he or she holds a
valid permit in the name of such person for the specific trailer camp. All
applications for permits shall be made to the County Clerk, who shall issue a
permit upon compliance by the applicant with provisions of this Municipal Code
relative to trailer camps. No permit shall be transferable. Every person
holding such a permit shall give notice in writing to the Municipal Clerk
within 72 hours after having sold, transferred, given away, or otherwise
disposed of any interest in or control of any trailer court. Such notice shall
include the name and address of the person succeeding to the ownership or
control of such trailer court.
   (B)   Applications for permits shall be in writing, signed by the applicant,
and accompanied by an affidavit of the applicant as to the truth of the
application, and shall contain the following:
      (1)   The name and address of the applicant;
      (2)   The location and legal description of the trailer court;
      (3)   A complete plan of the trailer court, showing compliance with all
applicable provisions of this Municipal Code and regulations promulgated
thereunder; and
      (4)   Such further information as may be requested by the Board of Health
to enable him or her to determine that the proposed trailer court will comply
with legal requirements.
(1991 Code, § 10-302)
§ 153.03 MAINTENANCE.
   All trailer camps shall be maintained under the management and supervision
of the owner or person in control of the premises on which the same is located,
or of a duly authorized representative of such owner, who shall be personally
responsible for the maintenance of such trailer camp in accordance with all
sanitary and fire protection rules and regulations of the municipality and the
State of Nebraska.
(1991 Code, § 10-303)
§ 153.04 INSPECTIONS.
   All trailer camps shall be under the supervision of the Board of Health,
which Board shall make and provide for inspections of trailer camps at
reasonable times, and shall recommend to the governing body such additional
rules and regulations as may be deemed advisable or necessary for the
sanitation, safety, and proper maintenance of said trailer camps.
(1991 Code, § 10-304)
§ 153.05 LIABILITY OF OWNER.
   The operator of a trailer camp shall be primarily liable for all utility
service bills charged against each trailer house and shall make monthly
remittances to the municipality for such bills.
(1991 Code, § 10-305)
§ 153.06 MANAGEMENT.
   (A)   In every trailer camp there shall be an office building in which shall
be located the office of the person in charge of said camp. A copy of the camp
license shall be posted therein and the camp register shall at all times be
kept in said office.
   (B)   It is hereby made the duty of the attendant or person in charge,
together with the licensee to:
      (1)   Keep at all times a register of all occupants of each trailer space
which shall be open at all times to inspection by officers of the municipality
showing for all such occupants:
         (a)   Names and addresses;
         (b)   Dates of entrance and departure;
         (c)   License numbers of all trailers and other towed automobiles; and
         (d)   States issuing such licenses.
      (2)   Maintain the camp in a clean, orderly, and sanitary condition at
all times;
      (3)   Report to the Director of Health all cases of persons or animals
affected or suspected of being affected with any communicable disease; and
      (4)   Prohibit the use of any trailer by a greater number of occupants
than that which it is designated to accommodate.
(1991 Code, § 10-306)
§ 153.07 REVOCATION OF PERMIT.
   A permit to establish and maintain a trailer camp may be revoked by the
governing body for cause, at any time, for a violation of the provisions of
this Municipal Code or of the rules and regulations relating to trailers, or
for any other cause or conduct reasonably deemed by the governing body as
sufficient cause of revocation of such permit. Before the revocation of such
permit, the municipality shall cause to be served on the operator of such
trailer camp, a notice to appear and show cause on a specified day and at a
specified time, why his or her permit for his or her trailer camp should not be
revoked. Such notice to show cause may be served by mailing the same in the
United States mail to the address of the operator given in his or her
application in such permit with sufficient postage affixed thereto. The
operator of the trailer camp involved shall be given reasonable opportunity to
be heard at the time fixed for his or her appearance to show cause, and no
permit for such trailer camp shall be revoked until the operator involved has
been heard at the designated time if he or she desires to be heard.
(1991 Code, § 10-307)
§ 153.08 PROHIBITED LOCATION.
   After the effective date hereof, except as otherwise provided, it shall be
unlawful for any person to park a trailer or trailer coach within the corporate
limits for purposes of using said trailers as a dwelling or sleeping place for
one or more persons or the conduct of any business or profession, occupation,
or trade, or use as a selling or advertising device, except in a designated and
approved trailer camp for which a permit has been issued and is currently
valid.
(1991 Code, § 10-308) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 153.09 PROHIBITED PARKING.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to park any trailer, coach, travel
trailer, camper, or converted bus on any official street, avenue, road, alley,
or highway within the corporate limits for a period of time in excess of two
hours, and then only between the hours of sunrise and sunset, and subject to
any other further prohibitions, regulations, or limitations imposed by the
traffic parking regulations as any resolution of the governing body may provide
relating thereto.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any semi-truck and/or semi-trailer to park on
any official street, avenue, road, alley, or highway within the corporate
limits for a period of time in excess of one hour and shall only be for the
purposes of making deliveries, unloading or loading.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for all trailers, owned for personal or
commercial use, not specifically defined within §
153.01, to park on any official street, avenue, road, alley or highway within
the corporate limits for a period of time in excess of 24 hours.
(1991 Code, § 10-309) (Ord. 2018-3, passed 4-26-2018; Ord. 2020-2, passed 10-
29-2020) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 153.10 AUTHORIZED CAMP.
   (A)   Trailer camps shall be located on well-drained sites, and shall be so
located that drainage will not endanger any water supply. All such trailer
courts shall be in areas free from marshes, swamps, or other potential breeding
places for insects or rodents.
   (B)   The area of the trailer camp shall be large enough to accommodate the
following:
      (1)   The designated number of trailer court spaces;
      (2)   Necessary streets and roadways;
      (3)   Parking areas for motor vehicles; and
      (4)   Service areas and playgrounds for trailer camps in which
independent trailer coaches only are parked.
   (C)   The number of trailers to be accommodated in any trailer camp shall
not exceed the number obtained by dividing the total square foot area of the
trailer camp site by 2,600. Each trailer space shall be clearly defined and
shall be laid out in such a manner that a minimum of 20 feet of space exists
between any two trailers or ten feet between any trailer and any building. No
trailers shall be less than five feet from any adjacent property of the trailer
court. Each trailer space shall abut on a driveway with unobstructed access to
a public street. No trailer camp shall be licensed unless the same is large
enough to accommodate a minimum of 15 trailers.
   (D)   It shall be illegal to park a trailer coach less than two feet from
any street or highway right-of-way, or so that any part of such trailer will
obstruct any roadway or walkway.
   (E)   It shall be illegal to allow any trailer coach to remain while being
occupied for dwelling or sleeping purposes in a trailer camp unless a trailer
space is available.
   (F)   Access roads shall be provided to each trailer coach space. Each
access road shall be continuous, shall connect with a street or highway, and
shall have a minimum width of 20 feet.
   (G)   Areas shall be provided for the parking of motor vehicles. Such areas
shall have motor vehicle parking spaces in a number equal to or in excess of
the number of trailer coach spaces provided.
   (H)   Playground areas, when required, shall be provided, and shall be
restricted to such use. These areas shall be protected from the main highway
and from parking areas. A minimum of 100 square feet per coach space shall be
made available in one or more places for such playground areas.
(1991 Code, § 10-310)
§ 153.11 ALTERATIONS AND ADDITIONS.
   (A)   No permanent enclosed additions of any kind shall be built onto, nor
become a part of, any trailer coach. Skirting of coaches is permissible, but
such skirting shall not attach the trailer permanently to the ground, provide a
harborage for rodents, or create a fire hazard.
   (B)   The wheels of the trailer shall not be removed, except temporarily
when necessary for repairs. Jacks or stabilizers may be placed under the frame
of the trailer to prevent movement on the springs while the trailer is parked
and occupied. Four anchors shall be provided for each trailer coach space. Each
trailer shall be anchored as soon as possible after location on space.
(1991 Code, § 10-311)
§ 153.12 WATER SUPPLY.
   An adequate supply of pure water, furnished through a pipe distribution
system connected directly with a municipal water main, with supply outlets
located at every trailer space, shall be provided.
(1991 Code, § 10-312)
§ 153.13 APPLICABILITY OF PLUMBING, ELECTRICAL, AND BUILDING CODES.
   All plumbing, electrical, building, and other work on or at any camp shall
be in accordance with the laws of the municipality regulating such work.
(1991 Code, § 10-313)
§ 153.14 PERMITTED EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   Trailers commonly referred to as “double wide” or any other trailer
coach or coaches having a minimum outside width of 20 feet and containing 800
square feet or more of living space, when placed upon permanent foundation or
support, with axle, wheels, and towing apparatus removed, on premises owned or
leased by the owner of said trailer coach, when used as a residence or a trade
or business shall be exempt and excepted from the provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   Any trailer coach which qualified under the exceptions herein shall be
so located and placed in such a manner that the same shall comply with the
Building Code, and further shall comply and be so placed in such a manner as to
safeguard the health and safety of the occupants of the trailer and of the
general public.
(1991 Code, § 10-314)
§ 153.15 TEMPORARY STORAGE.
   It shall be lawful for any person to store or otherwise keep on any premises
travel trailers or campers, propelled or drawn by their own or other motive
power, upon any area; provided, that said trailer or camper be stored as near
as possible to the back of the premises. It further shall be lawful for any
person to keep and maintain a travel trailer or camper, propelled or drawn by
its own or other motive power, upon any premises to be used for occupancy as
dwelling or sleeping space for any period not to exceed two weeks in duration.
Any travel trailer or camper, propelled or drawn by its own or other motive
power, so temporarily placed shall be placed upon said premises or portion
thereof as far away as possible from the street abutting said premises.
(1991 Code, § 10-315) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 153.16 LOCATION.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful within the municipality for any person to park
any trailer or mobile home on any street, alley, or highway or other public
place or on any tract of land owned by any person occupied or unoccupied within
the municipality except as herein provided; provided, however, emergency or
temporary stopping or parking is permitted on any street, alley, or highway for
not longer than one hour subject to any other and further prohibitions
regulations or ordinances of the municipality for that street, alley, or
highway.
   (B)   No person shall park or occupy any mobile home or trailer on the
premises of any occupied or unoccupied dwelling or on any lot which is not a
part of the premises of any occupied or unoccupied dwelling, either of which is
situated outside an approved trailer camp or trailer park; except that the
parking of only one unoccupied trailer in an accessory private garage building
or in a rear yard of any district, is permitted; provided, that no living
quarters shall be maintained or any business practiced in such trailer where
such trailer is so parked or stored; provided, however, that any person who
shall have parked an occupied trailer or mobile home on private premises under
license from local authority prior to the effective date of this section may be
permitted to maintain such trailer under the original license, until such
original license expires.
(1991 Code, § 10-316) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 153.17 MOBILE HOME AND TRAILER LOCATIONS; EXCEPTIONS AUTHORIZED BY SPECIAL
USE PERMIT.
   (A)   Notwithstanding otherwise written, mobile homes and trailers for
residential dwelling purposes may be permitted outside of a licensed trailer
camp by conditional or special use permit in those areas of the municipality or
within its zoning jurisdiction that are now or hereafter are zoned within its
zoning jurisdiction that are now or hereafter are zoned Residential-2 or
Residential-3.
   (B)   Before a mobile home or trailer may be placed or located on any lot or
parcel of land outside of a licensed trailer camp, as authorized above, the
proponent or applicant therefor shall make application for a conditional or
special use permit and the application and procedure with respect to the
granting of such shall be as provided in the Municipal Code of the village. Any
conditional or special use permit shall be issued for a period of two years and
upon expiration thereof the same may only be extended or renewed for like
periods of time upon application therefor by the owner of the real property
involved and said conditional or special use permit may be issued only after
following the procedures provided for its original issuance.
   (C)   All mobile homes or trailers placed outside of a licensed trailer camp
pursuant to said conditional or special use permits as authorized in this
chapter shall be placed upon permanent footings or foundations constructed
pursuant to the Village Building Code.
(1991 Code, § 10-317)
CHAPTER 154: [RESERVED]
CHAPTER 155: ZONING AND SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS
Section
   
155.01   Adopted by reference
§ 155.01 ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
The Village Board of Trustees hereby adopts the Elm Creek Zoning and
Subdivision Regulations for the village, including the zoning jurisdiction
extending one mile from the corporate limits of the village, as recommended by
the Elm Creek Planning Commission after the completion of the required public
hearings. One copy of the Zoning and Subdivision Regulations is on file at the
office of the Village Clerk and available for inspection at any reasonable
time.
(Ord. 2019-14, passed 6-13-2019; Ord. 2022-1, passed 8-24-2022; Ord. 2024-7,
passed 5-16-2024)
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to Nebraska Revised Statutes
References to 1991 Code
References to Resolutions
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO NEBRASKA REVISED STATUTES
Neb. RS Section Code Section
Neb. RS Section            Code Section
3-505                      33.02
9-701                      134.03
10-101 through 10-143      33.17
10-201 through 10-209      33.17
10-301 through 10-305      33.17
10-401 through 10-411      33.17
10-606 through 10-614      33.17
11-101                     31.046
11-101.01                  32.11
11-103 through 11-118      31.045
12-1001 through 12-1004    33.17
13-310                     93.032
13-312                     93.032
13-314                     93.032
13-403                     93.014
13-501 to 13-513           33.21
13-504                     33.02
13-505                     33.02
13-506                     33.22
13-507                     33.22
13-508                     33.03 ,
                           33.24
13-509                     33.03,
                           33.19
13-509.01                  33.04
13-509.02                  33.04
                           33.21,
13-518 through 13-522      33.03,
                           33.22
13-519                     32.06
13-538 through 13-522      33.21
13-606                     33.11
13-1802                    35.26
13-2001 to 13-2043         51.18
13-2013.02                 51.18
13-2016.01                 51.18
13-2039                    51.18
13-3401 et seq.            33.19,
                           33.24
16-318(3)                  31.025
16-323                     35.25
16-691.01                  33.16
17-107                     35.02
17-107.02(6)               32.03
17-118                     35.25
17-121                     110.02
17-147                     31.030
17-149                     53.001,
                           53.003
17-202                     32.14
17-202 through 17-204      31.002
17-202 through 17-210      31.001
17-203                     32.14
                           30.11,
17-204                     30.15,
                           30.16
17-205                     30.11
                           31.003,
                           34.99,
                           35.99,
                           51.05,
                           70.99,
17-207                     90.99,
                           92.999,
                           93.999,
                           110.02,
                           112.99,
                           130.99,
                           152.99
17-208                     31.020,
                           34.04
17-209.02                  31.021,
                           31.060
17-210                     30.11
17-213                     31.032
17-214                     31.033
17-405                     31.027
17-503                     93.005
17-503.01                  93.005
17-503.02                  93.006
                           10.99,
                           30.30,
                           31.029,
                           31.999,
                           34.99,
                           35.99,
17-505                     70.99,
                           90.99,
                           92.999,
                           93.999,
                           112.99,
                           130.99,
                           152.99
                           93.050,
17-509                     93.051,
                           93.063
17-510 through 17-512      93.064
17-510                     93.062
17-511                     93.061,
                           93.063
17-512                     93.065
17-522                     93.032
17-522 through 17-524      93.034
17-524                     93.032,
                           93.061
                           110.01,
17-525                     111.01 –
                           111.04
17-529.01                  33.17
17-529.08                  33.17
17-531                     52.01
17-534                     33.17,
                           52.01
17-536                     52.17 
                           52.03,
                           52.06,
                           52.08,
17-537                     52.14,
                           52.15,
                           52.19,
                           52.21,
                           52.23
17-538                     50.03,
                           52.13
17-540                     33.14 ,
                           33.16
17-541                     31.020,
                           31.028
                           52.07,
17-542                     52.11,
                           52.12
17-549                     92.065,
                           92.066
17-550                     92.030 –
                           92.033
                           90.05,
                           93.004,
17-555                     93.039,
                           131.02 –
                           131.04
                           92.034,
                           92.050,
                           92.051,
                           92.065,
17-556                     92.066,
                           92.067,
                           131.01,
                           133.60,
                           133.61
                           72.13,
                           93.004,
                           93.009,
17-557                     93.030,
                           93.053 –
                           93.057,
                           131.02,
                           131.03
                           93.003,
17-557.01                  93.004,
                           93.009
17-558                     93.052,
                           93.067
17-559                     93.052,
                           93.067
17-563                     93.008,
                           133.05
17-567                     93.070
17-567(1)                  93.002
17-568                     31.027
17-568.01                  31.027,
                           33.11
17-568.02                  33.11
17-601.01                  32.09
17-601.02                  32.09
17-602                     32.12
17-604                     31.045
17-605                     31.024
17-606 through 17-609      31.025
17-606(2)                  31.025
17-607                     33.15
17-608                     33.16
17-609                     33.16
17-610                     31.026
17-612                     31.060
                           30.33,
17-613                     30.36 –
                           30.38,
                           33.10
                           30.34,
17-614                     30.35,
                           30.39
17-616                     30.08,
                           30.35
17-701                     33.01
17-702                     33.07
17-706                     33.06
17-708                     33.09
17-710                     33.13
17-711                     33.12
17-714                     33.12
17-715                     33.12
17-803                     33.16
17-901                     53.004,
                           53.005
17-902                     53.004,
                           53.005
17-905                     33.17
17-908                     33.17
17-911                     33.17
17-919                     31.026
17-920                     131.04
17-925.01                  50.03,
                           53.001
17-925.02                  53.011
17-939                     33.17
17-948                     94.01
17-948 through 17-952      34.08
17-949                     94.02
17-951                     94.01
17-952                     34.05,
                           94.01
17-953                     93.012
17-953.01                  93.012
17-954                     93.012
17-958                     33.17
17-968                     33.17
17-1001                    90.03
17-1237 et seq,            33.16
17-1269 et seq.            33.16
18-132                     92.025,
                           151.01
18-305 through 18-312      31.061
18-412.01                  33.10
18-1605                    52.12
                           50.03,
18-503                     53.003 –
                           53.005
18-1001 to 18-1006         93.005
18-1214                    33.18
18-1701                    31.024
                           10.99,
                           31.003,
                           31.999,
                           34.99,
                           35.99,
                           70.99,
                           90.01 –
                           90.03,
                           90.05,
                           90.99,
                           92.999,
                           93.003,
18-1720                    93.999,
                           110.02,
                           110.19,
                           110.22,
                           112.99,
                           130.03,
                           130.99,
                           133.02,
                           133.04,
                           152.50,
                           152.52,
                           152.53,
                           152.55,
                           152.99
                           10.99,
                           31.999,
                           34.99,
                           35.99,
                           70.99,
                           90.99,
                           92.999,
18-1722                    93.999,
                           112.99,
                           130.99,
                           152.50,
                           152.52,
                           152.53,
                           152.55,
                           152.99
                           152.50,
18-1722.01                 152.52,
                           152.53,
                           152.55
18-1743                    152.22
18-1748                    53.049
18-1751                    93.011
18-1752                    51.09
18-1755                    93.012,
                           93.013
18-1756                    33.10
18-1801 through 18-1805    33.17
18-2101 - 18-2154          34.09
18-2101.01                 34.09
18-2102.01                 34.02
18-2715                    34.02
18-2801 to 18-2808         33.01
18-2803 through 18-2808    33.25
18-2804                    33.11
19-192                     150.35
19-710                     90.04
19-901 et seq.             34.02
19-901 to 19-914           34.03
19-901 to 19-915           34.03
19-902                     92.025
19-903                     34.02
19-908                     34.02
19-909                     34.03
19-910                     34.03
19-912                     34.03
19-916                     34.02
19-922                     92.025
19-925 through 19-933      34.02
19-1101                    31.025
19-1102                    31.024
19-1103                    31.024,
                           31.025
19-1301                    33.14
19-1302                    33.14
19-1303                    33.14
19-1304                    33.14
19-1305                    52.01
19-1309                    33.07
19-1309 through 19-1312    33.07
19-2106                    51.04
19-2417 through 19-2419    93.034
19-2427                    93.010
19-2428 to 19-2431         93.011
                           93.061,
19-2428 through 19-2431    93.064,
                           93.066
19-2701                    52.04
19-2902                    33.11
19-2903                    33.11
19-2904                    33.11
19-2905                    33.11
19-3015                    32.10
19-3101                    31.005
19-3701                    30.38
20-203                     91.001
23-122                     31.024
23-168                     150.35
23-3513                    33.17
25-505.01                  32.16
25-1801                    50.02
25-21,275                  50.02
25-21,276                  50.02
25-21,277                  50.02
25-21,278                  50.02
Ch. 28, Art. 3             112.06
28-109                     91.036.01
28-318                     134.01,
                           134.02
Ch. 28, Art. 4             112.06
28-431                     133.40
28-515.02                  50.04
28-519                     92.003,
                           130.01
28-520                     91.001,
                           130.02
28-521                     91.001,
                           130.02
28-523                     133.06
28-608                     132.08
28-609                     132.01
28-610                     132.02
Ch. 28, Art. 7             112.06
Ch. 28, Art. 8             112.06
28-801                     134.01
28-806                     134.02
28-833                     134.03
28-903                     132.03
28-904                     132.04
28-906                     132.05
28-907                     92.009,
                           132.07
                           92.002,
                           92.004,
28-908                     92.006,
                           92.010,
                           132.06
Ch. 28, Art. 10            112.06
Ch. 28, Art. 11            112.06
Ch. 28, Art. 12            112.06
28-1008                    91.078
28-1009                    91.078
28-1012                    91.078
28-1101                    134.03
28-1102                    134.03
28-1103                    134.03
28-1104                    134.03
28-1107                    134.03
28-1108                    134.03
28-1109                    134.03
28-1110                    134.03
28-1111                    134.03
28-1112                    134.03
28-1113                    134.03
28-1117                    134.03
28-1202.03                 112.24
28-1213                    92.065,
                           92.066
28-1229                    92.065,
                           92.066
28-1233                    92.065,
                           92.066
28-1233(3)                 92.065,
                           92.066
28-1241                    92.050
28-1241(7)                 92.051
28-1244                    92.051
28-1245                    92.051
28-1246                    92.052
28-1247                    92.051,
                           92.052
28-1249                    92.052
28-1303                    133.06
28-1304                    133.03
                           90.05,
28-1321                    130.03,
                           133.02,
                           133.04
28-1321(1)                 133.01
28-1322                    131.06
28-1418 through 28-1429.03 113.08
28-1418                    133.20
28-1419                    133.21
28-1420                    113.02
28-1420 through 28-1429    113.03,
                           113.08
28-1421                    113.02
28-1422                    113.03
28-1423                    113.04 ,
                           113.08
28-1424                    113.05
28-1425                    113.05,
                           113.08
28-1427                    133.21,
                           133.25
28-1429                    113.05,
                           113.08
28-1429.04                 113.08
28-1429.05                 113.08
28-1429.06                 113.08
28-1429.07                 113.08
28-1465                    35.26
28-1466                    35.26
28-1472                    35.26
28-1601                    134.03
29-215                     35.26
29-422 to 29-429           91.078
Ch. 32                     32.04
31-1001 to 31-1023         150.01
32-101 et seq.             32.02
32-110                     32.12
32-115                     32.12
32-402.01                  32.05
32-403 through 32-412      32.10
32-404                     32.01,
                           32.02
32-405                     32.06;
                           32.16
32-413                     32.11
32-414                     32.11
32-417                     32.13
32-418                     32.13
32-505                     32.04
32-532                     32.14
32-554                     32.14
32-556                     32.02
32-559                     32.06
32-560                     31.004,
                           31.005
32-561                     31.004
32-562                     32.16
32-564                     32.06,
                           32.17
32-567 to 32-570           32.16
32-569                     31.004
32-574                     32.16
32-606                     32.17
32-606.01                  32.16,
                           32.17
32-607                     32.17
32-608                     32.07,
                           32.08
32-615                     32.08
32-616                     32.08
32-617                     32.08
32-618                     32.08
32-621                     32.08
32-625(2)                  32.08
32-627                     32.08
32-628                     32.08,
                           93.005
32-628 through 32-631      33.21
32-629                     32.08,
                           32.16
32-630                     32.08,
                           32.16
32-632                     32.16
32-710                     32.08
32-802                     33.20
32-918                     32.15
32-952 through 32-959      32.06
32-1301                    32.16
32-1302                    32.16
32-1303                    32.16
32-1304                    32.16
32-1305                    32.16
32-1306                    32.16
32-1307                    32.16
32-1308                    32.16
32-1309                    32.16
32-1525                    32.15
32-4,147                   32.04
33-139.01                  35.03
33-141                     31.025
35-101 through 35-103      35.03
35-102                     31.030,
                           35.03
35-108                     31.030,
                           35.03
35-520                     92.009
37-1254.01                 35.26
37-1254.02                 35.26
39-301                     131.03
39-302                     131.03
39-307                     133.04
39-618                     70.05
39-619                     70.04,
                           71.11
39-619.01                  71.11
39-622                     71.07
39-640                     71.08
39-650                     71.05
39-651                     71.04
39-672                     92.005
39-673                     72.02
39-681                     92.008
39-682                     92.007
39-683                     70.02,
                           70.03
                           71.03,
                           71.04,
39-697                     71.07,
                           72.02,
                           72.04
39-835 through 39-842.01   33.17
39-2512                    31.028
39-6,177 to 39-6,180       152.35
39-6,184                   152.35
44-4301 through 44-4339    36.01
44-4303                    36.01
45-104.01                  93.061
45-623                     33.23
46-1212                    93.015
46-1601 to 46-1670      150.11
48-1503                    33.10
49-1408                    31.061
49-1425                    31.061
49-1499.04                 31.061
49-14,102                  31.061
49-14,103.01               31.061
49-14,103.02               31.061
49-14,103.03               31.061
49-14,103.05               31.061
49-14,103.06               31.061
51-201                     33.20,
                           94.15
51-202                     34.07,
                           94.15
51-205                     94.16
51-211                     94.15
51-213                     34.07
51-214                     94.16
51-215                     33.14
51-216                     33.14
51-501                     33.20
52-601.01 - 52-605         133.40
Ch. 53                     112.01
53-168.06                  112.01,
                           112.18
                           112.01,
53-103                     133.22,
                           133.23
53-116.01                  112.20
53-118                     112.16
53-123.12                  112.08
53-124                     112.08
53-124.01                  112.08
53-124(5)                  112.08,
                           112.22
53-124.12                  112.22
53-124.15                  112.03
53-125                     112.06
53-129                     112.08
53-131                     112.08
53-132                     112.08
53-133                     112.03,
                           112.08
53-134                     112.08
53-134.03                  112.08,
                           112.15
53-134.04                  112.08,
                           112.21
53-135                     112.06
53-135.01                  112.06,
                           112.08
53-148                     112.05
53-167.02                  112.24
53-167.03                  112.24
53-168.06                  112.18,
                           133.22
53-174                     112.13
53-175                     112.18
53-177                     112.03
53-177.01                  112.03
53-178                     112.04
53-180                     112.11
53-180.01                  133.22
53-180.02                  133.23
53-180.05                  133.22
53-183                     112.12
53-184                     112.13
53-186                     112.23,
                           133.24
53-186(2)                  112.23,
                           133.24
53-186.01                  112.23
53-194.03                  112.18
53-1,101                   112.09
53-1,102                   112.10
53-1,115                   112.21
53-1,121                   112.19
54-601                     91.030
54-602                     91.030
                           73.11,
Ch. 60                     73.17,
                           73.18
60-136                     90.01
60-169                     133.40
60-301                     33.18
60-376                     133.40
60-606 through 60-676      70.01
60-624                     73.10
60-638                     70.01
60-658.01                  71.12
60-678                     71.16
60-680                     72.01
60-681                     71.01
60-682.01                  71.12
60-699                     73.16
60-1901                    133.40
60-1902                    133.40
60-1903                    133.40
60-1903.01                 133.40
60-1903.02                 133.40
60-1904                    133.40
60-1905                    133.40
60-1906                    133.40
60-1907                    133.40
60-1908                    133.40
60-1909                    133.40
60-1911                    133.40
60-2410                    133.40
60-3,104                   33.18
60-4,163                   35.26
60-4,164                   35.26
60-6,114                   72.14
60-6,119 through 60-6,121  71.10
60-6,130(1)                133.41
60-6,130(3)                133.42
60-6,134.01                71.12,
                           71.13
60-6,138                   71.15
60-6,142                   73.01
60-6,146 through 60-6,154  71.06
60-6,165                   72.15
60-6,166                   72.06,
                           72.07
60-6,167                   72.01
60-6,185                   71.14
60-6,186                   71.14
60-6,187                   71.14
60-6,188                   71.14
60-6,196                   35.26
60-6,197                   35.26
60-6,211.01                35.26
60-6,211.02                35.26
60-6,211.08                112.23,
                           133.24
60-6,250                   93.058
60-6,265                   70.07
60-6,267                   70.07
60-6,268                   70.07
60-6,278 through 60-6,282  70.06
60-6,288                   93.058
60-6,288(2)(j)             93.058
60-6,305                   71.14
60-6,313                   71.14
60-6,315                   73.01
60-6,317                   73.01
60-6,318                   73.01
60-6,355                   73.10
60-6,356                   73.11
60-6,357                   73.12
60-6,358                   73.13
60-6,359                   73.14
60-6,360                   73.15
60-6,361                   73.16
60-6,362                   73.17
69-202                     110.16
69-204                     110.18,
                           110.20
70-624.04                  31.061
70-1601 to 70-1615         50.04
70-1605 through 70-1607    50.01
70-1608 through 70-1614    50.01
70-1615                    50.01
70-2103                    130.02
71-423                     112.19
71-1522                    34.06
71-1524 through 71-1526    34.06
71-1529                    34.06
71-1536                    34.06
71-1547                    34.06
71-1552                    34.06
71-1572 to 71-15,168       34.06
71-1637                    33.20
71-4401                    91.061
71-4406                    91.062
71-4407                    91.063
71-4603                    133.40
71-5301                    52.26
77-1343                    93.006
77-1601                    33.19
77-1606                    33.19,
                           33.20
77-1632                    33.19
77-1633                    33.19,
                           33.24
77-2201 through 77-2215    31.025
77-2341                    33.16
77-2362                    33.15
77-2365.01                 33.15
77-2366                    33.15
77-27,142 et seq.          111.15,
                           111.16
77-3442                    33.07,
                           33.20
77-3443                    33.20
77-3444                    32.06,
                           33.20
77-23109 et seq.           33.16
79-3401 et seq,            33.19,
                           33.24
81-145 to 81-162           33.10
81-201                     91.078
81-502                     92.025
81-506                     31.030,
                           35.12
81-512                     31.030,
                           92.027
81-520.01                  92.035
81-829.51                  33.21
81-829.65                  35.26
81-1438                    31.020
81-3401 through 81-3455    31.027
81-3423                    93.015
81-3445                    93.015
81-3449                    93.015
81-3449 to 81-3453         93.015
81-3453                    93.015
81-3538                    152.06
84-304                     33.11
84-712 through 84-712.09   31.024,
                           31.025
84-712(2)                  31.024
84-1407 et seq.            30.10,
                           30.18
84-1407 to 84-1414         30.05
84-1408                    30.03,
                           30.18
84-1408 to 84-1414         30.17
                           30.01,
84-1409                    30.03 ,
                           33.24
84-1409(1)                 30.02
84-1410                    30.05 ,
                           30.10
                           30.03,
84-1411                    30.06,
                           30.09,
                           30.18
84-1411(3)                 30.17
84-1412                    30.10
                           30.03,
84-1413                    30.07,
                           30.08
                           
 
REFERENCES TO 1991 CODE
1991 Code Section Code Section
1991 Code Section Code Section
1-101             31.001
1-102             31.002
1-104             31.004
1-105             31.005
1-201             31.020
1-202             31.021
1-203             31.023
1-204             31.024
1-205             31.025
1-208             31.026
1-209             31.027
1-210             31.028
1-211             31.029
1-212             31.030
1-213             31.031
1-214             31.032
1-215             31.033
1-216             31.034
1-217             31.035
1-301             31.045
1-302             31.046
1-501             30.01
1-502             30.02
1-503             30.03
1-504             30.04
1-504.01          30.05
1-505             30.06
1-506             30.07
1-507             30.08
1-508             30.09
1-509             30.10
1-510             30.11
1-511             30.12
1-512             30.13
1-513             30.14
1-514             30.15
1-515             30.16
1-516             30.17
1-601             30.30
1-602             30.31
1-603             30.32
1-604             30.33
1-605             30.34
1-606             30.35
1-607             30.36
1-608             30.37
1-609             30.38
1-610             30.39
1-701             32.01
1-701.01          32.02
1-703             32.03
1-704             32.04
1-705             32.05
1-706             32.06
1-707             32.07
1-708             32.08
1-709             32.09
1-710             32.10
1-711             32.11
1-712             32.12
1-714             32.13
1-717             32.14
1-719             32.15
1-801             33.01
1-802             33.02
1-804             33.03
1-804.01          33.04
1-805             33.05
1-806             33.06
1-807             33.07
1-812             33.08
1-813             33.09
1-814             33.10
1-815             33.11
1-816             33.12
1-818             33.13
1-819             33.14
1-820             33.15
1-821             33.16
1-822             33.17
1-823             33.18
1-824             33.19
1-825             33.20
1-826             33.21
1-901             31.060
1-902             31.061
1-903             31.062
1-904             31.063
1-905             31.064
1-1001            36.01
1-1101            31.999
2-101             34.01
2-201             34.02
2-202             34.03
2-203             34.04
2-204             34.05
2-204.01          34.05
2-204.02          34.05
2-204.03          34.05
2-204.04          34.05
2-204.05          34.05
2-204.06          34.05
2-205             34.06
2-205.01          34.06
2-205.02          34.06
2-205.03          34.06
2-205.04          34.06
2-205.05          34.06
2-206             34.07
2-206.01          34.07
2-301             34.99
3-101             52.01
3-102             52.02
3-103             52.03
3-104             52.04
3-105             52.05
3-106             52.06
3-107             52.07
3-108             52.08
3-109             52.09
3-109.01          52.10
3-110             52.11
3-111             52.12
3-112             52.13
3-113             52.14
3-114             52.15
3-115             52.16
3-116             52.17
3-117             52.18
3-118             52.19
3-119             52.20
3-120             52.21
3-121             52.22
3-122             52.23
3-124             52.25
3-125             52.26
3-126             52.27
3-127             52.28
3-201             53.001
3-202             53.002
3-203             53.003
3-204             53.004
3-205             53.005
3-206             53.006
3-207             53.007
3-208             53.008
3-209             53.009
3-210             53.010
3-211             53.011
3-212             53.012
3-213             53.025
3-214             53.026
3-215             53.027
3-216             53.028
3-217             53.029
3-218             53.030
3-219             53.031
3-220             53.032
3-221             53.033
3-222             53.034
3-223             53.045
3-224             53.046
3-225             53.047
3-226             53.048
3-227             53.049
3-228             53.050
3-229             53.051
3-230             53.052
3-231             53.053
3-232             53.054
3-233             53.055
3-234             53.056
3-235             53.070
3-236             53.071
3-237             53.072
3-238             53.073
3-239             53.074
3-240             53.075
3-241             53.076
3-242             53.077
3-243             53.078
3-244             53.090
3-245             53.091
3-246             53.092
3-247             53.093
3-248             53.094
3-250             53.095
3-301             50.01
3-302             50.02
3-303             50.03
3-304             50.04
3-401             35.01
3-402             35.02
3-403             35.03
3-404             35.04
3-405             35.05
3-406             35.06
3-407             35.07
3-408             35.08
3-409             35.09
3-410             35.10
3-411             35.11
3-412             35.12
3-501             35.25
3-502             35.26
3-601             34.08
3-602             34.08
3-701             94.01
3-702             94.02
3-703             94.03
3-704             94.04
3-801             94.15
3-802             94.16
3-901             35.99
4-101             34.04
4-102             34.04
4-104             34.04
4-201             51.01
4-202             51.02
4-203             51.03
4-204             51.04
4-205             51.05
4-206             51.06
4-207             51.07
4-208             51.08
4-209             51.09
4-210             51.10
4-211             51.11
4-212             51.12
4-213             51.13
4-214             51.14
4-215             51.15
4-216             51.16
4-217             51.17
4-218             51.18
4-301             90.01
4-302             90.01
4-303             90.02
4-304             90.03
4-305             90.04
4-306             90.05
4-401             90.99
5-101             70.01
5-201             71.01
5-202             71.02
5-203             71.03
5-204             71.04
5-205             71.05
5-206             71.06
5-207             71.07
5-208             71.08
5-209             71.09
5-210             71.10
5-211             71.11
5-212             71.12
5-213             71.13
5-301             70.02
5-302             70.03
5-303             70.04
5-304             70.05
5-305             70.06
5-306             70.07
5-307             70.08
5-401             73.01
5-501             72.01
5-502             72.02
5-503             72.03
5-504             72.04
5-505             72.05
5-506             72.06
5-507             72.07
5-508             72.08
5-509             72.09
5-510             72.10
5-512             72.11
5-514             72.13
5-515             72.14
5-516             72.15
5-701             70.99
6-101             91.001
6-102             91.002
6-103             91.003
6-104             91.004
6-111             91.025
6-112             91.026
6-113             91.027
6-114             91.028
6-115             91.029
6-116             91.030
6-117             91.031
6-119             91.038
6-120             91.039
6-123             91.040
6-124             91.041
6-126             91.050
6-127             91.051
6-128             91.052
6-129             91.053
6-130             91.054
6-131             91.055
6-132             91.056
6-133             91.057
6-134             91.058
6-135             91.059
6-136             91.060
6-137             91.075
6-138             91.076
6-139             91.077
6-140             91.078
6-141             91.079
6-142             91.080
6-143             91.081
6-144             91.082
6-145             91.083
6-302             132.05
6-303             132.06
6-305             133.01
6-307             133.02
6-308             133.05
6-310             133.07
6-311             133.03
6-312             130.04
6-313             131.01
6-314             131.03
6-315             131.04
6-316             131.05
6-318             133.40
6-322             133.42
6-325             131.06
6-326             133.43
6-327             133.24
6-328             132.07
7-101             92.001
7-102             92.002
7-103             92.003
7-104             92.004
7-105             92.005
7-106             92.006
7-107             92.007
7-108             92.008
7-109             92.009
7-110             92.010
7-201             92.025
7-202             92.026
7-203             92.027
7-204             92.028
7-205             92.029
7-206             92.030
7-207             92.031
7-208             92.032
7-209             92.033
7-210             92.034
7-211             92.035
7-301             92.050
7-302             92.051
7-303             92.052
7-401             92.065
7-501             92.066
7-502             92.067
7-503             92.068
7-504             92.069
7-601             92.999
8-101             93.001
8-102             93.002
8-103             93.003
8-104             93.004
8-105             93.005
8-105.01          93.006
8-106             93.007
8-107             93.008
8-108             93.009
8-109             93.010
8-110             93.011
8-111             93.012
8-112             93.013
8-113             93.014
8-114             93.015
8-201             93.030
8-202             93.031
8-204             93.032
8-205             93.033
8-206             93.034
8-207             93.035
8-208             93.036
8-209             93.037
8-210             93.038
8-301             93.050
8-302             93.051
8-303             93.052
8-304             93.053
8-305             93.054
8-306             93.055
8-307             93.056
8-308             93.057
8-309             93.058
8-310             93.059
8-311             93.060
8-312             93.061
8-313             93.062
8-314             93.063
8-315             93.064
8-316             93.065
8-317             93.066
8-318             93.067
8-319             93.067
8-320             93.068
8-321             93.069
8-401             93.070
8-501             93.999
9-101             152.01
9-102             152.02
9-103             152.03
9-104             152.04
9-105             152.05
9-106             152.06
9-201             152.20
9-202             152.21
9-203             152.22
9-301             152.35
9-302             152.36
9-401             152.50
9-402             152.51
9-403             152.52
9-404             152.53
9-405             152.54
9-406             152.55
9-501             152.99
10-101            112.01
10-102            112.02
10-103            112.03
10-104            112.04
10-105            112.05
10-106            112.06
10-108            112.07
10-109            112.08
10-110            112.09
10-111            112.10
10-112            112.11
10-113            112.12
10-115            112.13
10-116            112.14
10-117            112.15
10-118            112.16
10-119            112.17
10-120            112.18
10-121            112.19
10-122            112.20
10-123            112.21
10-124            112.22
10-127            112.23
10-201            110.01
10-301            153.01
10-302            153.02
10-303            153.03
10-304            153.04
10-305            153.05
10-306            153.06
10-307            153.07
10-308            153.08
10-309            153.09
10-310            153.10
10-311            153.11
10-312            153.12
10-313            153.13
10-314            153.14
10-315            153.15
10-316            153.16
10-317            153.17
10-401            110.02
10-402            110.16
10-403            110.17
10-404            110.18
10-405            110.19
10-406            110.20
10-407            110.21
10-408            110.22
10-601            110.02
10-701            111.01
10-702            111.02
10-703            111.03
10-704            111.04
10-901            112.99
11-101            151.01
12-101            111.15
12-102            111.16
12-103            111.17
12-104            111.18
12-105            111.19
12-106            111.20
12-107            111.21
12-108            111.22
                  
 
REFERENCES TO RESOLUTIONS
Res. No. Date Passed Code Section
Res. No. Date Passed Code Section
2011-06  8-25-2011   Ch. 74, Sch. I
2014-11  6-26-2014   Ch. 74, Sch. I
2015-1   4-23-2015   93.085
2015-2   4-23-2015   51.19
2015-3   4-23-2015   52.10
2017-2   9-12-2017   36.02
2022-23  10-27-2022  93.086 -
                     93.096
                    
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
420      8-15-1991   10.05,
                     10.06
426      4-16-1992   112.13
427      4-16-1992   112.22
433      11-19-1992  111.01
434      4-15-1993   31.024
435      4-15-1993   30.02
436      4-15-1993   30.04
440      6-17-1993   133.04
442      7-15-1993   34.02
448      12-21-1993  52.27
449      12-21-1993  52.28
450      12-21-1993  51.14,
                     51.17
458      5-19-1994   33.02
459      5-19-1994   33.03
460      5-19-1994   33.06
461      5-19-1994   34.02
462      5-19-1994   70.01
463      5-19-1994   71.06
464      5-19-1994   73.01
465      5-19-1994   70.06
467      5-19-1994   72.01
468      5-19-1994   92.066
469      5-19-1994   92.065
470      5-19-1994   93.005
489      2-16-1995   112.22
490      2-16-1995   93.014
491      2-16-1995   93.013
492      2-16-1995   92.035
493      2-16-1995   90.05
494      2-16-1995   35.26
495      2-16-1995   33.04
496      2-16-1995   30.35
497      2-16-1995   30.04
498      4-27-1995   112.06
502      1-18-1996   112.18
503      1-18-1996   93.063
504      1-18-1996   93.012
505      1-18-1996   93.005
506      1-18-1996   34.03
507      1-18-1996   34.02
508      1-18-1996   33.06
509      1-18-1996   33.03
510      1-18-1996   33.01
511      1-18-1996   32.14
512      1-18-1996   32.01
513      1-18-1996   30.16
514      1-18-1996   30.15
515      1-18-1996   31.002
516      1-18-1996   31.001
525      4-17-1997   31.029
527      6-19-1997   30.30
528      6-19-1997   30.31
529      6-19-1997   30.35
530      6-19-1997   30.36
531      6-19-1997   30.38
532      6-19-1997   30.39
533      6-19-1997   33.02
534      6-19-1997   33.03
535      6-19-1997   133.40
537      7-31-1997   31.064
539      8-21-1997   33.19
544      1-15-1998   34.02
548      6-18-1998   33.10
549      6-18-1998   93.005
550      6-18-1998   93.015
551      6-18-1998   33.19
552      6-18-1998   51.11
554      7-16-1998   112.22
555      7-16-1998   33.02
558      8-20-1998   33.07
559      8-20-1998   33.03
564      10-27-1998  32.08
566      11-19-1998  34.07
567      11-19-1998  35.26
568      11-19-1998  33.07
569      11-19-1998  33.15
570      11-19-1998  34.02
571      11-19-1998  71.12
572      11-19-1998  71.13
574      11-19-1998  132.07
                     91.001 –
                     91.004,
                     91.025 -
                     91.031,
                     91.038
589      4-20-2000    -
                     91.041 
                     91.050 -
                     91.060,
                     91.075 -
                     91.083
592      6-15-2000   112.22
593      6-15-2000   112.23
594      6-15-2000   112.08
595      6-15-2000   32.01
596      9-19-2000   51.16
2001-599 8-16-2001   52.25
2002-02  2-21-2002   93.015
2002-04  2-21-2002   33.20
2002-05  2-21-2002   33.19
2002-06  2-21-2002   133.24
                     31.999,
                     34.99,
                     35.99,
                     70.99,
2002-07  2-21-2002   90.99,
                     92.999,
                     93.999,
                     112.99,
                     130.99,
                     152.99
2002-09  2-21-2002   152.06
2002-11  2-21-2002   30.17
2002-13  2-21-2002   33.02
2002-14  2-21-2002   70.07
2002-16  9-19-2002   30.11
2003-01  2-27-2003   51.10
2005-10  5-2-2005    33.20
2005-03  5-26-2005   31.005
2005-04  5-26-2005   32.08
2005-07  5-26-2005   33.02
2005-11  5-26-2005   33.15
2005-12  5-26-2005   33.11
2005-13  5-26-2005   50.04
2005-14  5-26-2005   50.02
2006-15  5-26-2005   70.07
2005-17  6-23-2005   35.26
2005-18  6-23-2005   32.06
2005-20  6-23-2005   33.15
2005-22  6-23-2005   93.005,
                     93.006
2005-23  6-23-2005   152.22
2005-24  6-25-2005   51.18
2005-25  7-28-2005   34.03
2005-26  7-28-2005   30.04,
                     30.05
2005-27  7-28-2005   32.01,
                     32.02
2005-29  7-28-2005   70.07
2005-30  7-28-2005   34.07
2005-31  7-28-2005   93.015
2005-32  7-28-2005   93.032
2005-33  7-28-2005   112.08
2005-34  7-28-2005   112.20
2005-35  7-28-2005   112.07
2005-36  7-28-2005   112.22
2005-37  7-28-2005   112.21
2005-39  7-28-2005   152.06
2005-43  10-27-2005  51.16
2006-05  9-19-2006   31.063
2006-05  11-16-2006  111.15 –
                     111.22
2007-02  4-26-2007   70.08
2009-03  8-27-2009   112.15
2010-10  12-16-2010  52.09
2010-11  12-16-2010  53.006
2011-07  4-28-2011   133.43
2016-01  3-24-2016   90.02
2016-02  3-24-2016   112.03
2016-04  3-24-2016   130.01
2016-06  3-24-2016   93.030
2016-07  3-24-2016   112.24
2016-08  3-24-2016   70.01
2016-09  3-24-2016   93.039
2016-10  3-24-2016   93.015
2016-11  3-24-2016   32.16
2016-12  3-24-2016   33.21
2016-13  3-24-2016   90.05
2016-14  3-24-2016   31.004
2016-15  3-24-2016   31.003
2016-16  3-24-2016   133.05
2017-1   6-22-2017   51.16
2017-2   6-22-2017   52.09
2018-3   4-26-2018   153.01,
                     153.09
2018-6   5-24-2018   70.09
2018-7   5-24-2018   133.05
2018-8   5-24-2018   93.005
2018-10  5-24-2018   34.02
2018-12  5-24-2018   33.10
2018-13  5-24-2018   33.03
2018-14  5-24-2018   33.22
2018-16  5-24-2018   93.063
2018-17  5-24-2018   30.36
2018-18  5-24-2018   30.40
2018-19  5-24-2018   70.01
2018-22  9-26-2018   152.20
2019-1   3-28-2019   35.03
2019-2   3-28-2019   71.14
2019-3   3-28-2019   112.20
2019-4   3-28-2019   112.08
2019-5   3-28-2019   112.23
2019-6   3-28-2019   112.21
2019-7   3-28-2019   112.07
2019-8   3-28-2019   112.03
2019-9   3-28-2019   133.40
2019-13  6-13-2019   151.01
2019-14  6-13-2019   155.01
2019-15  6-27-2019   31.022 -
                     31.035
2019-17  7-25-2019   34.09
2019-28  11-20-2019  134.02
2019-29  11-20-2019  134.03
2019-30  11-20-2019  32.08
2019-31  11-20-2019  112.19
2019-32  11-20-2019  33.19
2019-33  11-20-2019  91.061
2019-34  11-20-2019  91.062
2019-35  11-20-2019  33.14
2019-36  11-20-2019  32.16
2019-37  11-20-2019  91.063
                     113.01 -
                     113.08,
2019-38  11-20-2019  133.20,
                     133.21,
                     133.25
                     90.01 -
2019-39  11-20-2019  90.03,
                     90.06
2020-1   7-23-2020   51.16
2020-2   10-29-2020  153.09
2021-1   1-28-2021   112.20
2021-2   1-28-2021   112.08
2021-3   1-28-2021   112.06
2021-4   1-28-2021   31.024
2021-5   1-28-2021   31.025
2021-6   1-28-2021   32.15
2021-7   1-28-2021   33.22
2021-8   1-28-2021   30.18
2021-9   1-28-2021   32.06
2021-10  1-28-2021   113.02
2021-11  1-28-2021   113.05
2021-12  1-28-2021   133.25
2021-13  1-28-2021   133.21
2021-14  1-28-2021   133.20
2021-15  1-28-2021   50.01
2021-16  1-28-2021   34.02
2021-17  1-28-2021   32.16
2021-18  1-28-2021   33.23
2021-19  1-28-2021   33.18
                     91.001,
2021-20  3-25-2021   91.032 -
                     91.041
2021-23  7-26-2021   72.12,
                     72.15
2021-27  12-21-2021  31.021
2021-28  12-21-2021  30.35
2021-29  12-21-2021  33.03
2021-30  12-21-2021  71.15
2021-31  12-21-2021  30.36
2021-32  12-21-2021  30.10
2021-33  12-21-2021  33.19
2021-34  12-21-2021  33.24
2021-35  12-21-2021  112.08
2021-36  12-21-2021  51.06 -
                     51.09
2021-37  12-21-2021  134.03
2021-38  12-21-2021  32.07
2021-39  12-21-2021  31.061
2021-40  12-21-2021  31.024
2021-41  12-21-2021  32.17
2021-42  12-21-2021  152.22
2021-43  12-21-2021  33.25
2021-44  12-21-2021  133.40
2022-1   8-24-2022   155.01
                     73.10 -
2022-3   9-22-2022   73.20,
                     73.99
2022-4   12-19-2022  34.05,
                     34.07
2022-5   12-19-2022  33.20
2022-6   12-19-2022  33.03
2022-7   12-19-2022  91.078
2022-8   12-19-2022  130.02
2022-9   12-19-2022  30.07
2022-10  12-19-2022  33.24
2022-11  12-19-2022  33.02
2022-12  12-19-2022  33.22
2022-13  12-19-2022  32.16
2022-14  12-19-2022  93.005
2022-15  12-19-2022  32.06
2023-1   2-22-2023   91.090
2023-2   4-27-2023   51.16
2023-3   6-23-2023   30.11
2024-1   1-18-2024   33.24
2024-2   1-18-2024   33.19
2024-3   1-18-2024   30.35
2024-4   1-18-2024   71.16
2024-6   4-18-2024   91.090
2024-7   5-16-2024   155.01
2024-8   6-18-2024   52.09
2024-9   6-18-2024   52.10
2024-10  6-1-2024    53.006
                     150.01 -
                     150.11,
2024-11  7-17-2024   150.30 -
                     150.37,
                     150.50 -
                     150.52
2024-13  10-17-2024  53.028
2024-14  10-17-2024  52.18
2024-16  12-16-2024  31.063
2025-1   1-15-2025   33.03
2025-2   1-15-2025   32.17
2025-3   1-15-2025   33.10
2025-4   1-15-2025   33.26
2025-5   1-15-2025   32.02
2025-6   1-15-2025   33.16
2025-7   1-15-2025   112.24
2025-8   1-15-2025   113.03
2025-9   1-15-2025   30.18
2025-10  1-15-2025   33.24
2025-11  1-15-2025   33.19
2025-12  1-15-2025   30.10
2025-13  1-15-2025   113.08
2025-14  1-15-2025   113.05
2025-15  1-15-2025   32.06
2025-16  1-15-2025   32.15
2025-17  1-15-2025   32.08
2025-18  1-15-2025   32.16
2025-19  1-15-2025   31.004
                    
 
