ELWOOD, NEBRASKA
CODE OF ORDINANCES
2022 S-2 Supplement contains:
Local legislation current through Ord. 2022-04, passed 9-14-2022
Published by:
AMERICAN LEGAL PUBLISHING CORPORATION
525 Vine Street * Suite 310 * Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
1-800-445-5588 www.amlegal.com
ADOPTING ORDINANCE
ORDINANCE NO. 97
   AN ORDINANCE OF THE VILLAGE OF ELWOOD, GOSPER COUNTY, NEBRASKA, TO REVISE
ALL THE ORDINANCES OF THE VILLAGE OF ELWOOD, NEBRASKA, TO REPEAL PRIOR
ORDINANCES, TO REQUIRE FILING, AND TO PROVIDE AN EFFECTIVE DATE.
   BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CHAIRPERSON AND BOARD OF TRUSTEES OF THE VILLAGE OF
ELWOOD, GOSPER COUNTY, NEBRASKA:
   Section 1.   The general ordinances of the Village of Elwood, Nebraska are
hereby revised, codified, and printed in book form as the "Code of Ordinances
of Elwood, Nebraska" consisting of the following Titles:
      TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
                     10.      Rules of Construction; General Penalty
                     11.      Village Standards
      TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
                     30.      Board of Trustees
                     31.      Officials and Employees
                     32.      Organizations
                     33.      Elections
                     34.      Fiscal Management; Fees
                     35.      Ordinances, Forms and Legislation
      TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
                     50.      Utilities Generally
                     51.      Garbage
                     52.      Water
                     53.      Sewers
                     54.      Fire Regulations
                     55.      Public Ways and Property
      TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
                     70.      General Provisions
                     71.      Traffic Regulations
                     72.      Parking Rules
                     73.      Traffic Schedules
                     74.      Parking Schedules
      TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
                     90.      Health and Sanitation; Nuisances
                     91.      Animals
      TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
                     110.   General Licensing Provisions
                     111.   Alcoholic Beverages
                     112.   Tobacco
                     113.   Sales and Advertising
                     114.   Franchises and Contractual Agreements
                     115.   Building Moving
      TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
                     130.   General Offenses
                     131.   Weapons
                     132.   Motor Vehicle Offenses
      TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
                     150.   Building Regulations; Construction
                     151.   Subdivisions and Additions
                     152.   Mobile Homes
                     153.   Floodplain Management
   Section 2.   The Code of Ordinances contains all of the provisions of a
general nature pertaining to the subjects enumerated and embraced in the code.
All prior ordinances pertaining to the subjects treated by the code are
repealed, except that nothing shall affect any rights acquired under, actions
involving, or fines, penalties, forfeitures, or liabilities incurred pursuant
to such ordinances prior to repeal.
   Section 3.   All ordinances of a temporary or special nature and all other
ordinances pertaining to subjects not embraced in the Code of Ordinances,
including ordinances specified in this section, shall remain in full force and
effect unless repealed expressly or by necessary implication.
      1.   Vacating or setting the boundaries of streets, alleys, or other
public places.
      2.   Annexing or detaching territory.
      3.   Granting or accepting easements, plats, or dedication of land to
public use.
      4.   Providing for the acquisition or conveyance of real or personal
property.
      5.   Authorizing or directing public improvements to be made.
      6.   Levying taxes or special assessments.
      7.   Appropriating money.
      8.   Granting franchises or special licenses.
      9.   Providing for the issuance of bonds or other instruments of
indebtedness.
   Section 4.   At least one copy of the Code of Ordinances shall be on file in
the office of the Village Clerk and available for inspection by members of the
public during the hours the office is kept open for the ordinary transaction of
business. The Clerk shall file a copy of the ordinances with the County Court.
   Section 5.   This Ordinance shall be in full force and shall take effect
from and after its passage, approval, and publication according to law.
PASSED AND APPROVED THIS 12TH DAY OF APRIL, 2017.
                                       THE VILLAGE OF ELWOOD
                                       BY: /s/ Tom Martin
                                          Tom Martin, Chairman
                                          Elwood Village Board of Trustees
ATTEST:
/s/ Laurie Jauken
Village Clerk
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
   Chapter
      
10.   RULES OF CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
      
11.   VILLAGE STANDARDS
CHAPTER 10: RULES OF CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
Section
   
10.01   Title of code
   
10.02   Interpretation
   
10.03   Application to future ordinances
   
10.04   Captions
   
10.05   Definitions
   
10.06   Rules of interpretation
   
10.07   Severability
   
10.08   Reference to other sections
   
10.09   Reference to offices
   
10.10   Errors and omissions
   
10.11   Official time
   
10.12   Reasonable time
   
10.13   Ordinances repealed
   
10.14   Ordinances unaffected
   
10.15   Repeal or modification of ordinance
   
10.16   Section histories; statutory references
   
10.17   Local changes to this code of ordinances
 
   
10.99   General penalty
§ 10.01 TITLE OF CODE.
   This codification of ordinances shall be designated as the “Village of
Elwood Code of Ordinances” and may be so cited.
§ 10.02 INTERPRETATION.
   Unless otherwise provided herein, or by law or implication required, the
same rules of construction, definition and application shall govern the
interpretation of this code as those governing the interpretation of state law.
§ 10.03 APPLICATION TO FUTURE ORDINANCES.
   All provisions of Title I compatible with future legislation shall apply to
ordinances hereafter adopted amending or supplementing this code unless
otherwise specifically provided.
§ 10.04 CAPTIONS.
   Headings and captions used in this code other than the title, chapter and
section numbers are employed for reference purposes only and shall not be
deemed a part of the text of any section.
§ 10.05 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   General rule. Words and phrases shall be taken in their plain, or
ordinary and usual sense. However, technical words and phrases having a
peculiar and appropriate meaning in law shall be understood according to their
technical import.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this code, the following definitions
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      BOARD OF TRUSTEES, VILLAGE BOARD or GOVERNING BODY. The Board of Trustees
of the village.
      CODE, THIS CODE or THIS CODE OF ORDINANCES. This village code as modified
by amendment, revision and adoption of new titles, chapters or sections.
      COUNTY. The County of Gosper in Nebraska.
      MAY. The act referred to is permissive.
      MONTH. A calendar month.
      OATH. Includes an affirmation in all cases in which, by law, an
affirmation may be substituted for an oath and, in such cases, the words SWEAR
and SWORN shall be equivalent to the words AFFIRM and AFFIRMED.
      OFFICER, OFFICE, EMPLOYEE, COMMISSION or DEPARTMENT. An officer, office,
employee, commission or department of the village unless the context clearly
requires otherwise.
      PERSON. Includes bodies politic and corporate, societies, communities,
the public generally, individuals, partnerships, limited liability companies,
joint-stock companies and associations.
(Neb. RS 49-801(16))
      PRECEDING or FOLLOWING. Next before or next after, respectively.
      SHALL. The act referred to is mandatory.
      SIGNATURE or SUBSCRIPTION. Includes a mark when the person cannot write.
      STATE. The State of Nebraska.
      SUBCHAPTER.
         (a)   A division of a chapter, designated in this code by a heading in
the chapter analysis and a capitalized heading in the body of the chapter,
setting apart a group of sections related by the subject matter of the heading.
         (b)   Not all chapters have SUBCHAPTERS.
      VILLAGE, MUNICIPAL CORPORATION or MUNICIPALITY. The Village of Elwood.
      WRITTEN. Any representation of words, letters or figures, whether by
printing, typing, and other modes of representing words in a visible form.
      YEAR. A calendar year, unless otherwise expressed.
§ 10.06 RULES OF INTERPRETATION.
   The construction of all ordinances of the village shall be by the following
rules, unless that construction is plainly repugnant to the intent of the
Village Board or of the context of the same ordinance.
   (A)   AND or OR. Either conjunction shall include the other as if written
“and/or”, if the sense requires it.
   (B)   Acts by assistants. When a statute or ordinance requires an act to be
done which, by law, an agent or deputy as well may do as the principal, the
requisition shall be satisfied by the performance of the act by an authorized
agent or deputy.
   (C)   Gender; singular and plural; tenses. Words denoting the masculine
gender shall be deemed to include the feminine and neuter genders; words in the
singular shall include the plural, and words in the plural shall include the
singular; the use of a verb in the present tense shall include the future, if
applicable.
   (D)   General term. A general term following specific enumeration of terms
is not to be limited to the class enumerated unless expressly so limited.
§ 10.07 SEVERABILITY.
   If any provision of this code as now or later amended or its application to
any person or circumstance is held invalid, the invalidity does not affect
other provisions that can be given effect without the invalid provision or
application.
§ 10.08 REFERENCE TO OTHER SECTIONS.
   Whenever a section refers to another section hereof, that reference shall
extend and apply to the section referred to as subsequently amended, revised,
recodified or renumbered unless the subject matter is materially altered by the
amendment or revision.
§ 10.09 REFERENCE TO OFFICES.
   Reference to a public office or officer shall be deemed to apply to any
office, officer or employee of the village exercising the powers, duties or
functions contemplated in the provision, irrespective of any transfer of
functions or change in the official title of the functionary.
§ 10.10 ERRORS AND OMISSIONS.
   If a manifest error is discovered, consisting of the misspelling of any
words; the omission of any word or words necessary to express the intention of
the provisions affected; the use of a word or words to which no meaning can be
attached; or the use of a word or words when another word or words was clearly
intended to express the intent, the spelling shall be corrected and the word or
words supplied, omitted or substituted as will conform with the manifest
intention, and the provisions shall have the same effect as though the correct
words were contained in the text as originally published. No alteration shall
be made or permitted if any question exists regarding the nature or extent of
the error.
§ 10.11 OFFICIAL TIME.
   The official time, as established by applicable state/federal laws, shall be
the official time within the village for the transaction of all village
business.
§ 10.12 REASONABLE TIME.
   (A)   In all cases where an ordinance requires an act to be done in a
reasonable time or requires reasonable notice to be given, REASONABLE TIME OR
NOTICE shall be deemed to mean the time which is necessary for a prompt
performance of the act or the giving of the notice.
   (B)   The time within which an act is to be done, as herein provided, shall
be computed by excluding the first day and including the last. If the last day
is Sunday, it shall be excluded.
§ 10.13 ORDINANCES REPEALED.
   This code contains all of the provisions of a general nature pertaining to
the subjects enumerated and embraced in this code. All prior ordinances
pertaining to the subjects treated by this code are repealed, except that
nothing shall affect any rights acquired under, actions involving, or fines,
penalties, forfeitures or liabilities incurred pursuant to those ordinances
prior to repeal.
§ 10.14 ORDINANCES UNAFFECTED.
   (A)   All ordinances of a temporary or special nature and all other
ordinances pertaining to subjects not embraced in this code, including
ordinances specified in this section, shall remain in full force and effect
unless repealed expressly or by necessary implication:
      (1)   Vacating or setting the boundaries of streets, alleys or other
public places;
      (2)   Annexing or detaching territory;
      (3)   Granting or accepting easements, plats or dedication of land to
public use;
      (4)   Providing for the acquisition or conveyance of real or personal
property;
      (5)   Authorizing or directing public improvements to be made;
      (6)   Levying taxes or special assessments;
      (7)   Appropriating money;
      (8)   Granting franchises or special licenses; or
      (9)   Providing for the issuance of bonds or other instruments of
indebtedness.
   (B)   All ordinances not codified herein shall remain in full force and
effect unless repealed expressly.
§ 10.15 REPEAL OR MODIFICATION OF ORDINANCE.
   (A)   Whenever any ordinance or part of an ordinance is repealed or modified
by a subsequent ordinance, the ordinance or part of an ordinance thus repealed
or modified shall continue in force until the publication of the ordinance
repealing or modifying it to give effect thereto.
   (B)   No suit, proceedings, right, liability, fine, forfeiture or penalty
instituted, created, given, secured or accrued under any ordinance previous to
its repeal shall in any way be affected, released or discharged, but may be
prosecuted, enjoyed and recovered as fully as if the ordinance had continued in
force, unless it is otherwise expressly provided.
   (C)   When any ordinance repealing a former ordinance, clause or provision
is itself repealed, the repeal shall not be construed to revive the former
ordinance, clause or provision, unless it is expressly provided.
Statutory reference:
   Requirements for amendments and revisions, see Neb. RS 17-614
§ 10.16 SECTION HISTORIES; STATUTORY REFERENCES.
   (A)   A statutory cite included in the history indicates that the text of
the section reads substantially the same as the statute. Example: (Neb. RS 18-
132)
   (B)   A statutory cite set forth as a “statutory reference“ following the
text of the section indicates that the reader should refer to that statute for
further information. Example:
      § 39.01 PUBLIC RECORDS AVAILABLE.
         This municipality shall make available to any person for inspection or
copying all public records, unless otherwise exempted by state law.
      Statutory reference:
         Inspection of public records, see Neb. RS 84-712 et seq.
§ 10.17 LOCAL CHANGES TO THIS CODE OF ORDINANCES.
   Any provision of this code of ordinances may be repealed, modified or
superseded by an ordinance passed by the Village Board.
§ 10.99 GENERAL PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who violates any of the provisions of this village code,
unless otherwise specifically provided herein, shall be deemed guilty of an
offense and upon conviction thereof shall be fined in any sum not exceeding
$500. A new violation shall be deemed to have been committed every 24 hours of
failure to comply with the provisions of this code.
   (B)   (1)   Whenever a nuisance exists, as defined herein, the village may
proceed by a suit in equity to enjoin and abate the same, in the manner
provided by law.
      (2)   Whenever, in any action, it is established that a nuisance exists,
the court may, together with the fine or penalty imposed, enter an order of
abatement as a part of the judgment in the case.
   (C)   Unless otherwise specifically provided herein, any village code
violations which are the equivalent of state statute violations listed on the
waiver/fine schedule adopted by the Nebraska Supreme Court shall be waiverable
and carry the penalty so listed unless the schedule fine exceeds the maximum
allowed by village ordinance. Except for violations in which mandatory jail
time is required to be imposed as punishment, a waiver may be allowed for
violations not listed on the schedule in individual cases when authorized by
the county judge or judges of the county.
Statutory reference:
   Authority to abate nuisances, see Neb. RS 18-1720 and 18-1722
   Authority to impose fines, see Neb. RS 17-207 and 17-505
   Related provisions, see Supreme Court Rules § 6-1455
CHAPTER 11: VILLAGE STANDARDS
Section
   
11.01   Corporate seal
   
11.02   Municipal limits; original plats
§ 11.01 CORPORATE SEAL.
   The official corporate seal of the municipality shall be kept in the office
of the Municipal Clerk and shall bear the following inscription: “VILLAGE SEAL,
VILLAGE OF ELWOOD, GOSPER COUNTY, NEBRASKA”. The Municipal Clerk shall affix an
impression of the said official seal to all warrants, licenses, permits,
ordinances and all other official papers issued by order of the governing body
and countersigned by the Municipal Clerk.
(1995 Code, § 1-401)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-502
§ 11.02 MUNICIPAL LIMITS; ORIGINAL PLATS.
   (A)   Municipal limits; defined. All additions, lots, lands, subdivisions
and parcels of ground included within the official municipal map and plat on
file at the office of the county’s Register of Deeds, having been by act or
ordinance of the governing body or by law duly annexed to or made a part of the
municipality or having been by the act, authority, acquiescence, consent,
platting and dedication of their respective owners, created either as the
original townsite or as additions to the municipality are hereby declared, to
be within the corporate limits of the municipality, lawfully constituted
additions or changes in said municipal limits shall be indicated upon said maps
and plat by the governing body after such addition or changes have been
completed in accordance with the ordinances of this municipality and the laws
of the state.
(1995 Code, § 11-101)
   (B)   Municipal limits; original plats. Each and all plats, lots, blocks,
additions, subdivisions, outlots and parcels of ground included within the
corporate limits of the municipality and not vacated of record prior to the
enactment of this chapter, including the original plat of the municipality, are
hereby accepted, approved and confirmed as valid and each and all of said lots,
blocks, additions, subdivisions and outlots as heretofore platted and recorded
in the office of the county’s Register of Deeds and not heretofore vacated and
all other parcels of ground, included within said corporate limits, are hereby
declared to be within said municipality and an integral part thereof.
(1995 Code, § 11-102)
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
   Chapter
      
30.   BOARD OF TRUSTEES
      
31.   OFFICIALS AND EMPLOYEES
      
32.   ORGANIZATIONS
      
33.   ELECTIONS
      
34.   FISCAL MANAGEMENT; FEES
      
35.   ORDINANCES, FORMS AND LEGISLATION
CHAPTER 30: BOARD OF TRUSTEES
Section
Governing Body
   
30.01   Governing body; members
   
30.02   Organization
   
30.03   Chairperson
   
30.04   Powers and duties
   
30.05   Vacancy
Meetings
   
30.20   Meeting place
   
30.21   Order of business
   
30.22   Change in office
   
30.23   Reorganizational meeting
GOVERNING BODY
§ 30.01 GOVERNING BODY; MEMBERS.
   (A)   The corporate powers and duties of the village shall be vested in the
Board of Trustees, which shall consist of five members. At the first statewide
general election held after the incorporation of the village, two Trustees
shall be elected to serve two years and three Trustees shall be elected to
serve four years. Thereafter, the Board members shall be elected as provided in
the Election Act. The terms shall begin on the first regular meeting of the
Board in December following the statewide general election.
(Neb. RS 17-202)
   (B)   The members of the Board of Trustees shall be elected at the statewide
general election as provided in division (A) above and each four years
thereafter. Except as provided in that division (A) above, the term of each
Board member shall be four years or until his or her successor is elected and
qualified.
(Neb. RS 32-532)
   (C)   Any person may be a Trustee who is a citizen of the United States,
resides in the village and is a registered voter.
(Neb. RS 17-203)
   (D)   Unless the village provides otherwise, members of the Board of
Trustees shall be elected from the village at large on a non-partisan ballot.
   (E)   The Board of Trustees shall determine whether the person meets all
requirements before swearing in a Trustee.
(Neb. RS 32-602)
(1995 Code, § 1-101)
Statutory reference:
   Ability to elect Trustees at large or by ward, see Neb. RS 32-554
   Ability to provide for a partisan ballot, see Neb. RS 32-557
   Election Act, see Neb. RS 32-101
   Holding other office or employment, see Neb. RS 17-209.02 and 32-604
§ 30.02 ORGANIZATION.
   (A)   Every Trustee, before entering upon the duties of his or her office,
shall take an oath to support the Constitution of the United States and the
Constitution of the state and faithfully and impartially to discharge the
duties of his or her office.
   (B)   All Trustees elected to office shall qualify and meet on the first
regular meeting of the Board of Trustees in December thereafter, organize,
elect a Chairperson of the Board and appoint the officers required by law.
   (C)   The Board of Trustees shall, by ordinance, fix the time and place of
holding its stated meetings and may be convened at any time by the Chairperson.
(Neb. RS 17-204) (1995 Code, § 1-102)
Statutory reference:
   Oath, see Neb. RS 11-101
§ 30.03 CHAIRPERSON.
   (A)   The Chairperson shall preside at all meetings of the Board of Trustees
and perform all duties of his or her office in accordance with the laws of the
state and the ordinances of the village.
   (B)   The Chairperson of the Board of Trustees shall cause the ordinances of
the Board to be printed and published for the information of the inhabitants
and cause the same to be carried into effect. In the absence of the Chairperson
from any meeting of the Board, the Board shall have power to appoint a
Chairperson pro tempore, who shall exercise and have the powers and perform the
same duties as the regular Chairperson.
(Neb. RS 17-210)
   (C)   The Chairperson and the Chairperson pro tempore shall have the same
powers and privileges as other members of the Board of Trustees.
(1995 Code, § 1-103)
§ 30.04 POWERS AND DUTIES.
   (A)   The Board of Trustees shall have the power to pass ordinances to
prevent and remove nuisances within the village or within its one-mile zoning
jurisdiction; to restrain and prohibit gambling; to provide for licensing and
regulating theatrical and other amusements within the village; to prevent the
introduction and spread of contagious diseases; to establish and regulate
markets; to erect and repair bridges; to erect, repair and regulate wharves and
the rates of wharfage; to regulate the landing of watercraft; to provide for
the inspection of building materials to be used or offered for sale in the
village; to govern the planting and protection of shade trees in the streets
and the building of structures projecting upon or over and adjoining, and all
excavations through and under, the sidewalks of the village; and, in addition
to the special powers herein conferred and granted, to maintain the peace, good
government and welfare of the village and its trade, commerce and
manufactories; and to enforce all ordinances by inflicting penalties upon
inhabitants or other persons for violation thereof not exceeding $500 for any
one offense, recoverable with costs.
(Neb. RS 17-207)
   (B)   The village has the power and authority by ordinance to define,
regulate, suppress and prevent nuisances, and to declare what constitutes a
nuisance, and to abate and remove the same. The village may exercise this power
and authority within its zoning jurisdiction.
(Neb. RS 18-1720)
(1995 Code, § 1-104)
§ 30.05 VACANCY.
   (A)   (1)   Every elective office shall be vacant upon the happening of any
of the events specified in Neb. RS 32-560, except as provided in Neb. RS 32-
561.
      (2)   (a)   Except as otherwise provided in divisions (A)(3) or (A)(4)
below, vacancies in village elected offices shall be filled by the Board of
Trustees for the balance of the unexpired term. Notice of a vacancy, except a
vacancy resulting from the death of the incumbent, shall be in writing and
presented to the Board at a regular or special meeting and shall appear as a
part of the minutes of that meeting. The Board shall at once give public notice
of the vacancy by causing to be published in a newspaper of general circulation
within the village or by posting in three public places in the village the
office vacated and the length of the unexpired term.
         (b)   The Chairperson of the Board shall call a special meeting of the
Board or place the issue of filling the vacancy on the agenda at the next
regular meeting at which time the Chairperson shall submit the name of a
qualified registered voter to fill the vacancy for the balance of the unexpired
term. The regular or special meeting shall occur upon the death of the
incumbent, or within four weeks after the meeting at which such notice of
vacancy has been presented. The Board shall vote upon the nominee, and if a
majority votes in favor of the nominee, the vacancy shall be declared filled.
If the nominee fails to receive a majority of the votes, the nomination shall
be rejected and the Chairperson shall, at the next regular or special meeting,
submit the name of another qualified registered voter to fill the vacancy. If
the subsequent nominee fails to receive a majority of the votes, the
Chairperson shall continue at that meeting to submit the names of qualified
registered voters in nomination and the Board shall continue to vote upon the
nominations at such meeting until the vacancy is filled. All Trustees present
shall cast a ballot for or against the nominee. Any member of the Board who has
been appointed to fill a vacancy on the Board shall have the same rights,
including voting, as if that person were elected.
      (3)   The Chairperson and Board of Trustees may, in lieu of filling a
vacancy in a village elected office as provided in division (A)(2) above, call
a special election to fill that vacancy.
      (4)   If vacancies exist in the offices of one-half or more of the
members of the Board of Trustees, the Secretary of State shall conduct a
special village election to fill those vacancies.
(Neb. RS 32-569)
   (B)   (1)   In addition to the events listed in Neb. RS 32-560 and any other
reasons for a vacancy provided by law, after notice and a hearing, a vacancy on
the Board of Trustees shall exist if a member is absent from more than five
consecutive regular meetings of the Board unless the absences are excused by a
majority vote of the remaining members.
(Neb. RS 19-3101)
      (2)   The Board shall take a vote on whether to excuse a member’s absence
from a meeting upon either:
         (a)   A written request from the member submitted to the Village
Clerk; or
         (b)   A motion of any other Board member.
      (3)   If a member has been absent from six consecutive regular meetings
and none of the absences have been excused by a majority vote of the remaining
members, the Clerk shall include this as an item on the agenda for the next
regular meeting. At that meeting, the Board shall set a date for a hearing and
direct the Clerk to give the member notice of the hearing by personal service
or first class mail to the member’s last known address.
      (4)   At the hearing, the Board member shall have the right to present
information on why one or more of the absences should be excused. If the Board
does not excuse one or more of the member’s absences by a majority vote at the
conclusion of the hearing, there shall be a vacancy on the Board.
(1995 Code, § 1-105)
Statutory reference:
   Additional and similar provisions, see Neb. RS 32-560 through 32-572
   Ineligibility of official subjected to recall, see Neb. RS 32-1308
MEETINGS
§ 30.20 MEETING PLACE.
   The meetings of the governing body shall be held in the meeting place of the
municipality. Regular meetings shall be held on the second Wednesday of each
month at the hour of 7:00 p.m. Special meetings may be called by the Board
Chairperson or by a majority of the governing body, the object of which shall
be submitted to the governing body members in writing. The call and object, as
well as the disposition thereof, shall be entered upon the journal by the
Municipal Clerk. No other business shall be transacted at such meeting unless
all members of the governing body are present and consent thereto. On filing
the call for a special meeting, the Municipal Clerk shall notify the governing
body of the special meeting, stating the time and its purpose. Notice of a
special meeting need not be given to a member of the governing body who is
known to be out of the state or physically unable to be present. A majority of
the members of the governing body shall constitute a quorum for the transaction
of business, but a smaller number may adjourn from day to day and compel the
attendance of the absent members; provided that, on the request of any two
members, whether a quorum is present or not, all absent members shall be sent
for and compelled to attend. At the hour appointed for the meeting, the
Municipal Clerk shall proceed to call the roll of members and announce whether
a quorum is present. If a quorum is present, the governing body shall be called
to order by the Board Chairperson.
(1995 Code, § 1-510)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-204, 17-205, 17-210
§ 30.21 ORDER OF BUSINESS.
   All meetings of the governing body shall be open to the public. Promptly at
the hour set by law on the day of each regular meeting, the members of the
governing body, the Municipal Clerk and such other municipal officials that may
be required shall take their regular stations in the meeting place and the
business of the municipality shall be taken up for consideration and
disposition in the manner prescribed by the official agenda on file at the
office of the Municipal Clerk.
(1995 Code, § 1-511)
§ 30.22 CHANGE IN OFFICE.
   The Chairperson and governing body shall meet at 7:00 p.m., on the second
Wednesday in December in each election year and the outgoing officers and the
outgoing members of the governing body shall present their reports and, upon
the old Board having completed its business, the outgoing members of said Board
shall surrender their offices to the incoming members and the outgoing officers
shall thereupon each surrender to his or her successor in office all property,
records, papers and moneys belonging to the same.
(1995 Code, § 1-512)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-203.01
§ 30.23 REORGANIZATIONAL MEETING.
    The newly elected Board shall convene at the regular place of meeting on
the second Wednesday of December in each election year immediately after the
prior Board adjourns and proceed to organize themselves for the ensuing year.
The Chairperson pro tempore shall call the meeting to order. The Board shall
then proceed to examine the credentials of its members and other elective
officers of the municipality to see that each has been duly and properly
elected and to see that such oaths and bonds have been given as are required.
After ascertaining that all members and officers are fully qualified, the Board
shall then elect one of its own body who shall be styled as Chairperson of the
governing body. The Chairperson shall then nominate his or her candidates for
appointive offices and said offices shall hold office until their successors
are duly appointed and qualified. He or she shall then proceed with the regular
order of business. It is hereby made the duty of each and every member of the
Board or of its successors in office and of each officer hereafter elected to
any office to qualify prior to the second Wednesday in December following the
election, each officer elected at the regular municipal election shall take
possession of his or her office. Each appointive officer who is required to
give bond shall qualify by filing the required bond, approved by the governing
body, in the office of the Municipal Clerk within two weeks from the date of
his or her said appointment; provided, on said bond shall be endorsed the same
oath as required of a member of the governing body. Failure to qualify by
elective or appointive officers within the time and manner provided in this
section shall and does in itself create a vacancy in the office to which said
person failing to qualify shall have been elected or appointed.
(1995 Code, § 1-513)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-203.01
CHAPTER 31: OFFICIALS AND EMPLOYEES
Section
General Provisions
   
31.01   Bonds; form
   
31.02   Oath of office; village officials
   
31.03   Compensation
   
31.04   Conflict of interest
   
31.05   Members of the Village Board of Trustees; compensation
Appointed Officials
   
31.15   General authority
   
31.16   Merger of offices
   
31.17   Municipal Clerk
   
31.18   Municipal Treasurer
   
31.19   Special Engineer
   
31.20   Municipal Solid Waste Commissioner
   
31.21   Municipal Street Commissioner
   
31.22   Municipal Utilities Superintendent
   
31.23   Municipal Attorney
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 31.01 BONDS; FORM.
   (A)   The village may enact ordinances or bylaws to require from all
officers and servants, elected or appointed, bonds and security or evidence of
equivalent insurance for the faithful performance of their duties. The village
may pay the premium for such bonds or insurance coverage.
(Neb. RS 17-604)
   (B)   (1)   All official bonds of officers of the village shall be in form
joint and several and made payable to the village in such penalty as the Board
of Trustees may fix.
      (2)   In place of the individual bonds required to be furnished by
municipal officers, a schedule, position, blanket bond or undertaking, or
evidence of equivalent insurance may be given by municipal officers, or a
single corporate surety fidelity, schedule, position or blanket bond or
undertaking, or evidence of insurance coverage covering all the officers,
including officers required by law to furnish an individual bond or
undertaking, may be furnished. The municipality may pay the premium for the
bond or insurance coverage. The bond or insurance coverage shall be, at a
minimum, an aggregate of the amounts fixed by law or by the Board of Trustees,
and with such terms and conditions as may be required.
(Neb. RS 11-104)
      (3)   The penalty amount on any bond shall not fall below the legal
minimum, when one has been set by the state, for each particular official.
   (C)   (1)   Official bonds, with the oath endorsed thereon, shall be filed
in the Village Clerk’s office within the following time:
         (a)    Of all officers elected at any general election, following
receipt of their election certificate and not later than ten days before the
first Thursday after the first Tuesday in January next succeeding the election;
         (b)   Of all appointed officers, within 30 days after their
appointment; and
         (c)   Of officers elected at any special election and village
officers, within 30 days after the canvass of the votes of the election at
which they were chosen.
      (2)   The filing of the bond with the oath endorsed thereon does not
authorize a person to take any official action prior to the beginning of his or
her term of office pursuant to Art. XVII, § 5, of the Constitution of the
state.
(Neb. RS 11-105)
   (D)   All official bonds of village officers shall be executed by the
principal named in such bonds and by at least two sufficient sureties who shall
be freeholders of the county in which such bonds are given, or any official
bond of a village officer may be executed by the officer as principal and by a
guaranty, surety, fidelity or bonding company as surety, or by two or more such
companies. Only such companies as are legally authorized to transact business
in the state shall be eligible to suretyship on the bond of a village officer.
(Neb. RS 11-109)
   (E)   The Village Clerk shall carefully record and preserve the bonds in his
or her office and shall give certified copies thereof, when required, under the
seal of his or her office, and shall be entitled to receive for the same the
usual fee allowed by law for certified copies of records in other cases.
(Neb. RS 11-110)
   (F)   (1)   The approval of each official bond shall be endorsed upon such
bond by the officer approving the same, and no bond shall be filed and recorded
until so approved.
(Neb. RS 11-111)
      (2)   No bond shall be deemed to be given or complete until the approval
of the Board of Trustees and all sureties are endorsed in writing on the
instrument by the Chairperson and Village Clerk pursuant to the approval of the
Board of Trustees.
   (G)   All official bonds shall obligate the principal and sureties for the
faithful discharge of all duties required by law of such principal and shall
inure to the benefit of any persons injured by a breach of the conditions of
such bonds.
(Neb. RS 11-112)
   (H)   No official bond shall be rendered void by reason of any informality
of irregularity in its execution or approval.
(Neb. RS 11-113)
   (I)   No village official shall be taken as security on the bond of any
administrator, executor or other officer from whom by law bond is or may be
required.
(Neb. RS 11-114)
   (J)   (1)   If any person elected or appointed to any office neglects to
have his or her official bond executed and approved as provided by law and
filed for record within the time limited by this section, the Village Clerk
shall immediately issue an order to such person to show cause why he or she has
failed to properly file such bond and why his or her office should not be
declared vacant.
      (2)   If such person properly files the official bond within ten days of
the issuance of the show cause order for appointed officials or before the date
for taking office for elected officials, such filing shall be deemed to be in
compliance with this section.
      (3)   If such person does not file the bond within ten days of the
issuance of such order for appointed officials or before the date for taking
office for elected officials and sufficient cause is not shown within that
time, his or her office shall thereupon ipso facto become vacant and such
vacancy shall thereupon immediately be filled by election or appointment as the
law may direct in other cases of vacancy in the same office.
(Neb. RS 11-115)
   (K)   Any person appointed to fill a vacancy, before entering upon the
duties of the office, must give a bond corresponding in substance and form with
the bond required of the officer originally elected or appointed, as herein
provided.
(Neb. RS 11-116)
   (L)   (1)   When the incumbent of an office is reelected or reappointed, he
or she shall qualify by taking the oath and giving the bond as above directed,
but when such officer has had public funds or property in his or her control,
his or her bond shall not be approved until he or she has produced and fully
accounted for such funds and property.
      (2)   When it is ascertained that the incumbent of an office holds over
by reason of the non- election or non-appointment of a successor or of the
neglect or refusal of the successor to qualify, he or she shall qualify anew
within ten days from the time at which his or her successor, if elected, should
have qualified.
(Neb. RS 11-117)
   (M)   No person shall be surety for the same officer for more than two
successive terms of the same office, but this provision shall not apply to
incorporated surety companies.
(Neb. RS 11-118)
   (N)   (1)   If the sureties on the official bond of any appointed officer of
the village, in the opinion of the Board of Trustees, become insufficient, the
Board may, by resolution, fix a reasonable time within which the officer may
give a new bond or additional sureties as directed.
      (2)   If the officer fails, refuses or neglects to give a new bond or
additional sureties to the satisfaction and approval of the Board, the office
shall, by such failure, refusal or neglect, become vacant and it shall be the
duty of the Board to appoint a competent and qualified person to fill the
office.
(1995 Code, § 1-301)
§ 31.02 OATH OF OFFICE; VILLAGE OFFICIALS.
   (A)   All officials of the village, whether elected or appointed, except
when a different oath is specifically provided herein, shall before entering
upon their respective duties take and subscribe the following oath, which shall
be endorsed upon their respective bonds:
      “I,                                                             , do
solemnly swear that I will support the constitution of the United States and
the constitution of the State of Nebraska, against all enemies foreign and
domestic; that I will bear true faith and allegiance to the same; that I take
this obligation freely and without mental reservation or for the purpose of
evasion; and that I will faithfully and impartially perform the duties of the
office of                                                 , according to law
and to the best of my ability. And I do further swear that I do not advocate
nor am I a member of any political party or organization that advocates the
overthrow of the government of the United States or of this state by force or
violence; and that during such time as I am in this position I will not
advocate nor become a member of any political party or organization that
advocates the overthrow of the government of the United States or of this state
by force or violence. So help me God.”
   (B)   If any such officer is not required to give bond, the oath shall be
filed with the Village Clerk.
(Neb. RS 11-101) (1995 Code, § 1-302)
§ 31.03 COMPENSATION.
   (A)   The appointive officials and other employees of the village shall
receive such compensation as the Board of Trustees shall designate by
ordinance; and the annual salary of the Chairperson and other members of the
Board of Trustees shall be fixed by ordinance.
(Neb. RS 17-209)
   (B)   Trustees may perform and upon Board approval receive compensation for
seasonal or emergency work subject hereto.
(Neb. RS 17-209.02)
   (C)   The village may enact ordinances or bylaws to regulate and prescribe
the compensation of officers not provided for in state law.
(Neb. RS 17-604)
   (D)   No officer shall receive any pay or perquisites from the village other
than his or her salary. The Board of Trustees shall not pay or appropriate any
money or other valuable thing to any person not an officer for the performance
of any act, service or duty, the doing or performance of which shall come
within the proper scope of the duties of any officer of the village.
(Neb. RS 17-611)
   (E)   The emoluments of any elective officer shall not be increased or
diminished during the term for which he or she shall have been elected, except
when there has been a combination and merger of offices as provided herein;
except that, when there are officers elected to the Board of Trustees, or any
other board or commission having more than one member and the terms of one or
more members commence and end at different times, the compensation of all
members of such board or commission may be increased or diminished at the
beginning of the full term of any member thereof. No person who shall have
resigned or vacated any office shall be eligible to the same during the time
for which he or she was elected if during the same time the emoluments thereof
were increased.
(Neb. RS 17-612)
(1995 Code, § 1-901)
§ 31.04 CONFLICT OF INTEREST.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      BUSINESS ASSOCIATION.
         (a)   A business:
            1.   In which the individual is a partner, limited liability
company member, director or officer; or
            2.   In which the individual or a member of the individual’s
immediate family is a stockholder of closed corporation stock worth $1,000 or
more at fair market value or which represents more than a 5% equity interest or
is a stockholder of publicly traded stock worth $10,000 or more at fair market
value or which represents more than 10% equity interest.
         (b)   An individual who occupies a confidential professional
relationship protected by law shall be exempt from this definition. This
definition shall not apply to publicly traded stock under a trading account if
the filer reports the name and address of the stockbroker.
(Neb. RS 49-1408)
      IMMEDIATE FAMILY. A child residing in an individual’s household, a spouse
of an individual or an individual claimed by that individual or that
individual’s spouse as a dependent for federal income tax purposes.
(Neb. RS 49-1425)
      OFFICER.
         (a)   Includes:
            1.   A member of any board or commission of the village which
spends and administers its own funds, who is dealing with a contract made by
that board or commission; or
            2.   Any elected village official.
         (b)   OFFICER does not mean volunteer firefighters or ambulance
drivers with respect to their duties as firefighters or ambulance drivers.
   (B)   (1)   Except as provided in Neb. RS 49-1499.04 or 70-624.04, no
officer may have an interest in any contract to which his or her governing
body, or anyone for its benefit, is a party. The existence of such an interest
in any contract shall render the contract voidable by decree of a court of
competent jurisdiction as to any person who entered into the contract or took
assignment of the contract with actual knowledge of the prohibited conflict. An
action to have a contract declared void under this section may be brought by
the county’s Attorney, the governing body or any resident within the
jurisdiction of the governing body, and shall be brought within one year after
the contract is signed or assigned. The decree may provide for the
reimbursement of any person for the reasonable value of all money, goods,
material, labor or services furnished under the contract, to the extent that
the governing body has benefitted thereby.
      (2)   The prohibition in this division (B) shall apply only when the
officer or his or her parent, spouse or child:
         (a)   Has a business association with the business involved in the
contract; or
         (b)   Will receive a direct pecuniary fee or commission as a result of
the contract.
   (C)   Division (B) above does not apply if the contract is an agenda item
approved at a meeting of the governing body and the interested officer:
      (1)   Makes a declaration on the record to the governing body responsible
for approving the contract regarding the nature and extent of his or her
interest prior to official consideration of the contract;
      (2)   Does not vote on the matters of granting the contract, making
payments pursuant to the contract, or accepting performance of work under the
contract, or similar matters relating to the contract, except that if the
number of members of the governing body declaring an interest in the contract
would prevent the body with all members present from securing a quorum on the
issue, then all members may vote on the matters; and
      (3)   Does not act for the governing body which is a party to the
contract as to inspection or performance under the contract in which he or she
has an interest.
   (D)   An officer who has no business association with the business involved
in the contract, or will not receive a direct pecuniary fee or commission as a
result of the contract, shall not be deemed to have an interest within the
meaning of this section.
   (E)   The receiving of deposits, cashing of checks and buying and selling of
warrants and bonds of indebtedness of any such governing body by a financial
institution shall not be considered a contract for purposes of this section.
The ownership of less than 5% of the outstanding shares of a corporation shall
not constitute an interest within the meaning of this section.
   (F)   If an officer’s parent, spouse or child is an employee of the
officer’s governing body, the officer may vote on all issues of the contract
which are generally applicable to all employees, or all employees within a
classification, and do not single out his or her parent, spouse or child for
special action.
   (G)   Neb. RS 49-14,102 does not apply to contracts covered by this section.
(Neb. RS 49-14,103.01)
   (H)   (1)   The person charged with keeping records for the governing body
shall maintain separately from other records a ledger containing the
information listed in divisions (H)(1)(a) through (H)(1)(e) below about every
contract entered into by the governing body in which an officer of the body has
an interest and for which disclosure is made pursuant to division (C) above.
This information shall be kept in the ledger for five years from the date of
the officer’s last day in office and shall include:
         (a)   The names of the contracting parties;
         (b)   The nature of the interest of the officer in question;
         (c)   The date that the contract was approved by the governing body;
         (d)   The amount of the contract; and
         (e)   The basic terms of the contract.
      (2)   The information supplied relative to the contract shall be provided
no later than ten days after the contract has been signed by both parties. The
ledger kept pursuant to this division (H) shall be available for public
inspection during the normal working hours of the office in which it is kept.
(Neb. RS 49-14,103.02)
   (I)   An open account established for the benefit of any governing body with
a business in which an officer has an interest shall be deemed a contract
subject to this section. The statement required to be filed by division (H)
above shall be filed within ten days after the account is opened. Thereafter,
the person charged with keeping records for the governing body shall maintain a
running account of amounts purchased on the open account. Purchases made from
petty cash or a petty cash fund shall not be subject to this section.
(Neb. RS 49-14,103.03)
   (J)   Notwithstanding divisions (A) through (I) above, the governing body
may prohibit contracts over a specific dollar amount in which an officer of the
governing body may have an interest.
(Neb. RS 49-14,103.05)
   (K)   The governing body may exempt from divisions (A) through (I) above,
contracts involving $100 or less in which an officer of that body may have an
interest.
(Neb. RS 49-14,103.06)
(1995 Code, § 1-902)
Statutory reference:
   Other provisions on conflicts of interest, see Neb. RS 18-305 through 18-312
and 49-1499.03 through 49-14,103
   Penalty for violation of restrictions on contracts, see Neb. RS 49-14,103.04
§ 31.05 MEMBERS OF THE VILLAGE BOARD OF TRUSTEES; COMPENSATION.
   (A)   The compensation for the Chairperson of the village shall be $1,800
annually. Said compensation shall be paid monthly at each regular board
meeting.
   (B)   The compensation for the Trustees of the Board of Trustees of the
village shall be $900 annually. Said compensation shall be paid monthly at each
regular board meeting.
   (C)   The compensation for any Trustee of the Board of Trustees of the
village, including the chairperson, who attends an out of town meeting, shall
be $50 per day.
   (D)   This section shall take effect for the Chairperson and Trustees at the
beginning of the full term of the new members in December 2020.
(Ord. 2020-06, passed 12-9-2020)
APPOINTED OFFICIALS
§ 31.15 GENERAL AUTHORITY.
   (A)   (1)   The Board of Trustees may appoint a Village Clerk, Treasurer,
Attorney, Overseer of the Streets, Marshal or Chief of Police, and other such
officers as shall be required by ordinance or otherwise required by law.
Pursuant to division (A)(2) below, the Village Marshal or Chief of Police or
any other police officer may appeal to the Village Board his or her removal,
demotion or suspension with or without pay. After a hearing, the Village Board
may uphold, reverse or modify the action.
      (2)   The Village Board of Trustees shall, by ordinance, adopt rules and
regulations governing the removal, demotion or suspension with or without pay
of any police officer, including the Village Marshal or Chief of Police, in
accordance with the requirements of Neb. RS 17-208. Nothing in this section
shall be construed to prevent the preemptory suspension or immediate removal
from duty of an officer by the appropriate authority, pending the hearing
authorized by this section, in cases of gross misconduct, neglect of duty or
disobedience of orders.
      (3)   Division (A)(2) above does not apply to a police officer during his
or her probationary period.
   (B)   The Village Clerk, Treasurer, Attorney, Overseer of the Streets,
members of the Board of Health and other appointed officers, except regular
police officers, shall hold office for one year unless removed by the
Chairperson of the Village Board with the advice and consent of the Trustees.
(Neb. RS 17-208)
   (C)   (1)   The village may enact ordinances or bylaws to regulate and
prescribe the powers and duties of officers not provided for in state law.
(Neb. RS 17-604)
      (2)   If the Board of Trustees appoints any of the officials specified in
this chapter or any other officials, the officials shall have the powers and
duties, if any, provided in this chapter or as otherwise provided by village
ordinances and state law.
(1995 Code, § 1-201)
§ 31.16 MERGER OF OFFICES.
   (A)   The Board of Trustees may, by ordinance, combine and merge any
elective or appointive office or employment or any combination of duties of any
such offices or employments, except Trustee, with any other elective or
appointive office or employment so that one or more of such offices or
employments or any combination of duties of any such offices or employments may
be held by the same officer or employee at the same time; except that, trustees
may perform and, upon Board approval, receive compensation for seasonal or
emergency work subject to Neb. RS 49-14,103.01 to 49-14,103.06. The offices or
employments so merged and combined shall always be construed to be separate and
the effect of the combination or merger shall be limited to a consolidation of
official duties only. The salary or compensation of the officer or employee
holding the merged and combined offices or employments or offices and
employments shall not be in excess of the maximum amount provided by law for
the salary or compensation of the office, offices, employment or employments so
merged and combined.
   (B)   For purposes of this section, volunteer firefighters and ambulance
drivers shall not be considered officers.
(Neb. RS 17-209.02) (1995 Code, § 1-202)
§ 31.17 MUNICIPAL CLERK.
   (A)   The Village Clerk shall have the custody of all laws and ordinances
and shall keep a correct journal of the proceedings of the Board of Trustees.
After the period of time specified by the State Records Administrator pursuant
to the Records Management Act, the Clerk may transfer the journal of the
proceedings of the Board of Trustees to the State Archives of the state’s
Historical Society for permanent preservation. The Clerk shall also perform
such other duties as may be required by the ordinances of the village.
(Neb. RS 17-605)
   (B)   (1)   It shall be the duty of the Clerk to prepare and publish the
official proceedings of the Board of Trustees within 30 days after any meeting
of the Board. The publication shall be in a newspaper of general circulation in
the village, shall set forth a statement of the proceedings of the meeting and
shall also include the amount of each claim allowed, the purpose of the claim
and the name of the claimant; except that, the aggregate amount of all payroll
claims may be included as one item. Between July 15 and August 15 of each year,
the employee job titles and the current annual, monthly or hourly salaries
corresponding to such job titles shall be published. Each job title published
shall be descriptive and indicative of the duties and functions of the
position. The charge for the publication shall not exceed the rates provided
for in Neb. RS 23-122.
(Neb. RS 19-1102)
      (2)   Publication under division (B)(1) above shall be made in one legal
newspaper of general circulation in the village. If no legal newspaper is
published in the village, then the publication shall be made in one legal
newspaper published or of general circulation within the county in which the
village is located. The cost of publication shall be paid out of the general
funds of the village.
(Neb. RS 19-1103)
   (C)   The Clerk shall dispose of or destroy village public records when the
records have been determined to be of no further legal, administrative, fiscal
or historical value by the state’s Records Administrator pursuant to Neb. RS
84-1201 through 84-1220; provided, the provisions of this division (C) shall
not apply to the minutes of the Clerk and the permanent ordinance and
resolution books, or any other record classified as permanent by the state’s
Records Administrator.
(Neb. RS 18-1701)
   (D)   (1)   The Clerk shall permit any person to examine and copy the public
records in the Clerk’s custody, and may charge a fee for providing copies of a
public record, as provided in Neb. RS 84-712 through 84-712.09.
      (2)   The Clerk may charge a reasonable fee for certified copies of any
record in his or her office as set by resolution of the Board of Trustees.
   (E)   The Clerk shall permit no records, public papers or other documents of
the village kept and preserved in his or her office to be taken therefrom,
except by such officers of the village as may be entitled to the use of the
same, but only upon their leaving a receipt therefor, and except pursuant to
Neb. RS 84-712(2). He or she shall keep all the records of his or her office,
including a record of all licenses issued by him or her, in a blank book with a
proper index. He or she shall include as part of his or her records all
petitions under which the Board of Trustees shall order public work to be done
at the expense of the property fronting thereon, together with references to
all resolutions and ordinances relating to the same. He or she shall endorse
the date and hour of filing upon every paper or document so filed in his or her
office. All such filings made by him or her shall be properly docketed.
Included in his or her records shall be all standard codes, amendments thereto
and other documents incorporated by reference and arranged in triplicate in a
manner convenient for reference. He or she shall keep an accurate and complete
account of the appropriation of the several funds and draw, sign and attest all
warrants ordered for the payment of money on the particular fund from which the
same is payable. At the end of each month, he or she shall then make a report
of the amounts appropriated to the various funds and the amount of the warrants
drawn thereon.
   (F)   The Clerk shall deliver all warrants, ordinances and resolutions under
his or her charge to the Chairperson for his or her signature. He or she shall
also deliver to officers, employees and committees all resolutions and
communications which are directed at such officers, employees or committees.
With the seal of the village, he or she shall duly attest the Chairperson’s
signature to all ordinances, deeds and papers required to be attested to when
ordered to do so by the Board of Trustees.
   (G)   The Clerk shall issue and sign all licenses, permits and occupation
tax receipts authorized by law and required by the village ordinances. He or
she shall collect all occupation taxes and license money, except where some
other village officer is specifically charged with that duty. He or she shall
keep a register of all licenses granted in the village and the purpose for
which they have been issued.
   (H)   The Clerk shall keep in a book with a proper index, copies of all
notices required to be published or posted by the Clerk by order of the Board
of Trustees or under the ordinances of the village. To each of the file copies
of the notices shall be attached the printer’s affidavit of publication, if the
notices are required to be published or the Clerk’s certificate under seal
where the same are required to be posted only.
   (I)   The Clerk shall receive all objections to creation of paving districts
and other street improvements. He or she shall receive the claims of any person
against the village, and in the event that the claim is disallowed in part or
in whole, the Clerk shall notify the claimant or his or her agent or attorney
by letter within five days after the disallowance, and the Clerk shall then
prepare transcripts on appeals of any disallowance of a claim in all proper
cases.
(1995 Code, § 1-203)
§ 31.18 MUNICIPAL TREASURER.
   (A)   (1)   The Village Treasurer shall be the custodian of all money
belonging to the village. He or she shall keep a separate account of each fund
or appropriation and the debts and credits belonging thereto. He or she shall
give every person paying money into the treasury a receipt therefor, specifying
the date of payment and on what account paid. He or she shall also file copies
of such receipts with his or her monthly reports. The Treasurer shall, at the
end of every month, and as often as may be required, render an account to the
Board of Trustees, under oath, showing the state of the treasury at the date of
such account and the balance of money in the treasury. He or she shall also
accompany such accounts with a statement of all receipts and disbursements,
together with all warrants redeemed and paid by him or her, which warrants,
with any and all vouchers held by him or her, shall be filed with his or her
account in the Village Clerk’s office. If the Treasurer fails to render his or
her account within 20 days after the end of the month, or by a later date
established by the Board of Trustees, the Chairperson, with the advice and
consent of the Board, may use this failure as cause to remove the Treasurer
from office.
      (2)   The Treasurer shall keep a record of all outstanding bonds against
the village, showing the number and amount of each bond, for and to whom the
bonds were issued, and the date upon which any bond is purchased, paid or
canceled. He or she shall accompany the annual statement submitted pursuant to
Neb. RS 19-1101 with a description of the bonds issued and sold in that year
and the terms of sale, with every item of expense thereof.
(Neb. RS 17-606)
   (B)   (1)   The Treasurer shall prepare and publish annually within 60 days
after the close of the village fiscal year a statement of the receipts and
expenditures of funds of the village for the preceding fiscal year. The
statement shall also include the information required by Neb. RS 17-606(2). Not
more than the legal rate provided for in Neb. RS 33-141 shall be charged and
paid for such publication.
(Neb. RS 19-1101)
      (2)   Publication shall be made in one legal newspaper of general
circulation in the village. If no legal newspaper is published in the village,
then such publication shall be made in one legal newspaper published or of
general circulation within the county in which the village is located.
(Neb. RS 19-1103)
   (C)   (1)   All warrants upon the Treasurer shall be paid in the order of
their presentation therefor and as otherwise provided in Neb. RS 77-2201
through 77-2215.
(Neb. RS 77-2201)
      (2)   The Treasurer shall keep a warrant register, which register shall
show in columns arranged for that purpose the number, the date, and the amount
of each warrant presented and registered, the particular fund upon which the
same is drawn, the date of presentation, the name and address of the person in
whose name the warrant is registered, the date of payment, the amount of
interest and the total amount paid thereon, with the date when notice to the
person in whose name such warrant is registered is mailed.
(Neb. RS 77-2202)
      (3)   The Treasurer shall make duplicate receipts for all sums which
shall be paid into his or her office, which receipts shall show the source from
which such funds are derived, and shall, by distinct lines and columns, show
the amount received to the credit of each separate fund, and whether the same
was paid in cash, in warrants or otherwise. The Treasurer shall deliver one of
the duplicates to the person making the payment and retain the other in his or
her office.
(Neb. RS 77-2209)
      (4)   The Treasurer shall daily, as money is received, foot the several
columns of the cash book and of the register, and carry the amounts forward,
and at the close of each year, in case the amount of money received by the
Treasurer is insufficient to pay the warrants registered, he or she shall close
the account for that year in the register and shall carry forward the excess.
(Neb. RS. 77-2210)
      (5)   The cash book, register and retained receipts of the Treasurer
shall, at all times, be open to the inspection of any person in whose name any
warrants are registered and unpaid.
(Neb. RS 77-2212)
   (D)   The Treasurer shall permit any person to examine and copy the public
records in the Treasurer’s custody, and may charge a fee for providing copies
of a public record, as provided in Neb. RS 84-712 through 84-712.09.
   (E)   The Treasurer shall keep all money belonging to the village separate
and distinct from his or her own money. He or she shall cancel all bonds,
coupons, warrants and other evidences of debt against the village, whenever
paid by him or her, by writing or stamping on the face thereof, “Paid by the
Village Treasurer”, with the date of payment written or stamped thereon. He or
she shall collect all special taxes, allocate special assessments to the
several owners and obtain from the County Treasurer a monthly report as to the
collection of delinquent taxes.
(1995 Code, §§ 1-204—1-206)
§ 31.19 SPECIAL ENGINEER.
   (A)   The Village Engineer shall, when requested by the Board of Trustees,
make estimates of the cost of labor and material which may be done or furnished
by contract with the village and make all surveys, estimates and calculations
necessary to be made for the establishment of grades, the building of culverts,
sewers, electric light system, waterworks, power plant, public heating system,
bridges, curbing and gutters, the improvement of streets, and the erection and
repair of buildings and shall perform such other duties as the Board may
require.
(Neb. RS 17-568.01)
   (B)   The Board of Trustees may, when they deem it expedient, employ a
special engineer to make, or assist in making, any estimate necessary or to
perform any other duty provided for in Neb. RS 17-568.01. Any work executed by
such special engineer shall have the same validity and serve in all respects as
though executed by the Village Engineer.
(Neb. RS 17-568)   
   (C)   The Village Engineer shall make a record of the minutes of his or her
surveys and of all work done for the village and, when directed by the Board of
Trustees, shall accurately make such plats, sections, profiles and maps as may
be necessary in the prosecution of any public work, which shall be public
records and belong to the village and be turned over to his or her successor.
(1995 Code, § 1-207)
Statutory reference:
   Duties related to areas to be annexed, see Neb. RS 17-405
   Duties related to sewerage systems, see Neb. RS 17-919
§ 31.20 MUNICIPAL SOLID WASTE COMMISSIONER.
   The Municipal Solid Waste Commissioner shall have the immediate control and
supervision of the operation, including collection and disposal, of all
garbage, refuse, waste and rubbish generated within the corporate limits,
subject to the general control and directives of the governing body. He or she
shall at least every six months make a detailed report to the governing body on
the status of the solid waste disposal system.
(1995 Code, § 1-208)
§ 31.21 MUNICIPAL STREET COMMISSIONER.
   The Municipal Street Commissioner shall, subject to the order and directives
of the governing body, have general charge, direction and control of all work
on the streets, sidewalks, culverts and bridges of the municipality and shall
perform such other duties as the governing body may require. It shall be his or
her responsibility to see that gutters and drains therein function properly and
that the same are kept in good repair. He or she shall, at the request of the
governing body, make a detailed report to the governing body on the condition
of the streets, sidewalks, culverts, alleys and bridges of the municipality and
shall direct their attention to such improvements, repairs, extensions,
additions and additional employees as he or she may believe are needed to
maintain a satisfactory street system in the municipality along with an
estimate of the cost thereof. He or she shall issue such permits and assume
such other duties as the governing body may direct.
(1995 Code, § 1-209)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-214
§ 31.22 MUNICIPAL UTILITIES SUPERINTENDENT.
   (A)   A Utilities Superintendent shall be appointed in the event that there
is more than one municipal utility and the governing body determines that it is
in the best interest of the municipality to appoint one official to have the
immediate control over all the said municipal utilities and municipal streets.
The Utilities Superintendent may be removed at any time by a majority vote of
the governing body. Any vacancy occurring in the said office by death,
resignation or removal may be filled in the manner hereinbefore provided for
the appointment of all municipal officials.
   (B)   The Utilities Superintendent’s duties over the following departments
shall be as stated herein.
      (1)   Water Department. He or she shall have general supervision and
control over the municipal water system and shall be primarily responsible for
its economic operation and prudent management. Included in the said water
system shall be the water plant, the pump house, all machinery and appliances
used in connection with producing and distributing water to inhabitants of the
municipality. All actions, decisions and procedures of the Utilities
Superintendent shall be subject to the general directives and control of the
governing body. The Utilities Superintendent shall have the general control and
supervisory authority over all employees of the water system which the
governing body may from time to time hire to operate and maintain the said
system. Unless some other official is specifically designated, he or she shall
collect all money received by the municipality on account of the said system of
water works and shall faithfully account for and pay over to the Municipal
Treasurer all such money collected in the name of the municipality and receive
a receipt from the Municipal Treasurer for the depository evidence of his or
her faithful discharge of this duty. This receipt shall be kept by the
Superintendent. He or she shall make a detailed report to the governing body at
least once every six months of the condition of the said water system of all
mains, pipes, hydrants, reservoirs and machinery and such improvements, repairs
and extension thereof as he or she may think proper. This report shall show the
amount of receipts and expenditures on account thereof for the preceding six
months. No money shall be expended for improvements, repairs, extensions of the
said waterworks system, except upon the recommendation of the Superintendent.
The Utilities Superintendent shall provide a bond conditioned upon the faithful
discharge of his or her duties which shall amount to not less than the amount
set by resolution of the governing body and on file in the office of the
Municipal Clerk. He or she shall perform such additional duties as may be
prescribed by the governing body.
      (2)   Sewer Department. He or she shall have general supervision and
control over the municipal sewer system and shall be primarily responsible for
its economic operation and prudent management. All actions, decisions and
procedures of the Utilities Superintendent shall be subject to the general
directives and control of the governing body. The Utilities Superintendent
shall have the general control and supervisory authority over all employees of
the sewer system which the governing body may from time to of the sewer system
which the governing body may from time to time hire to operate and maintain the
said system. Unless some other official is specifically designated, he or she
shall collect all money received by the municipality on account of the said
system of sewer works and shall faithfully account for and pay over to the
Municipal Treasurer all such money collected in the name of the municipality
and receive a receipt from the Municipal Treasurer for the depository evidence
of his or her faithful discharge of this duty. This receipt shall be kept by
the Superintendent. He or she shall make a detailed report to the governing
body at least once every six months of the condition of the said sewer system
of all mains, pipes, treatment facilities and machinery and such improvements,
repairs and extension thereof as he or she may think proper. This report shall
show the amount of receipts and expenditures on account thereof for the
preceding six months. No money shall be expended for improvements, repairs,
extensions of the said sewer works system except upon the recommendation of the
Superintendent. The Utilities Superintendent shall provide a bond conditioned
upon the faithful discharge of his or her duties which shall amount to not less
than the amount set by resolution of the governing body and on file in the
office of the Municipal Clerk. He or she shall perform such additional duties
as may be prescribed by the governing body.
(1995 Code, § 1-210)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-541
§ 31.23 MUNICIPAL ATTORNEY.
   (A)   The Village Attorney shall be the legal advisor of the Board of
Trustees. He or she shall commence, prosecute and defend all suits and actions
necessary to be commenced, prosecuted or defended on behalf of the village, or
that may be ordered by the Board. When requested, he or she shall attend
meetings of the Board and give them his or her opinion upon any matters
submitted to him or her, either orally or in writing, as may be required. He or
she shall draft or review for legal correctness ordinances, contracts,
franchises and other instruments as may be required, and he or she shall
perform such other duties as may be imposed upon him or her by general law or
ordinance. The Board shall have the right to pay the Village Attorney
compensation for legal services performed by him or her for it on such terms as
the Board and Attorney may agree, and to employ additional legal assistance and
to pay for such legal assistance out of the funds of the village.
(Neb. RS 17-610)
   (B)   The Village Attorney shall also examine, when requested to do so by
the Board of Trustees, the ordinance records and advise and assist the Village
Clerk as much as may be necessary to the end that each procedural step will be
taken in the passage of each ordinance to ensure that it will be a valid and
subsisting local law in so far as its passage and approval are concerned.
(1995 Code, § 1-211)
CHAPTER 32: ORGANIZATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
32.01   Boards; appointment and determination
   
32.02   Standing committees; appointment and responsibilities
Meetings
   
32.15   “Meetings” defined
   
32.16   “Public body” defined
   
32.17   Public meetings
   
32.18   Closed sessions
   
32.19   Emergency meetings
   
32.20   Meeting minutes
   
32.21   Votes
   
32.22   Notice to news media
   
32.23   Public participation
Specific Organizations
   
32.35   Board of Health
   
32.36   Library Board
   
32.37   Care Center Board
   
32.38   Housing Agency Board of Commissioners
   
32.39   Community Redevelopment Authority
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 32.01 BOARDS; APPOINTMENT AND DETERMINATION.
   (A)   The governing body shall appoint members of such commissions and
boards as the governing body may by ordinance or resolution create. It shall
appoint a Board of Health.
   (B)   Members of the following boards and commissions shall be appointed or
reappointed as terms of office expire or resignations are accepted:
      (1)   Board of Health;
      (2)   Library Board;
      (3)   Care Center Board;
      (4)   Housing Authority Board;
      (5)   Planning Commission; and
      (6)   Zoning Board of Adjustment.
(1995 Code, § 2-101)
§ 32.02 STANDING COMMITTEES; APPOINTMENT AND RESPONSIBILITIES.
   (A)   At the organizational meeting of the Board of Trustees each year, the
Chairperson shall appoint members of those standing committees as the Board may
create by ordinance or resolution. The membership of the standing committees
may be changed at any time by the Chairperson. The Chairperson shall be an ex-
officio member of each standing committee. The members of the standing
committees shall serve terms of office of one year, unless reappointed.
   (B)   The standing committees shall be appointed or reappointed each year
until changed by the Board of Trustees.
(1995 Code, §§ 2-201, 2-202)
MEETINGS
§ 32.15 “MEETINGS” DEFINED.
   A MEETING is all regular, special or called meetings, formal or informal, of
any public body for the purposes of briefing, discussion of public business,
formation of tentative policy or the taking of any action of the public body.
(1995 Code, § 1-501)
§ 32.16 “PUBLIC BODY” DEFINED.
   (A)   A PUBLIC BODY is:
      (1)   The Board of Trustees;
      (2)   All independent boards, commissions, bureaus, committees, councils,
subunits or any other bodies created by the Constitution of the state, statute,
ordinance or otherwise pursuant to law; and
      (3)   Advisory committees of the bodies listed above.
   (B)   PUBLIC BODY does not include subcommittees of such bodies unless a
quorum of the public body attends a subcommittee meeting or unless the
subcommittees are holding hearings, making policy or taking formal action on
behalf of their parent body.
(Neb. RS 84-1409) (1995 Code, § 1-502)
§ 32.17 PUBLIC MEETINGS.
   (A)   The formation of public policy is public business and may not be
conducted in secret. Every meeting of a public body shall be open to the public
in order that citizens may exercise their democratic privilege of attending and
speaking at meetings of public bodies; except as otherwise provided by the
Constitution of the state, federal statutes and the Open Meetings Act.
(Neb. RS 84-1408)
   (B)   Each public body shall give reasonable advance publicized notice of
the time and place of each meeting by a method designated by the public body
and recorded in its minutes. The notice shall be transmitted to all members of
the public body and to the public. The notice shall contain an agenda of
subjects known at the time of the publicized notice or a statement that the
agenda, which shall be kept continually current, is readily available for
public inspection at the office of the public body during normal business
hours. Agenda items shall be sufficiently descriptive to give the public
reasonable notice of the matters to be considered at the meeting. Except for
items of an emergency nature, the agenda shall not be altered later than 24
hours before the scheduled commencement of the meeting or 48 hours before the
scheduled commencement of a meeting of the Board of Trustees scheduled outside
the corporate limits of the village. The public body shall have the right to
modify the agenda to include items of an emergency nature only at such public
meeting.
(Neb. RS 84-1411)
(1995 Code, § 1-503)
§ 32.18 CLOSED SESSIONS.
   (A)   (1)   Any public body may hold a closed session by the affirmative
vote of a majority of its voting members if a closed session is clearly
necessary for the protection of the public interest or for the prevention of
needless injury to the reputation of an individual and if that individual has
not requested a public meeting. The subject matter and the reason necessitating
the closed session shall be identified in the motion to close. Closed sessions
may be held for, but shall not be limited to, such reasons as:
         (a)   Strategy sessions with respect to collective bargaining, real
estate purchases, pending litigation or litigation which is imminent as
evidenced by communication of a claim or threat of litigation to or by the
public body;
         (b)   Discussion regarding deployment of security personnel or
devices;
         (c)   Investigative proceedings regarding allegations of criminal
misconduct; or
         (d)   Evaluation of the job performance of a person when necessary to
prevent needless injury to the reputation of a person and if that person has
not requested a public meeting.
      (2)   Nothing in this section shall permit a closed meeting for
discussion of the appointment or election of a new member to any public body.
   (B)   The vote to hold a closed session shall be taken in open session. The
entire motion, the vote of each member on the question of holding a closed
session and the time when the closed session commenced and concluded shall be
recorded in the minutes. If the motion to close passes, then the presiding
officer immediately prior to the closed session shall restate on the record the
limitation of the subject matter at the closed session. The public body holding
such a closed session shall restrict its consideration of matters during the
closed portions to only those purposes set forth in the motion to close as the
reason for the closed session. The meeting shall be reconvened in open session
before any formal action may be taken. For purposes of this section, FORMAL
ACTION means a collective decision or a collective commitment or promise to
make a decision on any question, motion, proposal, resolution, order or
ordinance or formation of a position or policy, but shall not include
negotiating guidance given by members of the public body to legal counsel or
other negotiators in closed sessions authorized under division (A)(1)(a) above.
   (C)   Any member of any public body shall have the right to challenge the
continuation of a closed session if the member determines that the session has
exceeded the reason stated in the original motion to hold a closed session or
if the member contends that the closed session is neither clearly necessary for
the protection of the public interest or the prevention of needless injury to
the reputation of an individual. Such challenge shall be overruled only by a
majority vote of the members of the public body. The challenge and its
disposition shall be recorded in the minutes.
   (D)   Nothing in this section shall be construed to require that any meeting
be closed to the public.
(Neb. RS 84-1410) (1995 Code, § 1-504)
§ 32.19 EMERGENCY MEETINGS.
   When it is necessary to hold an emergency meeting without reasonable advance
public notice, the nature of the emergency shall be stated in the minutes and
any formal action taken in that meeting shall pertain only to the emergency.
Such emergency meetings may be held by means of electronic or telecommunication
equipment. The provisions hereof shall be complied with in conducting emergency
meetings. Complete minutes of such emergency meetings specifying the nature of
the emergency and any formal action taken at the meeting shall be made
available to the public by no later than the end of the next regular business
day.
(Neb. RS 84-1411) (1995 Code, § 1-505)
§ 32.20 MEETING MINUTES.
   (A)   Each public body shall keep minutes of all meetings showing the time,
place, members present and absent and the substance of all matters discussed.
   (B)   The minutes of all meetings and evidence and documentation received or
disclosed in open session shall be public records and open to public inspection
during normal business hours.
   (C)   Minutes shall be written and available for inspection within ten
working days or prior to the next convened meeting, whichever occurs earlier;
except that, the village may have an additional ten working days if the
employee responsible for writing the minutes is absent due to a serious illness
or emergency.
(Neb. RS 84-1413) (1995 Code, § 1-506)
§ 32.21 VOTES.
   (A)   Any action taken on any question or motion duly moved and seconded
shall be by roll call vote of the public body in open session, and the record
shall state how each member voted, or if the member was absent or not voting.
The requirements of a roll call or viva voce vote shall be satisfied by a
village which utilizes an electronic voting device which allows the yeas and
nays of each member of the Board of Trustees to be readily seen by the public.
   (B)   The vote to elect leadership within a public body may be taken by
secret ballot, but the total number of votes for each candidate shall be
recorded in the minutes.
(Neb. RS 84-1413) (1995 Code, § 1-507)
§ 32.22 NOTICE TO NEWS MEDIA.
   The Village Clerk, in the case of the Board of Trustees, and the Secretary
or other designee of each other public body shall maintain a list of the news
media requesting notification of meetings and shall make reasonable efforts to
provide advance notification to them of the time and place of each meeting and
the subjects to be discussed at that meeting.
(Neb. RS 84-1411) (1995 Code, § 1-508)
§ 32.23 PUBLIC PARTICIPATION.
   (A)   Subject to this subchapter and the Open Meetings Act, the public has
the right to attend and the right to speak at meetings of public bodies, and
all or any part of a meeting of a public body, except for closed sessions
called pursuant hereto, may be videotaped, televised, photographed, broadcast
or recorded by any person in attendance by means of a tape recorder, camera,
video equipment or any other means of pictorial or sonic reproduction or in
writing.
   (B)   It shall not be a violation of division (A) above for any public body
to make and enforce reasonable rules and regulations regarding the conduct of
persons attending, speaking at, videotaping, televising, photographing,
broadcasting or recording its meetings. A body may not be required to allow
citizens to speak at each meeting, but it may not forbid public participation
at all meetings.
   (C)   (1)   No public body shall require members of the public to identify
themselves as a condition for admission to the meeting, nor shall such body
require that the name of any member of the public be placed on the agenda prior
to such meeting in order to speak about items on the agenda.
      (2)   The body may require any member of the public desiring to address
the body to identify himself or herself.
   (D)   No public body shall, for the purpose of circumventing this subchapter
or the Open Meetings Act, hold a meeting in a place known by the body to be too
small to accommodate the anticipated audience.
   (E)   No public body shall be deemed in violation of this section if it
holds its meeting in its traditional meeting place which is located in this
state.
   (F)   No public body shall be deemed in violation of this section if it
holds a meeting outside of the state if, but only if, a member entity of the
public body is located outside of the state and the other requirements of Neb.
RS 84-1412 are met.
   (G)   The public body shall, upon request, make a reasonable effort to
accommodate the public’s right to hear the discussion and testimony presented
at the meeting.
   (H)   (1)   Public bodies shall make available at the meeting, for
examination and copying by members of the public, at least one copy of all
reproducible written material to be discussed at an open meeting.
      (2)   Public bodies shall make available at least one current copy of the
Open Meetings Act posted in the meeting room at a location accessible to
members of the public.
      (3)   At the beginning of the meeting, the public shall be informed about
the location of the posted information.
(Neb. RS 84-1412) (1995 Code, § 1-509)
SPECIFIC ORGANIZATIONS
§ 32.35 BOARD OF HEALTH.
   (A)   Composition. The Board of Health shall be composed of three members:
the Chairperson of the governing body who shall be the Chairperson; the Marshal
who shall be the Secretary and Quarantine Officer; and one other member. The
third member shall be a physician when a physician is residing permanently in
the municipality or such other person as the governing body may select.
(1995 Code, § 2-102)
   (B)   Responsibilities. The members of the Board shall serve a one-year term
of office unless reappointed and shall reorganize at the first meeting in June
of each year. It shall be the duty of the Secretary to keep the full and
correct minutes and records of all meetings and to file the same with the
Municipal Cleric where they shall be available for public inspection at any
reasonable time. The Board may be funded by the governing body from time to
time from the General Fund. A majority of the Board shall constitute a quorum
for the purpose of doing business. The Board shall meet at such times as the
governing body may designate. Special meetings may be held upon the call of the
Chairperson or any two members of the Board. It shall be the duty of the Board
to enact rules and regulations which shall have the full force and effect of
the law, to safeguard the health of the residents of the municipality. The
Board shall enforce the rules and regulations and provide fines and punishments
for any violations thereof. It may regulate, suppress and prevent the
occurrence of nuisances and shall actively enforce all laws of the matters of
sanitations which affect the health and safety of the people. The Board shall
regularly inspect such premises and businesses as the governing body may
direct. All actions of the Board shall be subject to the review and supervision
of the governing body. The Board shall be responsible for making such reports
and performing such other duties as the governing body may designate. No member
of the Board of Health shall hold more than one Board of Health position.
(1995 Code, § 2-103)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-208
§ 32.36 LIBRARY BOARD.
   (A)   Appointment. The Library Board shall be appointed by the Chairperson
of the Board of Trustees with the advise and consent of the Board of Trustees.
The nominated members must receive a majority vote of the governing body. The
Board shall consist of seven members: five are village residents and two are
county residents. The members of the Library Board shall serve without
compensation and may be required, in the discretion of the governing body, to
give a bond in a sum set by resolution of the governing body, and conditioned
upon the faithful performance of their duties. At the time of the Board’s first
meeting in October of each year, the Board shall organize by selecting from
their number a Chairperson and Secretary. It shall be the duty of the Secretary
to keep the full and correct minutes and records of all meetings, and to file
the same with the Municipal Clerk where they shall be available for public
inspection at any reasonable time. A majority of the Board members shall
constitute a quorum for the transaction of business. The Library Board shall
meet at such times as the Board may designate. Special meetings may be held
upon the call of the Chairperson, or any three members of the Board. The
Library Board shall have the authority to appoint a Librarian and all other
employees. It shall be the duty of the Board to have general charge of the
Municipal Library and to establish appropriate rules and regulations for the
management, operation, and use of the same. The Board shall have supervisory
authority over all employees of the Library, including the Librarian. All
actions of the Board shall be subject to the review and supervision of the
governing body. The Board shall be responsible for making such reports and
performing such additional duties as the governing body may designate from time
to time. No member of the body shall serve as a member of the Library Board
while serving a term of office as a member of the governing body. No member of
the Library Board shall serve in the capacity of both Chairperson and Secretary
of the Board.
(1995 Code, § 2-104)
   (B)   Operation and funding. The municipality owns and manages the Municipal
Library through the Library Board. The governing body, for the purpose of
defraying the cost of the management, purchases, improvements and maintenance
of the Library, may each year levy a tax not exceeding the maximum limit
prescribed by state law on the actual valuation of all real estate and personal
property within the municipality that is subject to taxation. The revenue from
the said tax shall be known as the Library Fund and shall include all gifts,
grants, deeds of conveyance, bequests or other valuable income-producing
personal property and real estate from any source for the purpose of endowing
the Municipal Library. The Library Fund shall at all times be in the custody of
the Municipal Treasurer. The President of the Library Board shall draw warrants
on the Library Fund and when countersigned by the Secretary shall be honored by
the Municipal Treasurer. The Board shall have the power and authority to
appoint the librarian and to hire such other employees as it may deem necessary
and may pass such other rules and regulations for the operation of the Library
as may be proper for its efficient operation. All actions by the Board shall be
under the supervision and control of the governing body. The Municipal Clerk,
Village Board Chair and Vice-Chair are authorized to sign checks; no one from
the Library Board is allowed to sign checks.
(1995 Code, § 3-501)
   (C)   Rules and regulations. The Library Board shall establish rules and
regulations for the governing of the municipal library for the preservation and
efficient management thereof. They shall fix and impose by general rules,
penalties and forfeitures for injury to the Library grounds, rooms, books or
other property, of for failure to return a book. All fees, penalties and
forfeitures shall be collected in civil action in the event of failure, neglect
of refusal to pay the said assessments.
(1995 Code, § 3-502)
   (D)   Money collected. Any money collected by the Library shall be turned
over monthly by the Library Board to the Municipal Treasurer along with a
report of the sources of the revenue.
(1995 Code, § 3-503)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 51-201 to 51-220,
§ 32.37 CARE CENTER BOARD.
   (A)   Appointment, composition, term of office, compensation. The governing
body shall, by majority vote, appoint five individuals to the Care Center Board
who shall all be residents of the county and at least four of whom shall be
residents of the village. Each Care Center Board Member shall serve a term of
four years and may be reappointed to additional terms by the municipal
governing body. The municipal governing body shall appoint individuals to fill
vacancies and such appointees shall serve only the unexpired term of the
vacated Care Center Board position. No person who is employed by the Care
Center or who has an immediate family member who is an employee of the Care
Center may serve as a Care Center Board Member. No member of the Village Board
can serve on the Care Center Board. The members of the Care Center Board shall,
among themselves, elect officers and determine committee responsibilities. Each
officer shall serve a term in office of one year, but may be reappointed each
year. Members of the Care Center Board shall receive compensation for services
rendered on behalf of the Board as set by the Village Board of Trustees.
Compensation shall be paid on a monthly basis for meetings actually attended
payable at the December meeting each year. Compensation is set in §
34.31 of this code.
(1995 Code, § 2-105)
   (B)   Responsibilities. The Care Center Board shall be responsible for the
general control and economic and prudent management of the Elwood Care Center.
Except as limited herein, the Board shall possess the same powers as could be
exercised by the municipal governing body on all matters related to the Elwood
Care Center. The Board shall establish operational procedures and policy
standards which shall be maintained in a care center procedures manual. The
Board shall advise the municipal governing body on matters related to the
hiring or dismissal of the Care Center Administrator and the municipal
governing body shall make all final decisions. The Care Center Board shall
prepare an annual Care Center budget before July 1 of each year, and upon
approval of said budget by the municipal governing body, shall be empowered to
authorize the expenditure or encumbrance of Care Center funds for amounts less
than $50,000. Expenditures and encumbrances in excess of $50,000 shall require
the approval of the municipal governing body. The Care Center Board shall not
make changes in the rate schedule used in making charges to residents'
accounts; except that, the Board may delegate to the Care Center Administrator
authority to make allowances on rates to specific residents. The Care Center
shall further be required to operate on the same fiscal year as the
municipality.
(1995 Code, § 2-106).
   (C)   Meetings. The Care Center Board shall meet at least four times per
year according to a meeting schedule established by said Board. Special
meetings of the Board may be called by the President or by a vote of the Board
or upon written request of two members of the Board to the President. The
annual meeting of the Board shall be held during the month of June of each year
on a day established by the Board. Notice of such meeting shall be published in
a newspaper of local circulation. The Secretary shall record the minutes of all
regular and special meetings and shall furnish a copy of such record to the
municipal governing body within ten days following said meeting. All meetings
shall conform to the state's open meeting laws.
(1995 Code, § 2-107).
(Ord. 86-3, passed 9-3-1986; Ord. 53, passed 12-10-2003; Ord. 95, passed 11-9-
2016; Ord. 2018-07, passed 10-10-2018)
§ 32.38 HOUSING AGENCY BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS.
    The municipal governing body shall by majority vote, appoint five persons
to the Housing Agency Board who shall all be residents of Gosper County, and at
least three of whom shall be residents of the village, and such persons shall
be called the Board of Commissioners. The municipal governing body may appoint
one of its members to serve as one of the five members of said Housing Agency
Board of Commissioners for such term as the municipal governing body may
determine. The initial Board of Commissioners shall be designated to serve for
terms of one, two, three, four and five years respectively from the date of
their appointment, but thereafter, Commissioners shall be appointed for a term
of office of five years; except that, all vacancies shall be filled for the
unexpired terms. Midterm appointees shall automatically assume all subcommittee
assignments and responsibilities as held by the parting Commissioner. Each
officer shall serve a term in office of one year, but may be reappointed for an
additional term each year. No Commissioner of the Housing Agency shall receive
any pay or compensation for any services rendered. The Commissioners shall
elect a Chairperson and a Vice-Chairperson from among the Commissioners and
shall have the power to employ an Executive Director who shall serve as ex-
officio Secretary of the Agency and it may call upon the chief law officer of
the municipality for such legal services as it may require.
(1995 Code, § 2-108) (Ord. 2018-01, passed 1-10-2018)
Statutory reference:
   Housing Agency Act, see Neb. RS 71-1572 through 71-15,168
§ 32.39 COMMUNITY REDEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY.
   (A)   There is hereby created the Community Redevelopment Authority of the
village, pursuant to Neb. RS 18-2101.01.
   (B)   The Community Redevelopment Authority of the village shall have all of
the powers set forth in Neb. RS 18-2101 through 18-2154 and any additional
powers granted by the legislature of the state from time to time for community
redevelopment authorities.
   (C)   The affairs of the Community Redevelopment Authority of the village
shall be administered by five persons appointed by the Chairperson of the Board
of Trustees, with the approval of the governing body. The terms of office of
the Authority of the initial appointees shall be one year, two years, three
years, four years and five years, respectively, as designated by the
Chairperson of the Board of Trustees. As the terms of the initial appointees
expire, the Chairperson of the Board of Trustees, with the approval of the
governing body, shall appoint or reappoint for a term of five years.
   (D)   The Authority shall have the power to employ counsel and a director
and such other officers and employees as may be desired.
(Ord. 58, passed 8-11-2004)
CHAPTER 33: ELECTIONS
Section
   
33.01   Generally
   
33.02   Notice
   
33.03   Registered voters; qualifications
   
33.04   Special elections
   
33.05   Election of officers; certification
   
33.06   Partisan ballot; when allowed; requirements
   
33.07   Candidate filing forms; deadlines; filing officer
   
33.08   Filing fee
   
33.09   Caucus candidates
   
33.10   Petition, write-in, and other candidates for general election ballot;
procedures
   
33.11   Recall procedure
   
33.12   Exit polls
Statutory reference:
   Election Act, see Neb. RS 32-101
§ 33.01 GENERALLY.
   (A)   All village issues and offices shall be combined on the statewide
primary and general election ballots whenever possible. The issuance of
separate ballots shall be avoided in a statewide election if village offices or
issues can reasonably be combined with the nonpartisan ballot and state law
does not require otherwise. All village elections involving the election of
officers shall be held in accordance with the Election Act and in conjunction
with the statewide primary or general election.
(Neb. RS 32-556)
   (B)   When the village holds an election in conjunction with the statewide
primary or general election, the election shall be held as provided in the
Election Act. Any other election held by the village shall be held as provided
in the Election Act unless otherwise provided by the charter, code, or bylaws
of the village.
(Neb. RS 32-404)
§ 33.02 NOTICE.
   The notice of election required to be published by the Election Commissioner
or County Clerk pursuant to Neb. RS 32-802 shall serve as the notice
requirement for all village elections which are held in conjunction with the
statewide primary or general election.
§ 33.03 REGISTERED VOTERS; QUALIFICATIONS.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      REGISTERED VOTER. An elector who has a current voter registration record
on file with the Election Commissioner or County Clerk in the county of his or
her residence.
(Neb. RS 32-115)
   (B)   All registered voters residing within the corporate limits of the
village on or before election day shall be entitled to vote at all village
elections.
(Neb. RS 17-602)
Statutory reference:
   Definition of elector, see Neb. RS 32-110
§ 33.04 SPECIAL ELECTIONS.
   (A)   (1)   Except as provided in Neb. RS 77-3444, any issue to be submitted
to the registered voters at a special election by the village shall be
certified by the Village Clerk to the Election Commissioner or County Clerk at
least 50 days prior to the election. A special election may be held by mail as
provided in Neb. RS 32-952 through 32-959. Any other special election under
this section shall be subject to division (B) of this section.
      (2)   In lieu of submitting the issue at a special election, the village
may submit the issue at a statewide primary or general election or at any
scheduled county election, except that no such issue shall be submitted at a
statewide election or scheduled county election unless the issue to be
submitted has been certified by the Village Clerk to the Election Commissioner
or County Clerk by March 1 for the primary election and by September 1 for the
general election.
      (3)   After the Election Commissioner or County Clerk has received the
certification of the issue to be submitted, he or she shall be responsible for
all matters relating to the submission of the issue to the registered voters,
except that the Village Clerk shall be responsible for the publication or
posting of any required special notice of the submission of the issue other
than the notice required to be given of the statewide election issues. The
Election Commissioner or County Clerk shall prepare the ballots and issue
ballots for early voting and shall also conduct the submission of the issue,
including the receiving and counting of ballots on the issue. The election
returns shall be made to the Election Commissioner or County Clerk. The ballots
shall be counted and canvassed at the same time and in the same manner as the
other ballots. Upon completion of the canvass of the vote by the County
Canvassing Board, the Election Commissioner or County Clerk shall certify the
election results to the Board of Trustees. The canvass by the County Canvassing
Board shall have the same force and effect as if made by the Board of Trustees.
(Neb. RS 32-559)
   (B)   Any special election under the Election Act shall be held on the first
Tuesday following the second Monday of the selected month unless otherwise
specifically provided. No special election shall be held under the Election Act
in April, May, June, October, November, or December of an even-numbered year
unless it is held in conjunction with the statewide primary or general
election.
(Neb. RS 32-405)
§ 33.05 ELECTION OF OFFICERS; CERTIFICATION.
   No later than July 1 of each even-numbered year, the Village Board shall
certify to the Secretary of State, the Election Commissioner, or the County
Clerk, the name of the village, the number of officers to be elected, the
length of the terms of office, the vacancies to be filled by election and
length of remaining term, and the number of votes to be cast by a registered
voter for each office. The Secretary of State, Election Commissioner, and
County Clerk shall prescribe the forms to be used for certification to him or
her.
(Neb. RS 32-404)
§ 33.06 PARTISAN BALLOT; WHEN ALLOWED; REQUIREMENTS.
   All elective village officers shall be nominated and elected on a
nonpartisan basis unless the village provides for a partisan ballot by
ordinance. No ordinance providing for nomination and election on a partisan
ballot shall permit affiliation with any party not recognized as a political
party for purposes of the Election Act. Such ordinance providing for nomination
and election on a partisan ballot shall be adopted and effective not less than
60 days prior to the filing deadline.
(Neb. RS 32-557)
§ 33.07 CANDIDATE FILING FORMS; DEADLINES; FILING OFFICER.
   (A)   Any candidate for the Board of Trustees may place his or her name on
the general election ballot by filing a candidate filing form prescribed by the
Secretary of State as provided in division (B). If a candidate is an incumbent
of an elective office, the filing period for filing the candidate filing form
shall be between December 1 and July 15 prior to the date of the primary
election. No incumbent who resigns from elective office prior to the expiration
of his or her term shall file for any office after February 15 of that election
year. All other candidates shall file for office between December 1 and August
1 prior to the date of the general election.
(Neb. RS 32-606)
   (B)   Candidate filing forms shall be filed in the office of the Election
Commissioner or County Clerk.
(Neb. RS 32-607)
Statutory reference:
   Filling of vacancy on ballot, see Neb. RS 32-625 and 32-627
   Withdrawal after filing, see Neb. RS 32-622
§ 33.08 FILING FEE.
   (A)   Except as provided in division (D) or (E) of this section, a filing
fee shall be paid to the Village Treasurer by or on behalf of each candidate
for village office prior to filing for office. The fee shall be placed in the
general fund of the village. No candidate filing forms shall be filed until the
proper payment or the proper receipt showing the payment of such filing fee is
presented to the filing officer. On the day of the filing deadline, the Village
Treasurer's office shall remain open to receive filing fees until the hour of
the filing deadline.
   (B)   Except as provided in division (D) or (E) of this section, the filing
fee shall be a sum equal to 1% of the annual salary as of November 30 of the
year preceding the election for the office for which he or she files as a
candidate.
   (C)   All declared write-in candidates shall pay the filing fees that are
required for the office at the time that they present the write-in affidavit to
the filing officer. Any undeclared write-in candidate who is nominated or
elected by write-in votes shall pay the filing fee required for the office
within ten days after the canvass of votes by the county canvassing board and
shall file the receipt with die person issuing the certificate of nomination or
the certificate of election prior to the certificate being issued.
   (D)   No filing fee shall be required for any candidate filing for an office
in which a per diem is paid rather than a salary or for which there is a salary
of less than $500 per year.
   (E)   (1)   No filing fee shall be required of any candidate completing an
affidavit requesting to file for elective office in forma pauperis.
      (2)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
         AVAILABLE RESOURCES. Includes every type of property or interest in
property that an individual owns and may convert into cash except:
            (i)   Real property used as a home;
            (ii)   Household goods of a moderate value used in the home; and
            (iii)   Assets to a maximum value of $3,000 used by a recipient in
a planned effort directed towards self-support.
         PAUPER. A person whose income and other resources for maintenance are
found under assistance standards to be insufficient for meeting the cost of his
or her requirements and whose reserve of cash or other available resources does
not exceed the maximum available resources that an eligible individual may own.
   (F)   If any candidate dies prior to an election, the spouse of the
candidate may file a claim for refund of the filing fee with the Board of
Trustees prior to the date of the election. Upon approval of the claim by the
Board of Trustees, the filing fee shall be refunded.
(Neb. RS 32-608)
§ 33.09 CAUCUS CANDIDATES.
   (A)   The Board of Trustees may, by ordinance, call a caucus for the purpose
of nomination of candidates for offices to be filled in the village election.
This caucus shall be held at least ten days before the filing deadline for that
election, and the Board of Trustees shall publish notice of the caucus in at
least one newspaper of general circulation in the county at least once each
week for two consecutive weeks before the caucus.
(Neb. RS 17-601.01)
   (B)   The chairperson of the caucus at which candidates are nominated shall
notify in writing the Village Clerk of the candidates so nominated, not later
than two days following the caucus. The Village Clerk shall then notify the
persons so nominated of their nomination, this notification to take place not
later than five days after the caucus. No candidate so nominated shall have his
or her name placed upon the ballot unless, not more than ten days after the
holding of the caucus, he or she files with the Village Clerk a written
statement accepting the nomination of the caucus and pays the filing fee, if
any, for the office for which he or she was nominated.
(Neb. RS 17-601.02)
   (C)   The provisions of this section shall not preclude in any manner any
person from filing for the offices to which this section is applicable, either
by direct filing or by petition.
(Neb. RS 17-601.03)
§ 33.10 PETITION, WRITE-IN, AND OTHER CANDIDATES FOR GENERAL ELECTION BALLOT;
PROCEDURES.
   (A)   (1)   Any registered voter who was not a candidate in the primary
election and who was not registered to vote with a party affiliation on or
after March 1 and before the general election in the calendar year of the
general election may have his or her name placed on the general election ballot
for a partisan office by filing petitions as prescribed in this section and
Neb. RS 32-621 or by nomination by political party convention or committee
pursuant to Neb. RS 32-627 or 32-710.
      (2)   Any candidate who was defeated in the primary election and any
registered voter who was not a candidate in the primary election may have his
or her name placed on the general election ballot if a vacancy exists on the
ballot under Neb. RS 32-625(2) and the candidate files for the office by
petition as prescribed in divisions (B) and (C) of this section, files as a
write-in candidate as prescribed in Neb. RS 32-615, or is nominated by
political party convention or committee pursuant to Neb. RS 32-710.
(Neb. RS 32-616)
   (B)    Petitions for nomination shall conform to the requirements of Neb. RS
32-628. Petitions shall state the office to be filled and the name and address
of the candidate. Petitions for partisan office shall also indicate the party
affiliation of the candidate. A sample copy of the petition shall be filed with
the filing officer prior to circulation. Petitions shall be signed by
registered voters residing in the village, if candidates are chosen at large,
or in the ward in which the officer is to be elected, if candidates are chosen
by ward, and shall be filed with the filing officer in the same manner as
provided for candidate filing forms in §
33.07. Petition signers and petition circulators shall conform to the
requirements of Neb. RS 32-629 and 32-630. No petition for nomination shall be
filed unless there is attached thereto a receipt showing the payment of the
filing fee required pursuant to Neb. RS 32-608. The petitions shall be filed by
September 1 in the year of the general election.
(Neb. RS 32-617)
   (C)   (1)   The number of signatures of registered voters needed to place
the name of a candidate upon the nonpartisan ballot for the general election
shall be at least 10% of the total number of registered voters voting for
Governor or President of the United States at the immediately preceding general
election in the village or in the ward in which the officer is to be elected,
not to exceed 2,000.
      (2)   The number of signatures of registered voters needed to place the
name of a candidate for an office upon the partisan ballot for the general
election shall be at least 10% of the registered voters entitled to vote for
the office.
(Neb. RS 32-618)
§ 33.11 RECALL PROCEDURE.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      FILING CLERK. The Election Commissioner or County Clerk.
(Neb. RS 32-1301)
   (B)   Any member of the Board of Trustees may be removed from office by
recall pursuant to this section.
(Neb. RS 32-1302)
   (C)   (1)   A petition demanding that the question of removing a member of
the Board of Trustees be submitted to the registered voters shall be signed by
registered voters equal in number to at least 45 % of the total vote cast for
the person receiving the most votes for that office in the last general
election. The signatures shall be affixed to petition papers and shall be
considered part of the petition.
      (2)   Petition circulators shall conform to the requirements of Neb. RS
32-629 and 32-630.
      (3)   The petition papers shall be procured from the filing clerk. Prior
to the issuance of such petition papers, an affidavit shall be signed and filed
with the filing clerk by at least one registered voter. Such voter or voters
shall be deemed to be the principal circulator or circulators of the recall
petition. The affidavit shall state the name and office of the Trustee sought
to be removed, shall include in typewritten form in concise language of 60
words or less the reason or reasons for which recall is sought, and shall
request that the filing clerk issue initial petition papers to the principal
circulator for circulation. The filing clerk shall notify the Trustee by any
method specified in Neb. RS 25-505.01 or, if notification cannot be made with
reasonable diligence by any of the methods specified in Neb. RS 25-505.01, by
leaving a copy of the affidavit at the Trustee's usual place of residence and
mailing a copy by first-class mail to the Trustee's last-known address. If the
Trustee chooses, he or she may submit a defense statement in typewritten form
in concise language of 60 words or less for inclusion on the petition. Any such
defense statement shall be submitted to the filing clerk within 20 days after
the Trustee receives the copy of the affidavit. The principal circulator or
circulators shall gather the petition papers within 20 days after the receipt
of the official's defense statement. The filing clerk shall notify the
principal circulator or circulators that the necessary signatures must be
gathered within 30 days from the date of issuing the petitions.
      (4)   The filing clerk, upon issuing the initial petition papers or any
subsequent petition papers, shall enter in a record, to be kept in his or her
office, the name of the principal circulator or circulators to whom the papers
were issued, the date of issuance, and the number of papers issued. The filing
clerk shall certify on the papers the name of the principal circulator or
circulators to whom the papers were issued and the date they were issued. No
petition paper shall be accepted as part of the petition unless it bears such
certificate. The principal circulator or circulators who check out petitions
from the filing clerk may distribute such petitions to persons who may act as
circulators of such petitions.
      (5)   Petition signers shall conform to the requirements of Neb. RS 32-
629 and 32-630. Each signer of a recall petition shall be a registered voter
and qualified by his or her place of residence to vote for the office in
question.
(Neb. RS 32-1303)
   (D)   Each petition paper shall conform to the requirements of Neb. RS 32-
1304.
   (E)   (1)   The principal circulator or circulators shall file, as one
instrument, all petition papers comprising a recall petition for signature
verification with the filing clerk within 30 days after the filing clerk issues
the initial petition papers to the principal circulator or circulators as
provided in division (C) of this section.
      (2)   Within 15 days after the filing of the petition, the filing clerk
shall ascertain whether or not the petition is signed by the requisite number
of registered voters. No new signatures may be added after the initial filing
of the petition papers. No signatures may be removed unless the filing clerk
receives an affidavit signed by the person requesting his or her signature be
removed before the petitions are filed with the filing clerk for signature
verification. If the petition is found to be sufficient, the filing clerk shall
attach to the petition a certificate showing the result of such examination. If
the requisite number of signatures has not been gathered, the filing clerk
shall file the petition in his or her office without prejudice to the filing of
a new petition for the same purpose.
(Neb. RS 32-1305)
   (F)   (1)   If the recall petition is found to be sufficient, the filing
clerk shall notify the Trustee whose removal is sought and the Board of
Trustees that sufficient signatures have been gathered. Notification of the
Trustee may be by any method specified in Neb. RS 25-505.01 or, if notification
cannot be made with reasonable diligence by any of the methods specified in
Neb. RS 25-505.01, by leaving such notice at the Trustee's usual place of
residence and mailing a copy by first-class mail to the Trustee's last-known
address.
      (2)   The Board of Trustees shall order an election to be held not less
than 30 nor more than 75 days after the notification of the Trustee whose
removal is sought under division (F)(1) of this section, except that if any
other election is to be held in the village within 90 days after such
notification, the Board shall provide for the holding of the recall election on
the same day. All resignations shall be tendered as provided in Neb. RS 32-562.
If the Trustee whose removal is sought resigns before the recall election is
held, the Board may cancel the recall election if the Board notifies the
election commissioner or county clerk of the cancellation at least 16 days
prior to the election, otherwise the recall election shall be held as
scheduled.
      (3)   If the Board of Trustees fails or refuses to order a recall
election within the time required, the election may be ordered by the district
court having jurisdiction over a county in which the Trustee serves. If a
filing clerk is subject to a recall election, the Secretary of State shall
conduct the recall election.
(Neb. RS 32-1306)
   (G)   The form of the official ballot at a recall election held pursuant to
division (F) of this section shall conform to the requirements of Neb. RS 32-
1307.
   (H)   (1)   If a majority of the votes cast at a recall election are against
the removal of the Trustee named on the ballot or the election results in a
tie, the Trustee shall continue in office for the remainder of his or her term
but may be subject to further recall attempts as provided in division (I) of
this section.
      (2)   If a majority of the votes cast at a recall election are for the
removal of the Trustee named on the ballot, he or she shall, regardless of any
technical defects in the recall petition, be deemed removed from office unless
a recount is ordered. If the Trustee is deemed removed, the removal shall
result in a vacancy in the office which shall be filled as otherwise provided
in this section and Neb. RS 32-567 to 32-570 and 32-574.
      (3)   If the election results show a margin of votes equal to 1% or less
between the removal or retention of the Trustee in question, the Secretary of
State, Election Commissioner, or County Clerk shall order a recount of the
votes cast unless the Trustee files a written statement with the filing clerk
that he or she does not want a recount.
      (4)   If there are vacancies in the offices of one-half or more of the
members of the Board of Trustees at one time due to the recall of such members,
a special election to fill such vacancies shall be conducted as expeditiously
as possible by the Secretary of State, Election Commissioner, or County Clerk.
      (5)   No Trustee who is removed at a recall election or who resigns after
the initiation of the recall process shall be appointed to fill the vacancy
resulting from his or her removal or the removal of any other member of the
Board of Trustees during the remainder of his or her term of office.
(Neb. RS 32-1308)
   (I)   No recall petition shall be filed against an elected Trustee within 12
months after a recall election has failed to remove him or her from office or
within six months after the beginning of his or her term of office or within
six months prior to the incumbent filing deadline for the office.
(Neb. RS 32-1309)
§ 33.12 EXIT POLLS.
   No person shall conduct an exit poll, a public opinion poll, or any other
interview with voters on election day seeking to determine voter preference
within 20 feet of the entrance of any polling place, or, if inside the polling
place or building, within 100 feet of any voting booth.
(Neb. RS 32-1525) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 34: FISCAL MANAGEMENT; FEES
Section
General Provisions
   
34.01   Fiscal year
   
34.02   Budget statement, hearing, filing, procedure
   
34.03   Appropriations
   
34.04   All-purpose, extraordinary levy
   
34.05   Expenditures
   
34.06   Contracts
   
34.07   Unaudited statement of cash receipts and disbursements
   
34.08   Claims
   
34.09   Warrants
   
34.10   Special assessment funds
   
34.11   Sinking funds
   
34.12   Deposit of funds
   
34.13   Investment of funds
   
34.14   General property tax
   
34.15   Transfer of funds
   
34.16   Bond issues
Fees and Charges
   
34.30   Establishment of schedule
   
34.31   Fee schedule
Sales and Use Tax
   
34.45   Imposition; authority
   
34.46   Net proceeds
   
34.47   Effective date
Cross-reference:
   Occupation Taxes, see §§
110.01 through
110.06
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 34.01 FISCAL YEAR.
   The fiscal year of the village and any public utility of the village
commences on October 1 and extends through the following September 30, except
as provided in the Municipal Proprietary Function Act.
(Neb. RS 17-701) (1995 Code, § 1-801)
§ 34.02 BUDGET STATEMENT, HEARING, FILING, PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Budget procedures. The Budget Instruction Manual prepared by the
Auditor of Public Accounts is incorporated by reference for the purpose of
proper budget preparation.
(1995 Code, § 1-802)
   (B)   Proposed budget statement; contents; availability; correction.
      (1)   The Board of Trustees shall annually or biennially prepare a
proposed budget statement on forms prescribed and furnished by the Auditor of
Public Accounts. The proposed budget statement shall be made available to the
public prior to publication of the notice of the hearing on the proposed budget
statement pursuant to division (C) below. A proposed budget statement shall
contain the following information, except as provided by state law:
         (a)   For the immediately preceding fiscal year or biennial period,
the revenue from all sources, including motor vehicle taxes, other than revenue
received from personal and real property taxation, allocated to the funds and
separately stated as to each such source: the unencumbered cash balance at the
beginning and end of the year or biennial period; the amount received by
taxation of personal and real property; and the amount of actual expenditures;
         (b)   For the current fiscal year or biennial period, actual and
estimated revenue from all sources, including motor vehicle taxes, allocated to
the funds and separately stated as to each such source: the actual unencumbered
cash balance available at the beginning of the year or biennial period; the
amount received from personal and real property taxation; and the amount of
actual and estimated expenditures, whichever is applicable. This statement
shall contain the cash reserve for each fiscal year or biennial period and
shall note whether or not the reserve is encumbered. The cash reserve
projections shall be based upon the actual experience of prior years or
biennial periods. The cash reserve shall not exceed 50% of the total budget
adopted exclusive of capital outlay items;
         (c)   For the immediately ensuing fiscal year or biennial period, an
estimate of revenue from all sources, including motor vehicle taxes, other than
revenue to be received from taxation of personal and real property, separately
stated as to each such source: the actual or estimated unencumbered cash
balances, whichever is applicable, to be available at the beginning of the year
or biennial period; the amounts proposed to be expended during the year or
biennial period; and the amount of cash reserve, based on actual experience of
prior years or biennial periods, which cash reserve shall not exceed 50% of the
total budget adopted exclusive of capital outlay items;
         (d)   A statement setting out separately the amount sought to be
raised from the levy of a tax on the taxable value of real property:
            1.   For the purpose of paying the principal or interest on bonds
issued by the Board of Trustees; and
            2.   For all other purposes.
         (e)   A uniform summary of the proposed budget statement, including
each proprietary function fund included in a separate proprietary budget
statement prepared pursuant to the Municipal Proprietary Function Act, and a
grand total of all funds maintained by the Board of Trustees; and
         (f)   A list of the proprietary functions which are not included in
the budget statement. These proprietary functions shall have a separate budget
statement which is approved by the Board of Trustees as provided in the
Municipal Proprietary Function Act.
      (2)   The actual or estimated unencumbered cash balance required to be
included in the budget statement by this section shall include deposits and
investments of the village as well as any funds held by the County Treasurer
for the village and shall be accurately stated on the proposed budget
statement.
      (3)   The village shall correct any material errors in the budget
statement detected by the Auditor of Public Accounts or by other sources.
(Neb. RS 13-504)
      (4)   The estimated expenditures, plus the required cash reserve for the
ensuing fiscal year or biennial period less all estimated and actual
unencumbered balances at the beginning of the year or biennial period and less
the estimated income from all sources, including motor vehicle taxes, other
than taxation of personal and real property, shall equal the amount to be
received from taxes, and that amount shall be shown on the proposed budget
statement pursuant to this section. The amount to be raised from taxation of
personal and real property, as determined above, plus the estimated revenue
from other sources, including motor vehicle taxes, and the unencumbered
balances shall equal the estimated expenditures, plus the necessary required
cash reserve, for the ensuing year or biennial period.
(Neb. RS 13-505)
(1995 Code, § 1-803)
   (C)   Proposed budget statement; hearing; adoption; certification of tax
amount.
      (1)   The Board of Trustees shall each year or biennial period conduct a
public hearing on its proposed budget statement. Notice of the place and time
of the hearing, together with a summary of the proposed budget statement, shall
be published at least five days prior to the date set for hearing in a
newspaper of general circulation within the village’s jurisdiction. When the
total operating budget, not including reserves, does not exceed $10,000 per
year or $20,000 per biennial period, the proposed budget summary may be posted
at the Board of Trustee’s principal headquarters.
      (2)   After the hearing, the proposed budget statement shall be adopted,
or amended and adopted as amended, and a written record shall be kept of the
hearing. The amount to be received from personal and real property taxation
shall be certified to the levying board after the proposed budget statement is
adopted or is amended and adopted as amended. The certification of the amount
to be received from personal and real property taxation shall specify
separately the amount to be applied to the payment of principal or interest on
bonds issued by the Board of Trustees and the amount to be received for all
other purposes.
      (3)   If the adopted budget statement reflects a change from that shown
in the published proposed budget statement, a summary of the changes shall be
published within 20 days after its adoption in the manner provided in this
section, but without provision for hearing, setting forth the items changed and
the reasons for the changes.
      (4)   Upon approval by Board of Trustees, the budget shall be filed with
the Auditor of Public Accounts. The Auditor may review the budget for errors in
mathematics, improper accounting and non- compliance with the state’s Budget
Act or Neb. RS 13-518 to 13-522. If the Auditor detects such errors, he or she
shall immediately notify the Board of such errors. The Board shall correct any
such error as provided herein. Warrants for the payment of expenditures
provided in the budget adopted under this section shall be valid
notwithstanding any errors or non-compliance for which the Auditor has notified
the Board.
(Neb. RS 13-506)
      (5)   When a levy increase has been authorized by vote of the electors,
the adopted budget statement shall indicate the amount of the levy increase.
(Neb. RS 13-507)
(1995 Code, § 1-804)
   (D)   Adopted budget statement; filing; certification of amount of tax.
      (1)   (a)   After publication and hearing on the proposed budget
statement and within the time prescribed by law, the Board of Trustees shall
file with and certify to the levying board or boards on or before September 20
of each year or September 20 of the final year of a biennial period and file
with the Auditor of Public Accounts a copy of the adopted budget statement
which complies with Neb. RS 13-518 to 13-522, together with the amount of the
tax required to fund the adopted budget, setting out separately:
            1.   The amount to be levied for the payment of principal or
interest on bonds issued by the Board of Trustees; and
            2.   The amount to be levied for all other purposes.
         (b)   Proof of publication shall be attached to the statements.
      (2)   The Board of Trustees, in certifying the amount required, may make
allowance for delinquent taxes not exceeding 5% of the amount required, plus
the actual percentage of delinquent taxes for the preceding tax year or
biennial period and for the amount of estimated tax loss from any pending or
anticipated litigation which involves taxation and in which tax collections
have been or can be withheld or escrowed by court order. For purposes of this
section, anticipated litigation shall be limited to the anticipation of an
action being filed by a taxpayer who or which filed a similar action for the
preceding year or biennial period which is still pending. Except for such
allowances, the Board of Trustees shall not certify an amount of tax more than
1% greater or lesser than the amount determined under division (B) above.
      (3)   The Board of Trustees shall use the certified taxable values as
provided by the County Assessor pursuant to Neb. RS 13-509 for the current year
in setting or certifying the levy. The Board of Trustees may designate one of
its members to perform any duty or responsibility required of the Board by this
section.
(Neb. RS 13-508)
(1995 Code, § 1-805)
§ 34.03 APPROPRIATIONS.
   The Board of Trustees shall adopt a budget statement pursuant to the state’s
Budget Act, to be termed, “The Annual Appropriation Bill”, in which the Board
may appropriate those sums of money as may be deemed necessary to defray all
necessary expenses and liabilities of the village.
(Neb. RS 17-706) (1995 Code, § 1-806)
§ 34.04 ALL-PURPOSE, EXTRAORDINARY LEVY.
   (A)   (1)   Notwithstanding provisions in the statutes of the state and this
code to the contrary, for any fiscal year the Board of Trustees may decide to
certify to the County Clerk for collection one all-purpose levy required to be
raised by taxation for all village purposes instead of certifying a schedule of
levies for specific purposes added together.
      (2)   Subject to the limits herein, the all-purpose levy shall not exceed
an annual levy of $1.05 on each $100 upon the taxable valuation of all the
taxable property in the village.
      (3)   Otherwise authorized extraordinary levies to service and pay bonded
indebtedness of the village may be made by the village in addition to such all-
purpose levy.
(Neb. RS 19-1309) (1995 Code, § 1-807)
   (B)   If the method provided in division (A) above is followed in village
financing, the village shall allocate the amount so raised to the several
departments of the village in its annual budget and appropriation ordinance, or
in other legal manner, as the Board of Trustees deems wisest and best.
(Neb. RS 19-1310) (1995 Code, § 1-808)
   (C)   If the village elects to follow the method provided in division (A)
above, it shall be bound by that election during the ensuing fiscal year, but
may abandon such method in succeeding fiscal years.
(Neb. RS 19-1311) (1995 Code, § 1-809)
   (D)   If it is necessary to certify the amount to county officers for
collection, the same shall be certified as a single amount for General Fund
purposes.
(Neb. RS 19-1312) (1995 Code, § 1-810)
§ 34.05 EXPENDITURES.
   (A)   On and after the first day of its fiscal year in 1993 and of each
succeeding year or on or after the first day of its biennial period and until
the adoption of the budget by the Board of Trustees in September, the Board of
Trustees may expend any balance of cash on hand for the current expenses of the
village. Except as provided in division (B) below, the expenditures shall not
exceed an amount equivalent to the total amount expended under the last budget
in the equivalent period of the prior budget year or biennial period. The
expenditures shall be charged against the appropriations for each individual
fund or purpose as provided in the budget when adopted.
(Neb. RS 13-509.01)
   (B)   The restriction on expenditures in division (A) above may be exceeded
upon the express finding of the Board of Trustees that expenditures beyond the
amount authorized are necessary to enable the village to meet its statutory
duties and responsibilities. The finding and approval of the expenditures in
excess of the statutory authorization shall be adopted by the Board of Trustees
in open public session. Expenditures authorized by this section shall be
charged against appropriations for each individual fund or purpose as provided
in the budget when adopted, and nothing in this section shall be construed to
authorize expenditures by the village in excess of that authorized by any other
statutory provision.
(Neb. RS 13-509.02)
(1995 Code § 1-812)
§ 34.06 CONTRACTS.
   (A)   The governing body shall, before entering into any contract for labor,
materials or any public improvement which exceeds $10,000 in cash as estimated
by the Municipal Engineer, advertise for bids once each week for three
consecutive weeks in a legal newspaper of general circulation in the
municipality or post a printed or written copy thereof in each of three public
places in the municipality; provided that, in the case of a public emergency
which is a serious danger to life, health or property estimates of costs and
advertising for bids may be waived in the emergency ordinance when adopted by a
three-fourths vote of the governing body.
   (B)   If, after advertising for bids as provided in this section, the
governing body receives fewer than two bids on a contract for any work or
improvement or, if the bids received by the governing body contain a price
which exceeds the estimated cost of the project, the governing body shall have
the authority to negotiate a contract in an attempt to complete the proposed
project at a cost commensurate with the estimate given.
   (C)   If the materials are of such a nature that, in the opinion of the
manufacturer and with the concurrence of the governing body, no cost can be
estimated until the materials have been manufactured or assembled to the
specifications of the municipality, the governing body may authorize the
manufacture and assemblage of such materials and may thereafter approve the
estimated cost expenditure when it is provided by the manufacturer.
(1995 Code, § 1-813)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-568.01
§ 34.07 UNAUDITED STATEMENT OF CASH RECEIPTS AND DISBURSEMENTS.
   The governing body shall cause an unaudited statement of cash receipts and
disbursements to be filed annually in lieu of an annual audit. Such unaudited
statement shall be filed with the Auditor of Public Accounts in a form
prescribed by him or her. The person preparing the unaudited statement of cash
receipts and disbursements shall submit not less than three copies of the
unaudited statement to the municipal authorities of the municipality. The
Auditor of Public Accounts may require an audit of any municipality’s account
based upon information contained in its unaudited statement and may specify the
period within which such audit must be performed. The unaudited statement of
cash receipts and disbursements shall become a part of the public records of
the Clerk of the municipality involved and shall at all times thereafter be
open and subject to public inspections.
(1995 Code, § 1-814)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 19-2903, 19-2905
§ 34.08 CLAIMS.
   (A)   (1)   All liquidated and unliquidated claims and accounts payable
against the village shall:
         (a)   Be presented in writing;
         (b)   State the name and address of the claimant and the amount of the
claim; and
         (c)   Fully and accurately identify the items or services for which
payment is claimed or the time, place, nature and circumstances giving rise to
the claim.
      (2)   As a condition precedent to maintaining an action for a claim,
other than a tort claim as defined in Neb. RS 13-903, the claimant shall file
such claim within 90 days of the accrual of the claim in the office of the
Village Clerk.
      (3)   The Village Clerk shall notify the claimant or his or her agent or
attorney by letter mailed to the claimant’s address within five days if the
claim is disallowed by the Board of Trustees.
      (4)   No costs shall be recovered against the village in any action
brought against it for any claim or for any claim allowed in part which has not
been presented to the Board of Trustees to be audited, unless the recovery is
for a greater sum than the amount allowed with the interest due.
(Neb. RS 17-714)
   (B)   (1)   Upon the allowance of claims by the Board of Trustees, the order
for their payment shall specify the particular fund or appropriation out of
which they are payable as specified in the adopted budget statement; and no
order or warrant shall be drawn in excess of 85% of the current levy for the
purpose for which it is drawn, unless there is sufficient money in the Treasury
at the credit of the proper fund for its payment; provided that, if there
exists at the time such warrant is drawn, obligated funds from the federal
government or the state, or both from the federal government and the state, for
the general purpose or purposes of such warrant, then such warrant may be drawn
in excess of 85% of the current levy for the purpose for which it is drawn to
the additional extent of 100% of such obligated federal or state funds.
      (2)   No claim shall be audited or allowed unless an order or warrant for
the payment thereof may legally be drawn.
(Neb. RS 17-715)
(1995 Code, § 1-815)
§ 34.09 WARRANTS.
   (A)   All warrants drawn upon the Municipal Treasury must be signed by the
Chairperson of the Board and countersigned by the Municipal Clerk, stating the
particular fund to which the warrant is chargeable, the person to whom it is
payable and the purpose of the expenditure.
   (B)   No money shall be otherwise paid than upon warrants so drawn.
   (C)   Each warrant shall specify the amount included in the adapted budget
statement for such fund upon which it is drawn and the amount already expended
of such fund.
(1995 Code, § 1-816)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-711
§ 34.10 SPECIAL ASSESSMENT FUNDS.
   All money received on special assessments shall be held by the Village
Treasurer as a special fund to be applied to the payment of the improvement for
which the assessment was made, and this money shall be used for no other
purpose whatever, unless to reimburse the village for money expended for any
such improvement.
(Neb. RS 17-710) (1995 Code, § 1-817)
§ 34.11 SINKING FUNDS.
   (A)   The village is hereby empowered to receive money or property by
donation, bequest, gift, devise or otherwise for the benefit of any one or more
of the public purposes for which sinking funds are established by the
provisions of this section, as stipulated by the donor. The title to the money
or property so donated shall vest in the Board of Trustees, or in its
successors in office, who shall become the owners thereof in trust to the uses
of the sinking fund or funds; provided, if the donation is real estate, the
Board of Trustees may manage the same as in the case of real estate donated to
the village for village library purposes under the provisions of Neb. RS 51-215
and 51-216.
(Neb. RS 19-1301)
   (B)   (1)   The Board of Trustees, subject to all the limitations set forth
in this section, shall have the power to levy a tax of not to exceed $0.105 on
each $100 in any one year upon the taxable value of all the taxable property
within the village for a term of not to exceed ten years, in addition to the
amount of tax which may be annually levied for the purposes of the adopted
budget statement of the village, for the purpose of establishing a sinking fund
for the construction, purchase, improvement, extension, original equipment or
repair, not including maintenance, of any one or more of the following public
improvements, including acquisition of any land incident to the making thereof:
village library; village auditorium or community house for social or
recreational purposes; village hall; village public library, auditorium or
community house in a single building; village swimming pool and appurtenances
thereto; village jail; village building to house equipment or personnel of a
fire department, together with firefighting equipment or apparatus; village
park; village cemetery; village medical clinic building, together with
furnishings and equipment; or village hospital.
      (2)   The village shall not be authorized to levy the tax or to establish
the sinking fund as provided in this division (B) if, having bonded
indebtedness, such village has been in default in the payment of interest
thereon or principal thereof for a period of ten years prior to the date of the
passage of the resolution providing for the submission of the proposition for
establishment of the sinking fund as required in division (C) below.
(Neb. RS 19-1302)
   (C)   (1)   Before any sinking fund or funds are established or before any
annual tax is levied for any such planned village improvement mentioned in
division (B) above by the village, the Board of Trustees shall declare its
purpose by resolution to submit to the qualified electors of the village at the
next general village election the proposition to provide the village with the
specific village improvement planned for consummation under this section.
      (2)   The resolution of submission shall, among other things, set forth a
clear description of the improvement planned, the estimated cost according to
the prevailing costs, the amount of annual levy over a definite period of
years, not exceeding ten years, required to provide such cost, and the specific
name or designation for the sinking fund sought to be established to carry out
the planned improvement, together with a statement of the proposition for
placement upon the ballot at the election. Notice of the submission of the
proposition, together with a copy of the official ballot containing the same,
shall be published in its entirety three successive weeks before the day of the
election in a legal newspaper published in the village or, if no legal
newspaper is published therein, in some legal newspaper published in the county
in which the village is located and of general circulation. If no legal
newspaper is published in the county, such notice shall be published in some
legal newspaper of general circulation in the county in which the village is
located. No such sinking fund shall be established unless the same has been
authorized by a majority or more of the legal votes of the village cast for or
against the proposition. If less than a majority of the legal votes favor the
establishment of the sinking fund, the planned improvement shall not be made,
no annual tax shall be levied therefor, and no sinking fund or sinking funds
shall be established in connection therewith, but such resolution of submission
shall immediately be repealed. If the proposition shall carry at such election
in the manner prescribed in this division (C), the Board of Trustees and its
successors in office shall proceed to do all things authorized under such
resolution of submission but never inconsistent with this section.
      (3)   Provisions of the statutes of the state relating to election of
officers, voting places, election apparatus and blanks, preparation and form of
ballots, information to voters, delivery of ballots, conduct of elections,
manner of voting, counting of votes, records and certificates of elections and
recounts of votes, so far as applicable, shall apply to voting on the
proposition under this section.
(Neb. RS 19-1303)
   (D)   All funds received by the Village Treasurer, by donation or by tax
levy, as hereinbefore provided, shall, as they accumulate, be immediately
invested by the Treasurer, with the written approval of the Board of Trustees,
in the manner provided herein. Whenever investments of such sinking fund or
funds are made, as aforesaid, the nature and character of the same shall be
reported to the Board of Trustees and the investment report shall be made a
matter of record by the Village Clerk in the proceedings of the Village Board.
The sinking fund, or sinking funds, accumulated under the provisions of this
section, shall constitute a special fund, or funds, for the purpose or purposes
for which the same was authorized and shall not be used for any other purpose
unless authorized by 60% of the qualified electors of the village voting at a
general election favoring such change in the use of the sinking fund or sinking
funds; provided that, the question of the change in the use of the sinking fund
or sinking funds, when it fails to carry, shall not be resubmitted in substance
for a period of one year from and after the date of such election.
(Neb. RS 19-1304)
(1995 Code, § 1-818)
Statutory reference:
   Additional levy limitations, see Neb. RS 17-702
§ 34.12 DEPOSIT OF FUNDS.
   (A)   (1)   The Village Treasurer shall deposit, and at all times keep on
deposit, for safekeeping, in banks, capital stock financial institutions or
qualifying mutual financial institutions of approved and responsible standing,
all money collected, received, or held by him or her as Village Treasurer.
These deposits shall be subject to all regulations imposed by law or adopted by
the Board of Trustees for the receiving and holding thereof. The fact that a
stockholder, director or other officer of the bank, capital stock financial
institution, or qualifying mutual financial institution is also serving as a
member of the Board of Trustees or as any other officer of the village shall
not disqualify the bank, capital stock financial institution or qualifying
mutual financial institution from acting as a depository for the village funds.
      (2)   The Board of Trustees shall require from all banks, capital stock
financial institutions or qualifying mutual financial institutions a bond in
such penal sum as may be the maximum amount on deposit at any time less the
amount insured or guaranteed by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation or,
in lieu thereof, security given as provided in the Public Funds Deposit
Security Act, to secure the payment of all such deposits and accretions. The
Board of Trustees shall approve this bond or giving of security. The Village
Treasurer shall not be liable for any loss of any money sustained by reason of
the failure of any such depository so designated and approved.
(Neb. RS 17-607)
   (B)   The insurance afforded to depositors in banks, capital stock financial
institutions or qualifying mutual financial institutions through the Federal
Deposit Insurance Corporation shall be deemed and construed to be a surety bond
or bonds to the extent that the deposits are insured or guaranteed by that
corporation, and for deposits so insured or guaranteed, no other surety bond or
bonds or other security shall be required.
(Neb. RS 77-2362)
   (C)   Neb. RS 77-2366 shall apply to deposits in capital stock financial
institutions. Neb. RS 77-2365.01 shall apply to deposits in qualifying mutual
financial institutions.
(Neb. RS 17-607 and 77-2362)
(1995 Code, § 1-819)
Statutory reference: 
   Other provisions on deposits of public funds, see Neb. RS 77-2363 and 77-
2364
   Public Funds Deposit Security Act, see Neb. RS 77-2386
§ 34.13 INVESTMENT OF FUNDS.
   (A)   When the Village Treasurer holds funds of the village in excess of the
amount required for maintenance or set aside for betterments and improvements,
the Board of Trustees may, by resolution, direct and authorize the Treasurer to
invest the surplus funds in the outstanding bonds or registered warrants of the
village, bonds and debentures issued either singly or collectively by any of
the 12 federal land banks, the 12 intermediate credit banks or the 13 banks for
cooperatives under the supervision of the Farm Credit Administration, or in
interest-bearing bonds or the obligations of the United States. The interest on
such bonds or warrants shall be credited to the fund out of which the bonds or
warrants were purchased.
(Neb. RS 17-608)
   (B)   All income received by the village from public utilities and from the
payment and collection of water taxes, rents, rates or assessments shall be
applied to the payment of running expenses, interest on bonds or money borrowed
and the erection and construction of public utilities; should there be any
surplus, it shall be annually created into a sinking fund for the payment of
public utility bonds or for the improvements of the works, or into the General
Fund as the Board may direct. The surplus remaining, if any, may, if the Board,
be invested in interest-bearing bonds or obligations of the United States.
(Neb. RS 17-540)
   (C)   The Board of Trustees may, by resolution, direct and authorize the
Treasurer to dispose of the surplus electric light, water or gas funds, or the
funds arising from the sale of electric light, water or natural gas
distribution properties, by the payment of outstanding electric light, water or
gas distribution bonds or water warrants then due. The excess, if any, after
such payments, may be transferred to the General Fund of the village.
(Neb. RS 17-609)
   (D)   (1)   Whenever the village has accumulated a surplus of any fund in
excess of its current needs or has accumulated a sinking fund for the payment
of its bonds and the money in such sinking fund exceeds the amount necessary to
pay the principal and interest of any such bonds which become due during the
current year, the Board of Trustees may invest any such surplus in excess of
current needs or such excess in its sinking fund in certificates of deposit, in
time deposits, and in any securities in which the state’s Investment Officer is
authorized to invest pursuant to the state’s Capital Expansion Act and the
state’s Funds Investment Act and as provided in the authorized investment
guidelines of the state’s Investment Council in effect on the date the
investment is made. The state’s Investment Officer shall upon request furnish a
copy of current authorized investment guidelines of the state’s Investment
Council.
      (2)   Nothing in division (D)(1) above shall be construed to authorize
investments in venture capital.
(Neb. RS 77-2341)
(1995 Code, § 1-820)
§ 34.14 GENERAL PROPERTY TAX.
   The village shall have power to levy taxes for general revenue purposes in
any one year not to exceed $0.35 on each $100 upon the taxable value of all the
taxable property in the village. The valuation of such property shall be
ascertained from the books or assessment rolls of the county’s Assessor.
(Neb. RS 17-506) (1995 Code, § 1-821)
§ 34.15 TRANSFER OF FUNDS.
   (A)   Whenever, during the current fiscal year, it becomes apparent to the
Board of Trustees that due to unforeseen emergencies there is temporarily
insufficient money in a particular fund to meet the requirements of the adopted
budget of expenditures for that fund, the Board may by a majority vote, unless
otherwise provided by state law, transfer money from other funds to such fund.
   (B)   No expenditure during any fiscal year shall be made in excess of the
amounts indicated in the adopted budget statement, except as authorized herein
or by state law.
   (C)   Any officer or officers of the Board who obligate funds contrary to
the provisions of this section shall be guilty of an offense.
(Neb. RS 13-510) (1995 Code, § 1-822) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 34.16 BOND ISSUES.
   The Board of Trustees may, after meeting all the requirements of state law,
issue bonds, fund bonds and retire bonds for such purposes as may be permitted
by state law. The Board of Trustees shall have the authority to levy special
assessments for the payment of interest and principal on these bonds and may
spread the payments up to the maximum number of years permitted by state law.
(1995 Code, § 8-123)
Statutory reference:
   Bonds in general, see Neb. RS 18-1801 through 18-1805
   General provisions, see Neb. RS 10-101 through 10-143
FEES AND CHARGES
§ 34.30 ESTABLISHMENT OF SCHEDULE.
   (A)   The municipality shall establish a schedule of rates and fees
necessary to maintain various services or to secure various licenses.
   (B)   Said schedule of rates and fees shall be set at such a level as is
necessary to insure adequate revenue for the expenses of day-to-day operation,
maintenance and long term capital improvements or processing or to act as
deterrent, whatever the case may be.
(1995 Code, § 12-101)
§ 34.31 FEE SCHEDULE.
   The following schedule of rates, fees and taxes is hereby established for
the municipality:
Number Item Rate/Fee
Number                    Item                                                                            Rate/
                                                                                                          Fee
1.   Deposit for utilities user service: water, sewer and solid waste collection (determined by property square
footage)
   a.                  7,000 square feet or less                                                       $60
   b.                  7,001 to 10,500                                                                 $65
   c.                  10,501 to 14,000                                                                $70
   d.                  14,001 to 17,500                                                                $75
   e.                  17,501 to 21,000                                                                $80
   f.                  21,001 to 24,500                                                                $85
   g.                  24,501 to 28,000                                                                $90
   h.                  28,001 to 31,500                                                                $95
   i.                  31,501 to 35,000                                                                $100
   j.                  35,001 to 38,500                                                                $105
   k.                  38,501 to 42,000                                                                $110
   l.                  42,001 to 45,500                                                                $115
2.   Hook-up fees for utilities user service
   a.   Water        
                         i.   Hook-up to municipal main                                               Actual
                                                                                                          cost
                         ii.   Reconnection                                                           $30
                         iii.   Reconnection during non-working hours                                 $50
   b.   Sewer        
                         i.   Hook-up fee and top to municipal main                                   Actual
                                                                                                          cost
3.   Monthly utilities user service fee for water, sewer and solid waste collection services
   a.   Water       Monthly user rates by property square footage of lot
                         i.   Lot sizes (square feet)
                            (1)   Less than 7,000                                                  $15.12
                            (2)   7,001 to 10,500                                                  $18.28
                            (3)   10,501 to 14,000                                                 $21.42
                            (4)   14,001 17,500                                                    $24.58
                            (5)   17,501 to 21,000                                                 $27.72
                            (6)   21,001 to 24,500                                                 $30.88
                            (7)   24,501 to 28,000                                                 $34.02
                            (8)   28,001 to 31,500                                                 $37.18
                            (9)   31,501 to 35,000                                                 $40.32
                            (10)   35,001 to 38,500                                                $43.48
                            (11)   38,501 to 42,000                                                $46.62
                            (12)   42,001 to 45,500                                                $49.78
                            (13)   45,501 to 49,000                                                $52.92
                            (14)   49,001 to 52,500                                                $56.14
                            (15)   52,501 to 56,000                                                $59.22
                            (16)   56,001 to 59,500                                                $62.38
                            (17)   59,501 to 63,000                                                $65.52
                            (18)   63,001 to 66,500                                                $68.68
                            (19)   66,501 to 70,000                                                $71.82
                            (20)   70,001 to 73,500                                                $74.98
                            (21)   73,501 to 77,000                                                $78.12
                            (22)   77,001 to 80,500                                                $81.28
                            (23)   80,501 to 84,000                                                $84.42
                            (24)   84,001 to 87,500                                                $87.58
                            (25)   87,501 to 91,000                                                $90.72
                            (26)   91,001 to 94,500                                                $93.88
                            (27)   94,501 to 98,000                                                $97.02
                            (28)   98,001 to 101,500                                               $100.18
                            (29)   101,501 to 105,000                                              $103.32
                            (30)   105,001 to 108,500                                              $106.48
                            (31)   108,501 to 112,000                                              $109.62
                            (32)   112,001 to 115,500                                              $112.78
                            (33)   115,501 to 119,000                                              $115.92
                            (34)   119,001 to 122,500                                              $119.08
                            (35)   122,501 to 126,000                                              $122.22
                            (36)   126,001 to 129,500                                              $125.38
                            (37)   129,501 to 133,000                                              $128.58
                            (38)   133,001 to 136,500                                              $131.68
                            (39)   136,501 to 140,000                                              $134.82
                            (40)   140,001 to 143,500                                              $137.98
                            (41)   143,501 to 147,000                                              $141.12
                            (42)   147,001 to 150,500                                              $144.28
                                                                                                          As set
                         ii.   Commercial/industrial                                                  by
                                                                                                          Village
                                                                                                          Board
                         iii.   Late payment fee                                                      $10
                         iv.   Water tap fee                                                          Actual
                                                                                                          cost
   b.   Sewer       Monthly use rates
                         i.   Residential                                                             $8.35
                                                                                                          As set
                         ii.   Commercial/industrial                                                  by
                                                                                                          Village
                                                                                                          Board
   c.   Solid waste  
collection
                         i.   Residential                                                             $15.10
                         ii.   Commercial/industrial - prorated among number of users per dumpster
                            (1)   90-gallon dumpster                                               $15.10
                            (2)   1-1/2-yard 300-gallon dumpster                                   $32.16
                            (3)   2-yard 400-gallon dumpster                                       $40.15
                            (4)   3-yard 600-gallon dumpster                                       $53.96
                            (5)   4-yard 800-gallon dumpster                                       $59.81
4.   Dog licenses
   a.                  Per year, per dog                                                               $6.25
                         (i)   Village                                                                $5
                         (ii)   State license fee                                                     $1.25
   b.                  Lost tag                                                                        $1
5.   Occupation taxes - per year
   a.                  Fire insurance companies tax                                                    $5
   b.                  Liquor license tax (Neb. RS 53-132(4)(d)                                        None
6.   License fees, per year
   a.               Tobacco license                                                                 $10
   b.               Liquor license
                          (i)   License fee by Class (the fees for publication of notice shall also be As set
                         charged to licensee)                                                            out by
                                                                                                          statute
                         (ii)   Special designated license                                            None
7.   Cemetery
   a.                  Lots (minimum of two lots per purchase)
                         (i)   Cemetery marker permit - per burial space                              $10
                         (ii)   Resident - per burial space                                           $150
                         (iii)   Non-resident - per burial space                                      $250
                         (iv)   Burial space transfer fee                                             $20
   b.                  Perpetual care                                                                  $50
8.   Elected official compensation
   a.                  Chairperson, Village Board, per year                                            $1,200
                         (1)   $100 each month Chairman attends regular meeting                        
   b.                  Trustees, per year                                                              $600
                         (1)   Payable $50 per month Trustees attends regular meeting                  
   c.                  Per day for out-of-town meetings                                                $50
9.   Care Center Board compensation
   a.                  Chairperson, per year - payable $100 per month                                  $1,200
   b.                  Members, per year - payable $50 per month                                       $600
10.                       Building permit fee                                                             $50
11.                       Request for special meeting                                                     $100
                           
12.                       Sales and use tax rates                                                         6.5%
   a.                  State - 5.5%
   b.                  Local - 1.0%
13.   Utility vehicle permit
                          Per year, per vehicle                                                           $25
                          i.   Village                                                                 $15
                          ii.   Sheriff                                                                $10
 
(1995 Code, § 12-102) (Ord. 84-1, passed - -; Ord. 89-1, passed - -; Ord. 36,
passed 6-10-1998; Ord. 87, passed 2-11-2015; Res. 2017-06, passed 12-13-2017)
SALES AND USE TAX
§ 34.45 IMPOSITION; AUTHORITY.
   The governing body of the village shall have the authority to impose a sales
and use tax of 1% upon the same transactions within the village on which the
state is authorized to impose a tax.
(Ord. 86, passed 11-12-2014)
§ 34.46 NET PROCEEDS.
   The net proceeds of the sales and use tax set out in §
34.45 of this chapter shall be applied to lawful municipal purposes of
improving the infrastructure of the village including, but not limited to,
sidewalks, curb and gutter, swimming pool, streets and drainage.
(Ord. 86, passed 11-12-2014)
§ 34.47 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   The sales and use tax imposed by the village shall have an effective date of
4-1-2015 and shall continue in effect from that date until repealed by the
voters.
(Ord. 86, passed 11-12-2014)
CHAPTER 35: ORDINANCES, FORMS AND LEGISLATION
Section
Ordinances, Resolutions and Motions
   
35.01   Grant of power
   
35.02   Introduction
   
35.03   Resolutions and motions
   
35.04   Style
   
35.05   Title
   
35.06   Passage
   
35.07   Publication
   
35.08   Emergency ordinances
   
35.09   Amendments and revisions
Initiatives and Referendums
   
35.20   Powers and definitions
   
35.21   Petitions, ballots
   
35.22   Petitions, forms and declaratory judgments
   
35.23   Signature sheets
   
35.24   Petitions, affidavit
   
35.25   Petitions, notification
   
35.26   Frequency and occurrence
   
35.27   Direct vote
   
35.28   Elections
   
35.29   Ballots
   
35.30   Initiatives
   
35.31   Referendum limitations
   
35.32   Referendum, passage
Forms
   
35.45   License applications, forms and notices
 
   
35.99   Penalty
ORDINANCES, RESOLUTIONS AND MOTIONS
§ 35.01 GRANT OF POWER.
   (A)   The Board of Trustees shall have power to pass ordinances to prevent
and remove nuisances within the village or within its one-mile zoning
jurisdiction; to restrain and prohibit gambling; to provide for licensing and
regulating theatrical and other amusements within such village; to prevent the
introduction and spread of contagious diseases; to establish and regulate
markets; to erect and repair bridges; to erect, repair, and regulate wharves
and the rates of wharfage; to regulate the landing of watercraft; to provide
for the inspection of building materials to be used or offered for sale in such
village; to govern the planting and protection of shade trees in the streets
and the building of structures projecting upon or over and adjoining, and all
excavations through and under, the sidewalks of such village; and in addition
to the special powers herein conferred and granted, to maintain the peace, good
government and welfare of the village and its trade, commerce and
manufactories, and to enforce all ordinances by inflicting penalties upon
inhabitants or other persons, for the violation thereof, not exceeding $500 for
any one offense, recoverable with costs. Nothing in this division (A) shall be
construed to apply to bingo, lotteries, lotteries by the sale of pickle cards,
or raffles conducted in accordance with the state’s Bingo Act, the state’s
Lottery and Raffle Act, the state’s Pickle Card Lottery Act, the state’s Small
Lottery and Raffle Act or the state’s State Lottery Act.
(Neb. RS 17-207)
   (B)   In addition to its special powers, the village shall have the power to
make all ordinances, bylaws, rules, regulations and resolutions, not
inconsistent with the laws of the state, as may be expedient for maintaining
the peace, good government and welfare of the village and its trade, commerce
and manufactories, and to enforce all ordinances by inflicting fines or
penalties for the breach thereof, not exceeding $500 for any one offense,
recoverable with costs.
(Neb. RS 17-505)
(1995 Code, § 1-601)
Statutory reference:
   Adoption of standard codes, see Neb. RS 18-132 and 19-922
   Prosecution in county court, see Neb. RS 25-2703
§ 35.02 INTRODUCTION.
   Unless the Board of Trustees has specified other procedures, ordinances
shall be introduced by members of the Board of Trustees in one of the following
ways:
   (A)   With the recognition of the Chairperson, a member may, in the presence
and hearing of a majority of the members elected to the Board of Trustees, read
aloud the substance of the proposed ordinance and file a copy with the Village
Clerk for future consideration; or
   (B)   With the recognition of the Chairperson, a member may present the
proposed ordinance to the Clerk who, in the presence and hearing of a majority
of the members elected to the Board of Trustees, shall read aloud the substance
of the ordinance and file it for future consideration.
(1995 Code, § 1-602)
§ 35.03 RESOLUTIONS AND MOTIONS.
   Unless the Board of Trustees has specified other procedures, resolutions and
motions shall be introduced in one of the methods prescribed herein for the
introduction of ordinances. The issue raised by the resolution or motion shall
be disposed of in accordance with the usage of parliamentary law adopted for
the guidance of the Board of Trustees. A majority vote shall be required to
pass any resolution or motion. The vote on any resolution or motion shall be by
roll call vote.
(1995 Code, § 1-603)
§ 35.04 STYLE.
   The style of all village ordinances shall be: “Be it ordained by the
Chairperson and Board of Trustees of the Village of Elwood, Nebraska: ...”.
(Neb. RS 17-613) (1995 Code, § 1-604)
§ 35.05 TITLE.
   No ordinance shall contain a subject which is not clearly expressed in the
title.
(Neb. RS 17-614) (1995 Code, § 1-605)
§ 35.06 PASSAGE.
   (A)   All ordinances and resolutions or orders for the appropriation or
payment of money shall require for their passage or adoption the concurrence of
a majority of all members elected to the Board of Trustees. Ordinances of a
general or permanent nature shall be read by title on three different days
unless three-fourths of the Board of Trustees vote to suspend this requirement;
except that, this requirement shall not be suspended for any ordinance for the
annexation of territory. In case this requirement is suspended, the ordinance
shall be read by title and then moved for final passage. Three-fourths of the
Board of Trustees may require a reading of any such ordinance in full before
enactment under either procedure set out in this section.
(Neb. RS 17-614)
   (B)   On the passage or adoption of every bylaw or ordinance, and every
resolution or order to enter into a contract by the Board of Trustees, the yeas
and nays shall be called and recorded. To pass or adopt any bylaw, ordinance or
any such resolution or order a concurrence of a majority of the whole number of
members elected to the Board of Trustees shall be required. All appointments of
the officers by the Board of Trustees shall be made viva voce, and the
concurrence of a like majority shall be required, and the names of those, and
for whom they voted, on the vote resulting in an appointment, shall be
recorded. The requirements of a roll call or viva voce vote shall be satisfied
by a village which utilizes an electronic voting device which allows the yeas
and nays of each member of the Board of Trustees to be readily seen by the
public.
(Neb. RS 17-616)
(1995 Code, § 1-606)
§ 35.07 PUBLICATION.
   (A)   All ordinances of a general nature shall, before they take effect, be
published within 15 days after they have been passed:
      (1)   In a newspaper in or of general circulation in the village; or
      (2)   In book or pamphlet form.
   (B)   The passage, approval and publication of all ordinances shall be
sufficiently proved by a certificate under seal of the village from the Village
Clerk showing that the ordinance was passed and approved, and when and in what
paper the ordinance was published.
(Neb. RS 17-613) (1995 Code, § 1-607) (Ord. 2018-08, passed 11-14-2018)
Statutory reference:
   Additional provisions, see Neb. RS 18-131
   Chairperson of Board of Trustees; duties, see Neb. RS 17-210
   Passage; rules and regulations, see Neb. RS 17-615
§ 35.08 EMERGENCY ORDINANCES.
   (A)   Except as provided herein and division (B) below, an ordinance for the
government of the village which has been adopted by the Board of Trustees
without submission to the voters of the village shall not go into effect until
15 days after the passage of the ordinance.
(Neb. RS 19-3701)
   (B)   In the case of riot, infectious or contagious diseases or other
impending danger, failure of a public utility or any other emergency requiring
its immediate operation, an ordinance shall take effect upon the proclamation
of the Chairperson and the posting thereof in at least three of the most public
places in the village. The emergency ordinance shall recite the emergency, be
passed by a three-fourths vote of the Board of Trustees and be entered of
record on the Village Clerk’s minutes.
(Neb. RS 17-613)
(1995 Code, § 1-608)
§ 35.09 AMENDMENTS AND REVISIONS.
   No ordinance or section thereof shall be revised or amended unless the new
ordinance contains the entire ordinance or section as revised or amended and
the ordinance or section so amended is repealed; except that, an ordinance
revising all the ordinances of the village and modifications to zoning or
building districts may be adopted as otherwise provided by law.
(Neb. RS 17-614) (1995 Code, § 1-609)
Statutory reference:
   Modifications to zoning or building districts, see Neb. RS 19-915
   Ordinances revising all the ordinances of the village, see Neb. RS 17-614
INITIATIVES AND REFERENDUMS
§ 35.20 POWERS AND DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   The powers of initiative and referendum are reserved to the qualified
electors of the municipality by state law. This subchapter shall govern the use
of initiative to enact and the use of referendum to amend or repeal measures
affecting the governance of the municipality.
   (B)   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      CIRCULATOR. Any person who solicits signatures for an initiative or
referendum petition.
      CLERK. The Municipal Clerk or the municipal official in charge of
elections.
      GOVERNING BODY. The legislative authority of the municipality.
      MEASURE. An ordinance, charter provision or resolution which is within
the legislative authority of the governing body to pass and which is not
excluded from the operation of referendum by the exceptions in §
35.31 of this chapter.
      MUNICIPALITY. The Village of Elwood, Nebraska.
      PETITION. A document authorized for circulation pursuant to §
35.21 of this chapter or any copy of such document.
      PLACE OF RESIDENCE. The street and number of the residence. If there is
no street and number for the residence, place of residence shall mean the
mailing address.
      PROSPECTIVE PETITION. A sample document containing the information
necessary for a completed petition, including a sample signature sheet, which
has not yet been authorized for circulation.
      QUALIFIED ELECTORS. All persons registered to vote at the time the
prospective petition is filed in the jurisdiction governed or to be governed by
any measure sought to be enacted by initiative or altered or repealed by
referendum.
      RESIDENCE. The place at which a person has established his or her home,
where he or she is habitually present and to which, when he or she departs, he
or she intends to return.
      SIGNATURE SHEET. A sheet of paper which is part of a petition and which
is signed by persons wishing to support the petition effort.
(1995 Code, § 1-1101)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 18-2501 through 18-2511
§ 35.21 PETITIONS, BALLOTS.
   (A)   Before circulating an initiative or referendum petition, the
petitioner shall file with the Clerk a prospective petition. The Clerk shall
date the prospective petition immediately upon its receipt. The Clerk shall
verify that the prospective petition is in proper form and shall provide a
ballot title for the initiative or referendum proposal as described below. If
the prospective petition is in proper form, the Clerk shall authorize the
circulation of the petition and such authorization shall be given within three
working days from the date the prospective petition was filed. If the form of
the prospective petition is incorrect, the Clerk shall within three working
days from the date the prospective petition was filed, inform the petitioner of
necessary changes and request that those changes be made. When the requested
changes have been made and the revised prospective petition has been submitted
to the Clerk in proper form, the Clerk shall authorize the circulation of the
petition and such authorization shall be given within two working days from the
receipt of the properly revised petition. Verification by the Clerk that the
prospective petition is in proper form does not constitute an admission by the
Clerk, the governing body or municipality that the measure is subject to
referendum or limited referendum or that the measure may be enacted by
initiative.
   (B)   The ballot title of any measure to be initiated or referred shall
consist of:
      (1)   A briefly-worded caption by which the measure is commonly known or
which accurately summarizes the measure;
      (2)   A briefly-worded question which plainly states the purpose of the
measure and is phrased so that an affirmative response to the question
corresponds to an affirmative vote on the measure; and
      (3)   A concise and impartial statement of not more than 75 words of the
chief purpose of the measure.
   (C)   The ballots used when voting on an initiative or referendum proposal
shall contain the entire ballot title. Proposals for initiative and referendum
shall be submitted on separate ballots and the ballots shall be printed in
lower case ten-point type; except that, the caption shall be in bold face type.
All initiative and referendum measures shall be submitted in a non-partisan
manner without indicating or suggesting on the ballot that they have or have
not been approved or endorsed by any political party or organization.
(1995 Code, § 1-1102)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 18-2512, 18-2513
§ 35.22 PETITIONS, FORMS AND DECLARATORY JUDGMENTS.
   (A)   The Secretary of State shall design the form to be used for initiative
and referendum petitions including signature sheets. These forms shall be made
available to the public by the Clerk and they shall serve as a guide for
individuals preparing prospective petitions. Substantial compliance with
initiative and referendum forms is required before authorization to circulate
such petition shall be granted by the Clerk pursuant to §
35.21 of this chapter. Chief petitioners or circulators preparing prospective
petitions shall be responsible for making copies of the petition for
circulation, once authorization for circulation has been granted, and each
petition presented for signature must be identical to the petition authorized
for circulation by the Clerk pursuant to §
35.21 of this chapter.
   (B)   The municipality or any chief petitioner may seek a declaratory
judgment regarding any questions arising under this subchapter as it may be
from time to time amended, including, but not limited to, determining whether a
measure is subject to referendum or limited referendum or whether a measure may
be enacted by initiative. If a chief petitioner seeks a declaratory judgment,
the municipality shall be served by personal, residence or certified mail
service upon the chief executive officer or Clerk. If the municipality seeks a
declaratory judgment, only the chief petitioner or chief petitioners shall be
required to be served. Any action brought for declaratory judgment for purposes
of determining whether a measure is subject to limited referendum or
referendum, or whether a measure may be enacted by initiative, may be filed in
the district court at any time after the filing of a referendum or initiative
petition with the Municipal Clerk for signature verification until 40 days from
the date the governing body received notification pursuant to §
35.25 of this chapter. If the municipality does not bring an action for
declaratory judgment to determine whether the measure is subject to limited
referendum or referendum, or whether the measure may be enacted by initiative
until after it has received notification pursuant to §
35.25 of this chapter, it shall be required to proceed with the initiative or
referendum election in accordance with the provisions of this subchapter. If
the municipality does file such an action prior to receiving notification
pursuant to §
35.25 of this chapter, it shall not be required to proceed to hold such
election until a final decision has been rendered in the action. Any action for
a declaratory judgment shall be governed generally by Neb. RS 25-32,149 to 25-
21,164; except that, only the municipality and each chief petitioner shall be
required to be made parties. The municipality, Clerk, governing body or any of
the municipality’s officers shall be entitled to rely on any order rendered by
the court in any such proceeding. Any action brought for declaratory judgment
pursuant to this section shall be given priority in scheduling hearing and in
disposition as determined by the court when an action is brought to determine
whether the measure is subject to limited referendum or referendum or whether a
measure may be enacted by initiative, a decision shall be rendered by the court
no later than five days prior to the election. The provisions of this section
relating to declaratory judgments shall not be construed as limiting, but
construed as supplemental and additional to other rights and remedies conferred
by law.
   (C)   Every petition shall contain the name and place of residence of not
more than three persons as chief petitioners or sponsors of the measure. The
chief petitioners or sponsors shall be qualified electors of the municipality
potentially affected by the initiative or referendum proposal. Every petition
shall contain the caption and ballot title required in §
35.21 of this chapter and only qualified electors shall circulate petitions.
When a special election is being requested, such fact shall be stated on every
petition.
(1995 Code, § 1-1103)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 25-510.02, 25-515, 25-2514
§ 35.23 SIGNATURE SHEETS.
   (A)   Every signature sheet shall:
      (1)   Contain the caption required in §
35.21 of this chapter;
      (2)   Be part of a complete and authorized petition when presented to
potential signatories;
      (3)   Provide space for signatories to write their names, places of
residence and the date of signing; and
      (4)   Contain a statement that anyone falsifying information on a
signature sheet shall be subject to penalties provided by law.
   (B)   No more than 25 signatures on each signature sheet shall be counted.
In order to be valid, a signature shall be that of an individual registered to
vote at the time of signing in the jurisdiction governed or to be governed by
the measure addressed in the petition. A signature shall include the
signatory’s full name, his or her place of residence and the date of singing.
No signatory shall use ditto marks as a means of affixing his or her place of
residence or date on any petition. A wife shall not use her husband’s Christian
or given name when she signs a petition and she shall sign her own Christian or
given name along with her surname.
(1995 Code, § 1-1104)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 18-2516
§ 35.24 PETITIONS, AFFIDAVIT.
   Included in the contents of every petition shall be an affidavit to be
signed by the circulator in the presence of a notary, which states that the
circulator is a qualified elector, that each person who signed the petition did
so in the presence of the circulator on the date indicated and that the
circulator believes that each signatory was registered to vote in the affected
jurisdiction at the time he or she signed the petition and that the circulator
believes that each signatory has stated his or her name and place of residence
correctly.
(1995 Code, § 1-1105)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 18-2517
§ 35.25 PETITIONS, NOTIFICATION.
   (A)   Signed petitions shall be filed with the Clerk for signature
verification. Upon the filing of a petition and passage of a resolution by the
governing body, the municipality and the County Clerk or Election Commissioner
of the county in which such municipality is located may by mutual agreement
provide that the County Clerk or Election Commissioner shall ascertain whether
the petition is signed by the requisite number of voters. The municipality
shall reimburse the county for any costs incurred by the County Clerk or
Election Commissioner. When the verifying official has determined that 100% of
the necessary signatures required by this subchapter have been obtained, he or
she shall notify the governing body of that fact and shall immediately forward
to the governing body a copy of the petition.
   (B)   In order for an initiative or referendum proposal to be submitted to
the governing body and the voters, the necessary signatures shall be on file
with the Clerk within six months from the date the prospective petition was
authorized for circulation. If the necessary signatures are not obtained by
such date, the petition shall be void.
(1995 Code, § 1-1106)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 18-2518
§ 35.26 FREQUENCY AND OCCURRENCE.
   The same measure either in form or in essential substance may not be
submitted to the people by initiative petition either affirmatively or
negatively more often than once every two years. No attempt to repeal or alter
an existing measure or portion of such measure by referendum petition may be
made within two years from the last attempt to do the same. Such prohibition
shall apply only when the subsequent attempt to repeal or alter is designed to
accomplish the same or essentially the same purpose as the previous attempt.
(1995 Code, § 1-1107)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 18-2519
§ 35.27 DIRECT VOTE.
   The executive officer and governing body of the municipality may at any time
by resolution provide for the submission to a direct vote of the electors of
any measure pending before it, passed by it, including an override of any veto
if necessary, or enacted by the electors under this subchapter and may provide
in such resolution that such measure shall be submitted at a special election
or the next regularly scheduled primary or general election. Immediately upon
the passage of any such resolution for submission, the Clerk shall cause such
measure to be submitted to a direct vote of the electors at the time specified
in such resolution and in the manner provided in this subchapter for submission
of measures upon proposals and petitions filed by voters. Such matter shall
become law if approved by a majority of the votes cast.
(1995 Code, § 1-1108)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 18-2520
§ 35.28 ELECTIONS.
   (A)   The Clerk shall call elections under this subchapter, either at a
special election or regularly scheduled primary or general election. He or she
shall cause notice of every such election to be printed in one or more
newspapers of general circulation in such municipality at least once not less
than 30 days prior to such election and also posted in the office of the Clerk
and in at least three conspicuous places in such municipality at least 30 days
prior to such election. The notice shall be substantially as follows:
 
Notice is hereby given that on Tuesday, the                 day of                                  ,                _______, at  (identify polling place or precinct)  of the Municipality of
Elwood, Nebraska, an election will be held at which there will be submitted to the electors of the Municipality for their approval or rejection, the following measures, propositions or
issues:  (naming measures, propositions or issues)  , which election will be open at 8:00 a.m., and will continue open until 8:00 p.m., of the same day.
 
Dated this               day of                                ,                  .
 
                                                                                               
Clerk of the Village of Elwood, Nebraska
 
   (B)   The Clerk shall make available for photocopying a copy in pamphlet
form of measures initiated or referred. Such notice provided in this section
shall designate where such a copy in pamphlet form may be obtained.
(1995 Code, § 1-1109)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 18-2521
§ 35.29 BALLOTS.
   All ballots for use in special elections under this subchapter shall be
prepared by the Clerk and furnished by the governing body, unless the governing
body contracts with the county for such service, and shall be in a form the
same as provided by law for election of the executive officer and governing
body of such municipality. When ordinances under such sections are submitted to
the electors at a regularly scheduled primary or general election they shall be
placed upon the official ballots as provided in this subchapter.
(1995 Code, § 1-1110)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 18-2522
§ 35.30 INITIATIVES.
   (A)   The power of initiative allows citizens the right to enact measures
affecting the governance of the municipality. An initiative proposal shall not
have as its primary or sole purpose the repeal or modification of existing law,
except if such repeal or modification is ancillary to and necessary for the
adoption and effective operation of the initiative measure.
   (B)   An initiative shall not be effective if the direct or indirect effect
of the passage of such initiative measure shall be to repeal or alter an
existing law or portion thereof, which is not subject to referendum or subject
only to limited referendum pursuant to §
35.31 of this chapter.
   (C)   Whenever an initiative petition bearing signatures equal in number to
at least 15% of the qualified electors of the municipality has been filed with
the Clerk and verified, it shall be the duty of the governing body to consider
passage of the measure contained in the petition including an override of any
veto if necessary. If the governing body fails to pass the measure without
amendment including an override of any veto if necessary within 30 days from
the date if received notification, the Clerk shall cause the measure to be
submitted to a vote of the people at the next regularly scheduled primary or
general election held within the municipality. If the governing body desires to
submit the measure to a vote of the people at a special election prior to the
next regularly scheduled primary or general election held within the
municipality, the governing body shall be resolution direct the Clerk to cause
the measure to be submitted at a special election. Such resolution shall not be
subject to referendum or limited referendum.
   (D)   (1)   Whenever an initiative petition bearing signatures equal in
number to at least 20% of the qualified electors which requests that a special
election be called to submit the initiative measure to a vote of the people has
been filed with the Clerk and verified pursuant to §
35.25 of this chapter, it shall be the duty of the governing body to consider
passage of the measure contained in the petition including an override of any
veto if necessary.
      (2)   If the governing body fails to pass the measure without amendment
including an override of any veto if necessary within 30 days from the date it
received notification, the Clerk shall cause the measure to be submitted to a
vote of the people at a special election called for such purpose.
      (3)   The date of such election shall not be less than 30, nor more than
60, days from the date the governing body received notification pursuant to §
35.25 of this chapter.
   (E)   (1)   If a majority of voters voting on the initiative measure shall
vote in favor of such measure, it shall become a valid and binding measure of
the municipality 30 days after certification of the election results unless the
governing body by resolution orders an earlier effective date or the measure
itself provided for a later effective date, which resolution shall not be
subject to referendum or limited referendum.
      (2)   A measure passed by such method shall not be amended or repealed,
except by two-thirds majority of the members of the governing body.
      (3)   No such attempt to amend or repeal shall be made within one year
from the passage of the measure by the electors.
(1995 Code, § 1-1111)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 18-2523 through 18-2526
§ 35.31 REFERENDUM LIMITATIONS.
   The power of referendum allows citizens the right to repeal or amend
existing measures or portions thereof affecting the governance of the
municipality.
   (A)   The following measures shall not be subject to referendum or limited
referendum:
      (1)   Measures necessary to carry out contractual obligations including,
but not limited to, those relating to the issuance of or provided for in bonds,
notes, warrants or other evidences of indebtedness for projects previously
approved by a measure which was or is subject to referendum or limited
referendum or previously approved by a measure adopted prior to the effective
date of this subchapter;
      (2)   Measures relating to any industrial development projects,
subsequent to measures giving initial approval to such projects;
      (3)   Measures adopting proposed budget statements following compliance
with procedures set forth in the state’s Budget Act;
      (4)   Measures relating to the immediate preservation of the public
peace, health or safety which have been designated as urgent measures by
unanimous vote of those present and voting of the governing body and approved
by its executive officer;
      (5)   Measures relating to projects for which notice has been given as
provided for in division (D) below for which a sufficient referendum petition
was not filed within the time limit stated in such notice or which received
voter approval after the filing of such petition;
      (6)   Resolutions directing the Clerk to cause measures to be submitted
to a vote of the people at a special election as provided in §
35.30(C) of this chapter and in this division (A);
      (7)   Resolutions ordering an earlier effective date for measures enacted
by initiative as provided in §
35.30(E) of this chapter; and
      (8)   Measures relating to any facility or system adopted or enacted
pursuant to the Integrated Solid Waste Management Act by the municipality and
which are necessary to carry out contractual obligations provided for in
previously issued bonds, notes, warrants or other evidence of indebtedness.
   (B)   The following measures shall be subject to limited referendum:
      (1)   Measures in furtherance of a policy of the municipality or relating
to projects previously approved by a measure which was subject to referendum or
which was enacted by initiative or has been approved by the voters at an
election; except that, such measures shall not be subject to referendum or
limited referendum for a period of one year after any such policy or project
was approved at a referendum election, enacted by initiative or approved by the
voters at an election;
      (2)   Measures relating to the acquisition, construction, installation,
improvement or enlargement, including the financing or refinancing of the costs
of public ways, public property, utility systems and other capital projects and
measures giving initial approval for industrial development projects;
      (3)   Measures setting utility system rates and charges, except for
measures necessary to carry out contractual obligations provided for in
previously issued bonds, notes, warrants or other evidences of indebtedness and
pay rates and salaries for municipal employees other than the members of the
governing body and the executive officer; and
      (4)   Measures relating to any facility or system adopted or enacted
pursuant to the Integrated Solid Waste Management Act by the municipality,
except for measures necessary to carry out contractual obligations provided for
in previously issued bonds, notes, warrants or other evidence of indebtedness.
   (C)   (1)   Measures subject to limited referendum shall ordinarily take
effect 30 days after their passage by the governing body, including an override
of any veto if necessary. Referendum petitions directed at measures subject to
limited referendum shall be filed for signature verification pursuant to §
35.25 of this chapter within 30 days after such measure’s passage by the
governing body, including an override of any veto if necessary or after notice
is first published pursuant hereto. If the necessary number of signatures as
provided in §
35.30 of this chapter has been obtained within the time limitation, the
effectiveness of the measure shall be suspended unless approved by the voters.
      (2)   For any measure relating to the acquisition, construction,
installation, improvement or enlargement of public ways, public property,
utility systems or other capital projects, or any measure relating to any
facility or system adopted or enacted pursuant to the Integrated Solid Waste
Management Act, a municipality may exempt all subsequent measures relating to
the same project from the referendum and limited referendum procedures provided
for in this subchapter by the following procedure:
         (a)   By holding a public hearing on the project, the time and place
of such hearing being published at least once not less than five days prior to
the date set for hearing in a newspaper of general circulation within the
governing body’s jurisdiction;
         (b)   By passage of a measure approving the project including an
override of a veto if necessary at a meeting held on any date subsequent to the
date of hearings; and
         (c)   After passage of such measure, including an override of a veto
if necessary by giving notice as follows:
            1.   For those projects for which applicable statutes require an
ordinance or resolution of necessity creating a district or otherwise
establishing the project, notice shall be given for such project by including
either as part of such ordinance or resolution or as part of any publicized
notice concerning such ordinance or resolution or as part of any publicized
notice concerning such ordinance or resolution a statement that the project as
described in the ordinance or resolution is subject to limited referendum for a
period of 30 days after the first publication of such notice and that after
such 30-day period, the project and measures related to it will not be subject
to any further right of referendum; and
            2.   For projects for which applicable statutes do not require an
ordinance or resolution of necessity, notice shall be given by publication of a
notice concerning such projects stating in general terms the nature of the
project and the Engineer’s estimate of costs of such project and stating that
the project described in the notice is subject to limited referendum for a
period of 30 days after the first publication of such notice and that after
such 30-day period, the project and measures related to it will not be subject
to any further right of referendum. The notice required by this subdivision
shall be published in at least one newspaper of general circulation within the
municipality and shall be published not later than 15 days after passage by the
governing body, including an override of a veto if necessary of a measure
approving the project.
   (D)   The right to hold such a hearing prior to the passage of the measure
by the governing body and give such notice after passage of such measure by the
governing body to obtain exemption for any particular project in a manner
described in this division (D) is optional and the municipality shall not be
required to hold such a hearing or give such notice for any particular project.
   (E)   All measures, except as provided in divisions (A), (B) and (D) above,
shall be subject to the referendum procedure at any time after such measure has
been passed by the governing body including an override of a veto if necessary
or enacted by the voters by initiative.
(1995 Code, § 1-1112)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 18-2527, 18-2528
§ 35.32 REFERENDUM, PASSAGE.
   (A)   (1)   Whenever a referendum petition bearing signatures equal in
number to at least 15% of the qualified electors of the municipality has been
filed with the Clerk and verified pursuant to §
35.25 of this chapter, it shall be the duty of the governing body to reconsider
the measure or portion of such measure which is the object of the referendum.
      (2)   If the governing body fails to repeal or amend the measure or
portion thereof in the manner proposed by the referendum including an override
of any veto if necessary within 30 days from the date of the governing body
receives notification pursuant to §
35.25 of this chapter, the Clerk shall cause the measure to be submitted to a
vote of the people at the next regularly scheduled primary or general election
held within the municipality.
      (3)   If the governing body desires to submit the measure to a vote of
the people at a special election prior to the next regularly scheduled primary
or general election held within the municipality, the governing body shall by
resolution, direct the Clerk to cause the measure to be submitted at a special
election.
      (4)   Such resolution shall not be subject to referendum or limited
referendum.
   (B)   Whenever a referendum petition bearing signatures equal in number to
at least 20% of the qualified voters of the municipality which requests that a
special election be called to submit the referendum measure to a vote of the
people has been filed with the Clerk and verified, it shall be the duty of the
governing body to reconsider the measure or portion of such measure which is
the object of the referendum. If the governing body fails to repeal or amend
the measure or portion thereof in the manner proposed by the referendum
including an override of any veto if necessary, the Clerk shall cause the
measure to be submitted to a vote of the people at a special election called
for such purpose within 30 days from the date the governing body received
notification. The date of such special election shall not be less than 30, nor
more than 60, days from the date the governing body received notification.
   (C)   If a majority of the electors voting on the referendum measure shall
vote in favor of such measure, the law subject to the referendum shall be
repealed or amended. A measure repealed or amended by referendum shall not be
reenacted or returned to its original form except by a two-thirds majority of
the members of the governing body. No such attempt to reenact or return the
measure to its original form shall be made within one year of the repeal or
amendment of the measure by the electors. If the referendum measure does not
receive a majority vote, the ordinance shall immediately become effective or
remain in effect.
(1995 Code, § 1-1113)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 18-2529 through 18-2531
FORMS
§ 35.45 LICENSE APPLICATIONS, FORMS AND NOTICES.
   Copies of licenses, applications, forms and notices are available in the
office of the Municipal Clerk.
(1995 Code, § 1-1001)
§ 35.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   (1)   Whoever knowingly or willfully makes a false affidavit or takes
a false oath regarding the qualifications of any person to sign petitions under
Neb. RS 18-2501 through 18-2531 shall be guilty of a Class I misdemeanor with a
limit of $300 on the fine.
      (2)   Whoever falsely makes or willfully destroys a petition or any part
thereof or signs a false name thereto or signs or files any petition knowing
the same or any part thereof to be falsely made or suppresses any petition or
any part thereof which has been duly filed pursuant to Neb. RS 18-2501 through
18-2531 shall be guilty of a Class I misdemeanor with a limit of $500 on the
fine.
      (3)   Whoever signs any petition under Neb. RS 18-2501 through 18-2531
knowing that he or she is not a registered voter in the place where such
petition is made, aids or abets any other person in doing any of the acts
mentioned in this section, bribes or gives or pays any money or thing of value
to any person directly or indirectly to induce him or her to sign such petition
or engages in any deceptive practice intended to induce any person to sign a
petition, shall be guilty of a Class I misdemeanor with a limit of $300 on the
fine.
      (4)   Any Clerk who willfully refuses to comply with the provision of
Neb. RS 18-2501 through 18-2531, or who willfully causes unreasonable delay in
the execution of his or her duties under such sections, shall be guilty of a
Class I misdemeanor, but imprisonment shall not be included as part of the
punishment.
(1995 Code, § 1-1114)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 18-2532 through 18-2535
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
   Chapter
      
50.   UTILITIES GENERALLY
      
51.   GARBAGE
      
52.   WATER
      
53.   SEWERS
      
54.   FIRE REGULATIONS
      
55.   PUBLIC WAYS AND PROPERTY
CHAPTER 50: UTILITIES GENERALLY
Section
   
50.01   Mandatory utilities user service fee
   
50.02   Discontinuance of service; notice procedure
§ 50.01 MANDATORY UTILITIES USER SERVICE FEE.
   A mandatory monthly municipal utilities user service fee shall be charged to
all residential and commercial customers for municipal water, sewer and solid
waste collection services. The municipal utilities user service fee shall be
collected as a unit. Partial payments may be accepted.
(1995 Code, § 3-601)
§ 50.02 DISCONTINUANCE OF SERVICE; NOTICE PROCEDURE.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      DOMESTIC SUBSCRIBER. Shall not include municipalities, cities, villages,
political subdivisions, companies, corporations, partnerships, limited
liability companies or businesses of any nature.
(Neb. RS 70-1602)
   (B)   No utility owned and operated by the village furnishing water, natural
gas or electricity at retail in the village shall discontinue service to any
domestic subscriber for non-payment of any past-due account unless the utility
first gives written notice by mail to any subscriber whose service is proposed
to be terminated at least seven days prior to termination. As to any subscriber
who has previously been identified as a welfare recipient to the utility by the
Department of Health and Human Services, the notice shall be by certified mail
and notice of such proposed termination shall be given to the Department.
(Neb. RS 70-1603)
   (C)   Prior to the discontinuance of service to any domestic subscriber by a
utility owned and operated by the village, the domestic subscriber, upon
request, shall be provided a conference with the Board of Trustees. A utility
owned and operated by the village shall not be subject to Neb. RS 70-1608 to
70-1614, but the Board of Trustees shall establish a procedure to resolve
utility bills when a conference is requested by a domestic subscriber. The
procedure shall be in writing and a copy of such procedure shall be furnished
upon the request of any domestic subscriber. The Board of Trustees shall notify
the domestic subscriber of the time, place and date scheduled for such
conference.
(Neb. RS 70-1604)
   (D)   The utility shall establish a third-party notice procedure for the
notification of a designated third party of any proposed discontinuance of
service and shall advise its subscribers, including new subscribers, of the
availability of such procedures.
(Neb. RS 70-1607)
   (E)   This section shall not apply to any disconnections or interruptions of
services made necessary by the utility for reasons of repair or maintenance or
to protect the health or safety of the domestic subscriber or of the general
public.
(Neb. RS 70-1615)
(1995 Code, § 3-602)
CHAPTER 51: GARBAGE
Section
Municipal Solid Waste Department
   
51.01   Operation and funding
   
51.02   Mandatory collection service
   
51.03   Schedule of charges
   
51.04   Collection charges
   
51.05   Delinquent collection charges
   
51.06   Storage of wastes; prohibitions
   
51.07   Collection of wastes; prohibitions
   
51.08   Disposal of wastes; prohibitions
   
51.09   Maintenance of sanitary conditions on public and private premises
Garbage and Solid Waste
   
51.20   Definitions
   
51.21   Solid waste considered garbage
   
51.22   Trash and waste
   
51.23   Hauling
   
51.24   Collection authority
   
51.25   Notice; removal
   
51.26   Nuisance
   
51.27   Lien
MUNICIPAL SOLID WASTE DEPARTMENT
§ 51.01 OPERATION AND FUNDING.
   The municipality shall have the power to establish a solid waste management
system within the corporate limits. When such system shall have been
established, the municipality may provide by ordinance for the management and
operation thereof, the rates to be charged for such service, including
collection and disposal, the manner of payment and collection thereof and
prescribe penalties for the violation of such ordinance, and do whatever is
necessary to protect the general health in the matter of removal and disposal
of garbage.
(1995 Code, § 3-301)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 19-2101 through 19-2113
§ 51.02 MANDATORY COLLECTION SERVICE.
   All solid waste to be disposed of within the municipality shall be placed in
the containers furnished by the contractor with whom the municipality has
entered into an exclusive agreement for the collection and removal of solid
waste, and said solid waste shall be picked up by the contractor. The burning
or placing of hot ashes in the containers furnished by the contractor is hereby
prohibited.
(1995 Code, § 3-302) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 51.03 SCHEDULE OF CHARGES.
   (A)   The governing body shall, by resolution, set forth a schedule of
charges for the collection of solid waste.
   (B)   Any and all amendments or modifications of the schedule of charges
shall likewise be effectuated by the passage of a resolution by the governing
body.
(1995 Code, § 3-303)
§ 51.04 COLLECTION CHARGES.
   (A)   The solid waste collection charges shall be billed to the residents of
the municipality along with and at the same time said residents are billed for
water and sewer charges.
   (B)   Charges for solid waste collection shall be collected at the same
time, in the same manner and by the same officers as water and sewer charges
are collected by the municipality.
   (C)   Unpaid solid waste collection charges shall be deemed delinquent on
the same day water and sewer charges are deemed delinquent.
(1995 Code, § 3-304)
§ 51.05 DELINQUENT COLLECTION CHARGES.
   (A)   All delinquent solid waste collection charges are hereby declared to
be a lien upon the premises or real estate for which, or upon which the same
was used or supplied, and upon the refusal of said person, firm or corporation
to pay said delinquent collection fees, they shall be collected by being placed
upon the assessment rolls and the tax books for collection, like other taxes,
as further provided herein. It shall be the duty of the Municipal Clerk on the
second Monday of January of each year to report to the municipal governing body
a list of all unpaid accounts due for solid waste collection, together with a
description of the premises or real estate, upon or for which the same was used
or supplied. Said report shall be examined and, if approved by the governing
body, shall be certified by the Municipal Clerk to the County Clerk giving the
amounts due and the description of the premises or real estate upon or for
which the collection services were used or supplied, the same to be collected
as other taxes, by the County Treasurer.
   (B)   Prior to certification to the County Clerk, the municipality shall
give 30 days’ written notice to the owner of record of the subject property,
said notice to be by certified mail or registered mail.
(1995 Code, § 3-305)
§ 51.06 STORAGE OF WASTES; PROHIBITIONS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to keep in, on or about any dwelling
house, building or premises in the municipality any decayed vegetable or animal
substance, garbage, rubbish or refuse matter, or any substance that may be
injurious to the public health or offense to the residents or inhabitants of
the vicinity unless the same is kept in containers and/or receptacles as set
forth in this chapter.
(1995 Code, § 3-306) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 51.07 COLLECTION OF WASTES; PROHIBITIONS.
   It shall be unlawful to deposit or permit to fall from any vehicle on any
public street or alley in the municipality; provided that, this section shall
not be construed to prohibit solid wastes in a container complying with the
provisions of this chapter preparatory to having such material collected and
disposed of in the manner provided herein.
(1995 Code, § 3-307) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 51.08 DISPOSAL OF WASTES; PROHIBITIONS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to:
      (1)   Dispose of any solid waste, except in compliance with this chapter;
      (2)   Transport any solid waste in the municipal dump or landfill, except
in compliance with this chapter;
      (3)   Collect and dispose of any solid waste within the municipality,
except as authorized in this chapter; or
      (4)   Burn garbage, trash, waste, refuse, rubbish or debris within the
corporate limits; provided that, the Fire Chief may authorize the burning of
grass or weeds, and the burning of old buildings and other combustibles by the
Fire Department in firefighting practice and training.
   (B)   The municipality may authorize the burning of leaves and yard waste
for cleanup purposes during the fall of the year with the approval of the Fire
Chief.
(1995 Code, § 3-308) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 51.09 MAINTENANCE OF SANITARY CONDITIONS ON PUBLIC AND PRIVATE PREMISES.
   Nothing herein shall be construed to prohibit the following:
   (A)   Recycling of wastes in any municipally approved program for ecological
purposes;
   (B)   Disposal of garbage or refuse by means of a kitchen or home disposal
unit; and
   (C)   Nor shall the container privileges of this chapter apply to large,
bulky refuse which may not be placed within a suitable container.
(1995 Code, § 3-309) Penalty, see §
10.99
GARBAGE AND SOLID WASTE
§ 51.20 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   GARBAGE. Items including, but not limited to, kitchen refuse, decayed waste,
dead animals or anything that may decompose and become offensive and pose an
immediate hazard to the public health.
   WASTE. Items including, but not limited to, cinders, ashes, paper, plastic,
metal, plaster, brick, stone, sawdust or sand and does not pose an immediate
hazard to the public health.
(1995 Code, § 4-201)
§ 51.21 SOLID WASTE CONSIDERED GARBAGE.
   All municipal solid waste, for the purposes of this subchapter, shall be
considered garbage.
(1995 Code, § 4-202)
§ 51.22 TRASH AND WASTE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to keep in, on or about any dwelling,
building or premises or any other place in the municipality decayed vegetable
or animal substance, garbage or refuse matter of any kind that may be injurious
to the public health or offensive to the residents of the municipality unless
the same is kept in receptacles which are as nearly air-tight as may be
practical so as to prevent the spread of garbage. It shall be unlawful to throw
or sweep into the streets, alleys, parks or other public grounds any dirt,
paper, nails, pieces of glass, refuse, waste or rubbish of any kind. No person
may permit garbage, rubbish, waste or refuse to collect and all persons shall
remove the same from his or her property within 24 hours after being notified
to do so by the municipal law enforcement officer or Municipal Clerk who shall
represent the Board of Health. Any person having garbage, rubbish, waste or
refuse that is subject to decay or fermentation within a short period of time
shall be required to place the same in a standard garbage can with a tight
cover or a durable plastic container that is securely tied at its opening.
(1995 Code, § 4-203) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 19-2106
§ 51.23 HAULING.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to haul garbage, trash or waste within
the municipality without covering said material with a tarp or other cover
which prevents the escape of trash therefrom.
(1995 Code, § 4-204) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 51.24 COLLECTION AUTHORITY.
   The governing body may provide for the collection and removal of garbage or
refuse found upon any lot or land within its corporate roads, or alleys
abutting such lot or land which constitutes a public nuisance. The governing
body may require the owner, duly authorized agent or tenant of such lot or land
to remove the garbage or refuse from such lot or land and streets and roads or
alleys.
(1995 Code, § 4-205)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 18-1752
§ 51.25 NOTICE; REMOVAL.
   (A)   Notice that removal of garbage or refuse is necessary shall be given
to each owner or owner’s duly authorized agent and to the tenant if any.
   (B)   Such notice shall be provided by personal service or by certified
mail.
   (C)   After providing such notice, the governing body through its proper
offices shall, in addition to other proper remedies, remove the garbage or
refuse or cause to be removed, from such lot or land and streets, roads or
alleys.
(1995 Code, § 4-206)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 18-1752
§ 51.26 NUISANCE.
   If the Chairperson of the governing body declares that the accumulation of
such garbage or refuse upon any lot or land constitutes an immediate nuisance
and hazard to public health and safety, the municipality shall remove the
garbage or refuse, or cause it to be removed, from such lot or land within 48
hours after notice by personal service or following receipt of a certified
letter if such garbage or refuse has not been removed.
(1995 Code, § 4-207)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 18-1752
§ 51.27 LIEN.
   Whenever a municipality removes any garbage or refuse, or causes it to be
removed, from any lot or land pursuant to this subchapter, it shall, after a
hearing conducted by the governing body, assess the cost of the removal against
such lot or land.
(1995 Code, § 4-208)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 18-1752
CHAPTER 52: WATER
Section
Municipal Water Department
   
52.01   Operation and funding
   
52.02   Definitions
   
52.03   Consumer’s application
   
52.04   Water contract
   
52.05   Installation procedure
   
52.06   Installation expense
   
52.07   Fees and collections
   
52.08   Water permits
   
52.09   Water bills
   
52.10   Lien
   
52.11   Single premises
   
52.12   Restricted use
   
52.13   Fire hydrants
   
52.14   Pollution
   
52.15   Mandatory hookup
   
52.16   Water service contracts
   
52.17   Police reports
   
52.18   Destruction of property
   
52.19   Complaints
   
52.20   Service to non-residents
   
52.21   Inspections
   
52.22   Repairs
   
52.23   Prohibition of lead pipes, solder and flux
   
52.24   Private wells
Cross-Connections
   
52.35   Purpose
   
52.36   Application
   
52.37   Policy
   
52.38   Definitions
   
52.39   Prohibitions
   
52.40   Survey and investigations
   
52.41   Type of protection required; where
   
52.42   Backflow prevention devices
Plumbing and Wells
   
52.55   Well, underground facilities; contamination; permits
   
52.56   Utilizing the geothermal properties of the ground
   
52.57   Procedure to obtain permit
   
52.58   Drilling, installation of other facilities within designated distance
from municipal water sources prohibited
   
52.59   Specifications; discontinuance by governing body
   
52.60   State’s minimum standards
   
52.61   Signs
   
52.62   Discontinuance, cancellation of permit
   
52.63   Consent by permittee and the like
   
52.64   Wellhead protection area
 
   
52.99   Penalty
MUNICIPAL WATER DEPARTMENT
§ 52.01 OPERATION AND FUNDING.
   The municipality owns and operates the Municipal Water Department. The
governing body, for the purpose of defraying the cost of the care, management
and maintenance of the Municipal Water Department, may each year levy a tax not
exceeding the maximum limit prescribed by state law on the actual valuation of
all real estate and personal property within the corporate limits that is
subject to taxation. The revenue from the said tax shall be known as the Water
Fund and shall remain in the custody of the Municipal Treasurer. The governing
body shall set the rates to be charged for services rendered by ordinance and
shall file a copy of the rates in the office of the Municipal Clerk for public
inspection at any reasonable time.
(1995 Code, § 3-101)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-531, 17-534, 19-1305
§ 52.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DEEMED AVAILABLE. Any water main which passes through the premises or
through a street, alley or easement adjacent to or abutting such premises.
   MAIN. Any pipe other than a supply or service pipe that is used for the
purpose of carrying water to and dispersing the same in the municipality.
   SEPARATE PREMISES. More than one consumer procuring water from the same
service or supply pipe. The second premises may be a separate dwelling,
apartment, building or structure used for a separate purpose.
   SERVICE PIPE. Any pipe extending from the supply pipe to the location on the
premises where the water is to be dispersed.
   SUPPLY PIPE. Any pipe extending from the main to a point at or near the lot
line of the consumer’s premises where the shutoff, stop box or curb cock is
located.
(1995 Code, § 3-102)
§ 52.03 CONSUMER’S APPLICATION.
   (A)   The customer, upon approval of his or her application for water
service, shall be responsible for all expenses incurred in the tapping of the
water main and running the service lateral.
   (B)   The water service installation shall be done only by a licensed
plumber.
(1995 Code, § 3-103)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-537, 19-2701
§ 52.04 WATER CONTRACT.
   The municipality, through its Water Department, shall furnish water to
persons within its corporate limits whose premises abut a street, alley or
easement in which a commercial main now is or may hereafter be laid. The rules,
regulations and water rates hereinafter named in this subchapter and on file in
the office of the Municipal Clerk shall be considered a part of every
application hereafter made for water service and shall be considered a part of
the contract between every consumer now or hereafter served. Without further
formality, the making of application on the part of any applicant or the use or
consumption of water service by present consumers thereof and the furnishing of
water service to said consumer shall constitute a contract between the consumer
and the municipality to which said contract both parties are bound. If the
consumer shall violate any of the provisions of said contract or any reasonable
rules and regulations that the governing body may hereafter adopt, the
Utilities Superintendent or his or her agent may cut off or disconnect the
water service from the building or premises or place of such violation. No
further connection for water service to said building, premises or place shall
again be made, save or except by order of said Superintendent or his or her
agent.
(1995 Code, § 3-104)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-537
§ 52.05 INSTALLATION PROCEDURE.
   Upon approval of the customer’s application, the Utilities Superintendent
shall determine the most feasible location for tapping the main. The Utilities
Superintendent shall install the water line from the municipal main to a shut
off valve located on the village’s utility right-of-way. The customer shall be
responsible for the installation of the water service from the shut off valve
to the residence. The installation of the water service to the residence shall
be done only by a licensed plumber.
(1995 Code, § 3-105) (Ord. 24, passed 8-7-1996)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-537
§ 52.06 INSTALLATION EXPENSE.
   The expense of providing water service from the municipal main to the
premises served shall be paid by the customer. The necessary expenses incurred
by the Utilities Superintendent when installing the water service, including,
but not limited to, pipe, trenching, corporation cock, service clamp and labor
are the responsibility of the customer.
(1995 Code, § 3-106) (Ord. 24, passed 8-7-1996)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-542
§ 52.07 FEES AND COLLECTIONS.
   (A)   The governing body has the power and authority to fix by resolution
the rates to be paid by the water consumers for the use of water from the Water
Department.
   (B)   All such fees shall be on file for public inspection at the office of
the Municipal Clerk.
   (C)   The Municipal Clerk shall collect all money received by the
municipality on the account of the Water Department.
(1995 Code, § 3-107)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-538, 17-541
§ 52.08 WATER PERMITS.
   Upon observation by the Utilities Superintendent or upon filing of complaint
by any citizen in the municipality, any customer of the Water Department using
excessive amounts of water without first obtaining a permit shall be issued a
notice to appear before the governing body to show cause why he or she should
not be required to apply for a heavy user permit and pay additional water fees.
If said customer does not appear before the governing body or does not
satisfactorily show that his or her water use is not excessive, he or she shall
be billed an additional fee set by the governing body and, if the customer
fails to pay said additional fee, he or she shall have his or her water service
disconnected.
(1995 Code, § 3-108)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-542, 70-1601 through 70-1615
§ 52.09 WATER BILLS.
   Water rental bills shall be due and payable monthly at the office of the
Municipal Clerk. The Municipal Clerk shall charge and collect from each
customer the water rental bill which shall include all other charges, properly
itemized, due the Water Department. Bills shall be due on the first day of each
month and shall be payable by the fifteenth day of each month. Bills not paid
by the fifteenth day of each month shall be deemed to be delinquent. Upon being
deemed to be delinquent as herein defined, the Municipal Clerk shall implement
procedural policies for utility disconnection. The Municipal Clerk may assess
an additional fee set by resolution of the governing body and on file at the
office of the Municipal Clerk in the event that water service is shut off for
the non-payment of any water rental bill to compensate the municipality for the
additional hookup necessary to again provide water service to the delinquent
customer.
(1995 Code, § 3-109)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-542, 70-1601 through 70-1615
§ 52.10 LIEN.
   In addition to all other remedies, if a customer shall for any reason remain
indebted to the municipality for water service furnished, such amount due,
together with any rents and charges in arrears, shall be considered a
delinquent water rent which is hereby declared to be a lien upon the real
estate for which the same was used or supplied; and such taxes, rents or rates
shall be paid and collected and such lien upon approval by the governing body
shall be certified by the Municipal Clerk to the County Clerk to be collected
as a special tax in the manner provided by law.
(1995 Code, § 3-110)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-538
§ 52.11 SINGLE PREMISES.
   No consumer shall supply water to other families or allow them to take water
from his or her premises nor after water is supplied into a building shall any
person make or employ a plumber or other person to make a tap or connection
with the pipe upon the premises for alteration, extension or attachment without
the written permission of the Utilities Superintendent. It shall further be
unlawful for any person to tamper with any water meter or by means of any
contrivance or device to divert the water from the service pipe so that the
water will not pass through the meter or while passing through said meter will
cause the meter to register inaccurately.
(1995 Code, § 3-111) Penalty, see §
52.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-537
§ 52.12 RESTRICTED USE.
   (A)   The governing body or the Utilities Superintendent may order a
reduction in the use of water or shut off the water on any premises in the
event of a water shortage due to fire or other good and sufficient cause. In
the event of said water shortage, the governing body or the Utilities
Superintendent shall notify the customers of the Water Department by posting in
three prominent places throughout the municipality notice of said shortage and
the restrictions imposed. In the event that any person abuses his or her
privileges of use of the water system by continued and excessive use to such an
extent as to endanger the health and welfare of the residents of the
municipality, the governing body or the Utilities Superintendent shall notify
said customer by personal service or by posting the customer’s premises and if
said excessive use is not abated within 12 hours after said notification, the
Utilities Superintendent shall disconnect the said water service and shall not
reconnect the water service until the customer shall pay to the Municipal
Treasurer a reconnection fee, as established by the governing body.
   (B)   The municipality shall not be liable for any damages caused by
shutting off the supply of water of any consumer while the system or any part
thereof is undergoing repairs or when there is a shortage of water due to
circumstances over which the municipality has no control.
(1995 Code, § 3-112) Penalty, see §
52.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-537
§ 52.13 FIRE HYDRANTS.
   All hydrants for the purpose of extinguishing fires are hereby declared to
be public hydrants and it shall be unlawful for any person other than members
of the Municipal Fire Department under the orders of the Fire Chief or members
of the Water Department to open or attempt to open any of the hydrants and draw
water from the same or in any manner to interfere with the hydrants.
(1995 Code, § 3-113) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.14 POLLUTION.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to pollute or attempt to pollute any
stream or source of water for the supply of the Municipal Water Department.
(1995 Code, § 3-114) Penalty, see §
52.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-536
§ 52.15 MANDATORY HOOKUP.
   Upon written notice by the governing body, each property owner, occupant or
lessee of any premises where water service is deemed available shall without
delay cause said premises to be connected to the water system. All habitable
buildings shall be equipped with inside water facilities.
(1995 Code, § 3-115) Penalty, see §
52.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-539
§ 52.16 WATER SERVICE CONTRACTS.
   (A)   Contracts for water service are not transferable. Any person wishing
to change from one location to another shall make a new application and sign a
new contract. If any consumer shall move from the premises where service is
furnished or if the said premises is destroyed by fire or other casualty, he or
she shall at once inform the Utilities Superintendent who shall cause the water
service to be shut off at the said premises.
   (B)   If the consumer should fail to give such notice, he or she shall be
charged for all water used on the said premises until the Utilities
Superintendent is otherwise advised in such circumstances.
(1995 Code, § 3-116)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-537
§ 52.17 POLICE REPORTS.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of the County Sheriff’s Department to report to
the Utilities Superintendent all cases of leakage and waste in the use of water
and all violations of the municipal code relating to the Water Department.
   (B)   They shall have the additional duty of enforcing the observance of all
such regulations.
(1995 Code, § 3-117)
§ 52.18 DESTRUCTION OF PROPERTY.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to willfully or carelessly break,
injure or deface any building, machinery, apparatus, fixture, attachment or
appurtenance of the Municipal Water Department.
   (B)   No person may deposit anything in a stop box or commit any act tending
to obstruct or impair the intended use of any of the above mentioned property
without the written permission of the Utilities Superintendent.
(1995 Code, § 3-118) Penalty, see §
52.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-537
§ 52.19 COMPLAINTS.
   (A)   Any consumer feeling himself or herself aggrieved by reason of any
controversy with the Utilities Superintendent or Municipal Clerk may appear
before the governing body and present his or her grievance. Any consumer who
considers himself or herself aggrieved by being required to pay the charge
demanded for the use of water or for the resumption of water service after the
same shall have been shut off, shall pay such charge under protest in which
event, the Municipal Clerk shall write on the receipt given such customer the
words, “Paid Under Protest”.
   (B)   Such consumer may then present his or her verified claim in the manner
provided for presenting claims to the governing body for a refund of the amount
so paid under protest.
   (C)   Such claims shall then be considered by the governing body in this
same manner as other claims against the municipality as set forth in §
34.08 of this code of ordinances.
(1995 Code, § 3-119)
§ 52.20 SERVICE TO NON-RESIDENTS.
   (A)   The municipality shall not supply water service to any person outside
the corporate limits without special permission from the governing body;
provided, the entire cost of laying mains, service pipe and supply pipe shall
be paid by the consumer. All mains, service pipe and supply lines shall meet
the standards set by the governing body in regard to size of lines, material
used and workmanship and further be subject to inspection by the Utility
Superintendent prior to being backfilled.
   (B)   Nothing herein shall be construed to obligate the municipality to
provide water service to non- residents.
(1995 Code, § 3-120)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 19-2701
§ 52.21 INSPECTIONS.
   The Utilities Superintendent or his or her duly authorized agents shall have
free access at any reasonable time to all parts of each premises and building
to or in which water is delivered for the purpose of examining the pipes,
fixtures and other portions of the system to ascertain whether there is any
disrepair or unnecessary waste of water.
(1995 Code, § 3-121)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-537
§ 52.22 REPAIRS.
   (A)   Repairs to the service pipe shall be made by and at the expense of the
customer.
   (B)   All other repairs to the property of the Water Department shall be
made by the municipality.
(1995 Code, § 3-122)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-542
§ 52.23 PROHIBITION OF LEAD PIPES, SOLDER AND FLUX.
   (A)   Any pipe, solders or flux used in the installation or repair of any
residential or non-residential facility which is connected to the public water
supply system shall be lead free.
   (B)   For purposes of this section, LEAD FREE shall mean:
      (1)   Solders and flux: not more than 0.2% lead; and
      (2)   Pipe and pipe fittings: not more than 8% lead.
(1995 Code, § 3-123) (Ord. 90-1, passed 4-4-1990) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.24 PRIVATE WELLS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, partnership, corporation or
school district to establish or cause to be established any water well for the
purpose of extracting water or injecting water within the corporate limits of
the municipality; provided, such wells shall be permitted use in operating
water to air heat pumps or heat exchangers.
(1995 Code, § 3-124) Penalty, see §
52.99
CROSS-CONNECTIONS
§ 52.35 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this subchapter is:
   (A)   To protect the public potable water supply of the municipal water
system from contamination or pollution by containing within the consumer’s
internal distribution system or private water system contaminants or pollutants
which could backflow through the service connection into the public potable
water supply system;
   (B)   To promote the elimination, containment, isolation or control of
existing cross-connections, actual or potential, between the public or
consumer’s potable water systems and non-potable water systems, plumbing
fixtures and industrial-process systems; and
   (C)   To provide for the maintenance of a continuing program of cross-
connection control which will systematically and effectively prevent the
contamination or pollution of all potable water systems.
(1995 Code, § 3-125)
§ 52.36 APPLICATION.
   This subchapter shall apply to all premises served by the public potable
water system of the municipality.
(1995 Code, § 3-125)
§ 52.37 POLICY.
   (A)   This subchapter will be reasonably interpreted. It is the
municipality’s intent to recognize the varying degrees of hazard and to apply
the principle that the degree of protection shall be commensurate with the
degree of hazard.
   (B)   The Municipal Water Department and governing body shall be primarily
responsible for protection of the public potable water distribution system from
contamination or pollution due to backflow or contaminants or pollutants
through the water service connection. The cooperation of all consumers is
required to implement and maintain the program to control cross-connections.
The consumer is responsible for preventing contamination of the water system
within the consumer’s own premises.
   (C)   If, in the judgment of their authorized representative, cross-
connection protection is required through either piping modification or
installation of an approved backflow prevention device, 30 days’ notice shall
be given to the consumer. The failure, refusal or inability on the part of the
consumer to provide requested protection within 30 days shall make the consumer
subject to discontinuance of water service at the discretion of the Municipal
Water Department according to the degree of hazard without further notice.
(1995 Code, § 3-125)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-537
§ 52.38 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AIR GAP SEPARATION. The unobstructed vertical distance through the free
atmosphere between the lowest opening from any pipe or faucet supplying water
to a tank, plumbing fixture or other device and the overflow level rim of the
receptacle.
   AUXILIARY WATER SUPPLY. Any water source or system, other than the public
water supply, that may be available in the building or premises.
   BACKFLOW. The flow other than the intended direction of flow or any foreign
liquids, gases or substances into the distribution system of a public water
supply.
   BACKFLOW PREVENTION DEVICE. Any device, method or type of construction
intended to prevent backflow into a potable water system provided backflow
preventers have been tested and approved by a reputable testing laboratory.
   CONSUMER. The owner or person in control of any premises supplied by or in
any manner connected to a public water system.
   CONTAINMENT. Protection of the public water supply by installing a cross-
connection control device or air gap separation on the main service line to a
facility or as an installation within equipment handling potentially hazardous
materials.
   CONTAMINATION. An impairment of the quality of the water by sewage, process
fluids or other wastes to a degree which could create an actual hazard to the
public health through poisoning or through spread of disease by exposure.
   CROSS-CONNECTION. Any physical link between a potable water supply and any
other substance, fluid or source which makes possible contamination of the
potable water supply due to the reversal of flow of the water in the piping or
distribution system.
   HAZARD, DEGREE OF. An evaluation of the potential risk to public health and
the adverse effect of the hazard upon the potable water system.
      (1)   HAZARD, HEALTH. Any condition, device or practice in the water
supply system and its operation which could create or may create a danger to
the health and well-being of the water consumer.
      (2)   HAZARD, PLUMBING. A plumbing type cross-connection in a consumer’s
potable water system that has not been properly protected by a vacuum breaker,
air-gap separation or backflow prevention device.
      (3)   HAZARD, POLLUTIONAL. An actual or potential threat to the physical
properties of the water system or to the potability of the public or the
consumer’s potable water system, but which would constitute a nuisance or be
aesthetically objectionable or could cause damage to the system or its
appurtenances, but would not be dangerous to health.
      (4)   HAZARD, SYSTEM. An actual or potential threat of severe damage to
the physical properties of the public potable water system or the consumer’s
potable water system or of a pollution or contamination which would have a
protracted effect on the quality of the potable water in the system.
   INDUSTRIAL PROCESS SYSTEM. Any system containing a fluid or solution which
may be chemically, biologically or otherwise contaminated or polluted in a form
or concentration such as would constitute a health, system, pollution or
plumbing hazard if introduced into a potable water supply.
   ISOLATION. Protection of a facility service line by installing a cross-
connection control device or air gap separation on an individual fixture,
appurtenance or system.
   POLLUTION. The presence of any foreign substance (organic, inorganic or
biological) in water which tends to degrade its quality so as to constitute a
hazard or impair the usefulness of the water to a degree which does not create
an actual hazard to the public health, but which does adversely and
unreasonably affect such waters for domestic use.
   PUBLIC POTABLE WATER SYSTEM. Any publicly- or privately-owned water system
supplying water to the general public which is satisfactory for drinking,
culinary and domestic purposes and meets the requirements of the state’s
Department of Health.
   SERVICE CONNECTION. The terminal end of a service line from the public water
system. If a meter is installed at the end of the service, then the SERVICE
CONNECTION means the downstream end of the meter.
   WATER DEPARTMENT. The owner, operator or individual in responsible charge of
a public water system.
(1995 Code, § 3-126)
§ 52.39 PROHIBITIONS.
   (A)   No water service connection shall be installed or maintained to any
premises where actual or potential cross-connections to the public potable or
consumer’s water system may exist unless such actual or potential cross-
connections are abated or controlled to the satisfaction of the Municipal Water
Department and as required by the laws and regulations of the state’s
Department of Health.
   (B)   No connection shall be installed or maintained whereby an auxiliary
water supply may enter a public potable or consumer’s water system unless such
auxiliary water supply and the method of connection and use of such supply
shall have been approved by the Municipal Water Department and the state’s
Department of Health.
   (C)   No water service connection shall be installed or maintained to any
premises in which the plumbing system, facilities and fixtures have not been
constructed and installed using acceptable plumbing practices considered by the
Municipal Water Department as necessary for the protection of health and
safety.
(1995 Code, § 3-127) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.40 SURVEY AND INVESTIGATIONS.
   (A)   The consumer shall provide access to the premises at reasonable times
to the Municipal Water Department or his or her authorized representative for
the conduction of surveys and investigations of water use practices within the
consumer’s premises to determine whether there are actual or potential cross-
connections to the consumer’s water system through which contaminants or
pollutants could backflow into the public potable water system.
   (B)   On request by the Municipal Water Department or its authorized
representative, the consumer shall furnish information on water use practices
within his or her premises.
   (C)   It shall be the responsibility of the water consumer to conduct
periodic surveys of water use practices on his or her premises to determine
whether there are actual or potential cross-connections to his or her water
system, through which contaminants or pollutants could backflow into his, her
or the public potable water system.
(1995 Code, § 3-128)
§ 52.41 TYPE OF PROTECTION REQUIRED; WHERE.
   (A)   The type of protection required by this subchapter shall depend on the
degree of hazard which exists as follows.
      (1)   An approved air gap separation shall be installed where the public
potable water system may be contaminated with substances that could cause a
severe health hazard.
      (2)   An approved air gap separation or an approved reduced pressure
principal backflow prevention device shall be installed where the public
potable water system may be contaminated with a substance that could cause a
health hazard.
      (3)   An approved air gap separation or an approved reduced pressure
principal backflow prevention device or an approved double check valve assembly
shall be installed where the public potable water system may be polluted with
substances that could cause a pollution hazard not dangerous to health.
   (B)   (1)   An approved backflow prevention device shall be installed in the
service connection line to a consumer’s water system or within any premises
where, in the judgment of the Municipal Water Department or the state’s
Department of Health, actual or potential hazards to the public potable water
system exists.
      (2)   The type and degree of protection required shall be commensurate
with the degree of hazard.
      (3)   An approved air gap separation or reduced pressure principal
backflow prevention device shall be installed at the service connection or
within any premises where, in the judgment of the Municipal Water Department or
the state’s Department of Health, the nature and extent of activities on the
premises or the materials used in connection with the activities or materials
stored on the premises would present an immediate and dangerous hazard to
health should a cross-connection occur, even though such cross-connection
device is required to be installed.
      (4)   This includes, but is not limited to, the following situations:
         (a)   Premises having an auxiliary water supply unless the quality of
the auxiliary supply is acceptable to the Municipal Water Department and the
state’s Department of Health;
         (b)   Premises having internal cross-connections that are not
correctable or intricate plumbing arrangements which make it impractical to
ascertain whether or not cross-connections exist;
         (c)   Premises where entry is restricted so that inspections for
cross-connections cannot be made with sufficient frequency or at sufficiently
short notice to assure that cross-connections do not exist;
         (d)   Premises that, although not covered by this code, are subject to
frequent modification which would change their status or premises that have had
backflow code violations;
         (e)   Premises on which any substance is handled under pressure so as
to permit entry into the public water supply or where a cross-connection could
reasonably be expected to occur. This shall include the handling of process
waters and cooling waters; and
         (f)   Premises where materials of a toxic or hazardous nature are
handled such that, if back siphonage or back pressure should occur, a serious
health hazard may result.
      (3)   The following types of facilities must install or have in operation
any approved air gap separation, atmospheric vacuum breaker or reduced pressure
principal backflow prevention device as required by the Municipal Water
Department and the state’s Department of Health to protect the public water
supply and such must be installed at these facilities unless all hazardous or
potentially hazardous conditions have been eliminated or corrected by other
methods to the satisfaction of the Municipal Water Department and the state’s
Department of Health.
         (a)   Auxiliary water systems;
         (b)   Beverage bottling plants;
         (c)   Canaries, packing houses and reduction plants;
         (d)   Car washing facilities;
         (e)   Chemical manufacturing, processing, compounding or treatment
plants;
         (f)   Chemically contaminated water systems;
         (g)   Dairies and cold storage plants;
         (h)   Film laboratories;
         (i)   Fire protection systems;
         (j)   Hazardous waste storage and disposal;
         (k)   Hospital, mortuaries, clinics;
         (l)   Sprinkler systems and hose connections injecting directly,
materials of a toxic or hazardous nature;
         (m)   Laundries and dye works;
         (n)   Metal manufacturing, cleaning, processing and fabricating
plants;
         (o)   Oil and gas production, storage or transmission properties;
         (p)   Plating plants;
         (q)   Printing and publishing facilities;
         (r)   Research and analytical laboratories;
         (s)   Sewage and storm drainage facilities - pumping stations;
         (t)   Zoological and horticultural gardens;
         (u)   All cemetery sprinkler systems;
         (v)   Pet grooming and veterinarian hospitals;
         (w)   Class A, B and C swimming pools;
         (x)   Cooling coil service lines (refrigeration, air conditioning and
the like);
         (y)   All hot water and steam boiler heating systems; and
         (z)   All stockyards and sale barns.
(1995 Code, § 3-130) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.42 BACKFLOW PREVENTION DEVICES.
   (A)   (1)   Any backflow prevention device required by this subchapter shall
be of a model or construction approved by the Municipal Water Department and
the state’s Department of Health.
         (a)   Air gap separation to be approved shall be at least double the
diameter of the supply pipe measured vertically above the flood level rim of
the vessel, but in no case less than one inch.
         (b)   A double check valve assembly or a reduced pressure principal
backflow prevention device shall be approved by the Municipal Water Department
and shall appear on the current “list of approved backflow prevention devices”
established by the Water Department.
      (2)   Existing backflow prevention devices approved by the Municipal
Water Department at the time of installation and properly maintained shall,
except for inspection and maintenance requirements, be excluded from the
requirements of this subchapter so long as the Municipal Water Department is
assured that they will satisfactorily protect the water system. Whenever the
existing device is moved from its present location or requires more than
minimum maintenance or, when the Water Department finds that the maintenance
constitutes a hazard to health, the unit shall be replaced by a backflow
prevention device meeting the requirements of this subchapter.
(1995 Code, § 3-131)
   (B)   (1)   Backflow prevention devices required by this subchapter shall be
installed at a location and in a manner approved by the Municipal Water
Department and shall be installed at the expense of the water consumer.
      (2)   Backflow prevention devices installed on the service line to the
consumer’s water system shall be located on the consumer’s side of the water
meter as close to the meter as is reasonable practical and prior to any other
connection.
      (3)   Backflow prevention devices shall be located so as to be readily
accessible for maintenance and testing, protected from freezing and where no
part of the device will be submerged or subject to flooding by any fluid.
      (4)   Backflow prevention devices for underground sprinklers that have an
opening to the atmosphere shall be located at least 12 inches above the highest
ground served by the sprinkler system.
(1995 Code, § 3-132)
   (C)   (1)   It shall be the duty of the consumer at any premises on which
backflow prevention devices required by this subchapter are installed to have
inspections, tests and overhauls made in accordance with the following schedule
or more often where inspections indicate a need.
         (a)   Air gap separations shall be inspected at the time of
installation and at least every 12 months thereafter.
         (b)   Double check valve assemblies shall be inspected and tested for
tightness at the time of installation and at least every 12 months thereafter.
They shall be dismantled, inspected internally, cleaned and repaired whenever
needed.
         (c)   Reduced pressure principal backflow prevention devices shall be
inspected and tested for tightness at the time of installation and at least
every 12 months thereafter. They shall be dismantled, inspected internally,
cleaned and repaired whenever needed.
      (2)   Overhauls of backflow prevention devices shall be made at the
expense of the water consumer and shall be performed by a state-certified
backflow prevention device tester.
      (3)   Backflow prevention devices designed with testing cocks shall be
inspected and tested each year and those tests performed by the Municipal Water
Department will be at the expense of the Water Department. Tests performed by
others shall be at the expense of the consumer.
      (4)   Whenever backflow prevention devices required by this subchapter
are found to be defective, they shall be repaired or replaced at the expense of
the consumer without delay.
      (5)   The water consumer must maintain a complete record of each backflow
prevention device that has test cocks from purchase to retirement. Records of
inspections, test, repairs and overhauls performed by others shall be submitted
to the Municipal Water Department annually.
      (6)   Backflow prevention devices shall not be by-passed, made
inoperative, removed or otherwise made ineffective without specific
authorization by the Municipal Water Department.
(1995 Code, § 3-133)
   (D)   (1)   The Municipal Water Department shall have the right to deny or
discontinue, after notice to the consumer thereof, the water service to any
premises wherein:
         (a)   Any backflow prevention device required by these regulations is
not installed or maintained in a manner acceptable to the Municipal Water
Department;
         (b)   It is found that the backflow prevention device has been removed
or by-passed;
         (c)   An unprotected cross-connection exists on the premises;
         (d)   A low pressure cut-off required by this subchapter is not
installed and maintained in working order; and
         (e)   The Municipal Water Department is denied entry to determine
compliance with these regulations.
      (2)   The Municipal Water Department shall immediately deny or
discontinue, without notice to the consumer thereof, the water service to any
premises wherein a severe cross-connection exists which constitutes an
immediate threat to the safety of the public water system. The Municipal Water
Department shall notify the consumer within 24 hours of said denial or
discontinuation of service.
      (3)   Water service to such premises shall not be restored until the
consumer has corrected or eliminated such conditions or defects in conformance
with these regulations, and to the satisfaction of the Municipal Water
Department.
(1995 Code, § 3-134)
   (E)   (1)   Employees of the Municipal Water Department shall be relieved
from personal liability when acting in good faith and without malice, for any
damage that may occur to any person or property as a result of any act required
or authorized by the regulations affecting Municipal Water Department; cross-
connections; backflow prevention devices or by any act or omission of the
employee of the Municipal Water Department in the discharge of his or her
duties hereunder.
      (2)   Any suit brought carrying out the provisions of these regulations
shall be defended by the municipality, or by the municipality’s insurance
carrier, if any, through final determination of such proceedings.
(1995 Code, § 3-135)
Penalty, see §
52.99
PLUMBING AND WELLS
§ 52.55 WELL, UNDERGROUND FACILITIES; CONTAMINATION; PERMITS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, corporation or other legal entity to
drill and/or operate any of the following facilities within the corporate
limits or zoning jurisdiction of the village, without first having obtained the
proper permit from the governing body of the village: potable water well; any
other well; sewage lagoon; absorption or disposal field for water; cesspool;
dumping grounds; feedlot; livestock pasture or corral; chemical product storage
facility; petroleum product storage facility; pit toilet; sanitary landfill;
septic tank; sewage treatment plant; sewage wet well.
(Ord. 50, passed 7-10-2002) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.56 UTILIZING THE GEOTHERMAL PROPERTIES OF THE GROUND.
   Any person, corporation or other legal entity given authorization by permit
to utilize the geothermal properties of the ground shall be subject to each and
all of the following regulations:
   (A)   Must be a closed loop system;
   (B)   Joints must be made by heat fusion;
   (C)   Antifreeze must be potassium acetate, propylene glycol or other food
grade substance;
   (D)   Wells must be scaled from bottom to top with cement slurrie;
   (E)   Piping must consist of polybutylene or polyethylene pipe; and
   (F)   Must be located no closer than 100 feet to the village’s drinking
water source.
(Ord. 50, passed 7-10-2002) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.57 PROCEDURE TO OBTAIN PERMIT.
   In order to obtain a permit to drill and/or operate any of the facilities
listed in §§
52.55 and
52.56 of this chapter, the owner of the property on which the proposed facility
is to be located, must make application on the proper form provided by the
governing body of the village. Such application must be presented to the
village’s Board of Trustees at any regular or special meeting. After reviewing
the application of any person desiring to drill or operate any of the above-
described facilities, the village’s Board of Trustees must approve or deny said
permit.
(Ord. 50, passed 7-10-2002)
§ 52.58 DRILLING, INSTALLATION OF OTHER FACILITIES WITHIN DESIGNATED DISTANCE
FROM MUNICIPAL WATER SOURCES PROHIBITED.
   (A)   Under no circumstances shall the village’s Board of Trustees approve
any permit to drill or operate any of the below-described facilities within the
indicated number of feet from the village’s municipal water wells:
      (1)   Potable water well: within 1,000 feet;
      (2)   Closed loop geothermal well: within 100 feet;
      (3)   Any other well: within 1,000 feet;
      (4)   Sewage lagoon: within 1,000 feet;
      (5)   Absorption or disposal field for water: within 500 feet;
      (6)   Cesspool: within 500 feet;
      (7)   Dumping grounds: within 500 feet;
      (8)   Feedlot or feedlot runoff: within 500 feet;
      (9)   Livestock pasture or corral: within 500 feet;
      (10)   Chemical product storage facility: within 500 feet;
      (11)   Petroleum product storage facility: within 500 feet;
      (12)   Pit toilet: within 500 feet;
      (13)   Sanitary landfill: within 500 feet;
      (14)   Septic tank: within 500 feet;
      (15)   Sewage treatment plane: within 500 feet; and
      (16)   Sewage wet well: within 500 feet.
   (B)   If Nebraska Regulation Title 179, Ch. 2, amends any of the minimum
footages set forth above, the footages set forth above shall likewise be deemed
automatically amended consistent with such revisions.
(Ord. 50, passed 7-10-2002) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.59 SPECIFICATIONS; DISCONTINUANCE BY GOVERNING BODY.
   The municipality shall have the power and authority to refuse to issue well
drilling permits if it appears that the plan of drilling and construction is
not sound, or the proposed driller does not have proper equipment, or if it
appears that such well may endanger, impair or in any way interfere with the
public water system of the municipality.
(1995 Code, § 3-141)
§ 52.60 STATE’S MINIMUM STANDARDS.
   The state’s minimum standards are set forth in 178 NAC 12.
(1995 Code, § 3-142)
§ 52.61 SIGNS.
   All spigots or other connections to or from a private well shall have a sign
thereon stating that the water is not safe for drinking, and said sign shall be
continually maintained visibly upon said private well.
(1995 Code, § 3-143) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.62 DISCONTINUANCE; CANCELLATION OF PERMIT.
   The governing body may order the discontinuance of the use of a private well
or wells where it has reason and cause to believe that the public health is
endangered, and for that purpose may revoke and cancel any well permit or
renewal of such permit after notice and hearing. Such permit or renewal thereof
may be revoked and cancelled by the municipality upon violation of any of the
terms and provisions of this subchapter by the permittee or his or her
successor in the interest to the property upon which such well is located or
its occupants, in and to any private well after notice and hearing.
(1995 Code, § 3-144)
§ 52.63 CONSENT BY PERMITTEE AND THE LIKE.
   The granting of a well permit or the renewal thereof to a permittee or its
successors in interest shall constitute consent and shall grant consent by the
permittee or any tenant thereon to and for the Utilities Superintendent of the
municipality or his or her agents or employees to enter upon the premises upon
which the well is located in order to take any action required by the Utilities
Superintendent by this subchapter and to determine whether or not there is any
violation of the subchapter by said well or the use thereof.
(1995 Code, § 3-145)
§ 52.64 WELLHEAD PROTECTION AREA.
   (A)   Definition. For the purpose of this section, the following definition
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      WELLHEAD PROTECTION AREA. The surface and subsurface area surrounding a
water well or well field, supplying a public water system, through which
contaminants are reasonably likely to move toward and reach such water or well
field.
   (B)   Designation. The Board hereby designates a wellhead protection area
for the purpose of protecting the public water supply system based upon a map
prepared by the Nebraska Department of Environmental Quality. The property
within the boundaries of the wellhead protection area is described as:
      Sections 6 and 7, and the part of the N1/2NW1/4 of Section 18 lying West
of US Highway 283, in Township 7 North, Range 22 West of the 6th P.M.; and
Sections 1 and 6, and the N1/2N1/2 Section 13, in Township 6 North, in Range 23
West of the 6th P.M., Gosper County, Nebraska.
(Ord. 54, passed 2-11-2004)
§ 52.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person, corporation or other legal entity found violating any
provision of §§
52.55 through
52.58 of this chapter shall be subject to a fine, not to exceed $100. The
continuation of a violation of §§
52.55 through
52.58 of this chapter shall be deemed an additional crime for every 24 hours of
such continued violation. In addition, the village may obtain injunctive
relief, sue for damages and remediation and pursue any other remedy available
to it under the laws of the state or other authority having jurisdiction over
such matters.
(Ord. 50, passed 7-10-2002)
CHAPTER 53: SEWERS
Section
Municipal Sewer Department
   
53.001   Sewer Department; powers
   
53.002   Definitions
   
53.003   Application for permit
   
53.004   Sewer contract
   
53.005   Mandatory hookup
   
53.006   Direct connections
   
53.007   Service contracts
   
53.008   Installation expense
   
53.009   Classification
   
53.010   Rate setting
   
53.011   Sewer rental bills
   
53.012   Repairs and replacement
   
53.013   Special equipment
   
53.014   Manholes
   
53.015   Inspections
   
53.016   Lien
Private Sewage Disposal
   
53.030   When applicable
   
53.031   Permit required; fee
   
53.032   Permit; when effective; inspections
   
53.033   Specifications
   
53.034   Maintenance
   
53.035   Additional requirements
Building Sewers
   
53.050   Permit required
   
53.051   Classification; permit application; fee
   
53.052   Installation expense
   
53.053   Single premises
   
53.054   Use of existing sewers
   
53.055   Construction codes
   
53.056   Unlawful connection
   
53.057   Inspections
   
53.058   Excavations
Discharges; Industrial Wastes
   
53.070   Storm water, surface water, ground water, cooling water and process
water
   
53.071   Flammable, toxic, corrosive and obstructive substances; preliminary
treatment
   
53.072   Specific prohibitions as determined by the Superintendent
   
53.073   Hazardous and prohibited substances; rejection, pretreatment, control
of discharge rate or use fee surcharge; special exceptions permitted; use fee
surcharge
   
53.074   Grease, oil and sand interceptors; when required
   
53.075   Preliminary treatment or flow-equalizing facilities; maintenance by
owner
   
53.076   Control manholes, sampling stations; when required; installation and
maintenance; method of testing
   
53.077   Sanitary supply system; destruction of property
Compliance and Inspections
   
53.090   Inspections generally
   
53.091   Injury liability
   
53.092   Easements
   
53.093   Violation; notice and liability
MUNICIPAL SEWER DEPARTMENT
§ 53.001 SEWER DEPARTMENT; POWERS.
   (A)   The municipality owns and operates the municipal sewer system through
the Utilities Superintendent. The governing body shall have the authority to
adopt rules and regulations for the sanitary and efficient management of the
Department.
(1995 Code, § 3-201)
   (B)   The municipality has the legal authority to enforce its system of user
charges and sewer use regulations on all existing or future users of the system
whether located inside or outside the municipal limits.
(1995 Code, § 3-246)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-149, 17-925.01
§ 53.002 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BIOCHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND. The quantity of oxygen utilized in the
biochemical oxidation of organic matter under standard laboratory procedure in
five days at 20°C, expressed in milligrams per liter.
   BUILDING OR HOUSE DRAIN. The part of the lowest horizontal piping of a
drainage system which receives the discharge from soil, waste or other drainage
pipes inside the walls of the building and conveys it to the building sewer,
beginning five feet (one and one-half meters) outside the inner face of the
building wall.
   BUILDING SEWER. The extension from the building drain to the public sewer or
other place of disposal.
   CHLORINE REQUIREMENT. The amount of chlorine in parts per million by weight
which must be added to sewage to produce a specified residual chlorine content
or to meet the requirements of some other objective in accordance with
procedures set forth in Standard Methods.
   COMBINED SEWER. A sewer receiving both surface runoff and sewage.
   FLOATABLE OIL. Floatable oil shall mean oil, fat or grease in a physical
state such that it will separate by gravity from wastewater by treatment in an
approved pretreatment facility. A wastewater shall be considered free of
floatable fat if it is properly pretreated and the wastewater does not
interfere with the collection system.
   GARBAGE. Solid wastes from the domestic and commercial preparation, cooking
and dispensing of food and from the handling, storage and sale of produce.
   INDUSTRIAL WASTES. The liquid wastes from industrial manufacturing
processes, trade or business as distinct from sanitary sewage.
   NATURAL OUTLET. Any outlet into a watercourse, pond, ditch, lake or other
body of surface or ground water.
   PERSON. Any individual, firm, company, association, society, corporation or
group.
   pH. The logarithm of the reciprocal of the weight of hydrogen ions in grams
per liter of solution.
   PROPERLY SHREDDED GARBAGE. The wastes from the preparation, cooking and
dispensing of food that have been shredded to such a degree that all particles
will be carried freely under the flow conditions normally prevailing in public
sewers, with no particle greater than one-half inch (1.27 centimeters) in any
dimension.
   PUBLIC SEWER. A sewer in which all owners of abutting properties have equal
rights and is controlled by public authority.
   REPLACEMENT. Expenditures for obtaining and installing equipment,
accessories or appurtenances which are necessary during the service life of the
treatment works to maintain the capacity and performance for which such works
were designed and constructed.
   SANITARY SEWER. A sewer which carries sewage and to which storm surface and
ground waters are not intentionally admitted.
   SEWAGE. The spent water of a community. The preferred term is WASTEWATER.
   SEWAGE TREATMENT PLANT. Any arrangement of devices and structures used for
treating sewage.
   SEWAGE WORKS. All facilities for collecting, pumping, treating and disposing
of sewage.
   SEWER. The pipe or conduit for carrying sewage.
   SLUG. Any discharge of water, sewage or industrial waste which in
concentration of any given constituent or in quantity of flow, exceeds for any
period of duration longer than 15 minutes more than five times the average 24-
hour concentration or flows during normal operation.
   STANDARD METHODS. The examination and analytical procedures set forth in the
most recent editions of Standard Methods for the Examination of Water, Sewage
and Industrial Waste, published jointly by the American Public Health
Association, the American Water Works Association and the Water Pollution
Control Federation.
   STORM DRAIN. (Sometimes termed STORM SEWER.) A drain or sewer for conveying
water, ground water, sub-surface water or unpolluted water from any source.
   SUPERINTENDENT. The Utilities Superintendent of the municipality, or his or
her authorized deputy, agent or representative.
   SURCHARGE. The assessment in addition to the service charge, which is levied
on those persons whose wastes are greater in strength than the concentration
values established as representative of normal sewage.
   SUSPENDED SOLIDS. Total suspended matter that either floats on the surface
of or is in suspension in water, wastewater or other liquids and that is
removable by laboratory filtering as prescribed in Standard Methods for the
Examination of Water and Wastewater and referred to as non- filterable residue.
   TRAP. A fitting or device so constructed as to prevent the passage of air or
gas through a pipe without materially affecting the flow of sewage or waste
through it.
   TRAP SEAL. The vertical distance between the crown weir and the dip of the
trap.
   UNPOLLUTED WATERS. Water of quality equal to or better than the effluent
criteria in effect or water that would not cause violation of receiving water
quality standards and would not be benefitted by discharge to the sanitary
sewers and wastewater treatment facilities provided.
   WATERCOURSE. A natural or artificial channel for the passage of water either
continuously or intermittently.
(1995 Code, § 3-202)
§ 53.003 APPLICATION FOR PERMIT.
   Any person wishing to connect with the sewer system shall make an
application therefor to the Municipal Clerk. The Department shall not supply
sewer service to any person outside the corporate limits without special
permission from the governing body; provided that, the entire cost of pipe and
other installation charges shall be paid by such consumers. Nothing herein
shall be construed to obligate the municipality to provide sewer service to
non-residents.
(1995 Code, § 3-203)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-149, 19-2701
§ 53.004 SEWER CONTRACT.
   The municipality, through the Municipal Sewer Department, shall furnish
sewer services to persons within its corporate limits whose premises abut a
street or alley in which a commercial main is now or may hereafter be laid. The
municipality may also furnish sewer service to persons whose premises are
situated outside the corporate limits of the municipality as and when,
according to law, the governing body may see fit to do so. The rules,
regulations and sewer rental rates hereinafter named in this subchapter shall
be considered a part of every application hereafter made for sewer service and
shall be considered a part of the contract between every customer now or
hereafter served. Without further formality, the making of the application on
the part of any applicant or the use of sewer service by present customers
thereof shall constitute a contract between the customer and the municipality
to which said contract both parties are bound.
(1995 Code, § 3-204)
§ 53.005 MANDATORY HOOKUP.
   Upon written notice by the Municipal Clerk, the property owner, occupant or
lessee of any premises that abuts a sewer main that is now or may hereafter be
laid shall without delay, cause the said building to be connected with the
sewer system and equipped with inside sewerage facilities. Every building
hereafter erected shall be connected with the sewer system at the time of its
construction. In the event that any property owner, occupant or lessee shall
neglect, fail or refuse within a period of ten days after notice has been given
to him or her to do so by registered mail or by publication in a newspaper in
or of general circulation in the municipality to make such connection, the
governing body shall have the power to cause the same to be done, to assess the
cost thereof against the property and to collect the assessment thus made in
the manner provided for collection of other special taxes and assessments.
(1995 Code, § 3-205)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-149, 17-149.01
§ 53.006 DIRECT CONNECTIONS.
   Each and every building, except buildings customarily incidental to the
primary building and trailers, must make a direct connection with the main
sewer line. Under no circumstances will two or more houses be allowed to make
such connections through one pipe.
(1995 Code, § 3-206) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 53.007 SERVICE CONTRACTS.
   Contracts for sewer service are not transferable. Any person wishing to
change from one location to another shall make a new application and sign a new
contract. If any customer shall move from the premises where service is
furnished or if the said premises is destroyed by fire or other casualty, he or
she shall at once inform the Municipal Clerk.
(1995 Code, § 3-207)
§ 53.008 INSTALLATION EXPENSE.
   (A)   The customer, upon approval of his or her application for sewer
service, shall be responsible for all expenses incurred in the tapping of the
sewer main and running the service lateral.
   (B)   The sewer service installation shall be done only by a licensed
plumber.
(1995 Code, § 3-208) (Ord. 24, passed 8-7-1996)
§ 53.009 CLASSIFICATION.
   The governing body may classify for the purpose of rental fees, the
customers of the Municipal Sewer Department; provided that, such
classifications are reasonable and do not discriminate unlawfully against any
consumer or group of consumers.
(1995 Code, § 3-209)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-925.01
§ 53.010 RATE SETTING.
   The governing body has the power and authority to fix the rates to be
charged for the usage of the municipal sewer line. The Municipal Clerk shall
bill the customers and collect all money received by the municipality on the
account of the Sewer Department. He or she shall fully account for and pay to
the Municipal Treasurer all revenue collected by him or her, taking as his or
her receipt therefor and duplicate, filing one with the Municipal Clerk and
keeping the other on file in the Sewer Department official’s records.
(1995 Code, § 3-210)
§ 53.011 SEWER RENTAL BILLS.
   Sewer rental bills shall be due and payable monthly at the office of the
Municipal Clerk. The Municipal Clerk shall charge and collect from each
customer the sewer rental bill which shall include all other charges, properly
itemized, due the Sewer Department. Bills shall be due on the first day of each
month and shall be payable by the fifteenth day of each month. Bills not paid
by the fifteenth day of each month shall be deemed to be delinquent. Upon being
deemed to be delinquent as herein defined, the Municipal Clerk shall implement
procedural policies for utility disconnection. The Municipal Clerk may assess
an additional fee set by resolution of the governing body and on file at the
office of the Municipal Clerk in the event that water service is shut off for
the non-payment of any sewer rental bill to compensate the municipality for the
additional hookup necessary to again provide water service to the delinquent
customer.
(1995 Code, § 3-211)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-925.01, 18-503, 70-1601 through 70-1615
§ 53.012 REPAIRS AND REPLACEMENT.
   (A)   The Municipal Sewer Department may require the owner of any property
which is within the municipality and connected to the public sewers or drains
to repair or replace any connection line which serves the owner’s property and
is broken, clogged or otherwise in need of repair or replacement. The property
owner’s duty to repair or replace such a connection line shall include those
portions upon the owner’s property and those portions upon public property or
easements up to and including the point of junction with the public main.
   (B)   The Municipal Clerk shall give the property owner notice by registered
letter or certified mail, directed to the last-known address of such owner or
the agent of such owner, directing the repair or replacement of such connection
line. If, within 30 days of mailing such notice, the property owner fails or
neglects to cause such repairs or replacements to be made, the Utilities
Superintendent may cause such work to be done and assess the cost upon the
property served by such connection.
(1995 Code, § 3-212)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 18-1748
§ 53.013 SPECIAL EQUIPMENT.
   In the event a customer of the Municipal Sewer Department discharges an
unusually large amount of waste daily, an unusually large amount of grease or
oil or waste with an unusually high biochemical oxygen demand, the governing
body may require the said customer to install interceptors or other preliminary
treatment equipment to reduce the objectionable characteristics of the waste to
within such maximum limits as he or she shall prescribe subject to the review
of the governing body. All preliminary treatment facilities shall be purchased
and maintained continuously in satisfactory and efficient operation at the
customer’s expense. Nothing herein shall be construed to prohibit a special
agreement or arrangement between the governing body and an industrial concern
whereby an industrial waste of unusual strength or character may be accepted by
the municipality for treatment subject to additional rental fees or other
charges.
(1995 Code, § 3-213)
§ 53.014 MANHOLES.
   Entrance into a manhole or opening for any purpose, except by authorized
persons, is hereby prohibited. It shall be unlawful to deposit or cause to be
deposited in any receptacle connected with the sewer system any substance which
is not the usual and natural waste carried by the sewer system.
(1995 Code, § 3-214) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 53.015 INSPECTIONS.
   The Utilities Superintendent or his or her authorized agents shall have free
access at any reasonable time to all parts of each premises and building which
is connected with the sewer system to ascertain whether there is any disrepair
or violations of this subchapter therein.
(1995 Code, § 3-215)
§ 53.016 LIEN.
   In addition to all other remedies, if a customer shall, for any reason,
remain indebted to the municipality for sewer service furnished, such amount
due, together with any rents and charges in arrears, shall be considered a
delinquent sewer rent which is hereby declared to be a lien upon the real
estate for which the same was furnished. The Municipal Clerk shall notify in
writing or cause to be notified in writing all owners of premises or their
agents whenever their tenants or lessees are 60 days or more delinquent in the
payment of sewer rent. It shall be the duty of the Municipal Clerk on June 1 of
each year to report to the governing body a list of all unpaid accounts due for
sewer service together with a description of the premises served. The report
shall be examined and if approved by the governing body, shall be certified by
the Municipal Clerk to the County Clerk to be collected as a special tax in the
manner provided by law.
(1995 Code, § 3-216)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-925.01
PRIVATE SEWAGE DISPOSAL
§ 53.030 WHEN APPLICABLE.
   (A)   Where a public sanitary or combined sewer is not available under the
provisions of §
53.005 of this chapter, the building sewer shall be connected to a private
sewage disposal system complying with the provisions of this subchapter.
   (B)   At such time as a public sewer becomes available to a property served
by a private wastewater disposal system, as provided in §
53.005 of this chapter, a direct connection shall be made to the public sewer
within 60 days in compliance with this subchapter and any septic tanks,
cesspools and similar private wastewater disposal facilities shall be cleaned
of sludge and filled with clean bankrun gravel or dirt.
(1995 Code, § 3-217)
§ 53.031 PERMIT REQUIRED; FEE.
   Before commencement of construction of a private sewage disposal system, the
owner shall first obtain a written permit signed by the Superintendent. The
application for such permit shall be made on a Form furnished by the
municipality which the applicant shall supplement by any plans, specifically as
and other information as are deemed necessary by the Superintendent. A permit
and inspection fee shall be paid to the municipality at the time the
application is filed.
(1995 Code, § 3-218)
§ 53.032 PERMIT; WHEN EFFECTIVE; INSPECTIONS.
   A permit for a private sewage disposal system shall not become effective
until the installation is completed to the satisfaction of the Superintendent.
He or she shall be allowed to inspect the work at any stage of construction,
and in any event, the applicant for the permit shall notify the Superintendent
when the work is ready for final inspection and before any underground portions
are covered. The inspection shall be made within 24 hours of the receipt of
notice by the Superintendent.
(1995 Code, § 3-219)
§ 53.033 SPECIFICATIONS.
   The type capacities, location and layout of a private sewage disposal system
shall comply with all recommendations of the Department of Public Health of the
state. No permit shall be issued for any private sewage disposal system
employing subsurface soil absorption facilities when the area of the lot is
less than 12,250 square feet. No septic tank or cesspool shall be permitted to
discharge to any natural outlet.
(1995 Code, § 3-220) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 53.034 MAINTENANCE.
   The owner shall operate and maintain the private sewage disposal facilities
in a sanitary manner at all times at no expense to the municipality.
(1995 Code, § 3-221) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 53.035 ADDITIONAL REQUIREMENTS.
   No statement contained in §§
53.030 through
53.034 of this chapter shall be construed to interfere with any additional
requirements that may be imposed by the Health Officer.
(1995 Code, § 3-222)
BUILDING SEWERS
§ 53.050 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   No unauthorized person shall uncover, make any connections with or opening
into, use, alter or disturb any public sewer or appurtenance thereof without
first obtaining a written permit from the Superintendent.
(1995 Code, § 3-223) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 53.051 CLASSIFICATION; PERMIT APPLICATION; FEE.
   (A)   There shall be two classes of building sewer permits:
      (1)   For residential and commercial service; and
      (2)   For service to establishments producing industrial wastes.
   (B)   In either case, the owner or his or her agent shall make application
on a special form furnished by the municipality. The permit application shall
be supplemented by any plans, specifications or other information considered
pertinent in the judgment of the Superintendent. A permit and inspection fee
for a residential or commercial building sewer permit and for an industrial
building sewer permit shall be paid to the municipality at the time the
application is filed.
(1995 Code, § 3-224)
§ 53.052 INSTALLATION EXPENSE.
   The customer, upon approval of his or her application for sewer service,
shall pay to the Utilities Superintendent a tap fee as set by resolution of the
Board of Public Works for the expense of processing his or her application and
tapping the sewer main. The Utilities Superintendent, at his or her discretion,
may direct the customer to hire a licensed plumber to tap the main. The
customer shall then be required to pay the expense of procuring the materials
required as well as the services of a licensed plumber and shall pay all other
costs of installation.
(1995 Code, § 3-225)
§ 53.053 SINGLE PREMISES.
   A separate and independent building sewer shall be provided for every
building; except where one building stands at the rear of another on an
interior lot an no private sewer is available or can be constructed to the real
building through an adjoining alley, court, yard or driveway, the building
sewer from the front building may be extended to the rear building and the
whole considered as one building sewer.
(1995 Code, § 3-226) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 53.054 USE OF EXISTING SEWERS.
   Old building sewers may be used in connection with new buildings only when
they are found on examination and test by the Superintendent to meet all
requirements of this subchapter.
(1995 Code, § 3-227)
§ 53.055 CONSTRUCTION CODES.
   The construction of building sewers shall comply with the state building
code adopted as set forth in Neb. RS 71-6403.
(1995 Code, § 3-228)
§ 53.056 UNLAWFUL CONNECTION.
   No person shall make connection of roof downspouts, interior and exterior
foundation drains, areaway drains or other sources of surface runoff or ground
water to a building sewer or building drain which in turn is connected directly
or indirectly to a public sanitary sewer.
(1995 Code, § 3-229) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 53.057 INSPECTIONS.
   (A)   The applicant for the building sewer permit shall notify the
Superintendent when the building sewer is ready for inspection and connection
to the public sewer.
   (B)   The connection and testing shall be made under the supervision of the
Superintendent or his or her representative.
(1995 Code, § 3-230)
§ 53.058 EXCAVATIONS.
   All excavations for building sewer installation shall be adequately guarded
with barricades and lights so as to protect the public from hazard. Streets,
sidewalks, parkways and other public property disturbed in the course of the
work shall be restored in a manner satisfactory to the municipality.
(1995 Code, § 3-231) Penalty, see §
10.99
DISCHARGES; INDUSTRIAL WASTES
§ 53.070 STORM WATER, SURFACE WATER, GROUND WATER, COOLING WATER AND PROCESS
WATER.
   (A)   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged any storm water,
surface water, ground water, roof runoff, subsurface drainage, including
interior and exterior foundation drains, uncontaminated cooling water or
unpolluted industrial waters to any sanitary sewer.
   (B)   Storm water and all other unpolluted drainage shall be discharged to
such sewers as are specifically designated as combined sewers or storm sewers
or to a natural outlet approved by the Superintendent. Industrial cooling water
or unpolluted process water may be discharged on approval of the
Superintendent, to a storm sewer, combined sewer or natural outlet. The
contributor of any identifiable discharge of polluted water to the sanitary
sewer system shall be held responsible for reimbursing the municipality for
such costs. The costs shall be determined by the Superintendent with the
approval of the governing body.
(1995 Code, § 3-232) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 53.071 FLAMMABLE, TOXIC, CORROSIVE AND OBSTRUCTIVE SUBSTANCES; PRELIMINARY
TREATMENT.
   (A)   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged any of the
following described waters or wastes to any public sewers:
      (1)   Any gasoline, benzene, naphtha, fuel oil or other flammable or
explosive liquid, solid or gas;
      (2)   Any waters or wastes containing toxic or poisonous solids, liquids
or gases in sufficient quantity, either singly or by interaction with other
wastes, to injure or interfere with any waste treatment process, constitute a
hazard to humans or animals, create a public nuisance or create any hazard in
the receiving waters of the sewage treatment plant including, but not limited
to, cyanides in the excess of two mg/1 as CN in the wastes as discharged to the
public sewer;
      (3)   Any waters or wastes having a pH lower that 5.5 or having any other
corrosive property capable of causing damage or hazard to structures, equipment
and personnel of the sewage works;
      (4)   Solid or viscous substances in quantities or of such size capable
of causing obstruction to the flow in sewers or other interference with the
proper operation of the sewage facilities such as, but not limited to, ashes,
cinders, sand, mud, straw, shavings, metal, glass, rags, feathers, tar,
plastics, wood, unground garbage, whole blood, paunch manure, hair and
fleshings, entrails and paper dishes, cups, milk containers and the like,
either whole or ground by garbage grinders; and/or
      (5)   Any waters or wastes having:
         (a)   A five-day BOD greater than 300 parts per million by weight;
         (b)   Containing more than 350 parts per million by weight of
suspended solids;
         (c)   Having an average daily flow greater than 2% of the average
sewage flow of the municipality; or
         (d)   A chlorine requirement greater than demanded by normal sewage as
evaluated by the municipality’s consulting engineer shall be subject to the
review of the Superintendent.
   (B)   Where necessary, in the opinion of the Superintendent, the owner shall
provide at his or her expense, such preliminary treatment as may be necessary
to:
      (1)   Reduce the biochemical oxygen demand to 300 parts per million by
weight;
      (2)   Reduce the suspended solids to 350 parts per million by weight;
      (3)   Control the quantities and rates of discharge of such waters or
wastes; or
      (4)   Reduce the chlorine requirement to conform with normal sewage.
   (C)   Plans, specifications and other pertinent information relating to
proposed preliminary treatment facilities shall be submitted for the approval
of the Superintendent and no construction of such facilities shall be commenced
until said approvals are obtained in writing.
(1995 Code, § 3-233)
§ 53.072 SPECIFIC PROHIBITIONS AS DETERMINED BY THE SUPERINTENDENT.
   (A)   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged the following
described substances, materials, waters or wastes if it appears likely, in the
opinion of the Superintendent, that such wastes can harm either the sewers,
sewage treatment process or equipment, have an adverse effect on the receiving
stream or can otherwise endanger life, limb, public property or constitute a
nuisance. In forming his or her opinion as to the acceptability of these
wastes, the Superintendent will give consideration to such factors as the
quantities of subject wastes in relation to flows and velocities in the sewers,
materials of construction of the sewers, nature of the sewage treatment
process, capacity of the sewage treatment plant and other pertinent factors.
   (B)   The substances prohibited are:
      (1)   Any liquid or vapor having a temperature higher than 150°F (65°C);
      (2)   Any water or waste containing fats, wax, grease or oils, whether
emulsified or not, in excess of 100 mg/1 or containing substances which may
solidify or become viscous at temperatures between 32° and 150°F (0° and 65°C);
      (3)   Any garbage that has not been properly shredded. The installation
and operation of any garbage grinder equipped with a motor three fourths
horsepower (0.76 Hp metric) or greater shall be subject to the review and
approval of the Superintendent;
      (4)   Any waters or wastes containing strong acid iron pickling wastes or
concentrated plating solutions whether neutralized or not;
      (5)   Any water or wastes containing iron, chromium, copper, zinc and
similar objectionable or toxic substances or wastes exerting an excessive
chlorine requirement to such degree that any such material received in the
composite sewage at the sewage treatment works exceeds the limits established
by the Superintendent for such materials;
      (6)   Any waters or wastes containing phenols or other taste- or odor-
producing substances in such concentrations exceeding limits which may be
established by the Superintendent as necessary, after treatment of the
composite sewage, to meet the requirements of state, federal or other public
agencies of jurisdiction for such discharge to the receiving waters;
      (7)   Any radioactive wastes or isotopes of such half-life or
concentration as may exceed limits established by the foreperson in compliance
with applicable state of federal regulations;
      (8)   Any waters of wastes having a pH in excess of 9.5;
      (9)   Materials which exert or cause:
         (a)   Unusual concentrations of inert suspended solids (such as, but
not limited to, Fuller’s earth, lime slurries and lime residues) or of
dissolved solids (such as, but not limited to, sodium chloride or sodium
sulfate);
         (b)   Excessive discoloration (such as, but not limited to, dye wastes
and vegetable tanning solutions);
         (c)   Unusual BOD, chemical oxygen demand or chlorine requirements in
such quantities as to constitute a significant load on the sewage treatment
works; and/or
         (d)   Unusual volume of flow or concentration of wastes constituting
“slugs”, as defined herein.
      (10)   Waters or wastes containing substances which are not amenable to
treatment or reduction by the sewage treatment process employed or are amenable
to treatment only to such degree that the sewage treatment plant effluent
cannot meet the requirements of other agencies having jurisdiction over
discharge to the receiving waters.
(1995 Code, § 3-234) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 53.073 HAZARDOUS AND PROHIBITED SUBSTANCES; REJECTION, PRETREATMENT, CONTROL
OF DISCHARGE RATE OR USE FEE SURCHARGE; SPECIAL EXCEPTIONS PERMITTED; USE FEE
SURCHARGE.
   (A)   (1)   If any waters or wastes are discharged or are proposed to be
discharged to the public sewers, which waters contain the substances or possess
the characteristics enumerated in §
53.070 of this chapter and which, in the judgment of the Superintendent, may
have a deleterious effect upon the sewage works, processes, equipment or
receiving waters or which otherwise create a hazard to life to constitute a
public nuisance, the Superintendent may:
         (a)   Reject the wastes;
         (b)   Require pretreatment to an acceptable condition for discharge to
the public sewers;
         (c)   Require control over the quantities and rates of discharge; and/
or
         (d)   Require payment to cover the added cost of handling and treating
the wastes not covered by existing taxes or sewer charges under the provisions
of §
53.077 of this chapter.
      (2)   If the Superintendent permits the pretreatment or equalization of
waste flows, the design and installation of the plants and equipment shall be
subject to the review and approval of the Superintendent and subject to the
requirements of all applicable codes, ordinances and laws.
(1995 Code, § 3-235)
   (B)   No statement contained in this subchapter shall be construed as
preventing any special agreement or arrangement between the municipality and
any industrial concern whereby an industrial waste of unusual strength or
character may be accepted by the municipality for treatment, subject to payment
therefor, by the industrial concern.
(1995 Code, § 3-241)
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 53.074 GREASE, OIL AND SAND INTERCEPTORS; WHEN REQUIRED.
   Grease, oil and sand interceptors shall be provided when, in the opinion of
the Superintendent, they are necessary for the proper handling of liquid wastes
containing grease in excessive amounts or any flammable wastes, sand or other
harmful ingredients; except that, such interceptors shall not be required for
private living quarters or dwelling units. All interceptors shall be of a type
and capacity approved by the Superintendent and shall be located as to be
readily and easily accessible for cleaning and inspection.
(1995 Code, § 3-236)
§ 53.075 PRELIMINARY TREATMENT OR FLOW-EQUALIZING FACILITIES; MAINTENANCE BY
OWNER.
   Where preliminary treatment or flow-equalizing facilities are provided for
any waters or wastes, they shall be maintained continuously in satisfactory and
effective operation by the owner at his or her expense.
(1995 Code, § 3-237)
§ 53.076 CONTROL MANHOLES, SAMPLING STATIONS; WHEN REQUIRED; INSTALLATION AND
MAINTENANCE; METHOD OF TESTING.
   (A)   (1)   When required by the Superintendent, the owner of any property
serviced by a building sewer carrying industrial wastes shall install a
suitable control manhole, together with such necessary meters and other
appurtenances in the building sewer to facilitate observation, sampling and
measurement of the wastes.
      (2)   Such manhole, when required, shall be accessible and safely located
and shall be constructed in accordance with plans approved by the
Superintendent. The manhole shall be installed by the owner at his or her
expense and shall be maintained by him or her so as to be safe and accessible
at all times.
(1995 Code, § 3-238)
   (B)   (1)   All measurements, tests and analyses of the characteristics of
waters and wastes to which reference is made in this subchapter shall be
determined in accordance with the latest edition of Standard Methods for the
Examination of Water and Wastewater, published by the American Public Health
Association, and shall be determined at the control manhole provided or upon
suitable samples taken at said control manhole. In the event no special manhole
has been required, the control manhole shall be considered to be the nearest
downstream manhole in the public sewer to the point at which the building sewer
is connected. Sampling shall be carried out by customarily accepted methods to
reflect the effect of constituents upon the sewage works and to determine the
existence of hazards to life, limb and property. (The particular analyses
involved will determine whether a 24-hour composite of all outfalls of a
premises is appropriate or whether a grab sample or samples should be taken.)
      (2)   Normally, but not always, BOD and suspended solids analyses are
obtained from 24-hour composites of all outfalls, whereas pHs are determined
from periodic grab samples.
(1995 Code, § 3-239)
§ 53.077 SANITARY SUPPLY SYSTEM; DESTRUCTION OF PROPERTY.
   No person or persons shall maliciously, willfully or negligently break,
damage, destroy, uncover, deface or tamper with any structure, appurtenance or
equipment which is part of the wastewater facilities. Any person or persons
violating this section shall be subject to immediate arrest under charge of
disorderly conduct.
(1995 Code, § 3-240) Penalty, see §
10.99
COMPLIANCE AND INSPECTIONS
§ 53.090 INSPECTIONS GENERALLY.
   (A)   The Superintendent and other duly authorized employees of the
municipality bearing proper credentials and identification shall be permitted
to enter all properties for the purposes of inspection, observation,
measurement, sampling and testing system in accordance with the provisions of
this chapter.
   (B)   The Superintendent or his or her representatives shall have no
authority to inquire into any processes including metallurgical, chemical, oil,
refining, ceramic, paper or other industries beyond that point having a direct
bearing on the kind and source of discharge to the sewers or waterways or
facilities for waste treatment.
(1995 Code, § 3-242)
§ 53.091 INJURY LIABILITY.
   While performing the necessary work on private properties referred to in §
53.090 of this chapter, the Superintendent or duly authorized employees of the
municipality shall observe all safety rules applicable to the premises
established by the company and the company shall be held harmless for injury or
death to the municipal employees and the municipality shall indemnify the
company against loss or damage to its property by municipal employees and
against liability claims and demands for personal injury or property damage
asserted against the company and growing out of the gauging and sampling
operation, except as such may be caused by negligence or failure of the company
to maintain safe conditions as required by municipality.
(1995 Code, § 3-243)
§ 53.092 EASEMENTS.
   The Superintendent and other duly authorized employees of the municipality
bearing proper credentials and identification shall be permitted to enter all
private properties through which the municipality holds a duly negotiated
easement for the purposes of, but not limited to, inspection, observation,
measurement, sampling, repair and maintenance of any portion of the sewage
works lying within said easement. All entry and subsequent work if any, on said
easement shall be done in full accordance with the terms of the duly negotiated
easement pertaining to the private property involved.
(1995 Code, § 3-244)
§ 53.093 VIOLATION; NOTICE AND LIABILITY.
   (A)   Any person found to be violating any provision of this chapter, except
§
53.076(A) of this chapter, shall be served by the municipality with written
notice stating the nature of the violation and providing a reasonable time
limit for the satisfactory correction thereof. The offender shall, within the
period of time stated in such notice, permanently cease all violations.
   (B)   Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall
become liable to the municipality for any expense, loss or damage occasioned
the municipality by reason of such violation.
(1995 Code, § 3-245)
CHAPTER 54: FIRE REGULATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
54.01   Removal of property
   
54.02   Disorderly spectator
   
54.03   Equipment
   
54.04   Interference
   
54.05   Obstruction
   
54.06   Assistance
   
54.07   Driving over hose
   
54.08   False alarms
Fire Prevention
   
54.20   Fire Prevention Code
   
54.21   Fire Code Enforcement
   
54.22   Fire prohibited
   
54.23   Open burning ban
   
54.24   Fire limits; rebuilding and remodeling
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 54.01 REMOVAL OF PROPERTY.
   (A)   The Fire Chief or any officer in charge of the Fire Department shall
have the authority and power to cause the removal of property whenever it shall
become necessary for the preservation of more valuable property, the protection
of human life or to prevent the spreading of fire to adjoining property.
   (B)   The Fire Chief may direct the municipal firefighters to remove any
building, structure or fence for the purpose of checking the progress of any
fire.
   (C)   The Fire Chief shall have the authority to blow up, or cause to be
blown up, with explosives any building or structure during the progress of the
same.
(1995 Code, § 7-101)
§ 54.02 DISORDERLY SPECTATOR.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person during the time of a fire and for
a period of 36 hours after its extinguishment to hinder, resist or refuse to
obey the Municipal Fire Chief, or to act in a noisy or disorderly manner.
   (B)   The Fire Chief and Assistant Fire Chief shall have the power and
authority during such time to arrest or command any such person to assist them
in the performance of their official duties.
(1995 Code, § 7-102) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 28-908
§ 54.03 EQUIPMENT.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, except the Fire Chief and the members
of the Municipal Fire Department, to molest, destroy, handle or in any other
way to interfere with the use and storage of any of the fire trucks and other
apparatus belonging to the municipality.
(1995 Code, § 7-103) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 54.04 INTERFERENCE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to hinder or obstruct the municipal Fire
Chief or the members of the Fire Department in the performance of their duty.
(1995 Code, § 7-104) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 28-903
§ 54.05 OBSTRUCTION.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to obstruct the use of a fire
hydrant or have or place any material within 15 feet of the said hydrant.
   (B)   Any vehicle or material found as an obstruction may be immediately
removed by the Fire Chief or any member of the Fire Department at the risk,
cost and expense of the owner or claimant.
(1995 Code, § 7-105) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 60-6,166
§ 54.06 ASSISTANCE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to refuse, after the command of the Fire
Chief or Assistant Fire Chief, to aid in extinguishing a fire or to assist in
the removal and protection of property.
(1995 Code, § 7-106) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 28-908
§ 54.07 DRIVING OVER HOSE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, without the consent of the Fire Chief
or Assistant Fire Chief, to drive any vehicle over unprotected hose of the Fire
Department.
(1995 Code, § 7-107) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 60-6,184
§ 54.08 FALSE ALARMS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to intentionally and without good and
reasonable cause raise any false alarm of fire.
(1995 Code, § 7-108) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 28-907
FIRE PREVENTION
§ 54.20 FIRE PREVENTION CODE.
   (A)   The rules and regulations promulgated by the office of the state’s
Fire Marshal relating to fire prevention are incorporated by reference into
this code and made a part of this subchapter as though spread at large herein
together with all subsequent amendments thereto.
   (B)   Three copies of the Fire Prevention Code shall be on file with the
Municipal Clerk and shall be available for public inspection at any reasonable
time.
(1995 Code, § 7-201)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 18-132, 19-902, 81-502
§ 54.21 FIRE CODE ENFORCEMENT.
   It shall be the duty of all municipal officials to enforce the incorporated
Fire Code provisions and all infractions shall be immediately brought to the
attention of the Fire Chief.
(1995 Code, § 7-202)
§ 54.22 FIRE PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to set out a fire on the pavement or
near any curb now built or hereafter to be built within the municipality.
(1995 Code, § 7-203) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 54.23 OPEN BURNING BAN.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to build or set out any bonfires, outdoor rubbish
fires and fires for the purpose of clearing land. The Fire Chief of the Fire
Department or his or her designee may waive the open burning ban for an area
under his or her jurisdiction by issuing an open burning permit to a person
requesting permission to conduct open burning. The permit issued by the Fire
Chief to a person desiring to conduct open burning shall be in writing, signed
by the Fire Chief and on a form prescribed by the state’s Fire Marshal. The
state’s Fire Marshal shall provide local fire departments with the forms. The
Fire Chief or his or her designee may waive the open burning ban in his or her
district when conditions are acceptable to the Chief. Anyone burning in such
district when the open burning ban has been waived must notify the Fire
Department of his or her intention to burn. It shall be unlawful for any person
to set fire to, burn or cause to be burned any garbage, animal matter or
vegetable matter. Fires set while in possession of a burning permit or at a
time the open burning ban has been waived shall at all times be attended by the
person setting the fire and said fire shall be located at least 20 feet from
any building.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to burn rubbish of any kind
including paper, paper goods, cardboard or leaves anywhere in the municipality,
except in a stove, furnace or incinerator inside a building. It is further
unlawful to burn off any leaves or vegetation from any garden or areas in the
municipality. This section shall not prohibit backyard barbecuing or the wood
stoves or fireplaces.
(1995 Code, § 7-204) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 81-520.01
§ 54.24 FIRE LIMITS; REBUILDING AND REMODELING.
   (A)   The Municipal Clerk shall keep on file, and provide to those
requesting, the boundaries of the municipal fire limits, if any such fire limit
be created.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to build, rebuild or remodel, upon
any lot within the fire limits of the municipality, a building or buildings,
except the same shall be constructed of fire-proof material (i.e., brick,
stone, cement, steel or a material approved by the state’s Fire Marshal).
   (C)   No building shall be erected within the fire limits of the village
until an application for a permit has been made to the village’s Board of
Trustees and the permit granted.
   (D)   Wooden buildings shall not be repaired to the extent of a new roof,
foundation or undersills and no repairs of any kind shall be made on any such
building without the consent of the village’s Board of Trustees.
   (E)   No wooden building shall be moved into the fire limits or moved from
one lot to another within the fire limits.
(1995 Code, § 7-205) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-550
CHAPTER 55: PUBLIC WAYS AND PROPERTY
Section
Parks and Public Grounds
   
55.01   Municipal Parks Department; operation and funding
   
55.02   Use regulations
   
55.03   Injury to property
Municipal Property
   
55.15   Definitions
   
55.16   Maintenance and control
   
55.17   Sale and conveyance
   
55.18   Obstructions; permitted obstructions
   
55.19   Weeds
Sidewalks
   
55.30   Overhanging branches
   
55.31   Kept clean
   
55.32   Snow removal; placement of snow
   
55.33   Maintenance; in business district
   
55.34   Repair
   
55.35   Construction by owner
   
55.36   Elimination prohibited
Streets
   
55.50   Names and numbers
   
55.51   Widening and opening
   
55.52   Excavation
   
55.53   Driving stakes
   
55.54   Mixing concrete
   
55.55   Harmful liquids
   
55.56   Construction notice
   
55.57   Graveling
   
55.58   Culverts in street right-of-way
   
55.59   Eave and gutter spouts
   
55.60   Heavy equipment
   
55.61   Pipe lines and wires
   
55.62   Construction assessments
   
55.63   Improvement of streets in corporate limits; petition
   
55.64   Deferral from special assessments
   
55.65   Curbs and gutters
PARKS AND PUBLIC GROUNDS
§ 55.01 MUNICIPAL PARKS DEPARTMENT; OPERATION AND FUNDING.
   (A)   The municipality owns and operates the municipal parks and other
recreational areas through the governing body.
   (B)   The governing body, for the purpose of defraying the cost of the care,
management and maintenance of the municipal park, may each year levy a tax not
exceeding the maximum limit prescribed by state law on the actual valuation of
all real estate and personal property within the corporate limits that is
subject to taxation. The revenue from the said tax shall be known as the Park
Fund and shall remain in the custody of the Municipal Treasurer.
   (C)   The Board shall have the authority to adopt rules and regulations for
the efficient management of the municipal parks and other recreational areas of
the municipality.
(1995 Code, § 3-401)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-948 through 17-952
§ 55.02 USE REGULATIONS.
   The following regulations for park operation are hereby prescribed in order
to promote orderly and safe use of the municipal parks and to prevent needless
injury and destruction to park property:
   (A)   Picnic areas: use of picnic areas and facilities is on a first come,
first serve basis; and
   (B)   Ball fields: organized regulation games and practices must be cleared
through the Utilities Superintendent.
(1995 Code, § 3-402)
§ 55.03 INJURY TO PROPERTY.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to maliciously or willfully cut down,
injure or destroy any sodded or planted area or injure or destroy any building,
structure, equipment, fence, bench, table or any other property of the
municipal parks and recreational areas. No person shall commit any waste on or
litter the municipal parks or other public grounds.
(1995 Code, § 3-403) Penalty, see §
10.99
MUNICIPAL PROPERTY
§ 55.15 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   OVERSEER OF STREETS. The village official with general charge, direction,
and control of streets and sidewalks. If one official is responsible for
streets and another official is responsible for sidewalks, OVERSEER OF STREETS
shall mean whichever one is appropriate in the context the term is used.
   SIDEWALK SPACE. The portion of a street between curb lines and adjacent
property lines.
(1995 Code, § 8-101)
§ 55.16 MAINTENANCE AND CONTROL.
   The Board of Trustees shall have the care, supervision and control of all
public highways, bridges, streets, alleys, public squares and commons within
the village and shall cause the same to be kept open and in repair and free
from nuisances.
(Neb. RS 17-567) (1995 Code, § 8-102)
§ 55.17 SALE AND CONVEYANCE.
   (A)   Except as provided in division (G) below, the power of the village to
convey any real property owned by it, including land used for park purposes and
public squares, except real property used in the operation of public utilities,
shall be exercised by resolution, directing the sale at public auction or by
sealed bid of that property and the manner and terms thereof; except that, the
property shall not be sold at public auction or by sealed bid when:
      (1)   The property is being sold in compliance with the requirements of
federal or state grants or programs;
      (2)   The property is being conveyed to another public agency; or
      (3)   The property consists of streets and alleys.
   (B)   The Board of Trustees may establish a minimum price for real property
at which bidding shall begin or shall serve as a minimum for a sealed bid.
   (C)   After the passage of the resolution directing the sale, notice of all
proposed sales of property described in division (A) above and the terms
thereof shall be published once each week for three consecutive weeks in a
legal newspaper published in or of general circulation in the village.
   (D)   (1)   If, within 30 days after the third publication of the notice a
remonstrance against the sale is signed by registered voters of the village
equal in number to 30% of the registered voters of the village voting at the
last regular village election held therein and is filed with the Board of
Trustees, that property shall not then, nor within one year thereafter, be
sold. If the date for filing the remonstrance falls upon a Saturday, Sunday or
legal holiday, the signatures shall be collected within the 30-day period, but
the filing shall be considered timely if filed or postmarked on or before the
next business day.
      (2)   Upon the receipt of the remonstrance, the Board of Trustees, with
the aid and assistance of the Election Commissioner or County Clerk, shall
determine the validity and sufficiency of signatures on the remonstrance. The
Board of Trustees shall deliver the remonstrance to the Election Commissioner
or County Clerk by hand carrier, by use of law enforcement officials or by
certified mail, return receipt requested.
      (3)   Upon receipt of the remonstrance, the Election Commissioner or
County Clerk shall issue to the Board of Trustees a written receipt that the
remonstrance is in the custody of the Election Commissioner or County Clerk.
The Election Commissioner or County Clerk shall compare the signature of each
person signing the remonstrance with the voter registration records to
determine if each signer was a registered voter on or before the date on which
the remonstrance was filed with the Board of Trustees. The Election
Commissioner or County Clerk shall also compare the signer’s printed name,
street and number or voting precinct and village or post office address with
the voter registration records to determine whether the signer was a registered
voter. The signature and address shall be presumed to be valid only if the
Election Commissioner or County Clerk determines that the printed name, street
and number or voting precinct, and village or post office address match the
registration records and that the registration was received on or before the
date on which the remonstrance was filed with the Board of Trustees. The
determinations of the Election Commissioner or County Clerk may be rebutted by
any credible evidence which the Board of Trustees finds sufficient. The express
purpose of the comparison of names and addresses with the voter registration
records, in addition to helping to determine the validity of the remonstrance,
the sufficiency of the remonstrance and the qualifications of the signer, shall
be to prevent fraud, deception and misrepresentation in the remonstrance
process.
      (4)   Upon completion of the comparison of names and addresses with the
voter registration records, the Election Commissioner or County Clerk shall
prepare in writing a certification under seal setting forth the name and
address of each signer found not to be a registered voter and the signature
page number and line number where the name is found, and if the reason for the
invalidity of the signature or address is other than the non-registration of
the signer, the Election Commissioner or County Clerk shall set forth the
reason for the invalidity of the signature. If the Election Commissioner or
County Clerk determines that a signer has affixed his or her signature more
than once to the remonstrance and that only one person is registered by that
name, the Election Commissioner or County Clerk shall prepare in writing a
certification under seal setting forth the name of the duplicate signature and
shall count only the earliest dated signature.
      (5)   The Election Commissioner or County Clerk shall certify to the
Board of Trustees the number of valid signatures necessary to constitute a
valid remonstrance. The Election Commissioner or County Clerk shall deliver the
remonstrance and the certifications to the Board of Trustees within 40 days
after the receipt of the remonstrance from the Board of Trustees. The delivery
shall be by hand carrier, by use of law enforcement officials, or by certified
mail, return receipt requested. Not more than 20 signatures on one signature
page shall be counted.
      (6)   The Board of Trustees shall, within 30 days after the receipt of
the remonstrance and certifications from the Election Commissioner or County
Clerk, hold a public hearing to review the remonstrance and certifications and
receive testimony regarding them. The Board of Trustees shall, following the
hearing, vote on whether or not the remonstrance is valid and shall uphold the
remonstrance if sufficient valid signatures have been received.
   (E)   Real estate now owned or hereafter owned by the village may be
conveyed without consideration to the state for state armory sites or, if
acquired for state armory sites, shall be conveyed strictly in accordance with
the conditions of Neb. RS 18-1001 through 18-1006.
   (F)   Following passage of the resolution directing a sale, publishing of
the notice of the proposed sale and passing of the 30-day right-of-remonstrance
period, the property shall then be sold. The sale shall be confirmed by passage
of an ordinance stating the name of the purchaser and terms of the sale.
(Neb. RS 17-503)
   (G)   Divisions (A) through (F) above shall not apply to the sale of real
property if the authorizing resolution directs the sale of real property, the
total fair market value of which is less than $5,000. Following passage of the
resolution directing the sale of the property, notice of the sale shall be
posted in three prominent places within the village for a period of not less
than seven days prior to the sale of the property. The notice shall give a
general description of the property offered for sale and state the terms and
conditions of sale. Confirmation of the sale by passage of an ordinance may be
required.
(Neb. RS 17-503.01)
(1995 Code, § 8-103)
§ 55.18 OBSTRUCTIONS; PERMITTED OBSTRUCTIONS.
   (A)   Prohibited obstructions.
      (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person to obstruct or encumber, by
fences, gates, buildings, structures or otherwise, any of the streets, alleys
or sidewalks.
      (2)   The public ways and property shall be considered to be obstructed
when the owner or occupant of the adjacent property permits or suffers to
remain on any premises owned or controlled by him or her any hedge, shrubbery,
bush or similar growth within two feet adjacent to the lot line, whether there
is a sidewalk abutting or adjoining the premises or not. It shall be the duty
of owners and occupants to at all times keep trimmed and pruned all such
similar growth.
      (3)   Trees and shrubs growing upon the lot line partially on public
ground and partially upon the abutting property, or wholly upon the abutting
property, and interfering with the use, making, or construction of any public
improvement or so that the roots thereof interfere with any utility wire or
pipe shall be deemed an obstruction. Such trees and shrubs and their roots may
be removed by the village at the expense of the owner of the property upon
which the trees or shrubs are partially or wholly located if the owner fails or
neglects, after notice, to do so.
      (4)   When any obstruction described in this section is determined to
exist, the village may proceed against the owner or occupant of the property
adjacent to the sidewalk space as provided herein.
(1995 Code, § 8-104)
   (B)   Regulation of obstructions.
      (1)   The village shall have the power to remove all obstructions from
the sidewalks, curbstones, gutters and crosswalks at the expense of the person
placing them there or at the expense of the village and to require and regulate
the planting and protection of shade trees in and along the streets and the
trimming and removing of such trees.
      (2)   The village shall have the power to regulate the building of
bulkheads, cellar and basement ways, stairways, railways, windows, doorways,
awnings, hitching posts and rails, lampposts, awning posts, all other
structures projecting upon or over and adjoining and all other excavations
through and under the sidewalks in the village.
(Neb. RS 17-555)
(1995 Code, § 8-105) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 55.19 WEEDS.
   It is hereby the duty of the Utilities Superintendent or his or her duly
authorized agent to view and inspect the sidewalk space within the corporate
limits for growing weeds during the growing season and if rank and noxious
weeds are found growing thereon, he or she shall notify the owner of occupant
thereof to cut down such weeds as close to the ground as can be practicably
done and keep the weeds cut thereon in like manner during the growing season
for weeds. In the event that the owner of any lot or parcel of land within the
municipality is a non-resident of the municipality or cannot be found therein,
the notice may be given to any person having the care, custody or control of
such lot or parcel of land. In the event that there can be found no one within
the municipality to whom notice can be given, it shall be the duty of the
Utilities Superintendent or his or her agent to post a copy of the notice on
the premises and then to cut or cause the weeds thereon to be cut as therein
provided and report the cost thereof in writing to the governing body. The cost
shall then be audited and paid by the municipality and the amount thereof shall
be assessed against the lot or parcel of land as a special tax thereon and
shall be collected as are other taxes of the municipality or may be recovered
by civil suit brought by the municipality against the owner of the parcel of
land. In the event the property owner is a non-resident of the county in which
the property lies, the municipality shall before levying any special assessment
against that property, send a copy of any notice required by law to be
published by means of certified mail, return receipt requested, to the last
known address of the non-resident property owner. The last known address shall
be that address listed on the current tax tolls at the time such required
notice was first published.
(1995 Code, § 8-106) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-563.01
SIDEWALKS
§ 55.30 OVERHANGING BRANCHES.
   (A)   The owner or occupant of any lot, piece or parcel of ground abutting
or adjacent to any street or sidewalk over which there extend the branches of
trees shall at all times keep the branches or limbs thereof trimmed to the
height of at least eight feet above the surface of the walk and at least 14
feet above the surface of the street or to the heights otherwise specified by
the Board of Trustees.
   (B)   Whenever the branches or limbs of any tree extend over streets or
sidewalks contrary to such provisions so as to interfere with the lighting of
the street from street lights or with the convenience of the public using the
street or sidewalk, the village may proceed against the owner or occupant of
the property abutting or adjacent to the street or sidewalk as provided herein.
(1995 Code, § 8-201) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 55.31 KEPT CLEAN.
   It shall be unlawful for the occupant of any lot or lots or the owner of any
vacant lot or lots within the corporate limits to allow snow, sleet, mud, ice
or other substance to accumulate on the sidewalks or to permit any snow, sleet,
ice, mud or other substance to remain upon the sidewalk. Unless the Board of
Trustees has provided otherwise, all sidewalks within the business district
shall be cleaned within five hours after the cessation of a storm, unless the
storm or fall of snow shall have taken place during the night, in which case
the sidewalk shall be cleaned before 9:00 a.m. the following day, and sidewalks
within the residential areas of the village shall be cleaned within 24 hours
after the cessation of the storm.
(1995 Code, § 8-202) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 55.32 SNOW REMOVAL; PLACEMENT OF SNOW.
   (A)   The village shall have power to prevent and remove all encroachments,
including snow, ice, mud or other obstructions, into and upon all sidewalks,
streets, avenues, alleys and other village property.
(Neb. RS 17-557)
   (B)   If the abutting property owner refuses or neglects, after five days’
notice by publication or, in place thereof, personal service of such notice, to
remove all encroachments from sidewalks, as provided in division (A) above, the
village, through the proper officers, may cause such encroachments to be
removed, and the cost of removal shall be paid out of the street fund. The
Board of Trustees shall assess the cost of the notice and removal of the
encroachment against the abutting property as a special assessment. The special
assessment shall be known as a special sidewalk assessment and, together with
the cost of notice, shall be levied and collected as a special assessment in
addition to the general revenue taxes and shall be subject to the same
penalties as other special assessments and shall draw interest from the date of
the assessment. Upon payment of the assessment, the assessment shall be
credited to the Street Fund.
(Neb. RS 17-557.01)
(1995 Code, § 8-203)
§ 55.33 MAINTENANCE; IN BUSINESS DISTRICT.
   (A)   Every owner of any lot, lots or piece of land within the corporate
limits shall at all times keep and maintain the sidewalk along and contiguous
to said lot, lots or pieces of land, as they may be, in good and proper repair
and in a condition reasonably safe for travel for all travelers thereon.
   (B)   In the event that the owner or owners of any lot, lots or lands
abutting on any street, avenue or part thereof shall fail to construct or
repair any sidewalk in front of his, her or their lot, lots or lands, within
the time and in the manner as directed and required herein after having
received due notice to do so, they shall be liable for all damages or injury
occasioned by reason of the defective or dangerous condition of any sidewalk
and the governing body shall have power to cause any such sidewalks to be
constructed or repaired and assess the costs thereof against such property.
   (C)   In the event the property owner is a non-resident of the county in
which the property lies, the municipality shall, before levying any special
assessment against that property, send a copy of any notice required by law to
be published by means of certified mail, return receipt requested, to the last
known address of the non-resident property owner. The last known address shall
be that address listed on the current tax rolls at the time such required
notice was first published.
(1995 Code, § 8-204) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-557.01
§ 55.34 REPAIR.
   The Utilities Superintendent may require sidewalks of the Municipality to be
repaired. Notice to the owners of property upon which such sidewalks in
disrepair are located shall require within 48 hours from issuance of notice
said owners to make arrangements to have the sidewalk repaired. Said repairs
shall be completed within 21 days after issuance of said notice. No special
assessment shall be levied against the property unless said owner shall neglect
or refuse to repair within the time prescribed and, in the event that such
owner fails to repair, the municipality shall cause the repairs to be made and
assess the property owner the expense of such repairs. In the event the
property owner is a non-resident of the county in which the property lies, the
municipality shall, before levying any special assessment against that
property, send a copy of any notice required by law to be published by means of
certified mail, return receipt requested, to the last known address of the non-
resident property owner. The last known address shall be that address listed on
the current tax rolls at the time such required notice was first published.
(1995 Code, § 8-205)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-522
§ 55.35 CONSTRUCTION BY OWNER.
   (A)   Any person desiring to construct, or cause to be constructed, any
sidewalk shall do so only as provided in this section. It shall be unlawful for
any person to construct any sidewalk without first having obtained a permit.
   (B)   The owner shall make application in writing for a permit and file such
application in the office of the Village Clerk. The permit shall give a
description of the lot or piece of land along which the sidewalk is to be
constructed. The Overseer of Streets shall issue the desired permit unless good
cause appears why the permit should be denied; except that, if it is desired to
construct the sidewalk at any other than the regularly prescribed location,
grade or elevation, the Overseer of Streets shall submit the application to the
Board of Trustees for determination as to whether the permit should be granted
or denied. It shall be unlawful for any person to construct, or cause to be
constructed, such sidewalk at any other location, grade or elevation than so
designated by the village. All sidewalks shall be built and constructed on the
established grade or elevation and, if there is no established grade, then on
the grade or elevation indicated by the Overseer of Streets.
(1995 Code, § 8-206) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 55.36 ELIMINATION PROHIBITED.
   The owner of any lot, lots or piece of land within the corporate limits
shall be prohibited from removing or eliminating any sidewalks on the property
without the approval of the Utilities Superintendent. Removal shall be allowed
for the purposes of repair and replacement, but such repair and replacement
shall be completed within 21 days of the removal.
(Ord. 55, passed 4-14-2004) Penalty, see §
10.99
STREETS
§ 55.50 NAMES AND NUMBERS.
   The Board of Trustees may at any time, by ordinance, rename any street or
provide a name for any new street. Buildings used for residence or business
purposes and located along those streets shall retain those numbers as the
Board of Trustees may require. It shall be the duty of the Overseer of Streets,
upon the erection of any new building, to assign the proper numbers to the
building and give notice to the owner and occupant of the same.
(1995 Code, § 8-301) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 55.51 WIDENING AND OPENING.
   (A)   (1)   The village shall have power to open, widen or otherwise improve
or vacate any street, avenue, alley or lane within the limits of the village
and also to create, open and improve any new street, avenue, alley or lane. All
damages sustained by the citizens of the village, or by the owners of the
property therein, shall be ascertained in that manner as shall be provided by
ordinance.
      (2)   Whenever any street, avenue, alley or lane is vacated, the same
shall revert to the owners of the abutting real estate, one-half on each side
thereof, and become a part of that property, unless the village reserves title
in the ordinance vacating such street or alley. If title is retained by the
village, such property may be sold, conveyed, exchanged or leased upon such
terms and conditions as shall be deemed in the best interests of the village.
      (3)   When a portion of a street, avenue, alley or lane is vacated only
on one side of the center thereof, the title to the land shall vest in the
owner of the abutting property and become a part of that property, unless the
village reserves title in the ordinance vacating a portion of such street or
alley. If title is retained by the village, such property may be sold,
conveyed, exchanged or leased upon such terms and conditions as shall be deemed
in the best interests of the village.
      (4)   When the village vacates all or any portion of a street, avenue,
alley or lane, the village shall, within 30 days after the effective date of
the vacation, file a certified copy of the vacating ordinance with the Register
of Deeds for the county in which the vacated property is located to be indexed
against all affected lots.
      (5)   The title to property vacated pursuant to this section shall be
subject to the following:
         (a)   There is reserved to the village the right to maintain, operate,
repair and renew public utilities existing at the time title to the property is
vacated there; and
         (b)   There is reserved to the village, any public utilities and any
cable television systems the right to maintain, repair, renew and operate water
mains, gas mains, pole lines, conduits, electrical transmission lines, sound
and signal transmission lines and other similar services and equipment and
appurtenances, including lateral connections or branch lines, above, on or
below the surface of the ground that are existing as valid easements at the
time title to the property is vacated for the purposes of serving the general
public or the abutting properties and to enter upon the premises to accomplish
such purposes at any and all reasonable times.
(Neb. RS 17-558)
   (B)   The village shall have power to create, open, widen or extend any
street, avenue, alley, off- street parking area or other public way, or annul,
vacate or discontinue the same.
(Neb. RS 17-559)
(1995 Code, § 8-302)
§ 55.52 EXCAVATION.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to make an excavation in any street or
streets for any purpose whatsoever unless a written permit is issued by the
Overseer of Streets authorizing those excavations.
(1995 Code, § 8-303) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 55.53 DRIVING STAKES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to drive any peg or stake of any kind
into the pavement in any street or alley without first procuring the written
consent of the Overseer of Streets.
(1995 Code, § 8-304) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 55.54 MIXING CONCRETE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to mix any concrete or plastering
material directly on the street pavement for any reason whatsoever.
(1995 Code, § 8-305) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 55.55 HARMFUL LIQUIDS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to place or permit to leak in the gutter
of any street any waste gasoline, kerosene or high lubricating oils, which
damage or act as a solvent upon the streets.
(1995 Code, § 8-306) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 55.56 CONSTRUCTION NOTICE.
   (A)   The Utilities Superintendent shall notify the owners in fee simple of
real estate abutting a street, alley or part thereof which is to be put under
contract for paving or repaving. Notice shall also be given to all gas,
electric service and telephone companies. Notice shall also be given to all
consumers of gas, water and sewer services which will be discontinued during
such construction. Said notice shall be published one time in a legal newspaper
at least 20 days prior to the beginning of such construction by the party
undertaking such construction and said notice shall state at what date
connections must be made and excavation completed.
   (B)   All gas, water, sewer and underground connections must be made prior
to the paving or repaving of the street under condition after expiration of
such time, permits for excavation will not be issued, nor will excavation be
allowed until after the completion of the pavement in said street or alley and
the formal final acceptance thereof by the proper officials of the
municipality.
(1995 Code, § 8-307)
§ 55.57 GRAVELING.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of the municipality through the Utilities
Superintendent, to keep all streets properly maintained and supplied with
adequate gravel or other material in such a manner as to allow for free flowing
of traffic throughout the municipality.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person other than officials of the
municipality to spread gravel or other material on the municipal streets or to
alter the condition of the roadways in any manner other than what would occur
during the normal use of said streets and roads.
(1995 Code, § 8-308)
§ 55.58 CULVERTS IN STREET RIGHT-OF-WAY.
   (A)   The municipality may, by resolution, require any property owner to
place a culvert in the ditch beneath any driveway or access road unto a
resident’s property.
   (B)   Said culvert shall be located and constructed in a manner specified by
the Utilities Superintendent.
   (C)   Any person desiring to place a culvert in the road ditch adjacent to
his or her property shall first request permission to do so and shall agree to
construct said culvert in the manner designated by the Utilities
Superintendent.
(1995 Code, § 8-309) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 55.59 EAVE AND GUTTER SPOUTS.
   (A)   It is hereby declared unlawful for any person to erect or maintain any
dwelling house or business building within the limits of the municipality where
the said dwelling or building abuts on any sidewalk or street without providing
proper guttering and eave spouts to receive the waste waters that collect on
the said sidewalks and streets.
   (B)   All eave spouts erected on any dwelling house or business building
shall be constructed to drain into the alleys or shall be buried beneath the
sidewalks and drain into the streets where it is found to be impossible to
drain said eave spouts into the alley.
(1995 Code, § 8-310) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 55.60 HEAVY EQUIPMENT.
   (A)   It shall hereafter be unlawful for any person or persons to move or
operate heavy equipment across any curb, gutter, bridge, culvert, sidewalk,
crosswalk or crossing on any unpaved street without first having protected such
curb, gutter, bridge, culvert, sidewalk, crosswalk or crossing with heavy plank
sufficient in strength to warrant against the breaking or damaging of such
curb, gutter, bridge, culvert, sidewalk, crosswalk or crossing.
   (B)   Hereafter, it shall be unlawful to run, drive, move, operate or convey
over or across any paved or unpaved street a vehicle, machine or implement with
sharp discs or sharp wheels that bear upon said pavement or unimproved street;
with wheels having cutting edges; with wheels having lugs or any protruding
parts or bolts thereon that extend beyond a plain tire so as to cut, mark, mar,
indent or otherwise injure or damage any pavement, gutter or curb; provided,
where heavy vehicles, structures and machines move along paved or unpaved
streets the members of the governing body are hereby authorized and empowered
to choose the route over which the moving of such vehicles, structures or
machines will be permitted and allowed.
   (C)   Nothing in this section shall be construed to apply to pneumatic tires
with metal or metal-type studs not exceeding five-sixteenths of an inch in
diameter inclusive of the stud-casting with an average protrusion beyond the
tread surface of not more than seven sixty-fourths of an inch between November
1 and April 1; provided that, school buses and emergency vehicles shall be
permitted to use metal or metal-type studs all year; it shall be permissible to
use farm machinery with tires having protuberances which will not injure the
streets; and it shall be permissible to use tire chains of reasonable
proportions upon any vehicle when required for safety because of snow, ice or
other conditions tending to cause a vehicle to slide or skid.
(1995 Code, § 8-311) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 39-6,131
§ 55.61 PIPE LINES AND WIRES.
   Poles, wires, gas mains, pipe lines and other appurtenances of public
service companies shall be located or erected over, upon or under the streets,
alleys and common grounds of the municipality. Application for location of the
above shall be made to the governing body in writing. Approval by that body
shall be issued in writing. Any public service company granted a right-of-way
for the erection and maintenance of poles, conduits, gas mains, pipe lines and
wires shall at all times erect and locate their poles, wires, gas mains, pipe
lines and other appurtenances at such places and in such manner as shall be
designated by the governing body. Such poles, wires, gas mains, pipe lines and
other appurtenances shall be removed or relocated by said companies at their
own expense when requested to do so by the governing body. Any such relocation
shall be ordered by resolution of the governing body and the Municipal Clerk
shall notify any and all companies affected. Said companies shall within 24
hours after receiving notice, at their own expense, cause the poles, wires, gas
mains, pipe lines or other appurtenances to be removed. The governing body
shall designate another location as closely as possible where said poles,
wires, gas mains, pipe lines or other appurtenances may be reset or placed. All
poles, wires, gas mains, pipe lines or other appurtenances shall be reset,
placed or erected in such a manner that they will not interfere with the water
system, sewerage system, poles, wires and mains of any public utility, adjacent
buildings or with travel on the public ways and property. Whenever possible,
all pole lines, wires, gas mains, pipe lines or appurtenances shall be confined
to the alleys of the municipality.
(1995 Code, § 8-313) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 55.62 CONSTRUCTION ASSESSMENTS.
   To defray the costs and expenses of street improvements as may be authorized
by law, the governing body shall have power and authority to levy and collect
special taxes and assessments upon the lots and pieces of ground adjacent to,
abutting upon or especially benefitting from the street, avenue, alley or
sidewalk in whole or in part opened, widened, curbed, curbed and guttered,
graded, paved, repaired, graveled, macadamized, parked, extended, constructed
or otherwise improved or repaired. The governing body sitting as the Board of
Equalization shall review all such improvements in accordance with the
procedure provided by law. All special assessments shall be made by the
governing body at a regular or special meeting by resolution taking into
account the benefits derived or injuries sustained in consequence of such
improvements and the amount charged against same. The vote shall be recorded in
the minutes. Notice of the time of holding such meeting and the purpose for
which it is to be held shall be published in some legal newspaper published or
of general circulation in the municipality at least four weeks before the same
shall be held. In lieu of such aforementioned notice, personal service may be
had upon the persons owning or occupying the property to be assessed. Such
assessments shall be known as special assessments for improvements and with the
cost of notice shall be levied and collected as a special tax in addition to
the taxes for general revenue purposes, subject to the same penalties and
collected in like manner as either municipal taxes and shall be certified to
the County Clerk by the Municipal Clerk forthwith after the date of levy for
collection by the Treasurer of said county unless otherwise specified. The said
assessment shall draw interest at 9% per annum.
(1995 Code, § 8-314)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-511, 17-524
§ 55.63 IMPROVEMENT OF STREETS ON CORPORATE LIMITS; PETITION.
   (A)   The governing body shall have the power to improve any street or part
thereof which divides the municipal corporate area and the area adjoining the
municipality. When creating an improvement district, including land adjacent to
the municipality, the governing body shall have the power to assess to the
extent of special benefits, the costs of such improvements upon the properties
found especially benefitted thereby.
(1995 Code, § 8-315)
   (B)   Whenever a petition signed by the owners of record title representing
more than 60% of the front footage of the property directly abutting upon the
street, streets, alley, alleys, public way or the public grounds proposed to be
improved, shall be presented and filed with the Municipal Clerk, petitioning
therefor, the governing body shall by ordinance create a paving, graveling or
other improvement district or districts and shall cause such work to be done or
such improvement to be made and shall contract therefor and shall levy
assessments on the lots and parcels of land abutting on or adjacent to such
street, streets, alley or alleys especially benefitted thereby in such district
in proportion to such benefits, to pay the cost of such improvement. The
governing body shall have the discretion to deny the formation of the proposed
district when the area has not previously been improved with a water system,
sewer system and grading of streets. If the governing body should deny a
requested improvement district formation, it shall state the grounds for such
denial in a written letter to interested parties.
(1995 Code, § 8-316)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-510
§ 55.64 DEFERRAL FROM SPECIAL ASSESSMENTS.
   (A)   Whenever the governing body of a municipality creates a paving
district which includes land adjacent to the municipality which is within an
agricultural use zone and is used exclusively for agricultural use, the owners
of record title of such adjacent land may apply for a deferral from special
assessments. For purposes of this section, the terms “agricultural use” and
“agricultural use zone” shall have the meaning specified in Neb. RS 77-1343.
   (B)   (1)   Any owner of record title eligible for the deferral granted by
this section shall to secure such assessment, make application to the governing
body of the municipality within 90 days after creation of the paving district.
Any owner of record title who makes application for the deferral provided by
this section shall notify the county’s Register of Deeds of such application in
writing prior to approval by the governing body.
      (2)   The governing body shall approve the application of any owner of
record title upon determination that the property:
         (a)   Is within an agricultural use zone and is used exclusively for
agricultural use; and
         (b)   The owner has met the requirements of this section.
   (C)   The deferral provided for in this section shall be terminated upon any
of the following events:
      (1)   Notification by the owner of record title to the governing body to
remove such deferral;
      (2)   Sale or transfer to a new owner who does not make a new application
within 60 days of the sale or transfer, except as provided in division (C)(3)
below;
      (3)   Transfer by reason of death of a former owner to a new owner who
does not make application within 125 days of the transfer;
      (4)   The land is no longer being used as agricultural land; or
      (5)   Change of zoning to other than an agricultural zone.
   (D)   Whenever property which has received a deferral pursuant to this
section becomes disqualified for such deferral, the owner of record title of
such property shall pay to the municipality an amount equal to:
      (1)   The total amount of special assessments which would have been
assessed against such property to the extent of special benefits, had such
deferral not been granted; and
      (2)   Interest upon the special assessments not paid each year at the
rate allowable by law from the dates at which such assessments would have been
payable if no deferral had been granted.
   (E)   In cases where the deferral provided by this section is terminated as
a result of a sale or transfer described in divisions (B) or (C) above, the
lien for assessments and interest shall attach as of the day preceding such
sale or transfer.
(1995 Code, § 8-317)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 19-2427
§ 55.65 CURBS AND GUTTERS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to cut into any paving, curb or sidewalk
for the purpose of constructing a driveway or any other purpose whatsoever
without first having obtained a written permit from the governing body
therefor. Before any person shall obtain a permit, he or she shall inform the
Municipal Clerk of the place where such cutting is to be done and it shall be
the Utilities Superintendent’s duty to inspect the place of entry into the
paving, sidewalk or curb before the same is cut. When cutting into any paving,
it shall be the duty of the party to cut the paving under such rules and
regulations as may be prescribed by the governing body or the Utilities
Superintendent who shall supervise and inspect the materials used and the work
done in closing the opening. It shall be discretionary with the governing body
to order the Utilities Superintendent to do the work of cutting and closing the
paving and charge the costs thereof to the party who obtained such permit. The
governing body may consent to the work of cutting and closing the paving to be
done by the party holding such permit. Before any permit is issued by the
governing body, the applicant for such permit shall deposit with the Municipal
Treasurer a sum set by resolution of the governing body for all paving, curb or
sidewalk to be cut. Such sum shall be set on a per square foot cost of
construction basis. The deposit shall be retained by the municipality for the
purpose of replacing the paving, curb or sidewalk in the event the work is done
by the municipality. In the event the municipality elects to require the
applicant to replace the paving, curb or sidewalk, the deposit shall be
retained by the municipality until the work is completed to the satisfaction of
the Utilities Superintendent. In addition to making the deposit above set
forth, the applicant shall, before any permit is issued, execute a bond to the
municipality with a good and sufficient surety or sureties to be approved by
the governing body in a sum set by resolution of the governing body.
(1995 Code, § 8-401) Penalty, see §
10.99
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
   Chapter
      
70.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
71.   TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
      
72.   PARKING RULES
      
73.   TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
      
74.   PARKING SCHEDULES
CHAPTER 70: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
70.01   Definitions
   
70.02   Signs and signals
   
70.03   Enforcement
 
   
70.99   Traffic infractions; penalty
§ 70.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this title, the following definitions and the other
definitions in Neb. RS 60-606 through 60-676 shall apply unless the context
clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ALLEY. A highway intended to provide access to the rear or side of lots or
buildings and not intended for the purpose of through vehicular traffic.
(Neb. RS 60-607)
   AUTHORIZED EMERGENCY VEHICLE. Such fire department vehicles, police
vehicles, rescue vehicles and ambulances as are publicly owned, such other
publicly- or privately-owned vehicles as are designated by the Director of
Motor Vehicles, and such publicly-owned military vehicles of the National Guard
as are designated by the Adjutant General pursuant to Neb. RS 55-133.
(Neb. RS 60-610)
   BUSINESS DISTRICT. The territory contiguous to and including a highway when
within any 600 feet along such highway there are buildings in use for business
or industrial purposes, including, but not limited to, hotels, banks, office
buildings, railroad stations or public buildings which occupy at least 300 feet
of frontage on one side or 300 feet collectively on both sides of a highway.
(Neb. RS 60-613)
   HIGHWAY. The entire width between the boundary limits of any street, road,
avenue, boulevard or way which is publicly maintained when any part thereof is
open to the use of the public for purposes of vehicular travel.
(Neb. RS 60-624)
   MANUAL. The Manual on Uniform Traffic-Control Devices adopted by the
Department of Roads pursuant to Neb. RS 60-6,118.
(Neb. RS 60-631)
   MOTOR VEHICLE. Every self-propelled land vehicle, not operated upon rails,
except bicycles, mopeds, self-propelled chairs used by persons who are disabled
and electric personal assistive mobility devices.
(Neb. RS 60-638)
   PEACE OFFICER.
      (1)   The Village Marshal or other chief law enforcement official, any
village police officer or any other person authorized to enforce village
ordinances.
      (2)   With respect to directing traffic only, PEACE OFFICER shall also
include any person authorized to direct or regulate traffic.
(Neb. RS 60-646)
   RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT. The territory contiguous to and including a highway
not comprising a business district when the property on such highway for a
distance of 300 feet or more is in the main improved with residences or
residences and buildings in use for business.
(Neb. RS 60-654)
   ROADWAY. The portion of a highway improved, designed or ordinarily used for
vehicular travel, exclusive of the berm or shoulder. If a highway includes two
or more separate roadways, the term ROADWAY shall refer to any such roadway
separately, but not to all such roadways collectively.
(Neb. RS 60-656)
   SCHOOL CROSSING ZONE. The area of a roadway designated to the public by the
Board of Trustees as a school crossing zone through the use of a sign or
traffic-control device as specified by the Board in conformity with the Manual,
but does not include any area of a freeway. A SCHOOL CROSSING ZONE starts at
the location of the first sign or traffic-control device identifying the school
crossing zone and continues until a sign or traffic-control device indicates
that the school crossing zone has ended.
(Neb. RS 60-658.01)
   SHOULDER. The part of the highway contiguous to the roadway and designed for
the accommodation of stopped vehicles, for emergency use and for lateral
support of the base and surface courses of the roadway.
(Neb. RS 60-661)
   TRAFFIC. Pedestrians, ridden or herded animals and vehicles and other
conveyances either singly or together while using any highway for purposes of
travel.
(Neb. RS 60-669)
   TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICE. Any sign, signal, marking or other device not
inconsistent with the state’s Rules of the Road placed or erected by authority
of the Board of Trustees or any official having jurisdiction for the purpose of
regulating, warning or guiding traffic.
(Neb. RS 60-670)
   TRAFFIC-CONTROL SIGNAL. Any signal, whether manually, electrically or
mechanically operated, by which traffic is alternately directed to stop and
permitted to proceed.
(Neb. RS 60-671)
   TRAFFIC INFRACTION. The violation of any provision of the state’s Rules of
the Road or of any law, ordinance, order, rule or regulation regulating traffic
which is not otherwise declared to be a misdemeanor or a felony or, in this
title, an offense.
(Neb. RS 60-672)
   VEHICLE. Every device in, upon or by which any person or property is or may
be transported or drawn upon a highway, except devices moved solely by human
power or used exclusively upon stationary rails or tracks.
(Neb. RS 60-676)
(1995 Code, § 5-101)
§ 70.02 SIGNS AND SIGNALS.
   (A)   The Board of Trustees shall place and maintain such traffic-control
devices upon highways under its jurisdiction as it deems necessary to indicate
and to carry out the provisions of this title or to regulate, warn or guide
traffic. All such traffic-control devices erected pursuant to this title shall
conform with the Manual.
(Neb. RS 60-6,121) (1995 Code, § 5-108)
   (B)   Every person operating any vehicle shall upon approaching any stop
sign erected in accordance with the resolution prescribed heretofore, cause
such vehicle to come to a complete stop before entering or crossing any street,
highway or railroad crossing. The vehicle operator shall stop at a marked stop
line or if there is no stop line, before entering the crosswalk, but if neither
is indicated, then as near the right-of-way line of the intersection roadway as
possible.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person to willfully deface, injure,
remove, obstruct or interfere with any official traffic sign or signal.
(1995 Code, § 5-202) Penalty, see §
70.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 60-680, 60-6,112 through 60-6,121, 60-6,129
§ 70.03 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Generally.
      (1)   All peace officers are hereby specifically directed and authorized
and it shall be deemed and considered a part of the official duties of each of
such officers to enforce the provisions of the state’s Rules of the Road and
this title, including the specific enforcement of maximum speed limits, and any
other state or village law regulating the operation of vehicles or the use of
the highways.
      (2)   To perform the official duties imposed by this section, peace
officers shall have the power:
         (a)   To make arrests upon view and without warrant for any violation
committed in their presence of any of the provisions of the Motor Vehicle
Operator’s License Act or this title or of any other law regulating the
operation of vehicles or the use of the highways, if and when designated or
called upon to do so as provided by law;
         (b)   To make arrests upon view and without warrant for any violation
committed in their presence of any provision of the laws of this state relating
to misdemeanors or felonies or of similar village ordinances if and when
designated or called upon to do so as provided by law;
         (c)   At all times to direct all traffic in conformity with law or, in
the event of a fire or other emergency or in order to expedite traffic or
ensure safety, to direct traffic as conditions may require;
         (d)   When in uniform, to require the driver of a vehicle to stop and
exhibit his or her operator’s license and registration certificate issued for
the vehicle and submit to an inspection of such vehicle and the license plates
and registration certificate for the vehicle and to require the driver of a
motor vehicle to present the vehicle within five days for correction of any
defects revealed by such motor vehicle inspection as may lead the inspecting
officer to reasonably believe that such motor vehicle is being operated in
violation of the statutes of the state, the rules and regulations of the
Director of Motor Vehicles or any village ordinance or regulation;
         (e)   To inspect any vehicle of a type required to be registered
according to law in any public garage or repair shop or in any place where such
a vehicle is held for sale or wrecking;
         (f)   To serve warrants relating to the enforcement of the laws
regulating the operation of vehicles or the use of the highways; and
         (g)   To investigate traffic accidents for the purpose of carrying on
a study of traffic accidents and enforcing motor vehicle and highway safety
laws.
(Neb. RS 60-683) (Prior Code, §§ 5-218, 5-219)
   (B)   Failure or refusal to obey order.
      (1)   Any person who knowingly fails or refuses to obey any lawful order
of any peace officer who is controlling or directing traffic shall be guilty of
a traffic infraction.
      (2)   Any person who knowingly fails to obey any lawful order of a peace
officer shall be guilty of an offense whenever such order is given in
furtherance of the apprehension of a person who has violated the state’s Rules
of the Road or this title or of a person whom such officer reasonably believes
has violated the Rules or this title.
(Neb. RS 60-6,110) (1995 Code, § 5-224)
   (C)   Obedience to traffic-control devices; exceptions.
      (1)   The driver of any vehicle shall obey the instructions of any
traffic-control device applicable thereto placed in accordance with the state’s
Rules of the Road or this title, unless otherwise directed by a peace officer,
subject to the exceptions granted the driver of an authorized emergency vehicle
in the Rules and this title.
      (2)   No provision of the Rules or this title for which traffic-control
devices are required shall be enforced against an alleged violator if at the
time and place of the alleged violation an official device is not in proper
position and sufficiently legible to be seen by a reasonably observant person.
Whenever any provision of the Rules or this title does not state that traffic-
control devices are required, such provision shall be effective even though no
devices are erected or in place.
      (3)   Whenever traffic-control devices are placed in position
approximately conforming to the requirements of the Rules or this title, such
devices shall be presumed to have been so placed by the official act or
direction of lawful authority unless the contrary is established by competent
evidence.
      (4)   Any traffic-control device placed pursuant to the Rules or this
title and purporting to conform with the lawful requirements pertaining to such
devices shall be presumed to comply with the requirements of the Rules or this
title unless the contrary is established by competent evidence.
(Neb. RS 60-6,119)
   (D)   Authorized emergency vehicles; privileges.
      (1)   Subject to the conditions stated in the state’s Rules of the Road
and this title, the driver of an authorized emergency vehicle, when responding
to an emergency call, when pursuing an actual or suspected violator of the law,
or when responding to but not when returning from a fire alarm, may:
         (a)   Stop, park or stand, irrespective of the provisions of the Rules
and this title, and disregard regulations governing direction of movement or
turning in specified directions; and
         (b)   Except for wreckers towing disabled vehicles and highway
maintenance vehicles and equipment:
            1.   Proceed past a steady red indication, a flashing red
indication or a stop sign, but only after slowing down as may be necessary for
safe operation; and
            2.   Exceed the maximum speed limits so long as he or she does not
endanger life, limb or property.
      (2)   Except when operated as a police vehicle, the exemptions granted in
division (D)(1) above shall apply only when the driver of such vehicle, while
in motion, sounds an audible signal by bell, siren or exhaust whistle as may be
reasonably necessary and when such vehicle is equipped with at least one
lighted light displaying a red light visible under normal atmospheric
conditions from a distance of 500 feet to the front of such vehicle.
      (3)   The exemptions granted in division (D)(1) above shall not relieve
the driver from the duty to drive with due regard for the safety of all
persons, nor shall such provisions protect such driver from the consequences of
his or her reckless disregard for the safety of others.
      (4)   Authorized emergency vehicles operated by police and fire
departments shall not be subject to the size and weight limitations of sections
Neb. RS 60-6,288 to 60-6,290 and 60-6,294.
(Neb. RS 60-6,114)
   (E)   Traffic officers. The Board of Trustees or the village police may at
any time detail officers, to be known as “traffic officers”, at street
intersections. All traffic officers shall be vested with the authority to
regulate and control traffic at the intersections to which they are assigned.
It shall be their duty to direct the movement of traffic and prevent congestion
and accidents. It shall be unlawful for any person to violate any order or
signal of any such traffic officer notwithstanding the directive of a stop sign
or signal device that may have been placed at any such intersection.
(1995 Code, § 5-221) Penalty, see §
70.99
Statutory reference:
   Motor Vehicle Operator’s License Act, see Neb. RS 60-462
§ 70.99 TRAFFIC INFRACTIONS; PENALTY.
   Except as otherwise provided in this chapter, any person who shall violate
or refuse to comply with the enforcement of any of the provisions of this
title, set forth at full length herein or incorporated by reference shall be
deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and upon conviction thereof, shall be fined not
more than $500 for each offense. A new violation shall be deemed to have been
committed every 24 hours of failing to comply.
(Ord. 91, passed 7-13-2016)
CHAPTER 71: TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
Section
   
71.01   Turning; U turns
   
71.02   Right-of-way generally; emergency vehicles
   
71.03   Position of vehicle on highway
   
71.04   Trucks
   
71.05   Speed limits
   
71.06   Backing
   
71.07   Utility vehicles
   
71.08   Engine brakes (jake brakes)
§ 71.01 TUR NING; U TURNS.
   (A)   No vehicle shall be turned so as to proceed in the opposite direction,
except at a street intersection. No vehicle shall be turned so as to proceed in
the opposite direction at any intersection where an automatic signal is in
operation or where a sign is posted indicating that U turns are prohibited.
(1995 Code, § 5-102)
   (B)   Vehicles turning to the right into an intersecting street shall
approach such intersection in the lane of traffic nearest to the right-hand
side of the highway and must turn the corner as near the right- hand curb as
possible to keep between the curb to the right and the center of the
intersection of the two streets. The driver of a vehicle intending to turn left
shall approach such centerline of the highway and in turning, shall pass as
near as possible to the centerline of the intersection passing as closely as
practical to the right thereof before turning such vehicle to the left. For the
purposes of this division (B), the CENTER OF THE INTERSECTION shall mean the
meeting point of the medial lines of the highways intersecting one another.
(1995 Code, § 5-103) Penalty, see §
70.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 60-680, 60-6,159
§ 71.02 RIGHT-OF-WAY GENERALLY; EMERGENCY VEHICLES.
   (A)   When two vehicles approach or enter an intersection at approximately
the same time, the driver of the vehicle on the left shall yield the right-of-
way to the vehicle on the right when the paths of such vehicles intersect and
there is danger of a collision. The driver of a vehicle intending to turn to
the left within an intersection or into an alley, private road or driveway
shall yield the right-of-way to any vehicle approaching from the opposite
direction which is within the intersection or so close thereto as to constitute
an immediate hazard. The driver of a vehicle on any street shall yield the
right-of-way to a pedestrian crossing at the end of a block where the movement
of traffic is being regulated by traffic officers or traffic direction devices.
Every pedestrian crossing a street at any point other than a pedestrian
crossing, crosswalk or intersection shall yield the right-of-way to vehicles
upon the street. The driver of a vehicle entering a municipal street from a
private road or drive shall yield the right-of-way to authorized emergency
vehicles when the latter are operated upon official business and the drivers
thereof make proper use of visual or audible signals.
(1995 Code, § 5-104)
   (B)   Upon the approach of an authorized emergency vehicle, every vehicle
within one block of the route of such emergency vehicle shall immediately stop,
except at the time they are on or crossing a street intersection and then stop.
Every vehicle along the route of such emergency vehicle shall immediately move
to a position as near the right-hand curb as possible and remain there until
such authorized emergency vehicle or vehicles have passed; provided, said
vehicles are operated on official business and the drivers thereof make use of
proper visual or audible signals.
(1995 Code, § 5-105)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 60-6,146 through 60-6,154
§ 71.03 POSITION OF VEHICLE ON HIGHWAY.
   (A)   The Board of Trustees, with respect to highways under its
jurisdiction, may designate any highway, roadway, part of a roadway or specific
lanes upon which vehicular traffic shall proceed in one direction at all times
or at such times as shall be indicated by traffic-control devices.
   (B)   Except for emergency vehicles, no vehicle shall be operated, backed,
pushed or otherwise caused to move in a direction which is opposite to the
direction designated by competent authority on any deceleration lane,
acceleration lane, access ramp, shoulder or roadway.
   (C)   A vehicle which passes around a rotary traffic island shall be driven
only to the right of such island.
(Neb. RS 60-6,138) (1995 Code, § 5-106) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.04 TRUCKS.
   (A)   Trucks are prohibited on certain streets. It shall be unlawful to
drive any truck, except for the purpose of making deliveries and then for one
block only on any street so designated by ordinance and properly signposted.
(1995 Code, § 5-110)
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to operate any vehicle on the streets of the
village, except those set out on the attached map as a truck route when the
total gross weight of such vehicle exceeds 18,500 pounds. It shall be unlawful
to operate a vehicle in excess of such weight on such streets, except for the
purpose of making delivery or picking up a load in which case such vehicle may
be driven on such street for not more than the minimum distance necessary for
that purpose.
(1995 Code, § 5-111)
   (C)   It shall be unlawful to park on any village street or residential lot,
any trailer that has a gross vehicle weight in excess of 12,500 pounds.
(1995 Code, § 5-112)
(Ord. 30, passed 7-2-1997; Ord. 42, passed 4-12-2000; Ord. 76, passed 6-8-2011)
Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.05 SPEED LIMITS.
   No person shall drive a vehicle on a highway at a speed greater than is
reasonable and prudent under the conditions and having regard to the actual and
potential hazards then existing. A person shall drive at a safe and appropriate
speed when approaching and crossing an intersection or railroad grade crossing,
when approaching and going around a curve, when approaching a hillcrest, when
traveling upon any narrow or winding roadway and when special hazards exist
with respect to pedestrians or other traffic or by reason of weather or highway
conditions.
(Neb. RS 60-6,185) (1995 Code, § 5-203) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.06 BACKING.
   The operator of a vehicle of an over-all length of less than 20 feet,
including load, while loading or unloading freight may back the vehicle to the
curb, but shall occupy as little of the street as possible.
(1995 Code, § 5-209) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.07 UTILITY VEHICLES.
   (A)   For purposes of this section, the term UTILITY VEHICLE shall have the
definition set forth in Neb. RS 60-6,355(b).
   (B)   Any person having a valid Class O operator's license or farm permit as
provided in Neb. RS 60-4,126 may operate a utility vehicle on the streets and
alleys of the village, between sunrise and sunset.
   (C)   No person shall operate a utility vehicle on the streets and alleys of
the village until the owner has demonstrated proof of insurance with coverage
equal to that required by the state for licensed motor vehicles to the Gosper
County Sheriff’s Office and obtained a permit for the current year. An
identifying sticker shall be provided by the Sheriff’s Office after payment of
the fee and shall be placed prominently on the left rear of the utility vehicle
as proof of this permit. This permit must be acquired by all utility vehicles
operated on the streets and alleys of the village. All permits will expire on
December 31 in the year of issuance and must be renewed on or before January 1
of each year.
   (D)   The fee for such permit shall be set by resolution and payable
annually, renewing during the month of January.
   (E)   Any person operating a utility vehicle in the village shall not
operate such vehicle at a speed in excess of 30 miles per hour or less where
posted speed limits are less.
   (F)   All utility vehicles operated on the streets and alleys of the city
shall be equipped with a headlight and taillight. When operating the utility
vehicle, the headlight and taillight of the vehicle shall be on and the vehicle
shall be equipped with a bicycle safety flag which extends not less than five
feet above ground attached to the rear of such vehicle. The bicycle safety flag
shall be triangular in shape with an area of not less than thirty square inches
and shall be day-glow in color.
   (G)   Any person violating any provision of this section shall be guilty of
a misdemeanor and shall be fined $200 for each violation. Any violation of this
section, which is also a violation under any other provision of Neb. RS Ch. 60,
may be punished under the penalty provisions of such chapter.
(Ord. 2017-04, passed 12-13-2017)
Statutory reference:
   Nebraska Rules of the Road, see Neb. RS 60-6,355 through 60-6,362
§ 71.08 ENGINE BRAKES (JAKE BRAKES).
   It shall be unlawful for any person within the corporate limits of the
municipality to make or cause to be made loud or disturbing noises with any
mechanical device that converts a power producing engine into a power absorbing
air compressor, resulting in a net energy loss and used for the purpose of
assisting braking on any vehicle, commonly known as engine braking or jake
braking. The governing body shall cause notices to be posted or erect signs
indicating this prohibition. Any person who violates or refuses to comply with
this section shall be deemed guilty of an offense and upon conviction, shall be
fined not more than $100 for each offense.
(1995 Code, § 5-217.1) (Ord. 41, passed 8-11-1999; Ord. 2018-02, passed 3-30-
2018)
Statutory reference:
   Nebraska Rules of the Road, see Neb. RS 60-680
CHAPTER 72: PARKING RULES
Section
General Provisions
   
72.01   Unattended vehicles
   
72.02   Designation
   
72.03   Areas
   
72.04   Obstruction of alley, traffic
   
72.05   Display or repair
   
72.06   Current license, registration
   
72.07   Time limits
   
72.08   Maintenance
   
72.09   Alleys
   
72.10   Prohibited parking; authority
   
72.11   Parking at curb
   
72.12   Removal of illegally parked vehicles
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 72.01 UNATTENDED VEHICLES.
   No person having control or charge of a motor vehicle shall allow such
vehicle to stand unattended on a highway without first stopping the motor of
such vehicle, locking the ignition, removing the key from the ignition and
effectively setting the brakes thereon and, when standing upon any roadway,
turning the front wheels of such vehicle to the curb or side of such roadway.
(Neb. RS 60-6,168) (1995 Code, § 5-301) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 72.02 DESIGNATION.
   (A)   The Board of Trustees, with respect to highways under its jurisdiction
and within the reasonable exercise of the police power, may regulate or
prohibit stopping, standing or parking.
(Neb. RS 60-680)
   (B)   If the Board regulates or prohibits stopping, standing or parking all
vehicles or a particular kind or class of vehicles on a highway or a portion of
a highway, no person shall stop, stand or park a vehicle subject to such
regulation or prohibition on the highway or portion thereof longer than a
period of time necessary to load and unload freight or passengers.
(1995 Code, § 5-302)
§ 72.03 AREAS.
   (A)   Except when necessary to avoid conflict with other traffic or when in
compliance with law or the directions of a peace officer or traffic-control
device, no person shall:
      (1)   Stop, stand or park any vehicle:
         (a)   On the roadway side of any vehicle stopped or parked at the edge
or curb of a street;
         (b)   On a sidewalk;
         (c)   Within an intersection;
         (d)   On a crosswalk;
         (e)   Between a safety zone and the adjacent curb or within 30 feet of
points on the curb immediately opposite the ends of a safety zone unless the
Board of Trustees indicates a different length by signs or markings;
         (f)   Alongside or opposite any street excavation or obstruction when
stopping, standing or parking would obstruct traffic;
         (g)   Upon any bridge or other elevated structure over a highway or
within a highway tunnel;
         (h)   On any railroad track; or
         (i)   At any place where official signs prohibit stopping.
      (2)   Stand or park a vehicle, whether occupied or not, except
momentarily to pick up or discharge a passenger or passengers:
         (a)   In front of a public or private driveway;
         (b)   Within 15 feet of a fire hydrant;
         (c)   Within 20 feet of a crosswalk at an intersection;
         (d)   Within 30 feet of any flashing signal, stop sign, yield sign or
other traffic-control device located at the side of a roadway;
         (e)   Within 20 feet of the driveway entrance to any fire station and
on the side of a street opposite the entrance to any fire station within 75
feet of such entrance when properly signposted; or
         (f)   At any place where official signs prohibit standing.
      (3)   Park a vehicle, whether occupied or not, except temporarily for the
purpose of and while actually engaged in loading or unloading merchandise or
passengers:
         (a)   Within 50 feet of the nearest rail of a railroad crossing; or
         (b)   At any place where official signs prohibit parking.
   (B)   No person shall move a vehicle not lawfully under his or her control
into any such prohibited area or away from a curb such a distance as shall be
unlawful.
(Neb. RS 60-6,166) (1995 Code, § 5-303) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 72.04 OBSTRUCTION OF ALLEY, TRAFFIC.
   (A)   No person shall, except in case of an accident or emergency, stop any
vehicle in any location where stopping will obstruct any street, intersection
or entrance to an alley or public or private drive.
(1995 Code, § 5-304)
   (B)   Except when necessary to avoid conflict with other traffic or when in
compliance with law or the directions of a peace officer or traffic-control
device, no person shall park a vehicle or leave a vehicle standing for any
purpose, except momentarily to load or discharge passengers, within 25 feet of
the intersection of curb lines or, if none, then within 15 feet of the
intersection of property lines, or where the curb lines are painted red or
another color specified by the Board of Trustees to indicate such prohibition.
(1995 Code, § 5-305)
   (C)   (1)   No person shall park a vehicle with any portion thereof
projecting into any alley entrance.
      (2)   No person shall park a vehicle in any alley, except for the purpose
of loading or unloading during the time necessary to load or unload, which
shall not exceed the maximum limit of one-half hour. Every vehicle while
loading or unloading in an alley shall be parked in such manner as will cause
the least obstruction possible to traffic in the alley.
(1995 Code, § 5-306)
Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 72.05 DISPLAY OR REPAIR.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to park upon any highway or public
place within the village any vehicle displayed for sale. Except when necessary
due to a breakdown or other emergency, no person shall adjust or repair, or
race the motor of, any motor vehicle or motorcycle while standing on the
highways of the village.
   (B)   No person or employee connected with a garage or repair shop shall use
sidewalks or highways in the vicinity of the garage or shop for the purpose of
working on vehicles of any description.
(1995 Code, § 5-307) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 72.06 CURRENT LICENSE, REGISTRATION.
   It shall be unlawful to park or place on the highways or other public
property any vehicle required to be registered by the Motor Vehicle
Registration Act that is not registered in accordance with the Act.
(1995 Code, § 5-317) Penalty, see §
70.99
Statutory reference:
   Motor Vehicle Registration Act, see Neb. RS 60-301
§ 72.07 TIME LIMITS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to park a vehicle on a public street for over 72
consecutive hours, except where a different maximum time limit is posted.
(1995 Code, § 5-319)
   (B)   If the Board of Trustees adopts a resolution entirely prohibiting, or
fixing a time limit for, the parking and stopping of vehicles on any highway,
it is unlawful to park or stop any vehicle in such highway for a period of time
longer than fixed in the resolution.
(1995 Code, § 5-318)
(Ord. 2017-01, passed 7-12-2017)
Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 72.08 MAINTENANCE.
   (A)   Unless the Board of Trustees provides otherwise, it is unlawful to
park or stand any vehicle on any highway in the village at any time within 12
hours after a snowfall of three inches or more has occurred within a 24-hour
period if the snow has not been removed within that time.
   (B)   The Chairperson of the Board of Trustees, the village police or any
other designated person may order any highway or portion thereof vacated for
weather emergencies or highway maintenance. Notice shall be given by personally
notifying the owner or operator of a vehicle parked on such highway or by
posting appropriate signs along the highway not less than four hours prior to
the time that the vacation order is to be effective. It is unlawful to park a
vehicle on a highway or portion thereof vacated in accordance with this
division (B).
   (C)   A vehicle parked in violation of this section may be removed and
parked, under the supervision of the village police, to a suitable nearby
location without further notice to the owner or operator of such vehicle.
(1995 Code, § 5-320) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 72.09 ALLEYS.
   (A)   No person shall park a vehicle with any portion thereof projecting
into any alley entrance.
   (B)   (1)   No person shall park a vehicle in any alley, except for the
purpose of loading or unloading during the time necessary to load or unload,
which shall not exceed the maximum limit of one-half hour.
      (2)   Every vehicle while loading or unloading in an alley shall be
parked in such manner as will cause the least obstruction possible to traffic
in the alley.
(1995 Code, § 5-321) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 72.10 PROHIBITED PARKING; AUTHORITY.
   The governing body may, by resolution or ordinance, designate areas
prohibiting parking.
(1995 Code, § 5-322)
§ 72.11 PARKING AT CURB.
   The operator of a vehicle of an over-all length of less than 20 feet,
including load, while loading or unloading freight may back the vehicle to the
curb, but shall occupy as little of the street as possible.
(1995 Code, § 5-324) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 72.12 REMOVAL OF ILLEGALLY PARKED VEHICLES.
   (A)   Whenever any police officer shall find a vehicle standing upon a
street or alley in violation of any of the provisions of this chapter, such
individual may remove or have such vehicle removed, or require the driver or
other person in charge of the vehicle to move such vehicle, to a position off
the roadway of such street or alley or from such street or alley.
   (B)   (1)   The owner or other person lawfully entitled to the possession of
any vehicle towed or stored shall be charged with the reasonable cost of towing
and storage fees. Any such towing or storage fee shall be a lien upon the
vehicle prior to all other claims. Any person towing or storing a vehicle shall
be entitled to retain possession of such vehicle until such charges are paid.
      (2)   The lien provided for in this section shall not apply to the
contents of any vehicle.
(1995 Code, § 5-325)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 60-6,165, 60-6,166
CHAPTER 73: TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
Schedule
      
I.   Speed limits
      
II.   Stop intersections
SCHEDULE I. SPEED LIMITS.
   The following speed limits are hereby set by ordinance and appropriate signs
have been posted. It shall be unlawful to operate a motor vehicle at speeds
greater than posted on the following streets:
 
Location                                       Speed Limit (mph)
Railroad tracks on Smith Avenue, also known as
U.S. Highway 283, to the corporate limits of   35
the municipality
School Zone - on Rush Street from Ontario
Avenue to First Avenue; on First Avenue from
Rush Street to Rockford Street; on Rockford    15
Street from Ontario Avenue to the Municipal
Swimming Pool
Smith Avenue (U.S. Highway 283) and on Ripley  See speed map on following page
Street (U.S. Highway 23)
South Street to railroad tracks on Smith       35
Avenue, also known as U.S. Highway 283
 
(1995 Code, § 5-204) (Ord. 38, passed 6-10-1998) Penalty, see §
70.99
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/5952a6b69324b0acb5bcfc96ca4dc26a5694e132/
IMAGES/0-0-0-32.jpg]
 
SCHEDULE II. STOP INTERSECTIONS.
 
Location/Intersection           Stop Type Provisions
                                          All vehicles shall be required to
                                          stop at these stop signs as set out
Intersection of Rockford Street 3-way     and those driving vehicles who do
and First Avenue                          not stop at the signs shall be
                                          guilty of a traffic infraction and
                                          shall be fined accordingly
 
(Ord. 23, passed 8-7-1996) Penalty, see §
70.99
CHAPTER 74: PARKING SCHEDULES
Schedule
      
I.   School crossings
      
II.   Prohibited parking
SCHEDULE I. SCHOOL CROSSINGS.
 
Location                                          Violation
100 feet in advance and 20 feet beyond the school
crossing located at the intersection of U.S.      Prohibited parking; violation
Highway 283 and Rochelle Street
 
(1995 Code, § 5-322.1) (Ord. 31, passed 12-3-1997) Penalty, see §
70.99
SCHEDULE II. PROHIBITED PARKING.
   The governing body may, by resolution or ordinance, designate areas
prohibiting parking.
(1995 Code, § 5-322)
 
Street                             Location                             Side(s)
Ripley Street, also known as State At any location within the corporate South
Highway 23                         limits of the village
 
(1995 Code, § 5-323)
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
90.   HEALTH AND SANITATION; NUISANCES
      
91.   ANIMALS
CHAPTER 90: HEALTH AND SANITATION; NUISANCES
Section
   
90.01   General provisions
   
90.02   Abatement services and notice procedure for nuisances
   
90.03   Enforcement
   
90.04   Expenses
§ 90.01 GENERAL PROVISIONS.
   (A)   Purpose. The village, by this chapter, defines its authority to
define, regulate, suppress and prevent nuisances, and to declare what shall be
a nuisance for its jurisdiction and to provide services to abate same for the
health and sanitation of the village.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this chapter, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      NUISANCE. 
      (1)   A NUISANCE consists of doing any unlawful act, or omitting to
perform a duty, or suffering or permitting any condition or thing to be or
exist, which act, omission condition or thing:
         (a)   Injures or endangers the comfort, repose, health or safety of
others;
         (b)   Offends decency;
         (c)   Is offensive to the senses;
         (d)   Unlawfully interferes with, obstructs, tends to obstruct, or
renders dangerous for passage any stream, public park, parkway, square, street
or highway in the municipality;
         (e)   In any way renders other persons insecure in life or the use of
property;
         (f)   Essentially interferes with the comfortable enjoyment of life
and property; or
         (g)   Tends to depreciate the value of the property of others.
      (2)   NUISANCE includes, but is not limited to, the maintaining, using,
placing, depositing, leaving, or permitting any of the following specific acts,
omissions, places, conditions, and things of:
         (a)   Any odorous, putrid, unsound, or unwholesome grain, meat, hides,
skins, feathers, vegetable matter, or the whole or any part of any dead animal,
fish or fowl;
         (b)   The emission of smoke, dust, fumes, gases, mists, odors, or
polluted air from any source that is injurious or dangerous to human health and
safety;
         (c)   Privies, vaults, cesspools, dumps, pits, or like places which
are not securely protected from flies or rats or other insects and rodents, or
which are foul or malodorous;
         (d)   Filthy, littered, or trash-covered cellars, house yards,
barnyards, stable-yards, factory-yards, mill yards, vacant areas in rear of
stores, granaries, vacant lots, houses, buildings or premises;
         (e)   Dead animals or dead animals buried within the corporate limits;
         (f)   Animal manure in any quantity which is not securely protected
from flies and the elements, or which is kept or handled in violation of any
ordinance of the municipality;
         (g)   Hauling any garbage, waste or refuse matter throughout the
streets, alleys and public ways except when the same is loaded and conveyed in
such a way when none of the contents shall be spilled;
         (h)   Liquid household waste, human excreta, garbage, butcher’s
trimmings and offal, parts of fish, or any waste vegetable or animal matter in
any quantity. Nothing herein contained shall prevent the temporary retention of
waste in receptacles nor the dumping of non-putrefying waste in a place and
manner approved by the municipality;
         (i)   Tin cans, bottles, glass, cans, ashes, small pieces of scrap
iron, wire metal articles, bric-a-brac, broken stone or cements, broken
crockery, broken glass, broken plaster, and all trash or abandoned material,
unless the same be kept in covered bins or galvanized iron receptacles;
         (j)   Trash, litter, rags, accumulations of barrels, boxes, crates,
packing crates, mattresses, bedding, excelsior, packing hay, straw or other
packing material, lumber not neatly piled, scrap iron, tin or other metal not
neatly piled, old automobiles or parts thereof, or any other waste materials
when any of the articles or materials create a condition in which flies or rats
or other insects or rodents may breed or multiply, or which may be a fire
danger, or which are so unsightly as to depreciate property values in the
vicinity;
         (k)   Any unsafe building, unsightly building, billboard, or other
structure, or any old, abandoned or partially destroyed building or structure
or any building or structure commenced and left unfinished, which buildings,
billboards, or other structures are a fire hazard, or a menace to the public
health or safety, or are so unsightly as to depreciate the value of property in
the vicinity;
         (l)   All places used or maintained as junk yards, or dumping grounds,
or for the wrecking and dissembling of automobiles, trucks, tractors or
machinery of any kind, or for the storing or leaving of worn-out, wrecked or
abandoned automobiles, trucks, tractors, or machinery of any kind, or any of
the parts thereof, or for the storing or leaving of any machinery or equipment
used by contractors or builders or by other persons, which places are kept or
maintained so as to essentially interfere with the comfortable enjoyment of
life or property by others, or which are so unsightly as to tend to depreciate
property values in the vicinity thereof;
         (m)   Stockyards, granaries, mills, pig pens, cattle pens, chicken
pens or any other place, building or enclosure, in which animals or fowls of
any kind are confined or on which are stored tankage or any other animal or
vegetable matter, or on which any animal or vegetable matter including grain is
being processed, when the places in which the animals are confined, or the
premises on which the vegetable or animal matter is located are maintained and
kept in such a manner that foul or noxious odors are permitted to emanate
therefrom to the annoyance of inhabitants of the municipality or are maintained
and kept in such a manner as to be injurious to the public health;
         (n)   Dead or diseased trees within the right-of-way of streets within
the corporate limits of the village, or on private property within the one mile
zoning jurisdiction beyond the corporate limits (Neb. RS 17-555);
         (o)   Undrained lots which hold or may hold stagnant water or any
other nuisance;
         (p)   Any condition which allows the perpetuating of insects and
rodents;
         (q)   Storage, accumulation, keeping, placing, or allowing to remain
trash, garbage, scrap and wrecked, worn-out, broken or inoperative, or
partially destroyed or disassembled personal or real property of any kind,
including any junk or abandoned motor vehicles, tractors, trailers, machinery
and equipment;
         (r)   1.   Any vehicle which is not properly registered, or is
inoperable, wrecked, junked, or partially dismantled and remaining longer than
30 days on private property. This does not apply to a vehicle in an enclosed
building, a vehicle on the premises of a business enterprise operated in a
lawful place and manner, when necessary to the lawful operation of such
business enterprise (such as a licensed salvage dealer, motor vehicle dealer or
farm implement dealer), or a vehicle in an appropriate storage place or
depository maintained in a lawful place and manner, and so long as the premises
which said vehicle is located is not a nuisance and is maintained in a
healthful and safe condition. “Vehicle” means the same as defined by Neb. RS
60-136: a motor vehicle, all-terrain vehicle, minibike, trailer, or
semitrailer. “Properly registered” means as required by Nebraska Statutes.
            2.   The number of vehicles allowed to be stored on a property
under a manufactured car cover totals two.
         (s)   Lots, pieces of ground, and the adjoining streets and alleys
with growth of weeds or noxious growth;
         (t)   All other things specifically designated as nuisances elsewhere
in this village code.
(Ord. 2021-03, passed 11-16-2021)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 18-1720
§ 90.02 ABATEMENT SERVICES AND NOTICE PROCEDURE FOR NUISANCES.
   (A)   Nuisance Officer. The village shall appoint an individual or
organization to identify and enforce abatement of nuisances within the village.
Said individual or organization shall be identified as the “Nuisance Officer”
and said appointment shall be identified by resolution of the village.
   (B)   Identifying nuisances.
      (1)   The village may identify suspected nuisances, in which case the
Village Clerk shall notify, upon direction of the Village Board, the Nuisance
Officer of the suspected location, person or persons in violation of any
provision of this chapter and provide the address of such alleged nuisance.
      (2)   The village may request that the Nuisance Officer audit the village
for nuisances in the village as defined by this village code. The Nuisance
Officer shall then view the property or area for any violations of the
nuisances of the village. The Nuisance Officer shall not go upon private
property for said audit unless granted permission by the resident/owner of
suspected property.
   (C)   Confirming, documenting and presenting nuisances. The Nuisance Officer
shall identify and confirm that, in his or her opinion, a nuisance exists as
defined by federal, state or village law.
      (1)   Upon confirming that a nuisance appears to exist, the Nuisance
Officer shall document said nuisance with photographs and other evidence
pertinent to the situation. The Nuisance Officer will also obtain the legal
description of the property and identify the current owners and, if possible,
the occupants of the property upon which the nuisance exists.
      (2)   The Nuisance Officer shall then present this information to the
Village Board of Trustees at a regular or special meeting for its confirmation
that a nuisance exists as stated in § 90.03.
(Ord. 2021-03, passed 11-16-2021)
§ 90.03 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Enforcement procedures. The nuisance, health and/or sanitation
violation is brought to the governing body by the village Nuisance Officer, or
the Board of Health, or upon the governing body’s own action. The governing
body then may declare by resolution a nuisance, health and/or sanitation
violation. The nuisance, health, and/or sanitation ordinances may be enforced
by: (1) village administrative procedures; (2) penal prosecutions through the
courts; and/or (3) by civil procedures in the courts. Any of these procedures,
or any combination of these procedures may be used to enforce the nuisance,
health and/or sanitation ordinances of the village.
   (B)   Administrative procedure. The village may proceed with abatement of
the nuisance, sanitation, and/or health violation with or without court
involvement after the following procedure is followed:
      (1)   After a nuisance is declared, the Village Clerk notifies the
Nuisance Officer to serve notice upon the violator(s).
      (2)   The Nuisance Officer shall prepare and serve notice, which shall
describe the found nuisance and state the required date of when abatement and
removal of the nuisance shall be accomplished. The notice shall also provide
information as to how the interested parties may request a hearing before the
governing body described in division (B)(4) herein.
      (3)   The notice shall be given to each owner or owner’s duly authorized
agent and to the occupant, if any, by personal service or certified mail. If
notice by personal service or certified mail is unsuccessful, said notice shall
be given by a single publication in a newspaper of general circulation in the
village or county of the village, and by conspicuously posting the notice on
the lot or ground upon which the nuisance is to be abated and removed. The date
of service is determined by the later of the certified mail receipt, personal
service or publication date.
      (4)   The accused violator (owner/agent/occupant) may request in writing
a hearing before the governing body of the village within five days after
notice of violation is served or published. For tree nuisance violations the
period for requesting a hearing is extended to 30 days after service.
      (5)   If no request for a hearing is received in the required time
period, the governing body may cause a hearing to be held. This option is at
the sole discretion of the governing body to be used in exceptional cases.
      (6)   If a hearing is requested, the Village Clerk shall fix date of said
hearing to be no later than 15 days from receipt of the request for the
hearing. Notice of said hearing and with the date and time shall be served upon
the agent, owner and occupant of the nuisance property by certified or regular
mail.
      (7)   The hearing shall be a “show cause” hearing in which the agent,
owner, and/or occupant of the nuisance property (objecting party) shall provide
evidence why the alleged condition should not be found to be a public nuisance
and remedied. This hearing shall be heard before a quorum of the governing
body. The presiding official of the governing body may conduct the hearing or
said presiding official may appoint another person as the hearing officer to
conduct the hearing (said hearing officer may be the Village Attorney or the
Enforcement Officer). At the hearing, the hearing officer shall mark and
receive evidence which was presented when the finding of a nuisance was made,
relevant evidence of the nuisance since that time, and evidence that the
notices were properly given. The objecting party shall then provide its
evidence. The rules of evidence are not required at said hearing, but all
evidence must be relevant to the particular nuisance being heard. Testimony
shall be under oath as administered by the hearing officer or any person so
designated by the hearing officer, and the person providing the testimony is
subject to the laws of perjury. Evidence may be submitted in writing by
affidavit.
      (8)   No later than 14 days after the hearing and consideration of the
evidence, the governing board, may, by majority vote, rescind the resolution of
violation. If the resolution of violation is not rescinded, it shall stand.
Furthermore, if the objector or its designated agent fails to appear at the
hearing or does not provide evidence, the nuisance shall stand. If the
resolution is not rescinded, the governing board may, by resolution, extend the
date that the owner, occupant, lessee, or mortgagee shall abate and remedy the
said public nuisance, but in no case shall this time exceed 60 days. The
findings of the governing board shall be made no later than 14 days after the
hearing and notice of its findings shall be served upon the objecting party by
regular US mail within 5 days of the finding. The finding of this hearing is
final, provided that an interested party or parties may appeal such decision to
the appropriate court for adjudication.
      (9)   If the Nuisance Officer determines the nuisance is not remedied and
abated within the time period designated, the village shall cause the abatement
of the nuisance.
      (10)   If an interested party properly appeals to an appropriate court
the findings and orders of the village, the village actions shall be stayed
until such time that the legal proceedings are completed or dismissed. In cases
of appeal from an action of the village condemning real property as a nuisance
or as dangerous under the police powers of the municipality, the owners of the
adjourning property may intervene in the action at any time before trial (Neb.
RS 19-710).
   (C)   Penal court enforcement procedure. If the declared nuisance, health,
and/or sanitation are not abated within 15 days that the notice is served upon
the owner and/or occupant, and the Village Clerk has not received a request for
hearing, the Nuisance Officer may cause issue of a citation for the code
violation.
      (1)   The citation shall be prosecuted to the appropriate court by the
Village Attorney or other designated prosecutor for the village;
      (2)   A person or persons found guilty of these violations shall be
guilty of a misdemeanor and fined up to $500 per each offense; and
      (3)   Each day that the nuisance as identified in the nuisance resolution
and notice is not abated shall be a separate offense and subject to a separate
fine.
   (D)   Civil court procedure. The governing board may instruct, by
resolution, the Village Attorney to file a civil action for abatement of a
nuisance. Said civil suit may commence after 15 days’ notice has been served,
and may be filed and prosecuted at the same time any other enforcement
procedure has commenced, terminated or is in progress.
(Ord. 2021-03, passed 11-16-2021)
§ 90.04 EXPENSES.
   (A)   When the village has affected the abatement of the nuisance, health
and/or sanitation violation through either village employees or through
contract with a third party and has incurred expenses and costs thereof, the
actual cost thereof shall be charged to the owner, agent, occupant or person in
possession, charge or control of such property. The billing shall be calculated
at the actual cost of abating the nuisance plus a $25 administrative fee.
   (B)   This billing shall be submitted to the last known address of the owner
and/or occupant of the nuisance property as found in the County Treasurer’s
office by regular US mail.
   (C)   If said costs are not paid within two months after the work is done
and one month after the expenses and costs are submitted to the owner and/or
occupant, the village may levy and assess the expenses and costs upon the real
estate benefitted by the actions in the same manner as other special
assessments are levied and assessed, and the village may collect said
assessments in the same procedure as other special assessments are collected.
The village may also recover said expenses and costs of abating the nuisance,
health and/or sanitation violation(s) in a civil action in the courts of the
appropriate county in Nebraska.
(Ord. 2021-03, passed 11-16-2021)
CHAPTER 91: ANIMALS
Section
General Provisions
   
91.01   Harboring animals
   
91.02   Running at large
   
91.03   Cruelty
   
91.04   Killing and injuring
   
91.05   Enclosures
   
91.06   Pitting animals
   
91.07   Commercial production prohibited
   
91.08   Feral cats
Dogs
   
91.20   Definitions
   
91.21   License
   
91.22   License tags
   
91.23   Wrongful licensing
   
91.24   Proclamation
   
91.25   Unlicensed violation penalty
   
91.26   Running at large
   
91.27   Impossible capture
   
91.28   Vicious and dangerous dogs
   
91.29   Interference with police
   
91.30   Killing and poisoning
   
91.31   Noise and offensive behavior
   
91.32   Fighting
   
91.33   Liability of owner
   
91.34   Removal of tags
   
91.35   Rabies
   
91.36   Dyeing prohibited
   
91.37   Transient owner
   
91.38   Defecating on/in village property
   
91.39   Abandonment, neglect or cruelty
   
91.40   Impoundment, euthanization
 
   
91.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 91.01 HARBORING ANIMALS.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to keep or maintain within the
village limits any turkeys, ducks, geese, pigeons, roosters or other types of
bird or fowl not classified as chicken hens (gallus gallus domesticus), or
large animals such as horses, cattle, pigs, goats, llamas, emus, ostriches, or
sheep.
   (C)   Poultry/chickens – Permit requirements and restrictions.
      (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person to own, keep, harbor, or have
under their care, custody, or control any cock or rooster chicken two months of
age or older. The unlawful keeping or harboring of cocks or roosters two months
of age or older is hereby declared to be a public nuisance.
      (2)   It shall be unlawful for any person to own, keep, harbor, or have
under their care, custody, or control any chicken hen without a valid annual
permit issued by the village.
         (a)   Application for said permit shall be made to the Village Clerk
and the fee for the permit shall be $25.
         (b)   The application shall be in writing on a form furnished by the
Village Clerk. All applications to keep chickens within the municipal limits
must be approved by the Village Board of Trustees.
         (c)   The permit will expire and become invalid one year after
issuance. A person who wishes to continue to keep chickens shall have to renew
said permit on or before the expiration of the previous permit. The procedures
for renewing said permit shall be the same as those for applying for a new
permit.
         (d)   No permit shall be assignable or transferable either as to
permittee, location, or chickens.
         (e)   In addition to the penalties provided in §
91.99, the village may revoke a permit for failure to comply with any of the
requirements in this section.
      (3)   The requirements for the issuance of a permit by the village to
own, keep, harbor, or have custody or control over a chicken are as follows:
         (a)   No more than six chickens shall be permitted on any property.
This shall not count toward the total number of animals allowed within any home
or residence as provided in division (A).
         (b)   The chickens must be housed in a chicken facility and run
approved by the village; such chicken facility and run must be maintained in
compliance with all of the village’s requirements as a condition of the permit.
The requirements for the chicken facility and run include:
            1.   The chicken facility and run must be in good repair, capable
of being maintained in a clean and sanitary condition, free of vermin,
obnoxious smells and substances;
            2.   The chicken facility and run shall not constitute a nuisance
or disturb neighboring residents due to noise, odor, or threats to public
health;
            3.   The chicken facility and run shall prevent chickens from
roaming at large;
            4.   The run shall be attached to the chicken coop/facility and
constructed to include metal wire fencing anchored to the ground and a fully
enclosed roof or similar enclosure to prevent escape by chickens and entry by
predators and general members of the public;
            5.   The chicken facility shall be constructed of durable material
and the flooring of any chicken facility within the coop shall be of a
waterproof, hard-surface, non-porous material. Chicken run areas shall not
require hard-surface flooring.
            6.   The chicken facility shall be of sufficient size to safely and
humanely harbor the number of chickens kept within;
            7.   The chicken facility and run shall not be located in any front
yard of a property and must be located at least five feet from the rear
property line, six feet from the side property line, and at least 20 feet from
any neighboring residence; and
            8.   The chicken facility and run shall comply with all applicable
village building and zoning codes and must be consistent with the requirements
of any land use regulation.
         (c)   Offal, manure, and waste material shall not be permitted to
accumulate nor be confined in any manner that is conducive to the breeding or
attraction of flies, mosquitoes, or other noxious insects or in any manner that
endangers the public health or safety. All permit applicants must provide a
statement of the method in which offal, manure and waste material resulting
from the chickens will be sanitarily disposed of at a minimum of at least once
every seven days. Waste material may be double-bagged and disposed of in the
owner’s dumpster.
         (d)   All grain, feed, and feedstuffs intended for use as food for
chickens shall be kept in tightly-fitted containers constructed to keep out
vermin and wild animals;
         (e)   Chicken hens allowed under this section shall only be raised for
domestic purposes and no commercial use such as selling eggs or selling
chickens for meat shall be allowed; and
         (f)   The slaughtering or destruction of chickens for commercial
purposes within the municipal limits of the village shall be prohibited.
Slaughter of chickens for personal consumption within the municipal limits of
the village must be done in a manner that is not offensive to neighbors and in
accordance with commonly accepted processing methods. All waste products
resulting from slaughter or destruction of chickens must be properly disposed
of. Carcasses and waste products may be double-bagged and disposed of in the
owner’s dumpster. If composting is used as a disposal method, sufficient lime
and/or wood ash must be used to eliminate the smell and to repel insects,
vermin and other scavengers. Wastewater may not be discharged into the
municipal sewage system or any natural waterway.
(1995 Code, § 6-201) (Ord. 63, passed 10-12-2005; Ord. 69, passed 11-14-2007;
Ord. 2021-01, passed 6-9-2021; 2022-03, passed 6-8-2022) Penalty, see §
91.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-547
§ 91.02 RUNNING AT LARGE.
   It shall be unlawful for the owner, keeper or harborer of any animal or any
person having the charge, custody or control thereof to permit a horse, mule,
cow, sheep, goat, swine or other domestic animal to be driven or run at large
on any of the public ways and property, or upon the property of another, or to
be tethered or staked out in such a manner so as to allow such animal to reach
or pass into any public way.
(1995 Code, § 6-202)
Penalty, see §
91.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-547
§ 91.03 CRUELTY.
   No person shall cruelly or unnecessarily beat, overwork or insufficiently
shelter or feed any animal within the municipality.
(1995 Code, § 6-203) Penalty, see §
91.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 23-553, 28-552
§ 91.04 KILLING AND INJURING.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to kill, administer or cause to be
administered poison of any sort to, or in any manner injure, maim or destroy or
attempt to injure, maim or destroy any animal or to place any poison or
poisoned food where it is accessible to an animal; except that:
   (A)   This section shall not apply to any law enforcement officer or animal
control officer acting within his or her power and duty;
   (B)   This section shall not apply if the animal is vicious, dangerous or
showing characteristics of rabies and cannot be captured without danger to the
persons attempting to effect a capture of the animal; and
   (C)   Any owner of a dog that he or she wishes to be destroyed may place the
dog in an animal pound or shelter or with a licensed veterinarian to be
humanely destroyed and disposed of according to the provisions in this chapter
or other provisions of law.
(1995 Code, § 6-204) Penalty, see §
91.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 28-552, 28-553
§ 91.05 ENCLOSURES.
   All pens, cages, sheds, yards or any other area or enclosure for the
confinement or animals not specifically barred within the corporate limits
shall be kept in a clean and orderly manner so as not to become a menace or
nuisance to the neighborhood in which the enclosure is located.
(1995 Code, § 6-205) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.06 PITTING ANIMALS.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      BEARBAITING. The pitting of any animal against a bear.
      COCKFIGHTING. The pitting of a fowl against another fowl.
      DOGFIGHTING. The pitting of a dog against another dog.
      PITTING. Bringing animals together in combat.
(1995 Code, § 6-207)
   (B)   Prohibited. No person shall knowingly promote, engage in or be
employed at dogfighting, cockfighting, bearbaiting or pitting an animal against
another. Nor shall any person knowingly receive money for the admission of
another person to a place kept for such purpose. Nor shall any person knowingly
own, use, train, sell or possess an animal for the purpose of animal pitting.
Nor shall any person knowingly permit any acts as described in this section to
occur on any premises owned or controlled by him or her.
(1995 Code, § 6-208)
   (C)   Spectators prohibited. No person shall knowingly and willingly be
present at and witness as a spectator dogfighting, cockfighting, bearbaiting or
the pitting of an animal against another as prohibited in division (A) above.
(1995 Code, § 6-209)
Penalty, see §
91.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 28-101
§ 91.07 COMMERCIAL PRODUCTION PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to produce animals for retail or
commercial sale within the municipality.
(Ord. 69, passed 11-14-2007) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.08 FERAL CATS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to knowingly feed or provide
sustenance for feral cats within the municipality.
   (B)   It shall not be a violation of the municipal ordinances for an
individual using “live traps” to trap and remove feral cats from the
municipality.
(Ord. 69, passed 11-14-2007) Penalty, see §
91.99
DOGS
§ 91.20 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DOG. Both male and female dogs of the age of six months or more.
(1995 Code, § 6-101)
   OWNER. Any person who shall harbor or permit any dog to be for five days or
more in or about his or her house, store or enclosure or to remain to be fed
shall be deemed the OWNER AND POSSESSOR of such dog and shall be deemed to be
liable for all penalties herein described.
(1995 Code, § 6-106)
   VACCINATION FOR RABIES. The inoculation of a dog with a rabies vaccine
licensed by the United States Department of Agriculture. Such VACCINATION must
be performed by a duly licensed veterinarian.
(1995 Code, § 6-102)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 54-606, 71-4401
§ 91.21 LICENSE.
    Any person who shall own, keep or harbor a dog over the age of three months
within the municipality shall, within ten days after acquisition of the said
dog, acquire a license for each such dog annually by or before January 1 of
each year. The said tax shall be delinquent from and after January 31;
provided, the possessor of any dog brought into or harbored within the
corporate limits subsequent to January 1 of any year shall be liable for the
payment of the dog tax levied herein and such tax shall be delinquent if not
paid within ten days thereafter. Licenses shall be issued by the Municipal
Clerk upon the payment of a license fee for each dog as set by resolution of
the governing body and kept at the office of the Clerk. Said license shall not
be transferable and no refund will be allowed in case of death, sale or other
disposition of the licensed dog. The owner shall state, at the time the
application is made and upon printed forms provided for such purpose, his or
her name and address and the name, breed, color and sex of each dog owned and
kept by him or her. A certificate that the dog has had a rabies shot, effective
for the ensuing year of the license, shall be presented when the license is
applied for and no license or tag shall be issued until the certificate is
shown.
(1995 Code, § 6-103) (Ord. 2017-05, passed 12-13-2017)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-526, 54-603, 71-4412
§ 91.22 LICENSE TAGS.
   (A)   Upon payment of the license fee, the Municipal Clerk shall issue to
the owner of a dog a license certificate and a metallic tag for each dog so
licensed. The metallic tags shall be properly attached to the collar or harness
of all dogs so licensed and shall entitle the owner to keep or harbor the said
dog until December 31 following such licensing.
   (B)   In the event that a license tag is lost and upon satisfactory evidence
that the original plate or tag was issued in accordance with the provisions
herein, the Municipal Clerk shall issue a duplicate or new tag for the balance
of the year for which the license tax has been paid and shall charge and
collect a fee of $1 for each duplicate or new tag so issued.
   (C)   All license fees and collections shall be immediately credited to the
General Fund. It shall be the duty of the Municipal Clerk to issue tags of a
suitable design that are different in appearance each year.
(1995 Code, § 6-104)
§ 91.23 WRONGFUL LICENSING.
   It shall be unlawful for the owner, keeper or harborer of any dog to permit
or allow such dog to wear any license, metallic tag or other municipal
identification than that issued by the Municipal Clerk for a specific dog.
(1995 Code, § 6-105) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.24 PROCLAMATION.
   It shall be the duty of the governing body whenever, in its opinion, the
danger to the public safety from rabid dogs is great or imminent, to issue a
proclamation ordering all persons owning, keeping or harboring any dog to
muzzle the same or confine it for a period of not less than 90 days from the
date of such proclamation or until such danger is passed. The dogs may be
harbored by any good and sufficient means in a house, garage or yard on the
premises wherein the said owner may reside. Upon issuing the proclamation it
shall be the duty of all persons owning, keeping or harboring any dog to
confine the same as herein provided.
(1995 Code, § 6-107) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.25 UNLICENSED VIOLATION PENALTY.
   It shall be unlawful for the owner of any dog to maintain or keep said dog
within the municipality, without a license tag affixed as required by §§
91.21 and
91.22 of this chapter.
(1995 Code, § 6-108) Penalty, see §
91.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-526
§ 91.26 RUNNING AT LARGE.
   It shall be unlawful for the owner of any dog to allow such dog to run at
large at any time within the corporate limits of the municipality. It shall be
the duty of the municipal law enforcement to cause any dog found to be running
at large within the municipality to be taken up and impounded. The owner shall
be liable for all costs of confinement. RUNNING AT LARGE shall mean any dog
found off the premises of the owner and not under control of the owner or a
responsible person.
(1995 Code, § 6-109) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.27 IMPOSSIBLE CAPTURE.
   The municipal law enforcement shall have the authority to kill any dog
showing vicious tendencies or characteristics of rabies which make capture
impossible because of the danger involved.
(1995 Code, § 6-110)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-526
§ 91.28 VICIOUS AND DANGEROUS DOGS.
   (A)   Vicious dogs.
      (1)   The term VICIOUS DOG, as used herein, shall include the following:
         (a)   Any dog with a propensity, tendency or disposition to attack, to
cause injury or damage or otherwise endanger the safety or human beings or
domestic animals;
         (b)   Any dog which inflicts injury on a human being one time without
provocation that requires medical treatment;
         (c)   Any dog which attacks a domestic animal on two or more occasions
without provocation, while the dog was off the owner’s property; or
         (d)   Has been previously determined to be a potentially dangerous dog
by the dog control authority and the owner has received notice of such
determination and such dog again aggressively bites, attacks or endangers the
safety of humans or domestic animals. A dog shall not be defined as a DANGEROUS
DOG if the injury, damage or threat was sustained by an individual who, at the
time, was committing a willful trespass, was committing any other tort upon the
property of the owner of the dog, was tormenting, abusing, or assaulting the
dog, or has, in the past, been observed or reported to have tormented, abused,
or assaulted the dog, or was committing or attempting to commit a crime.
      (2)   No person may own, harbor or care for a vicious dog as defined
herein within the village limits.
      (3)   The keeping, maintaining, owning or harboring of a vicious dog
within the village limits is hereby declared a nuisance as being against the
public safety.
      (4)   Whenever a nuisance exists as defined in the foregoing section, the
village may proceed by a suit in a court of competent jurisdiction to enjoin
and abate the same in a manner provided by law. In any criminal prosecution,
the court, in addition to any penalty imposed, may enter an order of abatement
as part of the judgment in said case.
(1995 Code, § 6-111)
   (B)   Dangerous dogs. The following breeds or any mix of the following
breeds are hereby declared to be DANGEROUS DOGS: Akita; Chow; Doberman
Pinscher; English Bull Terrier; German Shepherd, including the American White
Shepherd; Pit Bull breeds including, but not limited to, the American Pit Bull
Terrier, American Staffordshire Terrier, and the Staffordshire Bull Terrier;
Rottweiler; Wolf Hybrids; American Bandogge Mastiff; Bullmastiff; Neapolitan
Mastiff; Presa Canario; Boerboel; Kyiapso; Siberian/Alaskan/Eskimo/Greenland
Husky; Alaskan Malamute; Olde English Bulldogge; Catahoula; Dalmation.
Dangerous dogs, if outside the owner’s residence, shall be confined in fully
enclosed kennels and the owner shall have and maintain at least $100,000 in
liability insurance covering any damage done by the dog. Dangerous dogs shall
only be walked or exercised, on a leash adequate to control the dog, within the
village limits by a person 19 years of age or older.
(Ord. 56, passed 5-12-2004; Ord. 2020-01, passed 6-10-2020; Ord. 2020-04,
passed 10-14-2020) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.29 INTERFERENCE WITH POLICE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to hinder, delay or interfere with any
municipal law enforcement who is performing any duty enjoined upon him or her
by the provisions of this subchapter or to break open or in any manner directly
or indirectly aid, counsel or advise the breaking open of the dog shelter any
ambulance wagon or other vehicle used for the collecting or conveying of dogs
to the shelter.
(1995 Code, § 6-112) Penalty, see §
91.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 28-906
§ 91.30 KILLING AND POISONING.
   It shall be unlawful to kill or to administer or cause to be administered
poison of any sort to any dog or in any manner to injure, maim or destroy or in
any manner attempt to injure, maim or destroy any dog that is the property of
another person or to place any poison or poisoned food where the same is
accessible to an dog; provided that, this section shall not apply to municipal
law enforcement acting within their power and duty.
(1995 Code, § 6-113) Penalty, see §
91.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 28-1002
§ 91.31 NOISE AND OFFENSIVE BEHAVIOR.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to own, keep or harbor any dog, fowl or
any other creature which by loud, continued or frequent barking, howling,
yelping, crowing or utterance of any other sound shall annoy or disturb any
neighborhood or person or which habitually barks, howls, yelps, crows or utters
any such annoying sound or chases pedestrians, drivers or owners of horses or
vehicles while they are on any public sidewalks, streets or alleys in the
municipality. Upon the written complaint of an affected person filed with the
Municipal Clerk, that any dog owned by the person named in the complaint is an
annoyance or disturbance or otherwise violates the provisions of this section,
the municipal law enforcement shall investigate the complaint and, if in their
opinion the situation warrants, shall notify the owner to silence and restrain
such dog.
(1995 Code, § 6-114) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.32 FIGHTING.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, by agreement or otherwise, to set dogs
to fighting or by any gesture or word to encourage the same to fight.
(1995 Code, § 6-115) Penalty, see §
91.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-526
§ 91.33 LIABILITY OF OWNER.
   The owner of any dog shall be liable in damages for any injuries, nuisances
or damages to property caused by any dog within the city, which injuries,
nuisances or damages were not the result of the negligence or wrongdoing of the
person damaged.
(1995 Code, § 6-116) (Ord. 2020-01, passed 6-10-2020) Penalty, see §
91.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 54-601, 54-602
§ 91.34 REMOVAL OF TAGS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to remove or cause to be removed the
collar, harness or metallic tag from any licensed dog without the consent of
the owner, keeper or possessor thereof.
(1995 Code, § 6-117) Penalty, see §
91.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-526
§ 91.35 RABIES.
   (A)   Suspected.
      (1)   Any dog suspected of being afflicted with rabies or any dog not
vaccinated in accordance with the provisions of this subchapter which has
bitten any person and caused an abrasion of the skin shall be seized and
impounded under the supervision of the Board of Health for a period of not less
than ten days.
      (2)   If, upon examination by a veterinarian, the dog has no clinical
signs of rabies at the end of such impoundment, it may be released to the owner
or, in the case of an unlicensed dog, it shall be disposed of in accordance
with the provisions herein.
      (3)   If the owner of the said dog has proof of vaccination, it shall be
confined by the owner or some other responsible person for a period of at least
ten days, at which time the dog shall be examined by a licensed veterinarian.
      (4)   If no signs of rabies are observed, the dog may be released from
confinement.
(1995 Code, § 6-118)
   (B)   Cost of confinement.
      (1)   If the ownership of any dog which has bitten a person can be
established, the owner shall be liable for the cost of confining it for such
length of time as is necessary to establish whether the dog is rabid.
      (2)   If the ownership of such dog cannot be determined, the cost of
confining an dog who is only suspected of having rabies shall be paid by the
municipality.
(1995 Code, § 6-119)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 71-4406
§ 91.36 DYEING PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to, within the village, dye or
artificially color any dog.
(1995 Code, § 6-120) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.37 TRANSIENT OWNER.
   The provisions of this subchapter shall not apply to any dog belonging to
any person on a sojourn or for bench or show purposes in the village or for
other purposes; provided, the dog remains near its owner or keeper, his or her
motor vehicle, other dogs or affects and complies with the requirements of this
subchapter.
(1995 Code, § 6-121)
§ 91.38 DEFECATING ON/IN VILLAGE PROPERTY.
   (A)   It is the duty of each person in control of a dog to promptly remove
and dispose of, in a sanitary manner, feces left by such dog.
   (B)   It shall be the duty of each person in control of a dog to be in
possession of materials to remove feces left by such dog.
   (C)   It is an affirmative defense to prosecution under this section that
the person in control of the dog is the owner of the premises or the agent of
the owner of the premises.
(1995 Code, § 6-122) (Ord. 82, passed 6-12-2013) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.39 ABANDONMENT, NEGLECT OR CRUELTY.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      ABANDON. To leave an dog for any length of time without making effective
provisions for its food, water or other care as is reasonably necessary for the
dog’s health.
      CRUELLY MISTREAT. To knowingly and intentionally kill, maim, disfigure,
torture, beat, mutilate, burn, scald or otherwise set upon any dog.
      CRUELLY NEGLECT. To fail to provide any dog in one’s care, whether as
owner or custodian, with food, water or other care as is reasonably necessary
for the dog’s health.
      HUMANE KILLING. The destruction of an dog by a method which causes the
dog a minimum of pain and suffering.
      LAW ENFORCEMENT OFFICER. Any member of the State Patrol, any county or
deputy sheriff, any member of the police force of any municipality or any other
public official authorized by a municipality to enforce state or local dog
control laws, rules, regulations or ordinances.
(1995 Code, § 6-123)
   (B)   Law enforcement officers; powers; immunity.
      (1)   Any law enforcement officer who has reason to believe that an dog
has been abandoned or is being cruelly neglected or cruelly mistreated may seek
a warrant authorizing entry upon private property to inspect, care for or
impound the dog.
      (2)   Any law enforcement officer who has reason to believe that an dog
has been abandoned or is being; cruelly neglected or mistreated may issue a
citation to the owner as prescribed by law.
      (3)   Any law enforcement officer acting under this section shall not be
liable for damage to property if such damage is not the result of the officer’s
negligence.
(1995 Code, § 6-124)
   (C)   Neglect and cruelty; penalty. A person commits cruelty to dogs if he
or she abandons, cruelly mistreats or cruelly neglects an dog.
(1995 Code, § 6-125)
Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.40 IMPOUNDMENT, EUTHANIZATION.
   It shall be the duty of the village law enforcement or other appointed
Animal Control Officer to capture, secure and remove in a humane manner to the
designated animal shelter, any animal violating any provisions of this chapter.
The animals so impounded shall be treated in a humane manner and shall be
provided with a sufficient supply of food and fresh water each day. Each
impounded animal shall be kept and maintained at the designated animal shelter
for a period of not less than three days, unless reclaimed earlier by the
owner. Notice of impoundment of animals are known, shall be posted at the
animal shelter as public notification of such impoundment and shall be given to
the owner. Any animal may be reclaimed by its owner during the period of
impoundment by payment of the impoundment fee as set by resolution by the
Village Board of Trustees and maintained on file in the office of the Village
Clerk. The initial fee is $25. The owner shall then be required to comply with
the licensing and rabies vaccination requirements within 72 hours after
release. If the animal is not claimed within at the end of the time specified
herein, the village law enforcement, or other appointed Animal Control Officer,
may dispose of the animal in accordance with the applicable rules and
regulations pertaining to the same; provided that, if, in the judgment of the
village law enforcement, or other appointed Animal Control Officer, a suitable
home can be found for any such animal within the village, said animal shall be
turned over to that person and the new owner shall then be required to pay all
fees and meet all licensing and vaccinating requirements. The village shall
acquire legal title to any unlicensed animal impounded in the animal shelter
after three days. All animals shall be disposed of or destroyed in a summary
and humane manner. The owner of any animal shall be responsible for all costs
and expenses and the village shall have the right to collect any unpaid fees in
any manner provided by law.
(1995 Code, § 6-126)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-526
§ 91.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Each violation of §§
91.01,
91.07 and
91.08 of this chapter shall be punishable by a fine of up to $500 per day.
   (C)   Violations of §§
91.20 through
91.40 of this chapter, without specific penalty provisions, shall be punishable
by a fine of $50 for each violation.
   (D)   (1)   Any person who shall violate or refuse to comply with the
enforcement of the provisions of §
91.28(A) of this chapter shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon
conviction thereof, shall be fined not more than $200 for each offense. A new
violation shall be deemed to have been committed every 24 hours of such failure
to comply.
      (2)   Each violation of §
91.28(B) of this chapter shall be punishable by a fine of $100 per day that the
owner of the dog is in violation.
   (E)   Violation of §
91.38 of this chapter is unlawful and any violation shall be punishable, upon
conviction, by a fine of $100 per occurrence.
   (F)   Violations of §§
91.02 and
91.26 of this chapter, upon conviction, shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor
and fined $50 for the first offense, $100 for the second offense and $150 for
each subsequent offense. These fines shall be in addition to any and all costs
incurred by the village, and all other costs allowed by law.
(Ord. 56, passed 5-12-2004; Ord. 57, passed 5-12-2004; Ord. 69, passed 11-14-
2007; Ord. 82, passed 6-12-2013; Ord. 2022-04, passed 9-14-2022)
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
110.   GENERAL LICENSING PROVISIONS
      
111.   ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
      
112.   TOBACCO
      
113.   SALES AND ADVERTISING
      
114.   FRANCHISES AND CONTRACTUAL AGREEMENTS
      
115.   BUILDING MOVING
CHAPTER 110: GENERAL LICENSING PROVISIONS
Section
Occupation Taxes
   
110.01   Amounts
   
110.02   Due and payable
   
110.03   Certificates
   
110.04   Failure to pay
   
110.05   Pro rata payment
   
110.06   Fire insurance companies
OCCUPATION TAXES
§ 110.01 AMOUNTS.
   (A)   The village shall have power to raise revenue by levying and
collecting a license tax on any occupation or business within the limits of the
village and regulate the same by ordinance. Any occupation tax imposed pursuant
to this section shall make a reasonable classification of businesses, users of
space or kinds of transactions for purposes of imposing such tax; except that,
no occupation tax shall be imposed on any transaction which is subject to tax
under Neb. RS 53-160, 66-489, 66-489.02, 66-4,140, 66-4,145, 66-4,146, 77-2602
or 77-4008 or which is exempt from tax under Neb. RS 77-2704.24. The occupation
tax shall be imposed in the manner provided in Neb. RS 18-1208; except that,
Neb. RS 18-1208 does not apply to an occupation tax subject to Neb. RS 86-704.
All such taxes shall be uniform in respect to the classes upon which they are
imposed. All scientific and literary lectures and entertainments shall be
exempt from such taxation, as well as concerts and other musical entertainments
given exclusively by the citizens of the village.
(Neb. RS 17-525)
   (B)   The Board of Trustees shall have authority, by ordinance, to impose an
occupation tax of not more than $5 per annum on each fire insurance
corporation, company or association doing business in the village, for the use,
support and benefit of volunteer fire departments, regularly organized under
the laws of the state regulating the same. The Village Clerk shall collect with
diligence the occupation tax so imposed. Upon the receipt of the tax, the Clerk
shall pay over the proceeds thereof to the Village Treasurer who shall credit
the same to a fund to be known as special occupation tax fund for benefit of
the Volunteer Fire Department. Upon proper claim filed by the Chief of the Fire
Department and allowed by the Board, the Treasurer shall pay over the proceeds
of the tax in the fund from time to time for the use of the Fire Department, as
hereinbefore provided.
(Neb. RS 35-106)
   (C)   Notwithstanding any ordinance or charter power to the contrary, the
village shall not impose an occupation tax on the business of any person, firm
or corporation licensed under the state’s Liquor Control Act and doing business
within the corporate limits of the village in any sum which exceeds two times
the amount of the license fee required to be paid under the Act to obtain such
license.
(Neb. RS 53-132)
(1995 Code, § 10-801)
Statutory reference:
   Occupation taxes generating more than $300,000; imposition or increase;
election required, see Neb. RS 18-1208
§ 110.02 DUE AND PAYABLE.
   Unless provided otherwise or levied daily, any occupation taxes imposed by
the Board of Trustees shall be due and payable on May 1 of each year; except
that, any occupation taxes collected from Class C liquor licensees shall be due
and payable on November 1 of each year. Upon payment of an occupation tax by
any person to the Village Clerk, the Clerk shall give a receipt, properly
dated, specifying the person paying the tax and the amount paid. Any revenue
collected shall be deposited into the General Fund by the Village Treasurer,
except as otherwise specifically provided. The Treasurer shall keep an accurate
account of all revenue turned over to him or her. All forms and receipts herein
mentioned shall be issued in duplicate. One copy shall then be kept by each
party in the transaction.
(1995 Code, § 10-802)
§ 110.03 CERTIFICATES.
   The receipt issued after the payment of any occupation tax shall be the
occupation tax certificate. The certificate shall specify the amount of the tax
and the name of the person and business that paid the tax. The occupation tax
certificate shall then be displayed in a prominent place or carried in such a
way as to be easily accessible while business is being conducted.
(1995 Code, § 10-803)
§ 110.04 FAILURE TO PAY.
   If any person, company or corporation fails or neglects to pay the
occupation taxes as provided in this subchapter on the day they become due and
payable, the village shall then proceed by civil suit to collect the amount
due. All delinquent taxes shall bear interest at the rate of 1% per month until
paid.
(1995 Code, § 10-804)
§ 110.05 PRO RATA PAYMENT.
   The amount of tax hereinabove levied and imposed shall be for the period of
one year. No occupation tax in an amount less than the sum provided for a
yearly period shall be accepted regardless of the time within the taxing period
when such business is commenced.
(1995 Code, § 10-805)
§ 110.06 FIRE INSURANCE COMPANIES.
   For the use, support and maintenance of the Municipal Fire Department all
revenue realized from the occupation tax on fire insurance companies shall be
transferred to the Fire Department Fund.
(1995 Code, § 10-806)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 35-106
CHAPTER 111: ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
Section
General Provisions
   
111.01   Definitions
Licensing Regulations
   
111.15   License required
   
111.16   Liquor application; notice; procedure
   
111.17   Liquor application; retail licensing standards
   
111.18   Liquor application; municipal examination
   
111.19   Catering license
   
111.20   Liquor license renewal
   
111.21   License displayed
   
111.22   Licensee requirements
Regulations; Conditions of Sale
   
111.35   Municipal power and duties
   
111.36   Hours of sale
   
111.37   Location
   
111.38   Dwellings
   
111.39   Owner, employer of premises
   
111.40   Minors
   
111.41   Credit sales
   
111.42   Original package
   
111.43   Sanitary conditions
   
111.44   Unlawful consumption
   
111.45   Acquisition of alcoholic beverages
   
111.46   Consumption in public places
   
111.47   Removal of intoxicated persons from public property
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 111.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For purposes of this chapter, the definitions found in Neb. RS 53-103.01
through 53-103.42 shall be used.
(1995 Code, § 10-101)
LICENSING REGULATIONS
§ 111.15 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to manufacture for sale, sell, keep for
sale or to barter any alcoholic liquors within the municipality unless said
person shall have in full force and effect a license as provided by the state’s
Liquor Control Act.
(1995 Code, § 10-102) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 53-102
§ 111.16 LIQUOR APPLICATION; NOTICE; PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Notice. Notice of a hearing held pursuant to Neb. RS 53-134 shall be
given to the applicant by the Municipal Clerk and shall contain the date, time
and location of the hearing. Two or more proceedings which are legally or
factually related may be heard and considered together unless any party thereto
makes a showing sufficient to satisfy the governing body that prejudice would
result therefrom.
   (B)   Procedure.
      (1)   Hearings will be informal and conducted by the Municipal Attorney.
The intent is an inquiry into the facts, not an adversarial action. Each
witness may present his or her testimony in narrative fashion or by question
and answer. The governing body may order the hearing to be recorded by the
Clerk, at the expense of the applicant(s).
      (2)   The governing body may admit and give probative effect to evidence
which possesses probative value commonly accepted by reasonably prudent
individuals. The Municipal Attorney may limit testimony where it appears
incompetent, irrelevant or unduly repetitious. If there is opposition to the
application and such opposition desires the opportunity to present arguments
and to cross-examine the applicant and any witness in favor of such
application, it shall choose a spokesperson to perform such function who shall
notify the Municipal Attorney of his or her representation prior to the start
of the hearing.
      (3)   The order of the proceedings is as follows:
         (a)   Exhibits will be marked in advance by the Clerk and presented to
the Municipal Attorney during the presentation;
         (b)   Presentation of evidence, witnesses and arguments by applicant;
         (c)   Testimony of any other citizens in favor of such proposed
license;
         (d)   Examination of applicant, witnesses or citizens by the Municipal
Attorney, governing body or duly appointed agent;
         (e)   Examination of applicant, witnesses or citizens by spokesperson
for opposition, if any;
         (f)   Presentation of evidence and witnesses by opposition;
         (g)   Testimony of any other citizens in opposition to such proposed
license;
         (h)   Presentation of evidence by municipality and law enforcement
personnel;
         (i)   Cross-examination by applicant;
         (j)   Rebuttal evidence by both parties, and by municipality
administration and agent; and
         (k)   Summation by applicant and opposition spokesperson, if any.
      (4)   In all cases, the burden of proof and persuasion shall be on the
party filing the application.
      (5)   Any member of the governing body and the Municipal Attorney may
question any witness, call witnesses or request information.
      (6)   All witnesses shall be sworn.
      (7)   The governing body may make further inquiry and investigation
following the hearing.
      (8)   The governing body or the applicant may order the hearing to be
recorded by the Clerk, at the expense of the applicant(s).
(1995 Code, § 10-103)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 53-134
§ 111.17 LIQUOR APPLICATION; RETAIL LICENSING STANDARDS.
   (A)   Local governing bodies shall only have authority to approve
applications and deny licenses pursuant to the state’s Liquor Control Act. The
governing body shall only consider the following licensing standards and
criteria at the hearing and an evaluation of any applicant for a retail
alcoholic liquor license, for the upgrading of a license to sell alcoholic
liquor or for the expansion or change in location of the premises, and for the
purpose of formulating a recommendation from the governing body to the state’s
Liquor Control Commission in accordance with the state’s Liquor Control Act:
      (1)   The adequacy of existing law enforcement resources and services in
the area;
      (2)   The recommendation of the Police Department or any other law
enforcement agency;
      (3)   Existing motor vehicle and pedestrian traffic flow in the vicinity
of the proposed licensed premises, potential traffic and parking problems and
the proximity and availability of on-street and off-street parking;
      (4)   Zoning restrictions and the local governing body’s zoning and land
use policies;
      (5)   Sanitation or sanitary conditions on or about the proposed licensed
premises;
      (6)   The existence of a citizen’s protest and similar evidence in
support of or in opposition to the application;
      (7)   The existing population and projected growth within the
jurisdiction of the local governing body and within the area to be served;
      (8)   The existing liquor licenses, the class of such license and the
distance and times of travel between establishments that issued such licenses;
      (9)   Whether the proposed license would be compatible with the
neighborhood or community where the proposed premises are located;
      (10)   Whether the type of business or activity proposed to be operated
or presently operated in conjunction with the proposed license is and will be
consistent with the public interest as declared in Neb. RS 53-101.1;
      (11)   Whether the applicant can ensure that all alcoholic beverages,
including beer and wine, will be handled in accordance with Neb. RS 53-102;
      (12)   Whether the applicant has taken every precaution to protect
against the possibility of shoplifting of alcoholic liquor, which alcoholic
liquor shall be displayed and kept in and sold from an area which is reasonably
secured;
      (13)   Whether the applicant is fit, willing and able to properly provide
the service proposed in conformance with all the provisions and requirements of
rules and regulations adopted and promulgated pursuant to the Act;
      (14)   Whether the applicant has demonstrated that the type of management
and control exercised over the licensed premises will be sufficient to ensure
that the licensee can conform to all the provisions and requirements of and
rules and regulations adopted and promulgated pursuant to the Act;
      (15)   The background information of the applicant established by
information contained in the public records of the Commission and
investigations conducted by law enforcement agencies;
      (16)   Past evidence of discrimination involving the applicant as
evidenced by findings of fact before any administrative board or agency of the
local governing body, any other governmental board or agency of the local
governing body, any other governmental unit or any court of law;
      (17)   Whether the applicant or the applicant’s representatives
suppressed any fact or provided any inaccurate information to the Commission or
local governing body or the employees of the Commission or local governing body
or the employees of the Commission or local governing body in regard to the
license application or liquor investigation. The applicant shall be required to
cooperate in providing a full disclosure to the investigating agents of the
local governing body;
      (18)   Proximity of and impact on schools, hospitals, libraries, parks
and public institutions;
      (19)   Whether activities proposed to be conducted on the licensed
premises or in adjacent related outdoor areas will create unreasonable noise or
disturbance; and
      (20)   Compliance with state law, liquor rules and regulations, and
municipal ordinances and regulations and whether or not the applicant has ever
forfeited bond to appear in court to answer charges of having committed a
felony or charges of having violated any law or ordinance enacted in the
interest of good morals and decency or has been convicted of violating or has
forfeited bond to appear in court and answer charges for violating any law or
ordinance relating to alcoholic liquor.
   (B)   It shall be the applicant’s duty to produce evidence pertaining to the
designated criteria prescribed in this division (B). The burden of proof and
persuasion shall be on the party filing the application. When applicable for
the purposes of this section, the term “applicants”, as used herein, is
synonymous with “licensees”.
(1995 Code, § 10-104)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 53-134
§ 111.18 LIQUOR APPLICATION; MUNICIPAL EXAMINATION.
   Any person or persons desiring to obtain a license to sell alcoholic liquors
at retail shall file an application with the Liquor Control Commission. The
Commission shall then notify the Municipal Clerk by registered or certified
mail. The governing body shall then meet and determine the desirability of the
application and report its recommendation for approval or denial of the
application in writing to the state’s Liquor Control Commission within 45 days
of receipt from the state’s Liquor Control Commission. The governing body may
examine or cause to be examined under oath any applicant; examine or cause to
be examined the books and records of any such applicant; to hear testimony and
to take proof for its information in the performance of its duties. For the
purpose of obtaining any of the information desired, the governing body may
authorize its agent, Municipal Clerk or the Municipal Attorney to act on its
behalf. The governing body may conduct the examination and hold the hearing
upon the receipt from the Commission of the notice and copy of the application.
The governing body shall fix a time and place at which a hearing will be held,
and at which time the governing body shall receive evidence, under oath, either
orally or by affidavit, from the applicant and any other person concerning the
propriety of the issuance of such license. Notice of the time and place of such
hearing shall be published in a legal newspaper in or of general circulation in
the municipality one time not less than seven, nor more than 14, days before
the time of the hearing. Such notice shall include, but not be limited to, a
statement that all persons desiring the given evidence before the local
governing body in support of or in protest against the issuance of such license
may do so at the time of the hearing. Such hearing shall be held not more than
45 days after the receipt of notice from the Commission. After such hearing,
the governing body shall cause to be spread at large in the minute record of
its proceedings a resolution recommending either issuance or refusal of such
license. The Municipal Clerk shall thereupon mail or deliver to the Commission
a copy of the resolution.
(1995 Code, § 10-105)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 53-131, 53-132, 53-134
§ 111.19 CATERING LICENSE.
   (A)   The holder of a license to sell alcoholic liquor at retail issued
under Neb. RS 53-124, a craft brewery license, a microdistillery license or a
farm winery license may obtain an annual catering license by filing an
application and license fee with the state’s Liquor Control Commission.
   (B)   Upon receipt from the Commission of the notice and a copy of the
application as provided in Neb. RS 53-124.12, the Board of Trustees shall
process the application in the same manner as provided herein.
   (C)   The Board of Trustees, with respect to catering licensees within its
corporate limits, may cancel a catering license for cause for the remainder of
the period for which that catering license is issued. Any person whose catering
license is canceled may appeal to the District Court.
   (D)   The Board of Trustees may impose an occupation tax on the business of
a catering licensee doing business within the liquor license jurisdiction of
the Board of Trustees. The tax may not exceed double the license fee for a
catering license.
(Neb. RS 53-124.12) (1995 Code, § 10-106)
§ 111.20 LIQUOR LICENSE RENEWAL.
   (A)   A retail license issued by the state’s Liquor Control Commission and
outstanding may be automatically renewed by the Commission in the absence of a
written request by the Board of Trustees to require the licensee to submit an
application for renewal. Any licensed retail premises located in an area which
is annexed to the village shall file a formal application for a license, and
while the application is pending, the licensee may continue all license
privileges until the original license expires or is canceled or revoked. If
that license expires within 60 days following the annexation date of the area,
the license may be renewed by order of the Commission for not more than one
year.
(Neb. RS 53-135)
   (B)   The Village Clerk shall cause to be published in a legal newspaper in
or of general circulation in the village, one time between January 10 and
January 30 of each year, individual notice in the form prescribed by law of the
right of automatic renewal of each retail liquor and beer license within the
village; except that, notice of the right of automatic renewal of Class C
licenses shall be published between the dates of July 10 and July 30 of each
year. If written protests to the issuance of automatic renewal of a license are
filed in the office of the Village Clerk by three or more residents of the
village on or before February 10, or August 10 for Class C licenses, the Board
of Trustees shall hold a hearing to determine whether continuation of the
license should be allowed. Upon the conclusion of any hearing required by this
section, the Board of Trustees may request a licensee to submit an application
as provided in Neb. RS 53-135.
(Neb. RS 53-135.01)
(1995 Code, § 10-107)
§ 111.21 LICENSE DISPLAYED.
   Every licensee under the state’s Liquor Control Act shall cause his or her
license to be framed and hung in plain view in a conspicuous place on the
licensed premises.
(Neb. RS 53-148) (1995 Code, § 10-112)
§ 111.22 LICENSEE REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   No license shall be issued to:
      (1)   A person who is not a resident of the state, except in case of
railroad, airline or boat licenses;
      (2)   A person who is not of good character and reputation in the
community in which he or she resides;
      (3)   A person who is not a resident of this state and legally able to
work in this state;
      (4)   A person who has been convicted of or has pleaded guilty to a
felony under the laws of this state, any other state or the United States;
      (5)   A person who has been convicted of or has pleaded guilty to any
Class I misdemeanor pursuant Neb. RS Ch. 28, Art. 3, 4, 7, 8, 10, 11 or 12, or
any similar offense under a prior criminal statute or in another state; except
that, any additional requirements imposed by this division (A) on 5-18-1983,
shall not prevent any person holding a license on that date from retaining or
renewing that license if the conviction or plea occurred prior to 5-18-1983;
      (6)   A person whose license issued under the state’s Liquor Control Act
has been revoked for cause;
      (7)   A person who at the time of application for renewal of any license
issued under the Act would not be eligible for that license upon initial
application;
      (8)   A partnership, unless one of the partners is a resident of the
state and unless all the members of that partnership are otherwise qualified to
obtain a license;
      (9)   A limited liability company, unless one of the members is a
resident of the state and unless all the members of that company are otherwise
qualified to obtain a license;
      (10)   A corporation, if any officer or director of the corporation or
any stockholder owning in the aggregate more than 25% of the stock of that
corporation would be ineligible to receive a license under this section for any
reason other than the reasons stated in divisions (A)(1) and (A)(3) above, or
if a manager of a corporate licensee would be ineligible to receive a license
under this section for any reason. This division shall not apply to railroad
licenses;
      (11)   A person whose place of business is conducted by a manager or
agent, unless that manager or agent possesses the same qualifications required
of the licensee;
      (12)   A person who does not own the premises for which a license is
sought or does not have a lease or combination of leases on the premises for
the full period for which the license is to be issued;
      (13)   Except as provided in this division (A), an applicant whose spouse
is ineligible under this section to receive and hold a liquor license. Such an
applicant shall become eligible for a liquor license only if the state’s Liquor
Control Commission finds from the evidence that the public interest will not be
infringed upon if the license is granted. It shall be prima facie evidence that
when a spouse is ineligible to receive a liquor license, the applicant is also
ineligible to receive a liquor license. This prima facie evidence shall be
overcome if it is shown to the satisfaction of the Commission:
            (a)   The licensed business will be the sole property of the
applicant; and
            (b)   The licensed premises will be properly operated.
      (14)   A person seeking a license for premises which do not meet
standards for fire safety as established by the state’s Fire Marshal;
      (15)   A law enforcement officer; except that, this division (A) shall
not prohibit a law enforcement officer from holding membership in any non-
profit organization holding a liquor license or from participating in any
manner in the management or administration of a non-profit organization; or
      (16)   A person less than 21 years of age.
   (B)   When a trustee is the licensee, the beneficiary or beneficiaries of
the trust shall comply with the requirements of this section, but nothing in
this section shall prohibit any such beneficiary from being a minor or person
who is mentally incompetent.
(Neb. RS 53-125)
(1995 Code, § 10-113)
REGULATIONS; CONDITIONS OF SALE
§ 111.35 MUNICIPAL POWER AND DUTIES.
   (A)   The Board of Trustees is authorized to regulate, by ordinance, not
inconsistent with the state’s Liquor Control Act, the business of all retail,
craft brewery and microdistillery licensees carried on within the corporate
limits of the village.
(Neb. RS 53-134.03)
   (B)   During the period of 45 days after the date of receipt by mail or
electronic delivery from the state’s Liquor Control Commission notice and a
copy of an application for a new license to sell alcoholic liquor at retail, a
craft brewery license or a microdistillery license, the Board of Trustees may
make and submit to the Commission recommendations relative to the granting or
refusal to grant the license to the applicant.
(Neb. RS 53-131)
   (C)   The Board of Trustees, with respect to licenses within the corporate
limits of the village, has the following powers, functions and duties with
respect to retail, craft brewery and microdistillery licenses:
      (1)   To cancel or revoke for cause retail, craft brewery or
microdistillery licenses to sell or dispense alcoholic liquor issued to persons
for premises within its jurisdiction, subject to the right of appeal to the
state’s Liquor Control Commission;
      (2)   To enter or to authorize any law enforcement officer to enter at
any time upon any premises licensed under the state’s Liquor Control Act to
determine whether any provision of the Act, any rule or regulation adopted and
promulgated pursuant to the Act, or any ordinance, resolution, rule or
regulation adopted by the Board of Trustees has been or is being violated, and
at that time examine the premises of the licensee in connection with such
determination. Any law enforcement officer who determines that any provision of
the Act, any rule or regulation adopted and promulgated pursuant to the Act, or
any ordinance, resolution, rule or regulation adopted by the local governing
body has been or is being violated shall report such violation in writing to
the Executive Director of the Commission:
         (a)   Within 30 days after determining that such violation has
occurred;
         (b)   Within 30 days after the conclusion of an ongoing police
investigation; or
         (c)   Within 30 days after the verdict in a prosecution related to
such an ongoing police investigation if the prosecuting attorney determines
that reporting such violation prior to the verdict would jeopardize such
prosecution, whichever is later.
      (3)   To receive a signed complaint from any citizen within its
jurisdiction that any provision of the Act, any rule or regulation adopted and
promulgated pursuant to the Act, or any ordinance, resolution, rule or
regulation relating to alcoholic liquor has been or is being violated and to
act upon these complaints in the manner provided in the Act;
      (4)   To receive retail, craft brewery and microdistillery license fees
as provided in Neb. RS 53-124 and 53-124.01 and pay the same, after the license
has been delivered to the applicant, to the Village Treasurer;
      (5)   To examine or cause to be examined any applicant or any retail,
craft brewery or microdistillery licensee upon whom notice of cancellation or
revocation has been served as provided in the Act, to examine or cause to be
examined the books and records of any applicant or licensee, and to hear
testimony and to take proof for its information in the performance of its
duties. For purposes of obtaining any of the information desired, the Board of
Trustees may authorize its agent or attorney to act on its behalf;
      (6)   To cancel or revoke on its own motion any license if, upon the same
notice and hearing as provided herein, it determines that the licensee has
violated any of the provisions of the state’s Liquor Control Act or any valid
and subsisting ordinance, resolution, rule or regulation duly enacted, adopted
and promulgated relating to alcoholic liquor. The order of cancellation or
revocation may be appealed to the Commission within 30 days after the date of
the order by filing a notice of appeal with the Commission. The Commission
shall handle the appeal in the manner provided for hearing on an application in
Neb. RS 53-133; and
      (7)   Upon receipt from the Commission of the notice and copy of
application as provided in Neb. RS 53-131, to fix a time and place for a
hearing at which the Board of Trustees shall receive evidence, either orally or
by affidavit from the applicant and any other person, bearing upon the
propriety of the issuance of a license. Notice of the time and place of the
hearing shall be published in a legal newspaper in or of general circulation in
the village, one time not less than seven, and not more than 14, days before
the time of the hearing. The notice shall include, but not be limited to, a
statement that all persons desiring to give evidence before the Board of
Trustees in support of or in protest against the issuance of the license may do
so at the time of the hearing. The hearing shall be held not more than 45 days
after the date of receipt of the notice from the Commission and, after the
hearing the Board of Trustees, shall cause to be recorded in the minute record
of its proceedings a resolution recommending either issuance or refusal of the
license. The Village Clerk shall mail to the Commission by first class mail,
postage prepaid, a copy of the resolution which shall state the cost of the
published notice; except that, failure to comply with this provision shall not
void any license issued by the Commission. If the Commission refuses to issue
such a license, the cost of publication of notice shall be paid by the
Commission from the security for costs.
(Neb. RS 53-134)
   (D)   (1)   When the state’s Liquor Control Commission mails or delivers to
the Village Clerk a retail, craft brewery or microdistillery license issued or
renewed by the Commission, the Clerk shall deliver the license to the licensee
upon receipt from the licensee of proof of payment of:
         (a)   The license fee if by the terms of Neb. RS 53-124 the fee is
payable to the Village Treasurer;
         (b)   Any fee for publication of notice of hearing before the Board of
Trustees upon the application for the license;
         (c)   The fee for publication of notice of renewal, if applicable, as
provided in Neb. RS 53-135.01; and
         (d)   Occupation taxes, if any, imposed by the village, except that
Class J retail licensees shall not be subject to occupation taxes.
      (2)   Notwithstanding any ordinance or charter power to the contrary, the
village shall not impose an occupation tax on the business of any person, firm
or corporation licensed under the state’s Liquor Control Act and doing business
within the corporate limits of the village in any sum which exceeds two times
the amount of the license fee required to be paid under the Act to obtain that
license.
(Neb. RS 53-132)
(1995 Code, § 10-108)
§ 111.36 HOURS OF SALE.
   (A)   No alcoholic liquor, including beer, shall be sold at retail or
dispensed on any day between the hours of 1:00 a.m. and 6:00 a.m.; except that,
the Board of Trustees, with respect to areas inside the corporate limits of the
village may, by ordinance or resolution:
      (1)   Require closing prior to 1:00 a.m. on any day;
      (2)   If adopted by a vote of at least two-thirds of the members of the
Board of Trustees, permit sale or dispensing of alcoholic liquor for
consumption on the premises, excluding sales for consumption off the premises,
later than 1:00 a.m. and prior to 2:00 a.m. on any day;
      (3)   If adopted by a vote of at least two-thirds of the members of Board
of Trustees, permit retail sale of alcoholic liquor for consumption off the
premises later than 1:00 a.m. and prior to 2:00 a.m. on any day; or
      (4)   If adopted by a vote of at least two-thirds of the members of Board
of Trustees, permit retail sale of alcoholic liquor for consumption on the
premises, excluding sales for consumption off the premises, and permit retail
sale of alcoholic liquor for consumption off the premises later than 1:00 a.m.
and prior to 2:00 a.m. on any day.
   (B)   [Reserved.]
   (C)   It shall be unlawful on property licensed to sell alcoholic liquor at
retail to allow alcoholic liquor in open containers to remain or be in
possession or control of any person for purposes of consumption between the
hours of 15 minutes after the closing hour applicable to the licensed premises
and 6:00 a.m. on any day.
   (D)   Nothing in this section shall prohibit licensed premises from being
open for other business on days and hours during which the sale or dispensing
of alcoholic liquor is prohibited by this section.
(1995 Code, § 10-109) (Ord. 88-1, passed 3-2-1988; Ord. 2019-01, passed 4-17-
2019) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 53-179
§ 111.37 LOCATION.
   (A)   Except as otherwise provided in division (B) below, no license shall
be issued for the sale at retail of any alcoholic liquor within 150 feet of any
church, school, hospital or home for indigent persons or for veterans and their
husbands, wives or children. This prohibition does not apply to any location
within such distance of 150 feet:
      (1)   For which a license to sell alcoholic liquor at retail has been
granted by the state’s Liquor Control Commission for two years continuously
prior to making of application for license;
      (2)   To hotels offering restaurant service, to regularly organized clubs
or to restaurants, food shops or other places where sale of alcoholic liquor is
not the principal business carried on, if such place of business so exempted
was established for such purposes prior to 5-24-1935; or
      (3)   To a college or university in the state which is subject to Neb. RS
53-177.01.
   (B)   If a proposed location for the sale at retail of any alcoholic liquor
is within 150 feet of any church, a license may be issued if the Commission
gives notice to the affected church and holds a hearing as prescribed in Neb.
RS 53-133 if the affected church submits a written request for a hearing.
(Neb. RS 53-177)
   (C)   No alcoholic liquor, other than beer, shall be sold for consumption on
the premises within 300 feet from the campus of any college or university
within the village; except that, this section:
      (1)   Does not prohibit a non-public college or university from
contracting with an individual or corporation holding a license to sell
alcoholic liquor at retail for the purpose of selling alcoholic liquor at
retail on the campus of such college or university at events sanctioned by such
college or university but does prohibit the sale of alcoholic liquor at retail
by such licensee on the campus of such non-public college or university at
student activities or events; and
      (2)   Does not prohibit sales of alcoholic liquor by a community college
culinary education program pursuant to Neb. RS 53-124.15.
(Neb. RS 53-177.01)
(1995 Code, § 10-110) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   State Commission may waive 300-foot requirement, see Neb. RS 53-177.01
§ 111.38 DWELLINGS.
   Except in the case of hotels and clubs, no alcoholic liquor shall be
manufactured or sold at retail or wholesale upon any premises which have any
access which leads from the premises to any other portion of the same building
or structure used for dwelling or lodging purposes and permitted to be used or
kept accessible for use by the public. This section does not prevent any
connection between the premises and such other portion of the building or
structure which is used only by the licensee, his or her family, or personal
guests.
(Neb. RS 53-178) (1995 Code, § 10-111) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.39 OWNER, EMPLOYER OF PREMISES.
   (A)   The owner of any premises used for the sale at retail of alcoholic
beverages shall be deemed guilty of a violation of these laws to the same
extent as the said licensee if the owner shall knowingly permit the licensee to
use the said licensed premises in violation of any municipal code section or
state statute.
(1995 Code, § 10-114)
   (B)   The employer of any officer, director, manager or employees working in
a retail liquor establishment shall be held to be liable and guilty of any act
of omission or violation of any law or ordinance and each such act or omission
shall be deemed and held to be the act of the employer and will be punishable
in the same manner as if the said act or omission has been committed by him or
her personally.
(1995 Code, § 10-115)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 53-1,101, 53-1,102
§ 111.40 MINORS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person who owns, manages or leases an
establishment selling alcoholic beverages at retail to allow any minor under
the age of 18 years of age to frequent or otherwise remain in the establishment
unless the minor is accompanied by his or her parent or legal guardian, and
unless the minor remains seated with and under the immediate control of the
parent or legal guardian.
(1995 Code, §§ 10-116, 10-125) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Authority to regulate, see Neb. RS 53-134.03
§ 111.41 CREDIT SALES.
   (A)   No person shall sell or furnish alcoholic liquor at retail to any
person on credit, on a passbook, on an order on a store, in exchange for any
goods, wares or merchandise, or in payment for any services rendered and, if
any person extends credit for any such purpose, the debt thereby attempted to
be created shall not be recoverable at law.
   (B)   Nothing in this section shall prevent the following:
      (1)   Any club holding a Class C license from permitting checks or
statements for alcoholic liquor to be signed by members or bona fide guests of
members and charged to the account of such members or guests in accordance with
the bylaws of such club;
      (2)   Any hotel or restaurant holding a retail license from permitting
checks or statements for liquor to be signed by regular guests residing at such
hotel or eating at such restaurant and charged to the accounts of such guests;
or
      (3)   Any licensed retailer engaged in the sale of wine or distilled
spirits from issuing tasting cards to customers.
(Neb. RS 53-183) (1995 Code, § 10-117) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.42 ORIGINAL PACKAGE.
   No person, except a manufacturer or wholesaler, shall fill or refill, in
whole or in part, any original package of alcoholic liquor with the same or any
other kind or quality of alcoholic liquor. It shall be unlawful for any person
to have in his or her possession for sale at retail any bottles, casks or other
containers containing alcoholic liquor, except in original packages. Nothing in
this section shall prohibit the refilling of original packages of alcoholic
liquor for strictly private use and not for resale.
(Neb. RS 53-184) (1995 Code, § 10-119) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.43 SANITARY CONDITIONS.
   It shall be unlawful to open for public use any retail liquor establishment
that is not in a clean and sanitary condition. Toilet facilities shall be
adequate and convenient for customers and patrons. The licensed premises shall
be subject to any health inspections the Board of Trustees or the village
police may make or cause to be made. All applications for liquor licenses shall
be viewed in part from the standpoint of the sanitary conditions, and a report
concerning the sanitary conditions shall be made at all hearings concerning the
application for or renewal of a liquor license.
(1995 Code, § 10-120) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Authority to regulate licensed premises, see Neb. RS 53-134.03
   State sanitary rules and regulations authorized, see Neb. RS 53-118
§ 111.44 UNLAWFUL CONSUMPTION.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to consume alcoholic beverages upon the
public ways and property or within businesses or buildings open to the public
which are not licensed for the sale and consumption of alcoholic beverages.
(1995 Code, § 10-121) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.45 ACQUISITION OF ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to have possession of any alcoholic
liquors which shall have been acquired otherwise than from a licensee duly
licensed to sell same to such person under the provisions of the state’s Liquor
Control Act; providing; nothing herein shall prevent the possession of
alcoholic liquor for the personal use of the possessor, his or her family and
guests, nor prevent the making of wine, cider or other alcoholic liquor by a
person from fruits, vegetables or grains or the produce thereof by simple
fermentation and without distillation if it is made solely for the use of the
maker, his or her family and his or her guests; provided further that, nothing
herein shall prevent any duly licensed practicing physician or dentist from
possessing or using alcoholic liquor in the strict practice of his or her
profession or any hospital or institution caring for the sick and diseased
persons from possessing any alcoholic liquor for the treatment of bona fide
patients of such hospital or other institution; provided further that, any drug
store employing a licensed pharmacist may possess and use alcoholic liquors in
the compounding of prescriptions of duly licensed physicians; and, provided
further that, the possession and dispensation of wine by an authorized
representative of any church for the purpose of conducting any bona fide rite
or religious ceremony conducted by such church shall not be prohibited by this
section.
(1995 Code, § 10-122) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.46 CONSUMPTION IN PUBLIC PLACES.
   (A)   Except when the state’s Liquor Control Commission has issued a license
as provided in Neb. RS 53-186(2) or as provided in Neb. RS 60-6,211.08, it is
unlawful for any person to consume alcoholic liquor upon property owned or
controlled by the state or any governmental subdivision thereof unless
authorized by the governing bodies having jurisdiction over such property.
(Neb. RS 53-186)
   (B)   It is unlawful for any person owning, operating, managing or
conducting any dance hall, restaurant, café or club or any place open to the
general public to permit or allow any person to consume alcoholic liquor upon
the premises, except as permitted by a license issued for such premises
pursuant to the state’s Liquor Control Act. It is unlawful for any person to
consume alcoholic liquor in any dance hall, restaurant, café or club or any
place open to the general public, except as permitted by a license issued for
such premises pursuant to the Act. This division (B) does not apply to a retail
licensee while lawfully engaged in the catering of alcoholic beverages or to
limousines or buses operated under Neb. RS 60-6,211.08.
(Neb. RS 53-186.01)
(1995 Code, § 10-123) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.47 REMOVAL OF INTOXICATED PERSONS FROM PUBLIC PROPERTY.
   (A)   Any law enforcement officer with the power to arrest for traffic
violations may take a person who is intoxicated and in the judgment of the
officer dangerous to himself, herself or others, or who is otherwise
incapacitated, from any public or quasi-public property. An officer removing an
intoxicated person from public or quasi-public property shall make a reasonable
effort to take the intoxicated person to his or her home or to place the person
in any hospital, clinic, alcoholism center or with a medical doctor as may be
necessary to preserve life or to prevent injury. The effort at placement shall
be deemed reasonable if the officer contacts such facilities or doctor which
have previously represented a willingness to accept and treat such individuals
and which regularly do accept such individuals. If these efforts are
unsuccessful or are not feasible, the officer may then place the intoxicated
person in civil protective custody; except that, civil protective custody shall
be used only as long as is necessary to preserve life or to prevent injury and
under no circumstances longer than 24 hours.
   (B)   The placement of the person in civil protective custody shall be
recorded at the facility or jail at which he or she is delivered and
communicated to his or her family or next of kin, if they can be located, or to
the person designated by the person taken into civil protective custody.
   (C)   The law enforcement officer who acts in compliance with this section
shall be deemed to be acting in the course of his or her official duty and
shall not be criminally or civilly liable for these actions.
   (D)   The taking of an individual into civil protective custody under this
section shall not be considered an arrest. No entry or other record shall be
made to indicate that the person has been arrested or charged with a crime.
   (E)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      PUBLIC PROPERTY. Any public right-of-way, street, highway, alley, park or
other state-, county- or village-owned property.
      QUASI-PUBLIC PROPERTY. Private or publicly-owned property utilized for
proprietary or business uses which invites patronage by the public or which
invites public ingress and egress.
(Neb. RS 53-1,121) (1995 Code, § 10-124) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 112: TOBACCO
Section
   
112.01   License to sell; issuance
   
112.02   License application
   
112.03   License term; fees
   
112.04   Rights of licensee
   
112.05   Disposition of fees
   
112.06   Transfer of license
   
112.07   Reissuance of revoked and forfeited license
§ 112.01 LICENSE TO SELL; ISSUANCE.
   Licenses for the sale of cigars, tobacco, cigarettes, cigarette material,
vapor products or alternative nicotine products to persons over the age of 18
years shall be issued to individuals, partnerships, limited liability companies
and corporations by the Village Clerk upon application duly made as provided in
§
112.02 of this chapter.
(Neb. RS 28-1421) (1995 Code, § 10-301)
Statutory reference:
   Licenses required, see Neb. RS 28-1420
   Prohibited sales, see Neb. RS 28-1421
§ 112.02 LICENSE APPLICATION.
   (A)   Every person, partnership, limited liability company or corporation
desiring a license under Neb. RS 28-1420 to 28-1429 shall file with the Village
Clerk a written application stating the name of the person, partnership,
limited liability company or corporation for whom the license is desired and
the exact location of the place of business and shall deposit with the
application the amount of the license fee provided in §
112.03 of this chapter.
   (B)   If the applicant is an individual, the application shall include the
applicant’s Social Security number.
(Neb. RS 28-1422)
§ 112.03 LICENSE TERM; FEES.
   (A)   The term for which a license shall run shall be from the date of
filing the application and paying the license fee to and including December 31
of the calendar year in which application for the license is made.
   (B)   The license fee for any person, partnership, limited liability company
or corporation selling at retail shall be $10.
   (C)   Any person, partnership, limited liability company or corporation
selling annually in the aggregate more than 150,000 cigars, packages of
cigarettes and packages of tobacco in any form, at wholesale, shall pay a
license fee of $100 and, if such combined annual sales amount to less than
150,000 cigars, packages of cigarettes and packages of tobacco, the annual
license fee shall be $15. No wholesaler’s license shall be issued in any year
on a less basis than $100 per annum unless the applicant shall file with the
application a statement duly sworn to by himself or herself or, if applicant is
a partnership, by a member of the firm or, if a limited liability company, by a
member or manager of the company or, if a corporation, by an officer or manager
thereof, that in the past such wholesaler’s combined sales of cigars, packages
of cigarettes, and packages of tobacco in every form have not exceeded in the
aggregate 150,000 annually and that such sales will not exceed such aggregate
amount for the current year for which the license is to issue. Any person
swearing falsely in such affidavit shall be guilty of an offense, and such
wholesaler’s license shall be revoked until the full license fee of $100 is
paid.
   (D)   If application for license is made after July 1 of any calendar year,
the fee shall be one-half of the fee provided in this section.
(Neb. RS 28-1423) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 112.04 RIGHTS OF LICENSEE.
   (A)   The license, provided for in §§
112.01 and
112.02 of this chapter when issued, shall authorize the sale of cigars,
tobacco, cigarettes, cigarette material, vapor products or alternative nicotine
products by the licensee and employees, to persons over the age of 18 years, at
the place of business described in the license for the term therein authorized,
unless the license is forfeited as a result of court action as provided in Neb.
RS 28-1425.
(Neb. RS 28-1424)
   (B)   If the license is revoked and forfeited pursuant to Neb. RS 28-1425,
all rights under the license shall at once cease and terminate.
(Neb. RS 28-1425)
Statutory reference:
   Sale to person under 18 prohibited; penalties, see Neb. RS 28-1425
§ 112.05 DISPOSITION OF FEES.
   All money collected as license fees under the provisions of this chapter
shall be paid over by the Village Clerk to the Treasurer of the School Fund for
the village.
(Neb. RS 28-1426)
§ 112.06 TRANSFER OF LICENSE.
   In case of the sale of a business where the owner has a license hereunder,
the Village Clerk may authorize such license to be transferred to the
purchaser. In case of a change of location by any licensee hereunder, the
Village Clerk may transfer such license to the new location.
(Neb. RS 28-1428)
§ 112.07 REISSUANCE OF REVOKED AND FORFEITED LICENSE.
   In the event that the license of a licensee hereunder shall be revoked and
forfeited as provided in Neb. RS 28-1425, no new license shall be issued to
such licensee until the expiration of one year from the date of such revocation
and forfeiture.
(Neb. RS 28-1429)
CHAPTER 113: SALES AND ADVERTISING
Section
Peddlers and Solicitors
   
113.01   Definitions
   
113.02   License required
   
113.03   Application procedure
   
113.04   Standards for issuance
   
113.05   Revocation procedure
   
113.06   Standards for revocation
   
113.07   Appeal procedure
   
113.08   Exhibition of identification
   
113.09   Policy on soliciting
   
113.10   Notice regulating soliciting
   
113.11   Posted notice; solicitors to comply
   
113.12   Prohibited solicitation
   
113.13   Hours of solicitation
   
113.14   Food truck vendor rules
 
   
113.99   Penalty
PEDDLERS AND SOLICITORS
§ 113.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BUSINESS. The business carried on by any person who is an itinerant
merchant, peddler or solicitor, as defined in this section.
   FOOD TRUCK VENDOR. Any person offering food or beverages for sale form a
cart, truck or other vehicle who has obtained an itinerant merchant license
from the village pursuant to this chapter.
   GOODS. Merchandise of any description whatsoever, and includes, but is not
restricted to, wares and foodstuffs.
   ITINERANT MERCHANT. Any person, whether as owner, agent or consignee, who
engages in a temporary business of selling goods, foodstuffs and/or services
within the village and who, in the furtherance of such business, uses any
building, structure, vehicle or any place within the village. No person shall
be exempt from the provisions of this chapter by reason of associating
temporarily with any local dealer, trader or merchant, or by reason of
conducting such temporary or transient business in connection with or as part
of the business in the name of any local dealer, trader, merchant or
auctioneer, unless the transient merchant is engaging in sales on property
owned by and adjacent to a local merchant under the terms of an agreement
whereby the local merchant is compensated for the use of his property according
to a percentage of sales by the itinerant merchant.
   PEDDLER. Any person, not an itinerant merchant, who:
      (1)   Travels from place to place by any means carrying goods for sale,
or making sales, or making deliveries; or
      (2)   Without traveling from place to place, sells or offers goods for
sale from any public place within the village.
   SOLICITOR.
      (1)   Any person who travels by any means from place to place, taking or
attempting to take orders for sale of goods to be delivered in the future or
for services to be performed in the future.
      (2)   A person who is a SOLICITOR is not a peddler.
(Ord. 2019-03, passed 12-11-2019)
§ 113.02 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   (A)   Any person who is an itinerant merchant, peddler or solicitor shall
obtain a license before engaging in such activity within the village.
   (B)   The fee for the license required by this chapter shall be as set from
time to time by the village.
   (C)   No license issued under this chapter shall be transferable.
   (D)   A license is valid for one day and for one person as provided on the
license, except that an itinerant merchant may purchase a yearly license. All
licenses issued under this chapter shall expire at 1:00 am on the morning after
the date of use as provided on the license, except for those itinerant
merchants who obtain a yearly license, which such yearly license shall expire
at 11:59 pm on 365th day from issuance of the license.
   (E)   If the itinerant merchant is a food truck vendor, such vendor must
also provide proof of insurance with a minimum coverage amount of $1,000,000
together with an insurance certificate naming the Village of Elwood as an
additional insured. This insurance certificate must remain valid for the
duration of the itinerant merchant license. The applicant must further agree
that it will hold the village harmless from any and all claims of any kind
which result from its use of the designated public parking areas allowed for
food truck vendor use as a part of this itinerant merchant license.
(Ord. 70, passed 8-13-2008; Ord. 79, passed 5-9-2012; Ord. 2019-03, passed 12-
11-2019) Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.03 APPLICATION PROCEDURE.
   (A)   All applicants for licenses required by this chapter shall file an
application with the Village Clerk. This application shall be signed by the
applicant if an individual, or by all partners if a partnership, or by the
president if a corporation. The applicant may be requested to provide
information concerning the following items:
      (1)   The name and address of the applicant;
      (2)   (a)   The name of the individual having management authority or
supervision of the applicant’s business during the time that it is proposed to
be carried on in the village;
         (b)   The local address of such individual;
         (c)   The permanent address of such individual; and
         (d)   The capacity in which such individual will act.
      (3)   The name and address of the person, if any, for whose purpose the
business will be carried on, and, if a corporation, the state of incorporation;
      (4)   The time period or periods during which it is proposed to carry on
applicant’s business;
      (5)   (a)   The nature, character and quality of the goods or services to
be offered for sale or delivered;
         (b)   If goods, their invoice value and whether they are to be sold by
sample as well as from stock; and
         (c)   If goods, where and by whom such goods are manufactured or
grown, and where such goods are at the time of application.
      (6)   The nature of the advertising proposed to be done for the business;
and
      (7)   Whether or not the applicant, or the individual identified in
division (A)(2)(a) above, or the person identified in division (A)(3) above has
been convicted of any crime or misdemeanor and, if so, the nature of each
offense and the penalty assessed for each offense.
   (B)   Applicants for peddler or solicitor licenses may be required to
provide further information concerning the following items, in addition to that
requested under division (A) above:
      (1)   A description of the applicant; and
      (2)   A description of any vehicle proposed to be used in the business,
including its registration number, if any.
   (C)   All applicants for licenses required by this chapter shall attach to
their application, if required by the village, credentials from the person, if
any, for which the applicant proposes to do business, authorizing the applicant
to act as such representative.
   (D)   Applicants who propose to handle foodstuffs shall also attach to their
application, in addition to any attachments required under division (C) above,
a statement from a licensed physician, dated not more than ten days prior to
the date of application, certifying the applicant to be free of contagious or
communicable disease.
Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.04 STANDARDS FOR ISSUANCE.
   (A)   Upon receipt of an application, an investigation of the applicant’s
business reputation and moral character shall be made.
   (B)   The application shall be approved unless such investigation discloses
tangible evidence that the conduct of the applicant’s business would pose a
substantial threat to the public health, safety, morals, or general welfare. In
particular, the following will constitute valid reasons for disapproval of an
application and tangible evidence that the applicant:
      (1)   Has been convicted of a crime of moral turpitude;
      (2)   Has made willful misstatements in the application;
      (3)   Has committed prior violations of ordinances pertaining to
itinerant merchants, peddlers, solicitors and the like;
      (4)   Has committed prior fraudulent acts; or
      (5)   Has a record of continual breaches of solicited contracts.
§ 113.05 REVOCATION PROCEDURE.
   Any license or permit granted under this chapter may be revoked by the
Village Clerk after notice and hearing, pursuant to the standards in §
113.06 of this chapter. Notice of hearing for revocation shall be given in
writing, setting forth specifically the grounds of the complaint and the time
and place of the hearing. Such notice shall be mailed to the licensee at his or
her last known address, at least ten days prior to the date set for the
hearing.
§ 113.06 STANDARDS FOR REVOCATION.
   A license granted under this chapter may be revoked for any of the following
reasons:
   (A)   Any fraud or misrepresentation contained in the license application;
   (B)   Any fraud, misrepresentation or false statement made in connection
with the business being conducted under the license;
   (C)   Any violation of this chapter;
   (D)   Conviction of the licensee of any felony, or conviction of the
licensee of any misdemeanor involving moral turpitude; or
   (E)   Conducting the business licensed in an unlawful manner or in such a
way as to constitute a menace to the health, safety, morals or general welfare
of the public.
§ 113.07 APPEAL PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Any person aggrieved by a decision under §§
113.04 or
113.06 of this chapter shall have the right to appeal to the Board of Trustees.
The appeal shall be taken by filing with the Board of Trustees, within 14 days
after notice of the decision has been mailed to such person’s last known
address, a written statement setting forth the grounds for appeal. The Board of
Trustees shall set the time and place for a hearing, and notice for such
hearing shall be given to such person in the same manner as provided in §
113.05 of this chapter.
   (B)   The order of the Board of Trustees after the hearing shall be final.
§ 113.08 EXHIBITION OF IDENTIFICATION.
   (A)   Any license issued to an itinerant merchant under this chapter shall
be posted conspicuously in or at the place named therein. In the event more
than one place within the village shall be used to conduct the business
licensed, separate licenses shall be issued for each place.
   (B)   The Village Clerk shall issue a license to each peddler or solicitor
licensed under this chapter. The license shall contain the words “Licensed
Peddler” or “Licensed Solicitor”, the expiration date of the license and the
number of the license. The license shall be kept with the licensee during such
time as he or she is engaged in the business licensed.
Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.09 POLICY ON SOLICITING.
   It is hereby declared to be the policy of the village that the occupants of
the residences in the village shall make the determination of whether
solicitors shall be, or shall not be, invited to their respective residences.
§ 113.10 NOTICE REGULATING SOLICITING.
   (A)   Notice of the refusal of invitation to solicitors, to any residence,
shall be given on a weather- proof card, approximately three inches by four
inches in size, exhibited upon or near the main entrance door to the residence,
indicating the determination by the occupant, containing the applicable words,
as follows:
   “NO SOLICITORS INVITED”
   (B)   The letters shall be at least one-third-inch in height.
   (C)   The card so exhibited shall constitute sufficient notice to any
solicitor of the determination by the occupant of the residence of the
information contained thereon.
§ 113.11 POSTED NOTICE; SOLICITORS TO COMPLY.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of every solicitor upon going onto any premises
in the village upon which a residence is located to first examine the notice
provided for in §
113.10 of this chapter if any is attached, and be governed by the statement
contained on the notice. If the notice states “NO SOLICITORS INVITED”, then the
solicitor, whether registered or not, shall immediately and peacefully depart
from the premises.
   (B)   Any solicitor who has gained entrance to any residence, whether
invited or not, shall immediately and peacefully depart from the premises when
requested to do so by the occupant.
Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.12 PROHIBITED SOLICITATION.
   It is hereby declared to be unlawful and shall constitute a nuisance for any
person to go upon any premises and ring the doorbell upon or near any door, or
create any sound in any manner calculated to attract the attention of the
occupant of such residence, for the purpose of securing an audience with the
occupant thereof and engage in soliciting in defiance of the notice exhibited
at the residence in accordance with the provisions of §
113.10 of this chapter.
Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.13 HOURS OF SOLICITATION.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any solicitor, salesperson or peddler to
solicit any individual at any time on the weekends or national holidays and
Monday through Friday, between the hours of 6:00 p.m., and 8:00 a.m., unless he
or she has a previous appointment with the resident, or residents, of the
premises solicited.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful at any hour for a solicitor, salesperson or
peddler to solicit without a proper permit on his or her person at all times.
   (C)   This provision shall not apply to county public service organizations,
county children’s organizations, county religious organizations or county
school-sponsored fundraisers.
(Ord. 70, passed 8-13-2008) Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.14 FOOD TRUCK VENDOR RULES.
   (A)   A food truck vendor will be allowed to park along any village street
or public parking lot within all zoning districts except for R-1, R-2 and R-
3 residential zoning districts.
   (B)   Food truck vendors must be completely mobile. Food truck vendors
cannot place coolers on the ground or provide chairs and tables for customers.
Food truck vendors may not use electrical connections of the village.
Generators are acceptable.
   (C)   No food truck vendor may use any device which produces loud noise or
use or operate any loud speaker, public address system, radio, sound amplifier
or similar device to attract public attention.
   (D)   All trash or debris accumulating within 30 feet of any food truck
shall be collected by the owner and deposited in a trash container. All food
truck vendors selling food or beverages must provide trash receptacles adjacent
to or as a part of their vehicles. Food truck vendors may not discharge or dump
any material of any kind from their vehicle onto village property.
   (E)   The food truck vendor must conspicuously display the itinerant
merchant license in its vehicle at all times so that it is visible and can be
seen by law enforcement checking the status of the licensee.
   (F)   Village events will have priority for use of parking over a food truck
vendor. If the village is having an event, food truck vendors may be required
to vacate their parking place.
   (G)   Should any food truck vendor violate these provisions, the Sheriff
shall have discretion to revoke the food truck vendor’s license.
(Ord. 2019-03, passed 12-11-2019) Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Each violation of §§
113.01 through
113.12 of this chapter shall be punishable by a fine of $100 per day. A new
violation shall be deemed to have been committed every 24 hours of failing to
comply.
(Ord. 88, passed 6-10-2015)
CHAPTER 114: FRANCHISES AND CONTRACTUAL AGREEMENTS
Section
   
114.01   Current franchise agreements
§ 114.01 CURRENT FRANCHISE AGREEMENTS.
   The most current telephone, electricity, cable television and gas franchise
agreements are on file in the office of the Municipal Clerk.
(1995 Code, §§ 10-701, 10-702, 10-703, 10-704)
CHAPTER 115: BUILDING MOVING
Section
   
115.01   General regulation
   
115.02   Deposit
§ 115.01 GENERAL REGULATION.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to move any
building or structure within the village without a written permit to do so.
Application may be made to the Village Clerk and shall include the present and
future location of the building to be moved, the proposed route, the equipment
to be used and such other information as the Board of Trustees may require. The
application shall be accompanied by a certificate issued by the county’s
Treasurer to the effect that all the provisions regulating the moving of
buildings have been complied with on the part of the owner of the real estate
upon which the building is presently located.
   (B)   The Village Clerk shall refer the application to the Board of Trustees
or its designee for approval of the proposed route over which the building is
to be moved. Upon approval, the Village Clerk shall issue the permit; provided
that, a good and sufficient corporate surety bond, check or cash in an amount
set by motion of the Board of Trustees and conditioned upon moving the building
without doing damage to any private or village property is filed with the
Village Clerk prior to the granting of any permit.
   (C)   No moving permit shall be required to move a building that is ten feet
wide or less, and 20 feet long or less, and when in a position to move, 15 feet
high or less.
   (D)   In the event it will be necessary for any licensed building mover to
interfere with the telephone or telegraph poles and wires, or a gas line, the
company or companies owning, using or operating the poles, wires, or line
shall, upon proper notice of at least 24 hours, be present and assist by
disconnecting the poles, wires or line relative to the building moving
operation. All expense of the disconnection, removal or related work shall be
paid in advance by the licensee unless the disconnection or work is furnished
on different terms as provided in the company’s franchise.
   (E)   Whenever the moving of any building necessitates interference with a
water main, sewer main, pipes or wire belonging to the village, notice in
writing of the time and route of the building moving operation shall be given
to the various officials in charge of the village utility departments, who
shall proceed in behalf of the village and at the expense of the mover to make
such disconnections and do such work as is necessary.
(1995 Code, § 10-601) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 115.02 DEPOSIT.
   At such time as the building moving has been completed, the Building
Inspector or other designated official shall inspect the premises and report to
the Village Clerk as to the extent of damages, if any, resulting from the
relocation and whether any village laws have been violated during the
operation. Upon a satisfactory report from the Building Inspector or other
designated official, the Village Clerk shall return the corporate surety bond,
cash or check deposited by the applicant. In the event the basement, foundation
or portion thereof is not properly filled, covered or in a clean and sanitary
condition, the Board of Trustees may apply the money deposited for the purpose
of defraying the expense of correcting the conditions. If the expense of
correcting the hazardous condition is greater than the amount of the deposit
set by the Board of Trustees, the Board of Trustees may recover the excess
expense by civil suit or otherwise as prescribed by law.
(1995 Code, § 10-602)
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
   Chapter
      
130.   GENERAL OFFENSES
      
131.   WEAPONS
      
132.   MOTOR VEHICLE OFFENSES
CHAPTER 130: GENERAL OFFENSES
Section
General Provisions
   
130.01   Abatement
Offenses Against Property
   
130.15   Trespassing
   
130.16   Larceny
   
130.17   Injury to trees
   
130.18   Trash
   
130.19   Posted advertisements
   
130.20   Firecrackers
   
130.21   Fireworks
   
130.22   Littering
   
130.23   Prohibited fences
   
130.24   Appliances in yards
   
130.25   Obstruction of public ways
   
130.26   Obstructing water flow
   
130.27   Removing dirt
   
130.28   Weeds, litter and stagnant water
Offenses Against Peace and Persons
   
130.40   Drinking in public; minors with alcohol
   
130.41   Assaults
   
130.42   Disturbing the peace
   
130.43   Disorderly conduct
   
130.44   Curfew
   
130.45   Sexual predator residency restrictions
 
   
130.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Animals, see
Ch. 91
   Health and Sanitation; Nuisances, see
Ch. 90
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 130.01 ABATEMENT.
   Whenever a nuisance exists as defined in this general offenses title, the
municipality may proceed by a suit in equity to enjoin and abate the same in
the manner provided by law. Whenever in any action it is established that a
nuisance exists, the court may together with the fine or penalty imposed enter
an order of abatement as a part of the judgment in the case.
(1995 Code, § 6-327)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 18-1720
OFFENSES AGAINST PROPERTY
§ 130.15 TRESPASSING.
   (A)   A person commits first degree criminal trespass if:
      (1)   He or she enters or secretly remains in any building or occupied
structure, or any separately secured or occupied portion thereof, knowing that
he or she is not licensed or privileged to do so; or
      (2)   He or she enters or remains in or on a public power infrastructure
facility knowing that he or she does not have the consent of a person who has
the right to give consent to be in or on the facility.
   (B)   First degree criminal trespass is a Class I misdemeanor.
   (C)   For purposes of this section, PUBLIC POWER INFRASTRUCTURE FACILITY
means a power plant, an electrical station or substation or any other facility
which is used by a public power supplier as defined in Neb. RS 70-2103 to
support the generation, transmission or distribution of electricity and which
is surrounded by a fence or is otherwise enclosed.
(Neb. RS 28-520)
   (B)   (1)   A person commits second degree criminal trespass if, knowing
that he or she is not licensed or privileged to do so, to enter or remain in
any place as to which notice against trespass is given by:
         (a)   Actual communication to the actor;
         (b)   Posting in a manner prescribed by law or reasonably likely to
come to the attention of intruders; or
         (c)   Fencing or other enclosure manifestly designed to exclude
intruders, except as otherwise provided in division (A) above.
      (2)   Second degree criminal trespass is a Class III misdemeanor, except
as provided for in division (B)(3) below.
      (3)   Second degree criminal trespass is a Class II misdemeanor if the
offender defies an order to leave personally communicated to him or her by the
owner of the premises or other authorized person.
(Neb. RS 28-521)
(1995 Code, § 6-301) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.16 LARCENY.
   It shall be unlawful for any person within the corporate limits to steal any
money, goods, chattels of any kind whatever.
(1995 Code, § 6-302) Penalty, see §
130.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 28-510, 28-511
§ 130.17 INJURY TO TREES.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person purposely or carelessly and
without lawful authority to cut down, carry away, injure, break down or destroy
any fruit, ornamental, shade or other tree or trees standing or growing on any
land belonging to another person or persons or on any public land in the
corporate limits.
   (B)   Any public service company desiring to trim or cut down any tree,
except on property owned and controlled by it, shall make an application to the
Board of Trustees to do so, and the written permit of the Board of Trustees, in
accordance with its decision to allow such an action, shall constitute the only
lawful authority on the part of the company to do so.
(1995 Code, § 6-303) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.18 TRASH.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to willfully, maliciously or negligently
place or throw upon the premise of another any filth, garbage, leaves, papers
or other matter to the annoyance of the owner or occupant thereon.
(1995 Code, § 6-304) Penalty, see §
130.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 28-523
§ 130.19 POSTED ADVERTISEMENTS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to use the streets, sidewalks or
public grounds of the village for signs, signposts or the posting of handbills
or advertisements without written permission of the Board of Trustees.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to wrongfully and maliciously
tear, deface, remove or cover up the posted advertisement or bill of any
person, firm or corporation when said bill or advertisement is rightfully
posted and the same remains of value.
(1995 Code, § 6-307)
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person to post, paste or paint any sign,
advertisement or other writing of any nature upon a fence, pole, building or
other property without the written permission of the owner of the said
property.
(1995 Code, § 6-308)
Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.20 FIRECRACKERS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to ignite or cause to be exploded
fireworks or firecrackers of any description whatsoever within the
municipality; except for those approved by the state’s Fire Marshal for sale in
retail fireworks stands. Fireworks and firecrackers may only be discharged
during the period of time beginning June 24 of each year and ending on July 4
or the date that the display fireworks are ignited in the village (if there is
a display in the village that year), whichever is later.
(1995 Code, § 3-312) (Ord. 66, passed 12-13-2006) Penalty, see §
130.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 28-1241
§ 130.21 FIREWORKS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person or persons to sell fireworks of any
description whatsoever, except sparklers, Vesuvius fountains, spray fountains,
torches, color fire cones, star and comet type color aerial shells without
explosive charges for the purpose of making a noise, color wheels, toy cap
pistols and permissible caps may be sold at retail at all times; provided that,
all other fireworks named may be sold only between June 24 and July 5; provided
that, fireworks of any description are permissible for purposes of public
exhibitions or displays as authorized by the governing body; and, further
provided that, said vendor shall secure a license prior to such sales.
Application shall be filed with the Municipal Clerk upon forms supplied by the
municipality and requesting such information and documents as the governing
body may deem necessary as to whether or not to grant said license. Upon the
determination to grant the license, the governing body shall direct the
Municipal Clerk to collect the appropriate fee and issue said license. Any
license so issued may be revoked at any time by the governing body upon proper
notice and hearing if one is requested by the licensee.
(1995 Code, § 10-603) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-137, 28-1241 through 28-1252
§ 130.22 LITTERING.
   (A)   Any person who deposits, throws, discards or otherwise disposes of any
litter on any public or private property or in any waters commits the offense
of littering unless:
      (1)   The property is an area designated by law for the disposal of that
type of material and the person is authorized by the proper public authority to
so use the property; or
      (2)   The litter is placed in a receptacle or container installed on the
property for that purpose.
   (B)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      LITTER. Includes all waste material susceptible of being dropped,
deposited, discarded or otherwise disposed of by any person upon any property
in the state, but does not include wastes of primary processes of farming or
manufacturing.
      WASTE MATERIAL. Any material appearing in a place or in a context not
associated with that material’s function or origin.
   (C)   Whenever litter is thrown, deposited, dropped or dumped from any motor
vehicle or watercraft in violation of this section, the operator of the motor
vehicle or watercraft commits the offense of littering.
(Neb. RS 28-523) (1995 Code, § 6-316) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.23 PROHIBITED FENCES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to erect, or cause to be erected, and
maintain any barbed wire or electric fence within the corporate limits, where
the fence abuts a public sidewalk, street or alley.
(1995 Code, § 6-317) Penalty, see §
130.99
Statutory reference:
   Restrictions on barbed wire fences, see Neb. RS 39-307
§ 130.24 APPLIANCES IN YARDS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to permit a refrigerator, icebox,
freezer or any other dangerous appliance to be in the open and accessible to
children whether on private or public property unless the person first removes
all doors and makes the same reasonably safe.
(1995 Code, § 6-318) Penalty, see §
130.99
Statutory reference:
   Authority to prohibit nuisances within zoning jurisdiction, see Neb. RS 18-
1720
§ 130.25 OBSTRUCTION OF PUBLIC WAYS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to erect, maintain or suffer to remain
on any street or public sidewalk a stand, wagon, display or other obstruction
inconvenient to or inconsistent with the public use of the same.
(1995 Code, § 6-319) Penalty, see §
130.99
Statutory reference:
   Additional authority, see Neb. RS 17-555 and 17-557
   Penalties for injuring or obstructing roads, see Neb. RS 39-301 and 39-302
§ 130.26 OBSTRUCTING WATER FLOW.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to stop or obstruct the passage of water
in a street gutter, culvert, water pipe or hydrant.
(1995 Code, § 6-320) Penalty, see §
130.99
Statutory reference:
   Authority to abate nuisances, see Neb. RS 17-555
   Authority to prevent water obstruction, see Neb. RS 17-920
§ 130.27 REMOVING DIRT.
   It is hereby declared unlawful for any person to remove, disturb or take
away from any street, alley or public grounds any dirt, earth, stones or other
material forming a part of such street, alley or public grounds without first
having obtained written permission to do so from the governing body.
(1995 Code, § 6-321) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.28 WEEDS, LITTER AND STAGNANT WATER.
   (A)   Lots or pieces of ground within the village shall be drained or filled
so as to prevent stagnant water or any other nuisance accumulating thereon.
   (B)   The owner or occupant of any lot or piece of ground within the village
shall keep the lot or piece of ground and the adjoining streets and alleys free
of any growth of 12 inches or more in height of weeds, grasses or worthless
vegetation.
   (C)   The throwing, depositing or accumulation of litter on any lot or piece
of ground within the village is prohibited; except that, grass, leaves and
worthless vegetation may be used as ground mulch or in a compost pile.
   (D)   It is hereby declared to be a nuisance to permit or maintain any
growth of 12 inches or more in height of weeds, grasses or worthless vegetation
or to litter or to cause litter to be deposited or remain thereon, except in
proper receptacles.
   (E)   Any owner or occupant of a lot or piece of ground shall, upon
conviction of violating this section, be guilty of an offense.
   (F)   (1)   Notice to abate and remove such nuisance shall be given to each
owner or owner’s duly authorized agent and to the occupant, if any, by personal
service or certified mail. If notice by personal service or certified mail is
unsuccessful, notice shall be given by publication in a newspaper of general
circulation in the village or by conspicuously posting the notice on the lot or
ground upon which the nuisance is to be abated and removed.
      (2)   Within five days after receipt of such notice or publication or
posting, whichever is applicable, if the owner or occupant of the lot or piece
of ground do not request a hearing with the village or fails to comply with the
order to abate and remove the nuisance, the village may have such work done.
      (3)   The costs and expenses of any such work shall be paid by the owner.
      (4)   If unpaid for two months after such work is done, the village may
either:
         (a)   Levy and assess the costs and expenses of the work upon the lot
or piece of ground so benefitted in the same manner as other special taxes for
improvements are levied and assessed; or
         (b)   Recover in a civil action the costs and expenses of the work
upon the lot or piece of ground and the adjoining streets and alleys.
   (G)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      LITTER. Includes, but is not limited to:
         (a)   Trash, rubbish, refuse, garbage, paper, rags and ashes;
         (b)   Wood, plaster, cement, brick or stone building rubble;
         (c)   Grass, leaves and worthless vegetation;
         (d)   Offal and dead animals; and
         (e)   Any machine or machines, vehicles or parts of a machine or
vehicle which have lost their identity, character, utility or serviceability as
such through deterioration, dismantling or the ravages of time, are inoperative
or unable to perform their intended functions, or are cast off, discarded or
thrown away or left as waste, wreckage or junk.
      WEEDS. Includes, but is not limited to, bindweed (Convelvulus arvensis),
puncture vine (Tribulus terrestris), leafy spurge (Euphorbia esula), Canada
thistle (Cirsium arvense), perennial peppergrass (Lepidium draba), Russian
knapweed (Centuarea picris), Johnson grass (Sorghum haiepense), nodding or musk
thistle, quack grass (Agropyron repens), perennial sow thistle (Sonchus
arvensis), horse nettle (Soianum carolinense), bull thistle (Cirsium
lanceolatum), buckthorn (Rhamnus sp.)(tourn), hemp plant (Cannibis sativa) and
ragweed (Ambrosiaceae).
(1995 Code, § 6-322) (Ord. 72, passed 11-12-2008) Penalty, see §
130.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-563
OFFENSES AGAINST PEACE AND PERSONS
§ 130.40 DRINKING IN PUBLIC; MINORS WITH ALCOHOL.
   (A)   Drinking on public property; open beverage container.
      (1)   For the purpose of this division (A), the following definitions
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
         ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE.
            1.   a.   Beer, ale, porter, stout and other similar fermented
beverages, including sake or similar products, of any name or description,
containing 0.5% or more of alcohol by volume, brewed or produced from malt,
wholly or in part, or from any substitute therefor;
               b.   Wine of not less than 0.5% alcohol by volume; or
               c.   Distilled spirits, which is that substance known as ethyl
alcohol, ethanol or spirits of wine in any form, including all dilutions and
mixtures thereof from whatever source or by whatever process produced.
            2.   ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE does not include trace amounts not readily
consumable as a beverage.
         HIGHWAY. A road or street including the entire area within the right-
of-way.
         LIMOUSINE. A luxury vehicle used to provide prearranged passenger
transportation on a dedicated basis at a premium fare that has a seating
capacity of at least five, and no more than 14, persons behind the driver with
a physical partition separating the driver seat from the passenger compartment.
LIMOUSINE does not include taxicabs, hotel or airport buses or shuttles, or
buses.
         OPEN ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE CONTAINER. Except as provided in Neb. RS 53-
123.04(3) and 53-123.11(1)(c), any bottle, can or other receptacle:
            1.   That contains any amount of alcoholic beverage; and
            2.   a.   That is open or has a broken seal; or
               b.   The contents of which are partially removed.
         PASSENGER AREA. The area designed to seat the driver and passengers
while the motor vehicle is in operation and any area that is readily accessible
to the driver or a passenger while in their seating positions, including any
compartments in the area. PASSENGER AREA does not include the area behind the
last upright seat of the motor vehicle if the area is not normally occupied by
the driver or a passenger and the motor vehicle is not equipped with a trunk.
      (2)   Except as otherwise provided in this section, it is unlawful for
any person in the passenger area of a motor vehicle to possess an open
alcoholic beverage container while the motor vehicle is located in a public
parking area or on any highway in the village.
      (3)   It is unlawful for any person to consume an alcoholic beverage:
         (a)   In a public parking area or on any highway in the village; or
         (b)   Inside a motor vehicle while in a public parking area or on any
highway in the village.
      (4)   This section does not apply to persons who are passengers of, but
not drivers of, a limousine or bus being used in a charter or special party
service as defined by rules and regulations adopted and promulgated by the
state’s Public Service Commission and subject to Neb. Admin. Code Ch. 75, Art.
3. Such passengers may possess open alcoholic beverage containers and may
consume alcoholic beverages while such limousine or bus is in a public parking
area or on any highway in the village if:
         (a)   The driver of the limousine or bus is prohibited from consuming
alcoholic liquor; and
         (b)   Alcoholic liquor is not present in any area that is readily
accessible to the driver while in the driver’s seat, including any compartments
in such area.
(Neb. RS 60-6,211.08) (1995 Code, § 6-305)
   (B)   Misrepresentation by minor to obtain alcohol. No minor, as defined by
Neb. RS 53-103.23, shall obtain, or attempt to obtain, alcoholic liquor by
misrepresentation of age, or by any other method, in any tavern or other place
where alcoholic liquor is sold.
(Neb. RS 53-180.01) (1995 Code, § 6-306)
   (C)   Minors; prohibited acts involving alcoholic liquor.
      (1)   For purposes of this section, the definitions found in Neb. RS 53-
103.01 through 53-103.42 shall apply, including, but not limited to, the
definitions of the terms “alcoholic liquor”, “consume”, “minor”, “sale” and “to
sell”.
      (2)   No minor may sell, dispense, consume or have in his or her
possession or physical control any alcoholic liquor in any tavern or in any
other place, including public streets, alleys, roads or highways, upon property
owned by the state or any subdivision thereof, or inside any vehicle while in
or on any other place, including, but not limited to, the public streets,
alleys, roads or highways, or upon property owned by the state or any
subdivision thereof; except that, a minor may consume, possess or have physical
control of alcoholic liquor as a part of a bona fide religious rite, ritual or
ceremony or in his or her permanent place of residence.
      (3)   It shall be unlawful for any person under 21 years of age to
transport, consume or knowingly possess or have under his or her control beer
or other alcoholic liquor in or transported by any motor vehicle.
(Neb. RS 53-180.02)
Penalty, see §
130.99
Statutory reference:
   Minor Alcoholic Liquor Liability Act, see Neb. RS 53-401 through 53-409
   Penalty for manufacturing false identification intended for minors, see Neb.
RS 53-180.05
§ 130.41 ASSAULTS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to assault or threaten any other person.
(1995 Code, § 6-313) Penalty, see §
130.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 28-308, 28-309, 28-310
§ 130.42 DISTURBING THE PEACE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person intentionally to disturb the peace and
quiet of any person, family or neighborhood.
(Neb. RS 28-1322) (1995 Code, § 6-314) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.43 DISORDERLY CONDUCT.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to engage in conduct or behavior which
disturbs the peace and good order of the village by clamor or noise,
intoxication, drunkenness, fighting or using obscene or profane language in the
streets or other public places or otherwise violating the public peace by
indecent or disorderly conduct or lewd or lascivious behavior except for such
conduct that is considered protected.
(1995 Code, § 6-315) Penalty, see §
130.99
Statutory reference:
   Authority to regulate noise, riots and routs, see Neb. RS 17-556
§ 130.44 CURFEW.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      (1)   CURFEW HOURS.
         (a)   11:00 p.m. on any Sunday, Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, or
Thursday until 6:00 a.m. of the following day; and
         (b)   12:01 a.m. until 6:00 a.m. on any Saturday or Sunday.
      (2)   EMERGENCY. An unforeseen combination of circumstances or the
resulting state that calls for immediate action. The term includes but is not
limited to a fire, a natural disaster, an automobile accident, or any situation
requiring immediate action to prevent serious bodily injury or loss of life.
      (3)   ESTABLISHMENT. Any privately-owned place of business operated for a
profit to which the public is invited, including but not limited to any place
of amusement or entertainment.
      (4)   GUARDIAN.
         (a)   A person who, under court order, is the guardian of the person
of a minor; or
         (b)   A public or private agency with whom a minor has been placed by
a court.
      (5)   MINOR. Any person under 17 years of age.
      (6)   OPERATOR. Any individual, firm, association, partnership, or
corporation operating, managing, or conducting any establishment. The term
includes the members or partners of an association or partnership and the
officers of a corporation.
      (7)   PARENT. A person who is:
         (a)   A natural parent, adoptive parent, or step-parent of another
person; or
         (b)   At least 18 years of age and authorized by a parent or guardian
to have the care and custody of a minor.
      (8)   PUBLIC PLACE. Any place to which the public or a substantial group
of the public has access and includes, but is not limited to, streets,
highways, and the common areas of schools, hospitals, apartment houses, office
buildings, transport facilities, and shops.
      (9)   REMAIN.
         (a)   Linger or stay; or
         (b)   Fail to leave premises when requested to do so by a police
officer or the owner, operator, or other person in control of the premises.
      (10)   SERIOUS BODILY INJURY. Bodily injury that creates a substantial
risk of death or that causes death, serious permanent disfigurement, or
protracted loss or impairment of the function of any bodily member or organ.
   (B)   Offenses.
      (1)   A minor commits an offense if he remains in any public place or on
the premises of any establishment within the village during curfew hours.
      (2)   A parent or guardian of a minor commits an offense if he knowingly
permits, or by insufficient control allows, the minor to remain in any public
place or on the premises of any establishment within the village during curfew
hours.
      (3)   The owner, operator, or any employee of an establishment commits an
offense if he knowingly allows a minor to remain upon the premises of the
establishment during curfew hours.
   (C)   Exemptions.
      (1)   It is a exemption to division (B) that the minor was:
         (a)   Accompanied by the minor’s parent or guardian;
         (b)   On an errand at the direction of the minor's parent or guardian,
without any detour or stop;
         (c)   In a motor vehicle involved in interstate travel;
         (d)   Engaged in an employment activity, or going to or returning home
from an employment activity, without any detour or stop;
         (e)   Involved in an emergency;
         (f)   On the sidewalk abutting the minor’s residence or abutting the
residence of a next-door neighbor if the neighbor did not complain to the
police department about the minor’s presence;
         (g)   Attending an official school, religious, or other recreational
activity supervised by adults and sponsored by the village, a civic
organization, or another similar entity that takes responsibility for the
minor, or going to or returning home from, without any detour or stop, an
official school, religious, or other recreational activity supervised by adults
and sponsored by the village, a civic organization, or another similar entity
that takes responsibility for the minor;
         (h)   Exercising First Amendment rights protected by the United States
Constitution, such as the free exercise of religion, freedom of speech, and the
right of assembly; or
         (i)   Married or had been married or had disabilities of minority
removed in accordance with state law.
      (2)   It is a defense to prosecution under division (B)(3) that the
owner, operator, or employee of an establishment promptly notified the police
department that a minor was present on the premises of the establishment during
curfew hours and refused to leave.
   (D)   Enforcement. Before taking any enforcement action under this section,
a police officer shall ask the apparent offender’s age and reason for being in
the public place. The officer shall not issue a citation or make an arrest
under this section unless the officer reasonably believes that an offense has
occurred and that, based on any response and other circumstances, including any
investigation additional to the actions required by this division (D) as a
reasonable person would deem necessary, no exemption in division (C) is
present.
(Ord. 52, passed 1-8-2003) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.45 SEXUAL PREDATOR RESIDENCY RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   Findings and intent.
      (1)   The state’s legislature has found that certain sex offenders
present a high risk to commit repeat offenses and has enabled municipalities to
restrict such persons’ place of residency as provided in the Sexual Predator
Residency Restriction Act.
      (2)   Sex offenders who prey on children and who are high risks to repeat
such acts present an extreme threat to public safety. The cost of sex offender
victimization to these children and to society, while incalculable, is
exorbitant.
      (3)   It is the intent of this section to serve the village’s compelling
interest to promote, protect, and improve the health, safety and welfare of the
citizens of the village by creating certain areas around locations where
children regularly congregate in concentrated numbers where certain sexual
predators cannot reside.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      CHILD CARE FACILITY. A facility licensed pursuant to the Child Care
Licensing Act.
      RESIDE. To sleep, live or dwell at a place, which may include more than
one location and may be mobile or transitory.
      RESIDENCE. A place where an individual sleeps, lives or dwells, which may
include more than one location, and may be mobile or transitory.
      SCHOOL. A public, private, denominational or parochial school, which
meets the requirements for state accreditation or approval.
      SEX OFFENDER. An individual who has been convicted of a crime listed in
Neb. RS 29-4003 and who is required to register as a sex offender pursuant to
the Sex Offender Registration Act.
      SEXUAL PREDATOR. An individual who is required to register under the Sex
Offender Registration Act, who has been classified as Level 3 because of a high
risk of recidivism as determined by the State Patrol under Neb. RS 29-4013, and
who has victimized a person 18 years of age or younger.
   (C)   Sexual predator residency restrictions; exceptions.
      (1)   Prohibited location of residence. It is unlawful for any sexual
predator to reside within 500 feet from a school or child care facility.
      (2)   Measure of distance. For purposes of determining the minimum
distance separation, the distance shall be measured by following a straight
line from the outer property line of the residence to the nearest outer
boundary line of the school or child care facility.
      (3)   Exceptions. This section shall not apply to a sexual predator who:
         (a)   Established a residence before 7-1-2006 and has not moved from
that residence; or
         (b)   Established a residence after 7-1-2006, and the school or child
care facility triggering the restriction was established after the initial date
of the sexual predator’s residence at that location.
(Ord. 65, passed 8-9-2006; Ord. 78, passed 10-21-2011) Penalty, see §
130.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 29-4003 and 29-4013
§ 130.99 PENALTY.
   Except as otherwise provided in this chapter, any person who shall violate
or refuse to comply with the enforcement of any of the provisions of this
chapter, set forth at full length herein or incorporated by reference shall be
deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and upon conviction thereof, shall be fined not
more than $500 for each offense. A new violation shall be deemed to have been
committed every 24 hours of failing to comply.
(Ord. 52, passed 1-8-2003; Ord. 65, passed 8-9-2006; Ord. 89, passed 7-8-2015)
CHAPTER 131: WEAPONS
Section
   
131.01   Discharge of firearms
   
131.02   Concealed weapons
   
131.03   Slingshots, air guns, BB guns and the like
§ 131.01 DISCHARGE OF FIREARMS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person, except an officer of the law in
the discharge of his or her official duty, to fire or discharge any gun,
pistol, or other fowling piece within the village; provided, that nothing
herein shall be construed to apply to officially sanctioned public celebrations
if the persons so discharging firearms have written permission from the Board;
nor shall it apply to licensed shooting galleries or private shooting ranges
within buildings approved by the Board; nor shall it apply when necessary for
carrying on of any business when approved by the Board; nor shall it apply to
indoor or outdoor public shooting ranges owned by the village.
   (B)   This section shall not be construed to apply when the discharge of
such firearms is necessary for the public or individual defense and safety.
(1995 Code, § 6-309) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Authority to regulate, see Neb. RS 17-556
§ 131.02 CONCEALED WEAPONS.
   It shall be unlawful for any persons to carry about their persons any
concealed pistol, revolver, knife, billy club, slingshot, metal knuckles or
other dangerous weapon of any kind. Nothing herein shall be construed to apply
to the municipal police unless otherwise allowed under state or federal law,
including the Concealed Handguns Permit Act, being Neb. R 69-2427 to 69-2499.
(1995 Code, § 6-310) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 28-1202, 17-556
§ 131.03 SLINGSHOTS, AIR GUNS, BB GUNS AND THE LIKE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to discharge a slingshot, air gun, BB
gun or the like loaded with rock or other dangerous missiles at any time or
under any circumstances within the village.
(1995 Code, § 6-311) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 132: MOTOR VEHICLE OFFENSES
Section
   
132.01   Abandoned automobiles
   
132.02   Unlicensed or inoperable vehicles
   
132.03   Unlicensed motor vehicles and/or motor vehicle parts
§ 132.01 ABANDONED AUTOMOBILES.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      ABANDONED VEHICLE.
         (a)   A motor vehicle is an ABANDONED VEHICLE:
            1.   If left unattended, with no license plates or valid “In
Transit” stickers issued pursuant to the Motor Vehicle Registration Act affixed
thereto, for more than six hours on any public property;
            2.   If left unattended for more than 24 hours on any public
property, except a portion thereof on which parking is legally permitted;
            3.   If left unattended for more than 48 hours, after the parking
of such vehicle has become illegal, if left on a portion of any public property
on which parking is legally permitted;
            4.   If left unattended for more than seven days on private
property if left initially without permission of the owner, or after permission
of the owner is terminated;
            5.   If left for more than 30 days in the custody of a village law
enforcement agency after the agency has sent a letter to the last-registered
owner under division (D) below; or
            6.   If removed from private property by the village pursuant to a
village ordinance or this code.
         (b)   An all-terrain vehicle or minibike is an ABANDONED VEHICLE:
            1.   If left unattended for more than 24 hours on any public
property, except a portion thereof on which parking is legally permitted;
            2.   If left unattended for more than 48 hours, after the parking
of such vehicle has become illegal, if left on a portion of any public property
on which parking is legally permitted;
            3.   If left unattended for more than seven days on private
property if left initially without permission of the owner, or after permission
of the owner is terminated;
            4.   If left for more than 30 days in the custody of a village law
enforcement agency after the agency has sent a letter to the last-registered
owner under division (D) below; or
            5.   If removed from private property by the village pursuant to a
village ordinance or this code.
         (c)   A MOBILE HOME is an abandoned vehicle if left in place on
private property for more than 30 days after a local governmental unit,
pursuant to an ordinance or resolution, has sent a certified letter to each of
the last-registered owners and posted a notice on the mobile home, stating that
the mobile home is subject to sale or auction or vesting of title as set forth
in Neb. RS 60-1903.
         (d)   No motor vehicle subject to forfeiture under Neb. RS 28-431
shall be an ABANDONED VEHICLE under this division (A).
      MOBILE HOME. A movable or portable dwelling constructed to be towed on
its own chassis, connected to utilities and designed with or without a
permanent foundation for year-round living. It may consist of one or more units
that can be telescoped when towed and expanded later for additional capacity,
or of two or more units, separately towable, but designed to be joined into one
integral unit, and shall include a manufactured home as defined in Neb. RS 71-
4603. MOBILE HOME does not include a mobile home or manufactured home for which
an affidavit of affixture has been recorded pursuant to Neb. RS 60-169.
      PRIVATE PROPERTY. Any privately-owned property which is not included
within the definition of public property.
      PUBLIC PROPERTY. Any public right-of-way, street, highway, alley or park
or other state, county or village-owned property.
(Neb. RS 60-1901)
   (B)   If an abandoned vehicle, at the time of abandonment, has no license
plates of the current year or valid “In Transit” stickers issued pursuant to
Neb. RS 60-376 affixed and is of a wholesale value, taking into consideration
the condition of the vehicle, of $250 or less, title shall immediately vest in
the village. Any certificate of title issued under this division (B) to the
village shall be issued at no cost to the village.
(Neb. RS 60-1902)
   (C)   (1)   Except for vehicles governed by division (B) above, the village
shall make an inquiry concerning the last-registered owner of such vehicle as
follows:
         (a)   Abandoned vehicle with license plates affixed, to the
jurisdiction which issued such license plates; or
         (b)   Abandoned vehicle with no license plates affixed, to the
Department of Motor Vehicles.
      (2)   The village shall notify the last-registered owner, if any, that
the vehicle in question has been determined to be an abandoned vehicle and
that, if unclaimed, either:
         (a)   It will be sold or will be offered at public auction after five
days from the date such notice was mailed; or
         (b)   Title will vest in the village 30 days after the date such
notice was mailed.
      (3)   If the agency described in divisions (C)(1)(a) or (C)(1)(b) above
also notifies the village that a lien or mortgage exists, such notice shall
also be sent to the lienholder or mortgagee. Any person claiming such vehicle
shall be required to pay the cost of removal and storage of such vehicle.
      (4)   Title to an abandoned vehicle, if unclaimed, shall vest in the
village:
         (a)   Five days after the date the notice is mailed if the vehicle
will be sold or offered at public auction under division (C)(2)(a) above;
         (b)   Thirty days after the date the notice is mailed if the village
will retain the vehicle; or
         (c)   If the last-registered owner cannot be ascertained, when notice
of such fact is received.
      (5)   After title to the abandoned vehicle vests pursuant to division (C)
(4) above, the village may retain for use, sell or auction the abandoned
vehicle. If the village has determined that the vehicle should be retained for
use, the village shall, at the same time that the notice, if any, is mailed,
publish in a newspaper of general circulation in the jurisdiction an
announcement that the village intends to retain the abandoned vehicle for its
use and that title will vest in the village 30 days after the publication.
(Neb. RS 60-1903)
   (D)   (1)   If a village law enforcement agency has custody of a motor
vehicle for investigatory purposes and has no further need to keep it in
custody, it shall send a certified letter to each of the last-registered owners
stating that the vehicle is in the custody of the law enforcement agency, that
the vehicle is no longer needed for law enforcement purposes, and that after 30
days the agency will dispose of the vehicle.
      (2)   This division (D) shall not apply to motor vehicles subject to
forfeiture under Neb. RS 28-431.
      (3)   No storage fees shall be assessed against the registered owner of a
motor vehicle held in custody for investigatory purposes under this division
(D) unless the registered owner or the person in possession of the vehicle when
it is taken into custody is charged with a felony or misdemeanor related to the
offense for which the law enforcement agency took the vehicle into custody. If
a registered owner or the person in possession of the vehicle when it is taken
into custody is charged with a felony or misdemeanor, but is not convicted, the
registered owner shall be entitled to a refund of the storage fees.
(Neb. RS 60-1903.01)
   (E)   If a state agency caused an abandoned vehicle described in the
definition of “abandoned vehicle”, divisions (a)5. or (b)4. above, to be
removed from public property in the village, the state agency shall be entitled
to custody of the vehicle. If a state agency caused an abandoned vehicle
described under the definition of “abandoned vehicle”, divisions (a)1., (a)2.,
(a)3. or (a)4. or (b)1., (b)2. or (b)3. above, to be removed from public
property in the village, the state agency shall deliver the vehicle to the
village which shall have custody.
(Neb. RS 60-1904)
   (F)   Any proceeds from the sale of an abandoned vehicle in the village’s
custody less any expenses incurred by the village shall be held by the village
without interest, for the benefit of the owner or lienholders of such vehicle
for a period of two years. If not claimed within such two-year period, the
proceeds shall be paid into the General Fund of the village.
(Neb. RS 60-1905)
   (G)   Neither the owner, lessee, nor occupant of the premises from which any
abandoned vehicle is removed, nor the village, shall be liable for any loss or
damage to such vehicle which occurs during its removal or while in the
possession of the village or its contractual agent or as a result of any
subsequent disposition.
(Neb. RS 60-1906)
   (H)   No person shall cause any vehicle to be an abandoned vehicle as
described under the definition of “abandoned vehicle”, divisions (a)1., (a)2.,
(a)3. or (a)4. or (b)1., (b)2. or (b)3 above.
(Neb. RS 60-1907)
   (I)   (1)   No person other than one authorized by the village or
appropriate state agency shall destroy, deface or remove any part of a vehicle
which is left unattended on a highway or other public place without license
plates affixed or which is abandoned.
      (2)   Anyone violating this division (I) shall be guilty of an offense.
(Neb. RS 60-1908)
   (J)   The last-registered owner of an abandoned vehicle shall be liable to
the village for the costs of removal and storage of such vehicle.
(Neb. RS 60-1909)
   (K)   Any person violating the provisions of this section shall be guilty of
an offense.
(Neb. RS 60-1911)
(1995 Code, § 6-324) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Motor Vehicle Registration Act, see Neb. RS 60-301
§ 132.02 UNLICENSED OR INOPERABLE VEHICLES.
   (A)   No person in charge or control of any property within the village,
other than village property, whether as owner, tenant, occupant, lessee or
otherwise, shall allow any partially dismantled, inoperable, wrecked, junked or
discarded vehicle to remain on that property longer than 30 days.
   (B)   No unlicensed vehicle shall be permitted to remain on any private or
public property for any length of time; provided that, this section shall not
apply to the following:
      (1)   A vehicle bearing a valid “In Transit” sticker;
      (2)   A vehicle in an enclosed building;
      (3)   A vehicle on the premises of a business enterprise operated in a
lawful place and manner when the vehicle is necessary to the lawful operation
of the business; or
      (4)   A vehicle in an appropriate storage place or depository maintained
in a lawful place and manner by the village.
   (C)   Any vehicle allowed to remain on property in violation of this section
shall constitute a nuisance and shall be abated, and any person violating this
section shall be guilty of an offense.
(1995 Code, § 6-325) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   “In Transit” stickers, see Neb. RS 60-376
§ 132.03 UNLICENSED MOTOR VEHICLES AND/OR MOTOR VEHICLE PARTS.
   (A)   It is hereby expressly found and determined that the practice of
permitting unlicensed motor vehicles, motor vehicle bodies and motor vehicle
chassis or parts therefrom to be stored or accumulated on private premises is
unsightly and unhealthy and constitutes a nuisance to the citizens and
residents of the municipality; provided, the storage or accumulation of such
motor vehicles, motor vehicle bodies and motor vehicle chassis or parts
therefrom in completely enclosed buildings shall not be considered a nuisance.
   (B)   No person in charge or control of any property within the municipality
or within one mile thereof, other than municipal property, whether as owner,
tenant, occupant, lessee or otherwise, shall store, retain or keep on, or
permit to be stored, retained or kept on any private premises any motor vehicle
that has been unlicensed for a period in excess of four months under the laws
of the state or allow any partially dismantled, inoperable, wrecked, junked or
discarded vehicle to remain on such property; provided, this section shall not
apply to such motor vehicle, motor vehicle body or motor vehicle chassis or
parts therefrom that is kept in a completely enclosed building, or any complete
motor vehicle that is covered completely with a fitted cover. Such fitted cover
shall be constructed of a non-opaque and non-transparent material and shall
completely cover such motor vehicle. A fitted covering shall be defined as a
covering made specifically to cover a motor vehicle and not made for any other
purposes. Said covering shall be attached in such a manner to prevent it from
being removed by adverse weather conditions. If such covering is removed for
any reason or by adverse weather, it shall be restored immediately.
   (C)   Any vehicle or parts thereof allowed to remain on such property in
violation of this section shall constitute a nuisance and shall be abated. The
Municipal Clerk or his or her duly designated officer of the municipality shall
give written notice to the owner or occupant of the real property upon which
such nuisance exists to abate the nuisance within ten days. The notice to abate
shall be served either in person, by mailing notice by certified mail or
registered mail or by publication, or by affixing notice on such vehicle. Any
publication notice shall be in a newspaper of general circulation of the
municipality which is published at least weekly; such notice shall be published
once; and the time period shall run from the date of publication. Upon failure
to abate the nuisance within the time provided, the municipality may remove
such vehicle or parts of any vehicle and sell the same at public sale. Notice
of the sale shall be given in the same manner as notice to abate. Any proceeds
from such sale shall be first applied to any expenses incurred by the
municipality in removing, storing and selling the vehicle or vehicle parts and
the balance shall be held without interest for the benefit of the owner of such
vehicle or vehicle parts for a period of two years. If not claimed within such
period of time, the proceeds shall then be paid to the general fund of the
municipality.
   (D)   This section shall not apply to the premises for which permit has been
granted to a junk dealer; nor shall it apply to the premises where a licensed
motor vehicle dealer, farm implement dealer or an automotive repair or
restoration business conducts a business, if such business is the primary
business conducted on such premises.
(1995 Code, § 6-326) Penalty, see §
10.99
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
   Chapter
      
150.   BUILDING REGULATIONS; CONSTRUCTION
      
151.   SUBDIVISIONS AND ADDITIONS
      
152.   MOBILE HOMES
      
153.   FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT
CHAPTER 150: BUILDING REGULATIONS; CONSTRUCTION
Section
General Provisions
   
150.01   Barricades and lights
Building Inspector
   
150.15   Power and authority
   
150.16   Right of entry
   
150.17   Appeal from decision
   
150.18   Building permits
   
150.19   Building regulation; fence/wall requirements
Codes Adopted
   
150.30   Building Code adopted by reference
   
150.31   Housing Code adopted by reference
   
150.32   Plumbing Code adopted by reference
Unsafe Buildings
   
150.45   Definition
   
150.46   Prohibition
   
150.47   Determination and notice
   
150.48   Hearing and appeal
   
150.49   Emergency
   
150.50   Special assessments
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 150.01 BARRICADES AND LIGHTS.
   Any owner, tenant or lessee causing the construction, demolition or moving
of any building or improvement within the village shall protect all
excavations, exposures, open basements, building materials and debris by
suitable barricades or guards by day and by warning lights at night. The
failure, neglect or refusal of the owner, tenant or lessee to erect and
maintain such protections shall constitute a violation of this section, and the
Building Inspector or other village law enforcement authority may stop all work
upon the buildings and improvements until suitable protections are erected and
maintained in the required manner.
(1995 Code, § 9-601) Penalty, see §
10.99
BUILDING INSPECTOR
§ 150.15 POWER AND AUTHORITY.
   (A)   The Building Inspector shall be the village official who shall have
the duty of enforcing all village building and housing regulations, if any.
   (B)   He or she shall inspect all buildings repaired, altered, built or
moved in the village as often as necessary to ensure compliance with all
village ordinances. He or she shall have the power and authority to order, at
the direction of the Board of Trustees, all work stopped on any construction,
alteration or relocation which violates any provisions prescribed in any
village building and housing regulations. He or she shall, at the direction of
the Board of Trustees, issue permission to continue any construction,
alteration or relocation when the Board of Trustees is satisfied that no
provision will be violated. If the stop order is an oral one, it shall be
followed by a written stop order within one hour. This written order may be
served by any village police officer.
   (C)   In the event that the village has building and housing regulations and
the Board of Trustees fails to appoint a Building Inspector, the chief village
law enforcement officer shall be the Building Inspector ex officio.
(1995 Code, § 9-101)
§ 150.16 RIGHT OF ENTRY.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to refuse to allow the Building
Inspector entry into any building or structure where the work of construction,
alteration, repair or relocation is taking place, for the purpose of making
official inspections at any reasonable hour.
(1995 Code, § 9-102) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 150.17 APPEAL FROM DECISION.
   In the event it is claimed that the true intent and meaning of any village
building or housing regulation has been wrongly interpreted by the Building
Inspector, that the time allowed for compliance with any order of the Building
Inspector is too short, or that conditions peculiar to a particular building
make it unreasonably difficult to meet the literal requirements prescribed by
the regulation and by the Building Inspector, the owner, his or her agent, or
the occupant may file a notice of appeal within ten days after the decision or
order of the Building Inspector has been made. The Board of Trustees shall hear
all appeals and shall have the power and authority, when appealed to, to modify
the decision or order of the Building Inspector. Such a decision shall be
final, subject only to any remedy which the aggrieved person may have at law or
equity. Applications for review shall be in writing and shall state the reasons
why the variance should be made. A variance shall be granted only where it is
evident that reasonable safety and sanitation is assured and may include
conditions not generally specified by the building or housing regulation to
achieve that end. A copy of any variance so granted shall be sent to both the
Building Inspector and the applicant.
(1995 Code, § 9-103)
§ 150.18 BUILDING PERMITS.
    (A)   Any person desiring a building permit to commence or proceed to
erect, construct, perform any structural repair or relocate any building,
dwelling, fence, or wall, or cause the same to be done shall file with the
Planning Commission an application therefor in writing on a form to be
furnished by the Commission for that purpose.
(1995 Code, § 9-104)
   (B)   (1)   The Board, in conjunction with the county’s Board of County
Commissioners has determined that the village will have a Deputy County Zoning
Administrator who shall handle all applications for building permits within the
village.
      (2)   The Board has determined that a fee shall be charged for all
applications for building permits within the village, which shall be and become
part of the fee schedule set out in §
34.31 of this code of ordinances and kept at the office of the Clerk. The fee
for building permits may be amended by resolution of the governing body and
kept at the office of the Clerk.
(Ord. 87, passed 2-11-2015; Ord. 2018-03, passed 7-11-2018)
§ 150.19 BUILDING REGULATIONS; FENCE/WALL REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Fences in residential zoned areas.
      (1)   All fences or walls which will be constructed in residential zoned
areas must comply with the fence/wall ordinance in effect for residential zoned
areas at the time of issuance of the fence/wall building permit as herein
defined. A fence/wall building permit will be granted, provided that the
requested fence/wall is in compliance with this section, as amended from time
to time, and such other established standards and regulations.
      (2)   All fence/wall building permit application requests and authorized
construction in residential zoned areas shall require the following inspections
by the Deputy Zoning Administrator or other authorized village official:
         (a)   An initial inspection before any construction begins and before
the village issues said fence/wall building permit;
         (b)   A second inspection when the corner posts are in place, if
deemed necessary by the Deputy Zoning Administrator; and
         (c)   A final inspection when the fence/wall construction is complete,
if deemed necessary by the Deputy Zoning Administrator.
      (3)   (a)   If the fence/wall being requested runs parallel to an
abutting property, the fence/wall shall be constructed immediately inside the
applicant's property line; provided, however, that the applicant may have the
fence/wall constructed upon the common boundary line of the two properties upon
presentation of a written agreement signed by all affected property owners
consenting to having the fence constructed on the common boundary line. If the
applicant desires to construct a fence/wall in such a manner as to connect to a
fence/wall located on an abutting property, the applicant must first present a
written agreement signed by all affected property owners consenting to having
the fence constructed in such a manner.
         (b)   If the property owner requesting a fence/wall building permit is
on property which has an alley, that fence/wall shall be located not less than
14 feet from the center of the alley or four feet inside of property owner's
property line for purposes of access and safety.
         (c)   1.   If the property owner requesting a fence/wall building
permit has a sidewalk in the front of the property or has both a front sidewalk
and a sidewalk on the side (for example, as on a corner lot), that fence/wall
shall be located 18 inches or more inside the sidewalk or at least 16 feet 6
inches from the back of the curb, whichever distance is the greater distance
from the middle of the street.
            2.   If the property for which a fence/wall building permit is
requested does not have a sidewalk, then the fence/wall location shall be
located not less than 16 feet 6 inches from the back of the curb.
            3.   If the property for which a fence/wall building permit is
requested does not have a sidewalk or curb, then the fence/wall shall be
located not less than 18 inches inside of the line where the sidewalk would be
located, or 16 feet 6 inches from the back of the curb, if it existed,
whichever distance is the greater distance from the middle of the street.
      (4)   Residential fence/wall construction.
         (a)   No fence or wall shall be permitted in a front yard which shall
materially obstruct public view. Permitted types of fences shall include split
rail, chain link, or any other see-through type of fence material.
         (b)   All fences, walls, or parts thereof shall be constructed so that
all posts, braces, stringers, and any other structural members shall face to
the interior of the lot or parcel being fenced.
         (c)   No fence or wall shall be constructed in such a manner or be of
such design as to be hazardous or dangerous to persons or animals by intent of
its construction or be dangerous from inadequate maintenance. No fences or
walls are permitted which shall carry any type of electrical charge.
         (d)   No fence or wall within residential zoned areas shall be
constructed of a height greater than six feet.
         (e)   Residential fence/wall height. Any fence or wall of which
proposed construction will be located in the front of the residence shall be no
higher than 36 inches from the top of the curb to allow for vision of vehicles
entering/exiting driveways, except for corner lots which will be restricted to
heights of not more than 30 inches from the top of the curb to the top of the
fence/wall to allow for corner traffic vision (see division (C) regarding
vision clearance area). The 36 inch height restriction shall run a distance
equal to the distance from the front property line back to the front of the
residence. If there is no residence on the property making a fence/wall
construction request, said fence shall be height restricted to 36 inches back
45 feet from the back of the curb, except on corner lots where height is
restricted to 30 inches from the top of the curb to the top of the fence/wall
back 45 feet from the back of the curb.
         (f)   No fence or wall shall be constructed on a corner lot which will
constitute a traffic hazard as identified in the site triangle of a corner lot
as shown in the sight triangle in the vision clearance area in division (C) of
this section.
   (B)   Fences/walls in commercial or industrial zoned areas.
      (1)   All fences or walls which will be constructed in commercial or
industrial zoned areas must comply with the fence/wall ordinance in effect for
commercial or industrial zoned areas at the time of issuance of the fence/wall
building permit as herein defined. A fence/wall building permit will be
granted, provided that the requested fence/wall is in compliance with this
section, as amended from time to time, and such other established standards and
regulations. The application for said permit must be accompanied by a survey
setting forth the legal boundaries of the property.
      (2)   All fence/wall building permit authorized construction in
commercial or industrial zoned areas shall require the following inspections by
the Deputy Zoning Administrator or other authorized village official:
         (a)   An initial inspection before any construction begins and before
the village issues said fence/wall building permit;
         (b)   A second inspection when the corner posts are in place, if
deemed necessary by the Deputy Zoning Administrator; and
         (c)   A final inspection when the fence/wall construction is complete,
if deemed necessary by the Deputy Zoning Administrator.
      (3)   Maximum heights of fences/walls shall be eight feet except when
industry standards for certain types of businesses require fences/walls of
greater heights, the Village Board may, at its sole discretion, allow greater
heights.
      (4)   Fences/walls in commercial and industrial zoned areas shall be set
back not less than 18 inches from the property line or from the sidewalk,
whichever is the greater distance from the middle of the street.
      (5)   If the fence/wall being requested runs parallel to an abutting
property, the fence/wall shall be constructed immediately inside the
applicant's property line; provided, however, that the applicant may have the
fence/wall constructed upon the common boundary line of the two properties upon
presentation of a written agreement signed by all affected property owners
consenting to having the fence constructed on the common boundary line. If the
applicant desires to construct a fence/wall in such a manner as to connect to a
fence/wall located on an abutting property, the applicant must first present a
written agreement signed by all affected property owners consenting to having
the fence constructed in such a manner.
   (C)   Vision clearance area - all zoning districts. All zoning districts
shall have, in all zoning classification, except where buildings have or are on
the property line, a continuous unobstructed sight distance for safe traffic
operations. No fence obstruction shall exist with a height greater than 36
inches within the vision clearance area from the elevation of the top of the
curb. In the event that there is no curb, the measurement will be made from the
edge of the driving surface.
(Ord. 2018-03, passed 7-11-2018)
CODES ADOPTED
§ 150.30 BUILDING CODE ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   The village adopts by reference the state building code as set forth in Neb.
RS 71-6403.
(1995 Code, § 9-201)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 18-132
§ 150.31 HOUSING CODE ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   To provide certain minimum standards, provisions and requirements for safe
and stable design, methods of construction and uses of materials in houses
hereafter erected, constructed, enlarged, altered, repaired, relocated and
converted, the Basic Housing Code, as published by the Building Officials
Conference of America, Inc., printed in book or pamphlet form, is hereby
incorporated by reference in addition to all amended editions as though printed
in full herein. One copy of the Housing Code shall be on file at the office of
the Municipal Clerk and shall be available for public inspection at any
reasonable time. The provisions of the Housing Code shall be controlling
throughout the municipality and throughout its zoning jurisdiction.
(1995 Code, § 9-301)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 18-132, 18-2146
§ 150.32 PLUMBING CODE ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   To provide certain minimum standards, provisions and requirements for safe
and stable installation, methods of connection and uses of materials in the
installation of plumbing and heating, the Uniform Plumbing Code, published by
the American Society of Mechanical Engineers and printed in book or pamphlet
form is hereby incorporated by reference in addition to all amended editions as
though printed in full herein insofar as said code does not conflict with the
statutes of the state. One copy of the Plumbing Code shall be on file at the
office of the Municipal Clerk and shall be available for public inspection at
any reasonable time. The provisions of the Plumbing Code shall be controlling
throughout the village and throughout its zoning jurisdiction.
(1995 Code, § 9-401)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-1001, 18-132
UNSAFE BUILDINGS
§ 150.45 DEFINITION.
   (A)   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definition shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      UNSAFE BUILDING. Includes any building, shed, fence or other human-made
structure:
         (a)   Which is dangerous to the public health because of its condition
and which may cause or aid in the spread of disease or injury to the health of
the occupants of it or neighboring structures;
         (b)   Which because of faulty construction, age, lack of proper repair
or any other cause is especially liable to fire and constitutes or creates a
fire hazard; or
         (c)   Which by reason of faulty construction or any other cause is
liable to cause injury or damage by the collapse or fall of all or any part of
the structure.
   (B)   Any such unsafe building in the village is hereby declared to be a
nuisance.
(1995 Code, § 9-701)
§ 150.46 PROHIBITION.
   It shall be unlawful to maintain or permit the existence of any unsafe
building in the village, and it shall be unlawful for the owner, occupant or
person in custody of any dangerous building to permit the same to remain in an
unsafe condition or to occupy the building or permit it to be occupied while it
is in an unsafe condition.
(1995 Code, § 9-702) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Authority to prevent and abate nuisances, see Neb. RS 18-1720
§ 150.47 DETERMINATION AND NOTICE.
   (A)   (1)   Whenever the Board of Trustees or its designee has made a
determination that a building or other structure in the village is an unsafe
building, it shall be the duty of the Village Clerk to post the property
accordingly and to file a copy of such determination or resolution in the
office of the county’s Register of Deeds to be recorded.
(Neb. RS 18-1722.01)
      (2)   The Clerk shall also serve written notice upon the owner and any
occupant of the building or other structure by certified mail or personal
service.
   (B)   This notice shall state that the building has been declared to be in
an unsafe condition, that the dangerous condition must be removed or remedied
by repairing or altering the building or by demolishing it, and that the
condition must be remedied within 60 days from the date of receipt. The notice
may be in the following terms:
 
To                                                      (owner-occupant of premises), of the premises known and described as
_________________________________ .
 
You are hereby notified that _________________________________ (describe building) on the premises above mentioned has been
determined to be an unsafe building and a nuisance after inspection by _____________________________. The causes for this
decision are _________________________________ (here insert the facts as to the dangerous condition).
 
You must remedy this condition or demolish the building within 60 days from the date of receipt of this notice or the village
will proceed to do so. Appeal of this determination may be made to the Board of Trustees, acting as the Board of Appeals, by
filing with the Village Clerk within ten days from the date of receipt of this notice a request for a hearing.
 
 
   (C)   If the person receiving the notice has not complied within 60 days
from the date of receipt of the notice, or taken an appeal from the
determination that a dangerous building exists within ten days from the time
when this notice is served upon that person by personal service or certified
mail, the Building Inspector or other designated official may, upon orders of
the Board of Trustees, proceed to remedy the condition or demolish the unsafe
building.
(1995 Code, § 9-703)
§ 150.48 HEARING AND APPEAL.
   (A)   Upon receiving the notice to repair or demolish the building, the
owner of the building, within the time stipulated, may in writing to the
Village Clerk request a hearing before the Board of Trustees, sitting as the
Board of Appeals, to present reasons why the building should not be repaired or
demolished. The Board of Trustees shall grant such a hearing within ten days
from the date of receiving the request. A written notice of the Board of
Trustees’ decision following the hearing shall be sent to the property owner by
certified mail.
   (B)   If the Board of Trustees rejects the appeal, the owner shall have 60
days from the sending of the decision to begin repair or demolition and
removal. If after the 60-day period the owner has not begun work, the Board of
Trustees shall proceed to cause the work to be done; except that, the property
owner may appeal the decision to the appropriate court for adjudication, during
which proceedings the decision of the Board of Trustees shall be stayed.
   (C)   Any village police officer or member of the Board of Trustees shall,
at once, inform the county’s Treasurer of the removal or demolition of or a
levy of attachment upon any item of real property known to him or her.
(Neb. RS 77-1725.01) (1995 Code, § 9-704)
§ 150.49 EMERGENCY.
   Where any unsafe building or structure poses an immediate danger to the
health, safety or general welfare of any person or persons and the owner fails
to remedy the situation in a reasonable time after notice to do so, the village
may summarily repair or demolish and remove that building or structure.
(1995 Code, § 9-705)
§ 150.50 SPECIAL ASSESSMENTS.
   (A)   If any owner of any building or structure fails, neglects or refuses
to comply with notice by or on behalf of the village to repair, rehabilitate or
demolish and remove a building or structure which is an unsafe building or
structure and a public nuisance, the village may proceed with the work
specified in the notice to the property owner. A statement of the cost of this
work shall be transmitted to the Board of Trustees.
   (B)   The Board of Trustees may:
      (1)   Levy the cost as a special assessment against the lot or real
estate upon which the building or structure is located. Such special assessment
shall be a lien on the real estate and shall be collected in the manner
provided for special assessments; or
      (2)   Collect the cost from the owner of the building or structure and
enforce the collection by civil action in any court of competent jurisdiction.
(Neb. RS 18-1722) (1995 Code, § 9-706)
CHAPTER 151: SUBDIVISIONS AND ADDITIONS
Section
   
151.01   Generally
   
151.02   Survey and plat
   
151.03   Surveyor’s certificate
   
151.04   Dedication
   
151.05   Streets and alleys
   
151.06   Approval of plat
   
151.07   Recording plat
   
151.08   Additions
§ 151.01 GENERALLY.
   The owner of any tract of land within the corporate limits of the
municipality may lay out said land into lots, blocks, streets, avenues and
alleys as a suburban development or as an addition to the municipality upon
conformance to and compliance with the conditions herein and with the statutes
of the state.
(1995 Code, § 11-201)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-405, 17-426, 17-1002, 19-902
§ 151.02 SURVEY AND PLAT.
   (A)   The owner or proprietor of any tract or parcel of land within the
corporate limits or within one mile thereof desiring to subdivide or lay out
said tract of land shall cause the same to be accurately surveyed and an
accurate map or plat thereof made with reference to known or permanent
monuments and said map or plat shall explicitly describe the land so laid out.
   (B)   The map or plat shall designate the tract as “
                                              Addition to the Village of
Elwood, Nebraska” or
“                                                               Subdivision of
the Village of Elwood, Nebraska”, whichever is appropriate.
   (C)   (1)   The lots and blocks shall be designated by numbers and the
streets and avenues by names coinciding with the streets and avenues of the
municipality of which they form continuations.
      (2)   The plat shall show the length and depth of the lots and width and
course of all streets, avenues and alleys together with an accurate plat of all
lots, blocks and streets.
(1995 Code, § 11-202)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-405, 17-1002, 17-1003, 19-902
§ 151.03 SURVEYOR’S CERTIFICATE.
   The map or plat shall be accompanied by a certificate from the surveyor
making said survey and plat that he or she accurately surveyed the said tract
and the lots, blocks, streets, avenues and alleys are accurately shown upon the
said map or plat.
(1995 Code, § 11-203)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-405, 17-1003, 19-902
§ 151.04 DEDICATION.
   Said map or plat shall have written thereon or attached hereto a dedication
to the municipality for the use of the public, of all streets, avenues, alleys,
parks, squares and commons and all land set apart for public use or dedicated
to charitable, religious and educational purposes as therein mentioned and
described. Such dedication shall be signed by the owner of the tract of land
and shall be duly acknowledged as required by law.
(1995 Code, § 11-204)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-417, 17-1003
§ 151.05 STREETS AND ALLEYS.
   Streets and alleys laid out in any addition to or in any suburban
development of the municipality shall be continuous with and correspond in
direction and width to the streets and alleys of the municipality to which they
are an addition.
(1995 Code, § 11-205)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-418, 17-1003
§ 151.06 APPROVAL OF PLAT.
   Before any such map or plat shall have any validity, it must first be
submitted to and be approved and accepted by the governing body of the
municipality and must have such acceptance and approval endorsed thereon;
provided that, before any such map or plat shall be considered, approved or
accepted, the owner or proprietor shall pay or cause to be paid, all taxes,
special taxes and special assessments due thereon and shall produce a
certificate showing that all such taxes and assessments have been paid or
canceled.
(1995 Code, § 11-206)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-1002, 19-902
§ 151.07 RECORDING PLAT.
   If a majority of all members of the governing body shall vote in favor of
such suburban development or annexation, an ordinance shall be prepared and
passed by the governing body granting such approval or declaring the annexation
of such territory to the corporate limits of the municipality and extending the
limits thereof accordingly, whichever is appropriate. An accurate map or plat
of such territory and said dedication as hereinbefore described, certified by
the engineer or surveyor and acknowledged and approved as provided by law in
such cases shall at once be filed and recorded by the owner or proprietor of
such land in the office of the Register of Deeds of the county, together with a
certified copy of the ordinance granting approval or declaring such annexation
under the seal of said municipality.
(1995 Code, § 11-207)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 19-916
§ 151.08 ADDITIONS.
   All additions to the municipality which have heretofore been approved and
accepted, or which may hereafter be laid out in accordance with the provisions
herein and accepted and approved, shall be and become incorporated in the
municipality for all purposes whatsoever and inhabitants of such additions
shall be entitled to all the rights and privileges and be subject to all the
laws and regulations of said municipality.
(1995 Code, § 11-208)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 19-916
CHAPTER 152: MOBILE HOMES
Section
   
152.01   Standards adopted by reference
   
152.02   Permit required
   
152.03   Certification of compliance
   
152.04   Register
   
152.05   Site requirements
   
152.06   Refuse disposal, storage
   
152.07   Supervision
§ 152.01 STANDARDS ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   To provide certain minimum standards, provisions and requirements to
establish, operate and maintain a mobile home park in the municipality, the
Uniform Standard Code for Mobile Home Parks, published by the state’s
Department of Health and printed in pamphlet form, is hereby incorporated by
reference in addition to all amended editions as though printed in full herein.
The provisions of the Uniform Standard Code for Mobile Home Parks and the
requirements of this chapter shall be controlling throughout the municipality
and throughout its zoning jurisdiction. One copy of the Uniform Standard Code
for Mobile Home Parks is on file at the office of the Municipal Clerk and is
available for public inspection at any reasonable time.
(1995 Code, § 10-201)
§ 152.02 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to construct, maintain or operate
any trailer court or mobile home court within the limits of the municipality
unless he or she holds a valid permit issued by the Municipal Clerk in the name
of such person for the specific trailer court or mobile home court.
Applications for permits shall be made to the Municipal Clerk who shall issue a
permit upon compliance by the applicant with provisions of this chapter, as
evidenced by a certificate of compliance, which certificate shall show
compliance with applicable legal requirements. No permit shall be transferable.
Every person holding a trailer court or mobile home court permit shall give
notice in writing to the Municipal Clerk within 72 hours after having sold,
transferred, given away or otherwise disposed of any interest in or control of
any trailer court or mobile home court. Such notice shall include the name and
address of the person succeeding to the ownership or control of the trailer
court or mobile home court.
   (B)   Presently operating trailer courts and mobile home courts as of the
effective date of this chapter may continue their operation; provided, they
meet the court development standards herein provided and further that they
fully comply with the mobile home or trailer stand requirements of this
chapter.
(1995 Code, § 10-202) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 152.03 CERTIFICATION OF COMPLIANCE.
   A certification of compliance with all resolutions, ordinances and
regulations regarding mobile home park licensing and zoning, health, plumbing,
electrical, building, fire prevention and all other applicable ordinances and
regulations shall be a prior requirement for granting a certificate of
occupancy to the owner of the park.
(1995 Code, § 10-203)
§ 152.04 REGISTER.
   A mobile home park operator shall keep a register containing the following
information for each occupied mobile home:
   (A)   Full name of mobile home owner and principal occupant;
   (B)   Make, model, year and size of mobile home;
   (C)   State and number of vehicle registration;
   (D)   Number and date of lot rental and/or vacancy; and
   (E)   Whether or not the owner is in the military service.
(1995 Code, § 10-204)
§ 152.05 SITE REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   A mobile home park shall have an area of not less than two acres, nor
more than ten acres.
   (B)   Mobile home density shall not exceed six units per acre.
   (C)   The park site shall be graded to ensure drainage of surface and
subsurface water and sewage and freedom from stagnant pools, erosion or
flooding.
   (D)   Each mobile home lot shall contain a minimum of 5,000 square feet.
Each lot shall be defined by permanent corner stakes and identified with a
permanent marker showing the lot number corresponding to the approved plot
plan. No lot shall have less than 50 feet frontage on a roadway.
   (E)   Mobile homes shall be located at least ten feet from all public
walkways and roadways within the park. There shall be a minimum clearance of 40
feet between mobile homes. A setback of at least 50 feet shall be maintained
from any public roadway and 40 feet from any adjoining property line.
   (F)   Screening shall be provided and maintained between the park and
adjacent properties and roadways in the form of shrubbery or fencing as the
Village Board requires.
   (G)   There shall be two off-street parking spaces per unit.
   (H)   Minimum widths:
      (1)   No parking on street: 25 feet minimum improved width;
      (2)   Parking on side only: 30 feet minimum improved width; and
      (3)   Parking both sides: 36 feet minimum improved width.
   (I)   All mobile home drives will be maintained by the owner in a
satisfactory and safe condition with access to dedicated streets provided.
Parks of over 50 units may be required to provide additional access points for
emergency access safety.
   (J)   Trash collection receptacle shall be provided for each unit and
properly screened from view.
   (K)   Walkways shall be provided adjacent to streets on an interior system.
   (L)   Lighting shall be provided with a minimum of 0.3 foot candles on all
driveways and walks.
   (M)   The mobile home or trailer stand shall be provided with anchors and
tie-downs such as cast-in-place concrete “dead men”, eyelets imbedded in
concrete foundations or runways, screw augers, arrowhead anchors or other
devices securing the stability of the mobile home or trailer. The tie-down
devices shall be compatible with the foundation system provided for the mobile
home or trailer such that the tie-downs are designed to resist the action of
frost in the same manner as the foundation system.
   (N)   (1)   The skirting of all mobile homes and trailers is required.
      (2)   Such skirting shall not attach a mobile home or trailer permanently
to the ground, but shall be sufficient to withstand wind load requirements and
shall not provide a harborage for junk or rodents nor create a fire hazard.
      (3)   Such skirting shall be provided with removable access panels
sufficient to provide easy access to all utility connection points of the
mobile home or trailer and its subsequent connection to the utility risers if
they are located within the skirted area.
(1995 Code, § 10-205) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 152.06 REFUSE DISPOSAL, STORAGE.
   (A)   Storage, collection and disposal of refuse in a trailer or mobile home
court shall be managed so as not to create health hazards, rodent harborage,
insect breeding areas, accident or fire hazards or air pollution.
(1995 Code, § 10-206)
   (B)   Refuse shall be stored in fly-tight, water-tight, rodent-proof
containers which shall be located not more than 150 feet from any trailer or
mobile home. Containers shall be provided in sufficient number and capacity to
store properly all refuse and otherwise in conformity with the garbage and
refuse ordinance.
(1995 Code, § 10-207) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 152.07 SUPERVISION.
   The person to whom a permit for a trailer court or mobile home court is
issued shall provide adequate personnel to maintain the court, its facilities
and equipment in good repair and in clean and sanitary condition at all times.
(1995 Code, § 10-208) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 153: FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT
Section
General Provisions
   
153.01   Statutory authorization
   
153.02   Findings of fact
   
153.03   Statement of purpose
   
153.04   Designation of current FHBM/FIRM
   
153.05   Abrogation and greater restrictions
   
153.06   Interpretation
   
153.07   Warning and disclaimer of liability
   
153.08   Severability
   
153.09   Conflicting ordinances or resolutions
   
153.10   Definitions
Administration and Enforcement
   
153.25   Local administrator; responsibilities
   
153.26   Permits required
   
153.27   Development permit applications; review
   
153.28   All applications; review
   
153.29   Subdivision applications
   
153.30   Variance procedures
   
153.31   Appeal
Flood Hazard Reduction
   
153.45   Water and sewage systems
   
153.46   Storage of material and equipment
   
153.47   Flood-carrying capacity within any watercourse
   
153.48   Non-conforming use
 
   
153.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 153.01 STATUTORY AUTHORIZATION.
   The legislature of the state has, in Neb. RS 31-1001 to 31-1022, assigned
the responsibility to local governmental units to adopt floodplain management
regulations designed to protect the public health, safety and general welfare.
Therefore, the Board of Trustees of the village ordains as follows.
(Ord. 64, passed 11-9-2005)
§ 153.02 FINDINGS OF FACT.
   (A)   Flood losses resulting from periodic inundation. The flood hazard
areas of the village are subject to occasional inundation which results in loss
of life and property, health and safety hazards, disruption of commerce and
governmental services, extraordinary public expenditures for flood protection
and relief, and impairment of the tax base all of which adversely affect the
public health, safety and general welfare.
   (B)   General causes of the flood losses. These flood losses are caused by:
      (1)   The cumulative effect of obstructions in floodplains causing
increases in flood heights and velocities; or
      (2)   The occupancy of flood hazard areas by uses vulnerable to floods or
hazardous to others, which are inadequately elevated or otherwise unprotected
from flood damages.
(Ord. 64, passed 11-9-2005)
§ 153.03 STATEMENT OF PURPOSE.
   It is the purpose of this chapter to promote the public health, safety and
general welfare and to minimize those losses described in §
153.02(B) of this chapter by applying the provisions of this chapter to:
   (A)   Restrict or prohibit uses which are dangerous to health, safety or
property in times of flooding or cause undue increases in flood heights or
velocities;
   (B)   Require that uses vulnerable to floods, including public facilities
which serve such uses, be provided with flood protection at the time of initial
construction;
   (C)   Protect individuals from buying lands which are unsuited for intended
purposes because of flood hazard; and
   (D)   Assure that eligibility is maintained for property owners in the
community to purchase flood insurance in the National Flood Insurance Program.
(Ord. 64, passed 11-9-2005)
§ 153.04 DESIGNATION OF CURRENT FHBM/FIRM.
   The Board of Trustees of the village hereby designates the current Flood
Hazard Boundary Map/ Flood Insurance Rate Map dated 8-4-2005, as the official
map to be used in determining those areas of special flood hazard.
(Ord. 64, passed 11-9-2005)
§ 153.05 ABROGATION AND GREATER RESTRICTIONS.
   It is not intended by this chapter to repeal, abrogate or impair any
existent easements, covenants or deed restrictions. However, where this chapter
imposes greater restrictions, the provision of this chapter shall prevail. All
other ordinances/resolutions inconsistent with this chapter are hereby repealed
to the extent of the inconsistency only.
(Ord. 64, passed 11-9-2005)
§ 153.06 INTERPRETATION.
   In their interpretation and application, the provisions of this chapter
shall be held to be minimum requirements and shall be liberally construed in
favor of the governing body and shall not be deemed a limitation or repeal of
any other powers granted by state statutes.
(Ord. 64, passed 11-9-2005)
§ 153.07 WARNING AND DISCLAIMER OF LIABILITY.
   (A)   The degree of flood protection required by this chapter is considered
reasonable for regulatory purposes and is based on engineering and scientific
methods of study. Larger floods may occur on rare occasions or the flood height
may be increased by human-made or natural causes, such as ice jams and bridge
openings restricted by debris.
   (B)   (1)   This chapter does not imply that areas outside floodplain
district boundaries or land uses permitted within such districts will be free
from flooding or flood damage.
      (2)   This chapter shall not create liability on the part of the village
or any officer or employee thereof for any flood damages that may result from
reliance on this chapter or any administrative decision lawfully made
thereunder.
(Ord. 64, passed 11-9-2005)
§ 153.08 SEVERABILITY.
   If any section, clause, provision or portion of this chapter is adjudged
unconstitutional or invalid by a court of competent jurisdiction, the remainder
of this chapter shall not be affected thereby.
(Ord. 64, passed 11-9-2005)
§ 153.09 CONFLICTING ORDINANCES OR RESOLUTIONS.
   This chapter shall take precedence over conflicting ordinances or parts of
ordinances. The governing body of the village may, from time to time, amend
this chapter to reflect any and all changes in the National Flood Disaster
Protection Act of 1973. The regulations of this chapter are in compliance with
the National Flood Insurance Program Regulations as published in C.F.R. Title
44 and the 1983 Nebraska Floodplain Management Act.
(Ord. 64, passed 11-9-2005)
§ 153.10 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this code, the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BASE FLOOD. The flood having 1% chance of being equaled or exceeded in any
given year.
   BASEMENT. Any area of the building having its floor subgrade (below ground
level) on all sides.
   DEVELOPMENT. Any human-made change to improved or unimproved real estate,
including, but not limited to, buildings or other structures, mining, dredging,
filling, grading, paving, excavation or drilling operations or storage of
equipment or materials.
   EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A manufactured home park or
subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including, at a minimum, the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is complete before the effective date
of the floodplain management regulations adopted by a community.
   EXPANSION OF EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. The preparation
of additional sites by the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including the installation of
utilities, the construction of streets and either final site grading or the
pouring of concrete pads).
   FLOOD. A general and temporary condition of partial or complete inundation
of normally dry land areas from:
      (1)   The overflow of inland or tidal waters; or
      (2)   The unusual and rapid accumulation of runoff of surface waters from
any source.
   FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAP (FIRM). An official map of a community, on which
the Administrator has delineated both the special flood hazard areas and the
risk premium applicable to the community.
   FLOODPLAIN. Any land area susceptible to being inundated by water from any
source. (See definition of FLOODING.)
   FLOOD-PROOFING. Any combination of structural and non-structural additions,
changes or adjustments to structures which reduce or eliminate flood damage to
real estate or improved real property, water and sanitary facilities,
structures and their contents.
   FLOODWAY. The channel of the river or other watercourse and the adjacent
land areas that must be reserved in order to discharge the base flood without
cumulatively increasing the water surface elevation more than a designated
height.
   HISTORIC STRUCTURE. Any structure that is:
      (1)   Listed individually in the National Register of Historic Places (a
listing maintained by the Department of Interior) or preliminarily determined
by the Secretary of the Interior as meeting the requirements for individual
listing on the National Register;
      (2)   Certified or preliminarily determined by the Secretary of the
Interior as contributing to the historical significance of a registered
historic district or a district preliminarily determined by the Secretary to
qualify as a registered historic district;
      (3)   Individually listed on a state inventory of historic places in
states with historic preservation programs which have been approved by the
Secretary of the Interior; or
      (4)   Individually listed on a local inventory of historic places in
communities with historic preservation programs that have been certified
either:
         (a)   By an approved state program as determined by the Secretary of
the Interior; or
         (b)   Directly by the Secretary of the Interior in states without
approved programs.
   LOWEST FLOOR. The lowest floor of the lowest enclosed area (including
basement). An unfinished or flood-resistant enclosure, usable solely for
parking of vehicles, building access or storage, in an area other than a
basement area, is not considered a building’s LOWEST FLOOR; provided that, such
enclosure is not built so as to render the structure in violation of the
applicable non-elevation design requirements of this chapter.
   MANUFACTURED HOME.
      (1)   A structure, transportable in one or more sections, which is built
on a permanent chassis and is designed for use with or without a permanent
foundation when attached to the required utilities.
      (2)   The term MANUFACTURED HOME does not include a “recreational
vehicle”.
   MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A parcel (or contiguous parcels) of
land divided into two or more manufactured home lots for rent or sale.
   NEW CONSTRUCTION. For floodplain management purposes, structures for which
the start of construction commenced on or after the effective date of the
floodplain management regulation adopted by a community and includes any
subsequent improvements to such structures.
   NEW MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A manufactured home park or
subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including at a minimum the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is completed on or after the effective
date of floodplain management regulations adopted by a community.
   100-YEAR FLOOD. The condition of flooding having a 1% chance of annual
occurrence.
   PRINCIPALLY ABOVE GROUND. At least 51% of the actual cash value of the
structure is above ground.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE. A vehicle which is:
      (1)   Built on a single chassis;
      (2)   Four hundred square feet or less when measured at the largest
horizontal projection;
      (3)   Designed to be self-propelled or permanently towable by a light
duty truck; and
      (4)   Designed primarily not for use as a permanent dwelling, but as
temporary living quarters for recreational, camping, travel or seasonal use.
   REGULATORY FLOOD ELEVATION. The water surface elevation of the 100-year
flood.
   SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREA. The land in the floodplain within a community
subject to 1% or greater chance of flooding in any given year.
   START OF CONSTRUCTION. For other than new construction or substantial
improvements under the Coastal Barrier Resources Act (Pub. Law No. 97-348),
includes substantial improvement, and means the date the building permit was
issued; provided, the actual start of construction, repair, reconstruction,
rehabilitation, addition, placement or other improvement was within 180 days of
the permit date. The actual START means the first placement of permanent
construction of a structure on a site, such as the pouring of slab or footings,
the installation of piles, the construction of columns or any work beyond the
stage of excavation; or the placement of a manufactured home on a foundation.
Permanent construction does not include land preparation, such as clearing,
grading and filling; nor does it include the installation of streets and/or
walkways; nor does it include excavation for a basement, footings, piers, or
foundations or the erection of temporary forms; nor does it include the
installation on the property of accessory buildings, such as garages or sheds
not occupied as dwelling units or not part of the main structure. For a
substantial improvement, the actual START OF CONSTRUCTION means the first
alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor or other structural part of a building,
whether or not the alteration affects the external dimensions of the building.
   STRUCTURE. A walled and roofed building that is principally above ground, as
well as a manufactured home, and a gas or liquid storage tank that is
principally above ground.
   SUBSTANTIAL DAMAGE. Damage of any origin sustained by a structure whereby
the cost of restoring the structure to its before-damaged condition would equal
or exceed 50% of the market value of the structure before the damage occurred.
   SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT.
      (1)   (a)   Any reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition or other
improvement of a structure, the cost of which equals or exceeds 50% of the
market value of the structure before “start of construction” of the
improvement.
         (b)   This includes structures which have incurred “substantial
damage”, regardless of the actual repair work performed.
      (2)   The term does not, however, include either:
         (a)   Any project for improvement of a structure to correct existing
violations of state or local health, sanitary or safety code specifications
which have been identified by the local code enforcement official and which are
the minimum necessary to assure safe living conditions; or
         (b)   Any alteration of a “historic structure”; provided that, the
alteration will not preclude the structure’s continued designation as a
“historic structure”.
   VARIANCE. A grant of relief to a person from the terms of a floodplain
management ordinance.
   VIOLATION. The failure of a structure or other development to be fully
compliant with the community’s floodplain management regulations.
(Ord. 64, passed 11-9-2005)
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
§ 153.25 LOCAL ADMINISTRATOR; RESPONSIBILITIES.
   (A)   The county’s Zoning Administrator hereby has these added
responsibilities and is authorized and directed to enforce all of the
provisions of this chapter and all other ordinances of the village now in force
or hereafter adopted, related to zoning, subdivision or building codes.
   (B)   The county’s Zoning Administrator shall be appointed to these
additional responsibilities by resolution of the governing body and his or her
appointment shall continue during good behavior and satisfactory service.
During temporary absence or disability of the county’s Zoning Administrator,
the governing body of the village shall designate an acting Administrator.
(Ord. 64, passed 11-9-2005)
§ 153.26 PERMITS REQUIRED.
   (A)   No person, firm or corporation shall initiate any floodplain
development or substantial improvement or cause the same to be done without
first obtaining a separate permit for development as defined in this chapter.
   (B)   Within special flood hazard areas on the official map, separate
floodplain development permits are required for all new construction,
substantial improvements and other developments, including the placement of
manufactured homes.
   (C)   To obtain a floodplain development permit, the applicant shall first
file an application therefore in writing on a form furnished for that purpose.
Every such application shall:
      (1)   Identify and describe the development to be covered by the
floodplain development permit for which application is made;
      (2)   Describe the land on which the proposed development is to be done
by lot, block, tract and house and street address, or similar description that
will readily identify and definitely locate the proposed building or
development;
      (3)   Indicate the use or occupancy for which the proposed development is
intended;
      (4)   Be accompanied by plans and specifications for proposed
construction;
      (5)   Be signed by the permittee or his or her authorized agent who may
be required to submit evidence to indicate such authority;
      (6)   Within designated floodplain areas, be accompanied by elevations of
the lowest floor, including basement, or in the case of flood-proofed non-
residential structures, the elevation to which it shall be flood-proofed.
Documentation or certification of such elevations will be maintained by the
county’s Zoning Administrator; and
      (7)   Give such other information as reasonably may be required by the
county’s Zoning Administrator (i.e., require a statement from the applicant
that they are aware that elevating or flood-proofing structures above the
minimum levels will result in premium reduction, especially in the case of non-
residential flood-proofing when a minus one foot penalty is assessed at the
time of rating the structure for the policy premium).
(Ord. 64, passed 11-9-2005)
§ 153.27 DEVELOPMENT PERMIT APPLICATIONS; REVIEW.
   The county’s Zoning Administrator shall review all development permit
applications to determine if the site of the proposed development is reasonably
safe from flooding and that all necessary permits have been received as
required by federal or state law.
(Ord. 64, passed 11-9-2005)
§ 153.28 ALL APPLICATIONS; REVIEW.
   The county’s Zoning Administrator, in reviewing all applications for new
construction, substantial improvements, prefabricated buildings, placement of
manufactured homes and other development(s) (as defined in § 153.10 of this
chapter) will:
   (A)   Obtain, review and reasonably utilize, if available, any regulatory
flood elevation data and floodway data available from federal, state or other
sources, until such other data is provided by the Federal Insurance
Administration in a Flood Insurance Study; and require within special flood
hazard areas on the official map that the following performance standards be
met.
      (1)   Until a floodway has been designated. No development or substantial
improvement may be permitted within the identified floodplain unless the
applicant has demonstrated that the proposed development or substantial
improvement, when combined with all other existing and reasonably anticipated
developments or substantial improvements, will not increase the water surface
elevation of the 100-year flood more than one foot at any location.
      (2)   Residential construction. New construction or substantial
improvement of any residential structure shall have the lowest floor, including
basement, elevated at least one foot above the base flood elevation.
      (3)   Non-residential construction. New construction or substantial
improvement of any commercial, industrial or other non-residential structure
shall either have the lowest floor, including basement, elevated at least one
foot above the base flood elevation or, together with attendant utility and
sanitary facilities, be flood-proofed so that below such a level the structure
is water-tight with walls substantially impermeable to the passage of water and
with structural components having the capability of resisting hydrostatic and
hydrodynamic loads and effects of buoyancy. A registered professional engineer
or architect shall certify that the standards of this division (A)(3) are
satisfied. Such certification shall be provided to the local administrator.
      (4)   Require for all new construction and substantial improvements.
Fully enclosed areas below the lowest floor that are usable solely for parking
of vehicles, building access or storage in an area other than a basement and
which are subject to flooding shall be designed to automatically equalize
hydrostatic flood forces on exterior walls by allowing for the entry and exit
of flood waters. Designs for meeting this requirement must either be certified
by a registered professional engineer or architect or meet or exceed the
following minimum criteria: a minimum of two openings having a total net area
of not less than one square inch for every square foot of enclosed area subject
to flooding shall be provided. The bottom of all openings shall be no higher
than one foot above grade. Openings may be equipped with screens, louvers,
valves or other coverings or devices; provided that, they permit the automatic
entry and exit of flood waters.
   (B)   Require the use of construction materials that are resistant to flood
damage;
   (C)   Require the use of construction methods and practices that will
minimize flood damage;
   (D)   Require that new structures be designed (or modified) and adequately
anchored to prevent flotation, collapse or lateral movement of the structure
resulting from hydrodynamic and hydrostatic loads, including the effects of
buoyancy;
   (E)   New structures be constructed with electrical, heating, ventilation,
plumbing and air conditioning equipment and other service facilities that are
designed and/or located so as to prevent water from entering or accumulating
within the components during conditions of flooding;
   (F)   Assure that all manufactured homes shall be anchored to resist
flotation, collapse or lateral movement. Manufactured homes must be anchored in
accordance with state laws, local building codes and FEMA guidelines. In the
event that over-the-top frame ties to ground anchors are used, the following
specific requirements (or their equivalent) shall be met.
      (1)   Over-the-top ties be provided at each of the four corners of the
manufactured home with two additional ties per side at the intermediate
locations and manufactured homes less than 50 feet long requiring one
additional tie per side.
      (2)   Frame ties be provided at each corner of the home with five
additional ties per side at intermediate points and manufactured homes less
than 50 feet long requiring four additional ties per side.
      (3)   All components of the anchoring system be capable of carrying a
force of 4,800 pounds.
      (4)   Any additions to manufactured homes be similarly anchored.
   (G)   Assure that all manufactured homes that are placed or substantially
improved within special flood hazard areas on the community’s official map on
sites:
      (1)   Outside of a manufactured home park or subdivision;
      (2)   In a new manufactured home park or subdivision;
      (3)   In an expansion to an existing manufactured home park or
subdivision; or
      (4)   In an existing manufactured home park or subdivision on which a
manufactured home has incurred “substantial damage” as the result of a flood,
be elevated on a permanent foundation such that the lowest floor of the
manufactured home is elevated at least one foot above the base flood elevation
and be securely anchored to an adequately anchored foundation system in
accordance with the provisions of division (F) above.
   (H)   Assure that manufactured homes to be placed or substantially improved
on sites in an existing manufactured home park or subdivision within special
flood hazard areas on the community’s official map that are not subject to the
provisions of division (G) above be elevated so that either:
      (1)   The lowest floor of the manufactured home is at least one foot
above the base flood elevation; or
      (2)   The manufactured home chassis is supported by reinforced piers or
other foundation elements of at least equivalent strength that are no less than
36 inches in height above grade and be securely anchored to an adequately
anchored foundation system in accordance with the provisions of division (F)
above.
   (I)   (1)   Require that recreational vehicles placed on sites within the
identified special flood hazard areas on the community’s official map either:
         (a)   Be on the site for fewer than 180 consecutive days;
         (b)   Be fully licensed and ready for highway use; or
         (c)   Meet the permit requirements and the elevation and anchoring
requirements for “manufactured homes” of this chapter.
      (2)   A recreational vehicle is ready for highway use if it is on its
wheels or jacking system is attached to the site only by quick disconnect type
utilities and security devices, and has no permanently attached additions.
(Ord. 64, passed 11-9-2005)
§ 153.29 SUBDIVISION APPLICATIONS.
   The governing body of the village shall review all subdivision applications
and other proposed new developments (including manufactured home parks or
subdivisions) and shall make findings of fact and assure that:
   (A)   All such proposed developments are consistent with the need to
minimize flood damage;
   (B)   Subdivision proposals and other proposed new developments (including
proposals for manufactured home parks and subdivisions), greater than five
acres or 50 lots, whichever is lesser, include within such proposals regulatory
flood elevation data in special flood hazard areas;
   (C)   Adequate drainage is provided so as to reduce exposure to flood
hazards; and
   (D)   All public utilities and facilities are located so as to minimize or
eliminate flood damage.
(Ord. 64, passed 11-9-2005)
§ 153.30 VARIANCE PROCEDURES.
   (A)   The county’s Board of Zoning Adjustment, as established by the county
and the Villages of Elwood and Smithfield, shall hear and decide appeals and
requests for variances from the requirements of this chapter.
   (B)   The county’s Board of Zoning Adjustment shall hear and decide appeals
when it is alleged that there is an error in any requirement, decision or
determination made by the county’s Zoning Administrator in the enforcement or
administration of this chapter.
   (C)   Any person aggrieved by the decision of the county’s Board of Zoning
Adjustment or any taxpayer may appeal such decision to the District Court as
provided in Neb. RS 23-168 (for counties) and Neb. RS 19-912 (for
municipalities).
   (D)   In passing upon such applications, the county’s Board of Zoning
Adjustment shall consider all technical evaluation, all relevant factors,
standards specified in other sections of this chapter, and:
      (1)   The danger that materials may be swept onto other lands to the
injury of others;
      (2)   The danger to life and property due to flooding or erosion damage;
      (3)   The susceptibility of proposed facility and its contents to flood
damage and the effect of such damage on the individual owner;
      (4)   The importance of the services provided by the proposed facility to
the community;
      (5)   The necessity to the facility of a waterfront location, where
applicable;
      (6)   The availability of alternative locations, not subject to flooding
or erosion damage, for the proposed use;
      (7)   The compatibility of the proposed use with existing and anticipated
development;
      (8)   The relationship of the proposed use to the comprehensive plan and
floodplain management program for that area; and
      (9)   The safety of access to the property in times of flood for ordinary
and emergency vehicles:
         (a)   The expected heights, velocity, duration, rate of rise and
sediment transport of the flood waters and the effects of wave action, if
applicable, expected at the site; and
         (b)   The costs of providing governmental services during and after
flood conditions including maintenance and repair of public utilities and
facilities such as sewer, gas, electrical and water systems and streets and
bridges.
   (E)   (1)   Generally, variances may be issued for new construction and
substantial improvements to be erected on a lot of one-half acre or less in
size contiguous to and surrounded by lots with existing structures constructed
below the base flood level; providing, divisions (E)(1) through (E)(5) below
have been fully considered. As the lot size increases beyond the one-half acre,
the technical justification required for issuing the variance increases.
      (2)   Variances may be issued for the repair or rehabilitation of
historic structures upon a determination that the proposed repair or
rehabilitation will not preclude the structure’s continued designation as a
historic structure and the variance is the minimum necessary to preserve the
historic character and design of the structure.
      (3)   Variances shall only be issued upon a determination that the
variance is the minimum necessary, considering the flood hazard, to afford
relief.
      (4)   Variances shall only be issued upon:
         (a)   A showing of good and sufficient cause;
         (b)   A determination that failure to grant the variance would result
in exceptional hardship to the applicant; and
         (c)   A determination that the granting of a variance will not result
in increased flood heights, additional threats to public safety, extraordinary
public expense, create nuisances, cause fraud on or victimization of the public
or conflict with existing local laws or ordinances/resolutions.
      (5)   (a)   The applicant shall be given a written notice over the
signature of a community official that:
            1.   The issuance of a variance to construct a structure below base
flood level will result in increased premium rates for flood insurance up to
amounts as high as $25 for $100 of insurance coverage; and
            2.   Such construction below the base flood level increases risks
to life and property.
         (b)   Such notification shall be maintained with the record of all
variance actions as required by this chapter.
(Ord. 64, passed 11-9-2005)
§ 153.31 APPEAL.
   Where a request for a permit to develop or a variance is denied by the
county’s Zoning Administrator, the applicant may apply for such permit or
variance directly to the Board of Appeals.
(Ord. 64, passed 11-9-2005)
FLOOD HAZARD PREVENTION
§ 153.45 WATER AND SEWAGE SYSTEMS.
   (A)   New and replacement water and sewage systems shall be constructed to
eliminate or minimize infiltration by, or discharge into, flood waters.
   (B)   Moreover, on-site waste disposal systems will be designed to avoid
impairment or contamination during flooding.
(Ord. 64, passed 11-9-2005) Penalty, see §
153.99
§ 153.46 STORAGE OF MATERIAL AND EQUIPMENT.
   The storage or processing of materials that are in time of flooding buoyant,
flammable, explosive or could be injurious to human, animal or plant life is
prohibited. Storage of other material or equipment may be allowed if not
subject to major damage by floods and firmly anchored to prevent flotation or
if readily removable from the area within the time available after flood
warning.
(Ord. 64, passed 11-9-2005) Penalty, see §
153.99
§ 153.47 FLOOD-CARRYING CAPACITY WITHIN ANY WATERCOURSE.
   The governing body of the village will ensure that the flood-carrying
capacity within the altered or relocated portion of any watercourse is
maintained. The village will notify, in riverine situations, adjacent
communities and the state’s coordinating office (Department of Natural
Resources) prior to any alteration or relocation of a watercourse and submit
copies of such notifications to the Federal Emergency Management Agency.
Moreover, the village will work with appropriate state and federal agencies in
every way possible in complying with the National Flood Insurance Program in
accordance with the National Disaster Protection Act of 1973.
(Ord. 64, passed 11-9-2005)
§ 153.48 NON-CONFORMING USE.
   (A)   A structure or the use of a structure or premises which was lawful
before the passage or amendment of this chapter, but which is not in conformity
with the provisions of this chapter, may be continued subject to the following
conditions:
      (1)   If such use is discontinued for six consecutive months, any future
use of the building premises shall conform to this chapter; and
      (2)   Uses or adjuncts thereof, which are or become nuisances shall not
be entitled to continue as non-conforming uses.
   (B)   If any non-conforming use or structure is destroyed by any means,
including flood, it shall not be reconstructed if the cost is more than 50% of
the market value of the structure before the damage occurred; except that, if
it is reconstructed in conformity with the provisions of this chapter. This
limitation does not include the cost of any alteration to comply with existing
state or local health, sanitary, building or safety codes or regulations or the
cost of any alteration of a structure listed on the National Register of
Historic Places or a state inventory of historic places.
(Ord. 64, passed 11-9-2005)
§ 153.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   (1)   Violation of the provisions of this chapter or failure to comply
with any of its requirements (including violations of conditions and safeguards
established in connection with grants of variances or special exceptions) shall
constitute a misdemeanor. Any person who violates this chapter or fails to
comply with any of its requirements shall upon conviction thereof be fined not
more than $100 per day, and in addition, shall pay all costs and expenses
involved in the case.
      (2)   Each day such violation continues shall be considered a separate
offense.
   (B)   Nothing herein contained shall prevent the village or other
appropriate authority from taking such other lawful action as is necessary to
prevent or remedy any violation.
(Ord. 64, passed 11-9-2005)
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to Nebraska Revised Statutes
References to 1995 Code
References to Resolutions
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO NEBRASKA REVISED STATUTES
Neb. RS Section Code Section
Neb. RS Section                       Code Section
10-101 through 10-143                 34.16
11-101                                30.02,
                                      31.02
11-104                                31.01
11-105                                31.01
11-109                                31.01
11-110                                31.01
11-111                                31.01
11-112                                31.01
11-113                                31.01
11-114                                31.01
11-115                                31.01
11-116                                31.01
11-117                                31.01
11-118                                31.01
13-504                                34.02
13-505                                34.02
13-506                                34.02
13-507                                34.02
13-508                                34.02
13-509                                34.02
13-509.01                             34.05
13-509.02                             34.05
13-510                                34.15
13-518 to 13-522                      34.02
13-903                                34.08
17-137                                130.22
                                      53.001,
17-149                                53.003,
                                      53.005
17-149.01                             53.005
17-202                                30.01
17-203                                30.01
17-203.01                             30.22,
                                      30.23
17-204                                30.02,
                                      30.20
17-205                                30.20
                                      10.99,
17-207                                30.04,
                                      35.01
17-2080                               31.15,
                                      32.35
17-209                                31.03
                                      30.01,
17-209.02                             31.03,
                                      31.16
                                      30.03,
17-210                                30.20,
                                      35.07
17-214                                31.21
                                      31.19,
17-405                                151.01,
                                      151.02,
                                      151.03
17-417                                151.04
17-418                                151.05
17-426                                151.01,
                                      151.02
17-502                                11.01
17-503                                55.17
17-503.01                             55.17
17-505                                10.99,
                                      35.01
17-506                                34.14
17-510                                55.63
17-511                                55.62
17-522                                55.34
17-524                                55.62
17-525                                110.01
                                      91.21,
                                      91.25,
17-526                                91.27,
                                      91.32,
                                      91.34,
                                      91.40
17-531                                52.01
17-534                                52.01
17-536                                52.14
                                      52.03,
                                      52.04,
                                      52.05,
                                      52.11,
17-537                                52.12,
                                      52.16,
                                      52.18,
                                      52.21,
                                      52.37
17-538                                52.07,
                                      52.10
17-539                                52.15
17-540                                34.13
17-541                                31.22,
                                      52.07
                                      52.06,
17-542                                52.08,
                                      52.09,
                                      52.22
17-547                                91.01,
                                      91.02
17-550                                54.24
                                      55.18,
17-555                                90.01,
                                      130.25,
                                      130.26
                                      130.43,
17-556                                131.01,
                                      131.02
17-557                                55.32,
                                      130.25
17-557.01                             55.32,
                                      55.33
17-558                                55.51
17-559                                55.51
17-563                                130.28
17-563.01                             55.19
17-567                                55.16
17-568                                31.19
17-568.01                             31.19,
                                      34.06
17-601.01                             33.09
17-601.02                             33.09
17-601.03                             33.09
17-602                                33.03
                                      31.01,
17-604                                31.03,
                                      31.15
17-605                                31.17
17-606                                31.18
17-606(2)                             31.18
17-607                                34.12
17-608                                34.13
17-609                                34.13
17-610                                31.23
17-611                                31.03
17-612                                31.03
                                      35.04,
17-613                                35.07,
                                      35.08
                                      10.15,
17-614                                35.05,
                                      35.06,
                                      35.09
17-615                                35.07
17-616                                35.06
17-701                                34.01
17-702                                34.11
17-706                                34.03
17-710                                34.10
17-711                                34.09
17-714                                34.08
17-715                                34.08
17-919                                31.19
17-920                                130.26
                                      53.001,
17-925.01                             53.009,
                                      53.011,
                                      53.016
17-948 through 17-952                 55.01
17-1001                               150.32
                                      151.01,
17-1002                               151.02,
                                      151.06
                                      151.03,
17-1003                               151.04,
                                      151.05
18-131                                35.07
                                      10.16,
                                      35.01,
18-132                                54.20,
                                      150.30,
                                      150.31,
                                      150.32
18-305 through 18-312                 31.04
18-503                                53.011
18-1001 through 18-1006               55.17
18-1208                               110.01
18-1701                               31.17
                                      10.99,
                                      30.04,
                                      90.01,
18-1720                               130.01,
                                      130.24,
                                      130.44,
                                      150.46
18-1722                               10.99,
                                      150.50
18-1722.01                            150.46
18-1748                               53.013
18-1752                               51.24—
                                      51.27
18-1801 through 18-1805               34.16
18-2146                               150.31
18-2501 through 18-2511               35.20
18-2512                               35.21
18-2513                               35.21
18-2516                               35.23
18-2517                               35.24
18-2518                               35.25
18-2519                               35.25
18-2520                               35.27
18-2521                               35.28
18-2522                               35.29
18-2523 through 18-2526               35.30
18-2527                               35.31
18-2528                               35.31
18-2529 through 18-2531               35.32
18-2532 through 18-2535               35.99
19-710                                90.03
                                      54.20,
                                      151.01,
19-902                                151.02,
                                      151.03,
                                      151.06
19-912                                153.30
19-915                                35.09
19-916                                151.07,
                                      151.08
19-922                                35.01
19-1101                               31.18
19-1102                               31.17
19-1103                               31.17,
                                      31.18
19-1301                               34.11
19-1302                               34.11
19-1303                               34.11
19-1304                               34.11
19-1305                               52.01
19-1309                               34.04
19-1310                               34.04
19-1311                               34.04
19-1312                               34.04
19-2101 through 19-2113               51.01
19-2106                               51.22
19-2427                               55.64
                                      52.03,
19-2701                               52.20,
                                      53.003
19-2903                               34.07
19-2905                               34.07
19-3101                               30.05
19-3701                               35.08
20-203                                91.28
23-122                                31.17
23-168                                153.30
23-553                                91.03,
                                      91.04
25-505.01                             33.11
25-510.02                             35.22
25-515                                35.22
25-2514                               35.22
25-2703                               35.01
28-101                                91.06
Ch. 28, Art. 3, 4, 7, 8, 10, 11 or 12 111.22
28-308                                130.41
28-309                                130.41
28-310                                130.41
28-431                                132.01
28-510                                130.16
28-511                                130.16
28-520                                91.28,
                                      130.15
28-521                                91.28,
                                      130.15
28-523                                130.18,
                                      130.22
28-552                                91.03,
                                      91.04
28-903                                52.04
28-906                                91.29
28-907                                54.08
28-908                                52.02,
                                      54.06
28-1002                               91.30
28-1202                               131.02
28-1241                               130.20
28-1241 through 28-1252               130.21
28-1322                               130.42
28-1420                               112.01
28-1420 to 28-1429                    112.02
28-1421                               112.01
28-1422                               112.02
28-1423                               112.02
28-1424                               112.04
28-1425                               112.04,
                                      112.07
28-1426                               112.05 
28-1428                               112.06
28-1429                               112.07
29-4003                               130.45
29-4013                               130.45
31-1001 to 31-1022                    153.01
32-101                                30.01,
                                      Ch. 33
32-110                                33.03
32-115                                33.03
32-404                                33.01,
                                      33.05
32-405                                33.04
32-532                                30.01
32-554                                30.01
32-556                                33.01
32-557                                30.01,
                                      33.06
32-559                                33.04
32-560                                30.05
32-560 through 32-572                 30.05
32-561                                30.05
32-562                                33.11
32-567 to 32-570                      33.11
32-569                                30.05
32-574                                33.11
32-602                                30.01
32-604                                30.01
32-606                                33.07
32-607                                33.07
32-608                                33.08,
                                      33.10
32-615                                33.10
32-616                                33.10
32-617                                33.10
32-618                                33.10
32-621                                33.10
32-622                                33.07
32-625                                33.07
32-625(2)                             33.10
32-627                                33.07,
                                      33.10
32-628                                33.10
32-629                                33.10,
                                      33.10
32-630                                33.10
32-710                                33.10
32-802                                33.02
32-952 through 32-959                 33.04
32-1301                               33.01
32-1302                               33.11
32-1303                               33.11
32-1304                               33.11
32-1305                               33.11
32-1306                               33.11
32-1307                               33.11
32-1308                               30.05,
                                      33.11
32-1309                               33.11
32-1525                               33.12
33-141                                31.18
35-106                                110.01,
                                      110.06
39-301                                130.25
39-302                                130.25
39-307                                130.23
39-6,131                              55.60
49-801(16)                            10.05
49-1408                               31.04
49-1425                               31.04
49-1499.03                            31.04
49-1499.04                            31.04
49-14,102                             31.04
49-14,103.01                          31.04
49-14,103.01 to 49-14,103.06          31.16
49-14,103.02                          31.04
49-14,103.03                          31.04
49-14,103.04                          31.04
49-14,103.05                          31.04
49-14,103.06                          31.04
51-201                                32.36
51-201 to 51-220                      32.36
51-202                                32.36
51-205                                32.36
51-209                                32.36
51-211                                32.36
51-214                                32.36
51-215                                34.11
51-216                                34.11
53-101.1                              111.16
53-102                                111.15,
                                      111.16
53-103.01 through 53-103.42           111.01,
                                      130.40
53-103.23                             130.40
53-118                                111.43
53-123.04(3)                          130.40
53-123.11(1)(c)                       130.40
53-124                                111.19,
                                      111.35
53-124.01                             111.35
53-124.12                             111.19
53-124.15                             111.37
53-125                                111.22
53-131                                111.18,
                                      111.35
                                      34.31,
                                      110.01,
53-132                                111.18,
                                      111.35,
                                      111.37
                                      111.16,
53-134                                111.18,
                                      111.35
                                      111.35,
53-134.03                             111.40,
                                      111.43
53-135                                111.20
53-135.01                             111.20,
                                      111.35
53-148                                111.21
53-160                                110.01
53-177                                111.37
53-177.01                             111.37
53-178                                111.38
53-179                                111.36
53-180.01                             130.40
53-180.02                             130.40
53-180.05                             130.40
53-182(4)(d)                          34.31
53-183                                111.41
53-184                                111.42
53-186                                111.46
53-186(2)                             111.46
53-186.01                             111.46
53-1,101                              111.39
53-1,102                              111.39
53-1,121                              111.47
53-401 through 53-409                 130.40
54-601                                91.33
54-602                                91.33
54-603                                91.21
54-606                                91.20
55-133                                70.01
Ch. 60                             71.07
60-136                                90.01
60-169                                132.01
60-301                                72.06,
                                      132.01
60-376                                132.01,
                                      132.02
60-462                                70.03
60-4,126                              71.07
60-606 through 60-676                 70.01
60-607                                70.01
60-610                                70.01
60-613                                70.01
60-624                                70.01
60-631                                70.01
60-638                                70.01
60-646                                70.01
60-654                                70.01
60-656                                70.01
60-658.01                             70.01
60-661                                70.01
60-669                                70.01
60-670                                70.01
60-671                                70.01
60-672                                70.01
60-676                                70.01
                                      70.02,
60-680                                71.01,
                                      72.02 ,
                                      71.08
60-683                                70.03
60-6,110                              70.03
60-6,112 through 60-6,121             70.02
60-6,114                              70.03
60-6,118                              70.01
60-6,119                              70.03
60-6,121                              70.02
60-6,129                              70.02
60-6,138                              71.03
60-6,146 through 60-6,154             71.02
60-6,159                              71.01
60-6,165                              72.12
                                      54.05,
60-6,166                              72.03,
                                      72.12
60-6,168                              72.01
60-6,184                              54.07
60-6,185                              71.05
60-6,186                              73.064
60-6,211.08                           111.46,
                                      130.40
60-6,288 to 60-6,290                  70.03
60-6,294                              70.03
60-6,355(b)                           71.07
60-6,355 through 60-6,362             71.07
60-1901                               132.01
60-1902                               132.01
60-1903                               132.01
60-1903.01                            132.01
60-1904                               132.01
60-1905                               132.01
60-1906                               132.01
60-1907                               132.01
60-1908                               132.01
60-1909                               132.01
60-1911                               132.01
66-489                                110.01
66-489.02                             110.01
66-4,140                              110.01
66-4,145                              110.01
66-4,146                              110.01
69-2427 to 69-2499                    131.02
70-624.04                             31.04
                                      52.08,
70-1601 through 70-1615               52.09,
                                      53.011
70-1602                               50.02
70-1603                               50.02
70-1604                               50.02
70-1607                               50.02
70-1608 to 70-1614                    50.02
70-1615                               50.02
70-2103                               130.15
71-1572 through 71-15,168             32.38
71-4401                               91.20
71-4406                               91.35
71-4412                               91.21
71-4603                               132.01
71-6403                               53.055,
                                      150.30
77-1343                               55.64
77-1725.01                            150.48
77-2201                               31.18
77-2201 through 77-2215               31.18
77-2202                               31.18
77-2209                               31.18
77-2210                               31.18
77-2212                               31.18
77-2341                               34.13
77-2362                               34.12
77-2363                               34.12
77-2364                               34.12
77-2365.01                            34.12
77-2366                               34.12
77-2386                               34.12
77-2602                               110.01
77-2704.24                            110.01
77-3444                               33.04
77-4008                               110.01
81-502                                54.20
81-520.01                             54.23
84-712 through 84-712.09              31.17,
                                      31.18
84-712(2)                             31.17
84-1201 through 84-1220               31.17
84-1408                               32.17
84-1409                               32.16
84-1410                               32.18
                                      32.17,
84-1411                               32.19,
                                      32.22
84-1412                               32.23
84-1413                               32.20,
                                      32.21
86-704                                110.01
                                      
 
REFERENCES TO 1995 CODE
1995 Code 2017 Code
1995 Code 2017 Code
1-101     30.01
1-102     30.02
1-103     30.03
1-104     30.04
1-105     30.05
1-201     31.15
1-202     31.16
1-203     31.17
1-204     31.18
1-205     31.18
1-206     31.18
1-207     31.19
1-208     31.20
1-209     31.21
1-210     31.22
1-211     31.23
1-301     31.01
1-302     31.02
1-401     11.01
1-501     32.15
1-502     32.16
1-503     32.17
1-504     32.18
1-505     32.19
1-506     32.20
1-507     32.21
1-508     32.22
1-509     32.23
1-510     30.20
1-511     30.21
1-512     30.22
1-513     30.23
1-601     35.01
1-602     35.02
1-603     35.03
1-604     35.04
1-605     35.05
1-606     35.06
1-607     35.07
1-608     35.08
1-609     35.09
1-801     34.01
1-802     34.02
1-803     34.02
1-804     34.02
1-805     34.02
1-806     34.03
1-807     34.04
1-808     34.04
1-809     34.04
1-810     34.04
1-812     34.05
1-813     34.06
1-814     34.07
1-815     34.08
1-816     34.09
1-817     34.10
1-818     34.11
1-819     34.12
1-820     34.13
1-821     34.14
1-822     34.15
1-901     31.03
1-902     31.04
1-1001    35.45
1-1101    35.20
1-1102    35.21
1-1103    35.22
1-1104    35.23
1-1105    35.24
1-1106    35.25
1-1107    35.26
1-1108    35.27
1-1109    35.28
1-1110    35.29
1-1111    35.30
1-1112    35.31
1-1113    35.32
1-1114    35.99
2-101     32.01
2-102     32.35
2-103     32.35
2-104     32.36
2-105     32.37
2-106     32.37
2-107     32.37
2-108     32.38
2-201     32.02
2-202     32.02
3-101     52.01
3-102     52.02
3-103     52.03
3-104     52.04
3-105     52.05
3-106     52.06
3-107     52.07
3-108     52.08
3-109     52.09
3-110     52.10
3-111     52.11
3-112     52.12
3-113     52.13
3-114     52.14
3-115     52.15
3-116     52.16
3-117     52.17
3-118     52.18
3-119     52.19
3-120     52.20
3-121     52.21
3-122     52.22
3-123     52.23
3-124     52.24
3-125     52.35—
          52.37
3-126     52.38
3-127     52.39
3-128     52.40
3-130     52.41
3-131     52.42
3-132     52.42
3-133     52.42
3-134     52.42
3-135     52.42
3-141     52.59
3-142     52.60
3-143     52.61
3-144     52.62
3-145     52.63
3-201     53.001
3-202     53.002
3-203     53.003
3-204     53.004
3-205     53.005
3-206     53.006
3-207     53.007
3-208     53.008
3-209     53.009
3-210     53.010
3-211     53.011
3-212     53.012
3-213     53.013
3-214     53.014
3-215     53.015
3-216     53.016
3-217     53.030
3-218     53.031
3-219     53.032
3-220     53.033
3-221     53.034
3-222     53.035
3-223     53.050
3-224     53.051
3-225     53.052
3-226     53.053
3-227     53.054
3-228     53.055
3-229     53.056
3-230     53.057
3-231     53.058
3-232     53.070
3-233     53.071
3-234     53.072
3-235     53.073
3-236     53.074
3-237     53.075
3-238     53.076
3-239     53.076
3-240     53.077
3-241     53.073
3-242     53.090
3-243     53.091
3-244     53.092 
3-245     53.093
3-246     53.001
3-301     51.01
3-302     51.02
3-303     51.03
3-304     51.04
3-305     51.05
3-306     51.06
3-307     51.07
3-308     51.08
3-309     51.09
3-312     130.20
3-401     55.01
3-402     55.02
3-403     55.03
3-501     32.36
3-502     32.36
3-503     32.36
3-601     50.01
3-602     50.02
4-201     51.20
4-202     51.21
4-203     51.22
4-204     51.23
4-205     51.24
4-206     51.25
4-207     51.26
4-208     51.27
5-101     70.01
5-102     71.01
5-103     71.01
5-104     71.02
5-105     71.02
5-106     71.03
5-108     70.02
5-110     71.04
5-111     71.04
5-112     71.04
5-202     70.02
5-203     71.05
5-204     Ch. 73, Schd. I
5-209     71.06
5-217.1   71.08
5-218     70.03
5-219     70.03
5-221     70.03
5-224     70.03
5-301     72.01
5-302     72.02
5-303     72.03
5-304     72.04
5-305     72.04
5-306     72.04
5-307     72.05
5-317     72.06
5-318     72.07
5-319     72.07
5-320     72.08 
5-321     72.09
5-322     72.10, Ch. 74 Schd. II
5-322.1   Ch. 74 Schd. I
5-323     Ch. 74 Schd. II
5-324     72.11
5-325     72.12
6-101     91.20
6-102     91.20
6-103     91.21
6-104     91.22
6-105     91.23
6-106     91.20
6-107     91.24
6-108     91.25
6-109     91.26
6-110     91.27
6-111     91.28
6-112     91.29
6-113     91.30
6-114     91.31
6-115     91.32
6-116     91.33
6-117     91.34
6-118     91.35
6-119     91.35
6-120     91.36
6-121     91.37
6-122     91.38
6-123     91.39
6-124     91.39
6-125     91.39
6-126     91.40
6-201     91.01
6-202     91.02
6-203     91.03
6-204     91.04
6-205     91.05
6-207     91.06
6-208     91.06
6-209     91.06
6-301     130.15
6-302     130.16
6-303     130.17
6-304     130.18
6-305     130.40
6-306     130.40
6-307     130.19
6-308     130.19
6-309     131.01
6-310     131.02
6-311     131.03
6-313     130.41
6-314     130.42
6-315     130.43
6-316     130.22
6-317     130.23
6-318     130.24
6-319     130.25
6-320     130.26
6-321     130.27
6-322     130.28
6-324     132.01
6-325     132.02
6-326     132.03
6-327     130.01
7-101     54.01
7-102     54.02
7-103     54.03
7-104     54.04
7-105     54.05
7-106     54.06
7-107     54.07
7-108     54.08
7-201     54.20
7-202     54.21
7-203     54.22
7-204     54.23
7-205     54.24
8-101     55.15
8-102     55.16
8-103     55.17
8-104     55.18
8-105     55.18
8-106     55.19
8-123     34.16
8-201     55.30
8-202     55.31
8-203     55.32
8-204     55.33
8-205     55.34
8-206     55.35
8-301     55.50
8-302     55.51
8-303     55.52
8-304     55.53
8-305     55.54
8-306     55.55
8-307     55.56
8-308     55.57
8-309     55.58
8-310     55.59
8-311     55.60
8-313     55.61
8-314     55.62
8-315     55.63
8-316     55.63
8-317     55.64
8-401     55.65
9-101     150.15
9-102     150.16
9-103     150.17
9-104     150.18
9-201     150.30
9-301     150.31
9-401     150.32
9-601     150.01
9-701     150.45
9-702     150.46
9-703     150.47
9-704     150.48
9-705     150.49
9-706     150.50
10-101    111.01
10-102    111.15
10-103    111.16
10-104    111.17
10-105    111.18
10-106    111.19
10-107    111.20
10-108    111.35
10-109    111.36
10-110    111.37
10-111    111.38
10-112    111.21
10-113    111.22
10-114    111.39
10-115    111.39
10-116    111.40
10-117    111.41
10-119    111.42
10-120    111.43
10-121    111.44
10-122    111.45
10-123    111.46
10-124    111.47
10-125    111.40
10-201    152.01
10-202    152.02
10-203    152.03
10-204    152.04
10-205    152.05
10-206    152.06
10-207    152.06
10-208    152.07
10-301    112.01
10-601    115.01
10-602    115.02
10-603    130.21
10-701    114.01
10-702    114.01
10-703    114.01
10-704    114.01
10-801    110.01
10-802    110.02
10-803    110.03
10-804    110.04
10-805    110.05
10-806    110.06
11-101    11.02
11-102    11.02
11-201    151.01
11-202    151.02
11-203    151.03
11-204    151.04
11-205    151.05
11-206    151.06
11-207    151.07
11-208    151.08
12-101    34.30
12-102    34.31
          
 
REFERENCES TO RESOLUTIONS
 
Res. No. Date Passed Code Section
2017-06  12-13-2017  34.31
                    
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
84-1     - -         34.31
89-1     - -         34.31
86-3     9-3-1986    32.37
88-1     3-2-1988    111.36
90-1     4-4-1990    52.23
23       8-7-1996    Ch. 73 Sch. I
                     52.05,
24       8-7-1996    52.06,
                     53.008
30       7-2-1997    71.04
31       12-3-1997   Ch. 74 Sch. I
36       6-10-1998   34.31
38       6-10-1998   Ch. 73 Sch. I
41       8-11-1999   71.08
42       4-12-2000   71.04
                     52.55—
50       7-10-2002   52.58,
                     52.99
52       1-8-2003    130.45,
                     130.99
53       12-10-2003  32.37
54       2-11-2004   52.64
55       4-14-2004   55.36
56       5-12-2004   91.28,
                     91.99
57       5-12-2004   91.99
58       8-11-2004   32.39
63       10-12-2005  91.01
                     153.01—
                     153.10,
                     153.25—
64       11-9-2005   153.31,
                     153.45—
                     153.48,
                     153.99
65       8-9-2006    130.45,
                     130.99
66       12-13-2006  130.20
                     91.01,
69       11-14-2007  91.07,
                     91.08,
                     91.99
70       8-13-2008   113.02,
                     113.13
72       11-12-2008  130.28
76       6-8-2011    71.04
78       10-21-2011  130.45
79       5-9-2012    113.02
82       6-12-2013   91.38,
                     91.99
86       11-12-2014  34.45—
                     34.47
87       2-11-2015   34.31,
                     150.18
88       6-10-2015   113.99
89       7-8-2015    130.99
91       7-13-2016   70.99
95       11-9-2016   32.37
97       4-12-2017   Adopting Ordinance
2017-01  7-12-2017   72.07
2017-04  12-13-2017  71.07
2017-05  12-13-2017  91.21
2018-01  1-10-2018   32.38
2018-02  3-30-2018   71.08
2018-03  7-11-2018   150.18,
                     150.19
2018-07  10-10-2018  32.37
2018-08  11-14-2018  35.07
2019-01  4-17-2019   111.36
                     113.01,
2019-03  12-11-2019  113.02,
                     113.14
2020-01  6-10-2020   91.28,
                     91.33
2020-04  10-14-2020  91.28
2020-06  12-9-2020   31.05
2021-01  6-9-2021    91.01
2021-03  11-16-2021  90.01—
                     90.04
2022-03  6-8-2022    91.01
2022-04  9-14-2022   91.99
                    
 
 
