FRANKLIN, NEBRASKA
CODE OF ORDINANCES
2023 S-3 Supplement contains:
Local legislation current through Ord. 945, passed 11-8-2022
 
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
One West Fourth Street, Third Floor
Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
Tel: (800) 445-5588
Fax: (513) 763-3562
Internet: http://www.amlegal.com
OFFICIALS
of the
CITY OF FRANKLIN, NEBRASKA
 
Elected Officials
Margaret Siel, Mayor
Kasey Loschen, President
Sandy Urbina, Councilperson
David Platt, Councilperson
Fred Beall, Councilperson
 
Officials
Mike Bower            Electric Superintendent/Plant Supervisor
Raquel Felzien        City Clerk/Treasurer
Lawrence Stover, Jr.  Sanitation/Waste Reduction Director
Michelle Kahrs        Deputy City Clerk
Drew Boston           Water/Sewer
Bryan McQuay          City Attorney
Jennifer Woodis       Chief of Police
Amanda Shelton        Library Director
Barry Rubendall       Street Commissioner
Cory Davis            Cemetery/Park Director
Shannan Carraher      Utility Worker
 
ADOPTING ORDINANCES
ORDINANCE NO. 908
AN ORDINANCE OF THE CITY OF FRANKLIN, NEBRASKA, TO REVISE ALL THE ORDINANCES OF
THE CITY OF FRANKLIN, NEBRASKA, TO REPEAL PRIOR ORDINANCES, TO REQUIRE FILING,
AND TO PROVIDE AN EFFECTIVE DATE.
   BE IT ORDAINED BY THE MAYOR AND COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF FRANKLIN, NEBRASKA:
   Section 1. The general ordinances of the City of Franklin, Nebraska are
hereby revised, codified, and printed in book form as the "Code of Ordinances
of Franklin, Nebraska" consisting of the following Titles:
FRANKLIN, NEBRASKA
TABLE OF CONTENTS
   CHAPTER 1: ADMINISTRATIVE
         1.   Elected Officials
         2.   Appointed Officials
         3.   Bonds and Oath
         4.   Corporate Seal
         5.   Meetings
         6.   Ordinances, Resolutions and Motions
         7.   Elections
         8.   Fiscal Management
         9.   Compensation
         10.   Initiative and Referendum
         11.   Intergovernmental Risk Management
         12.   Penal Provision
   CHAPTER 2: COMMISSIONS AND BOARDS
         1.   Commissions and Boards
         2.   Penal Provision
   CHAPTER 3: DEPARTMENTS
         1.   Water Department
         2.   Sewer Department
         3.   Police Department
         4.   Parks
         5.   Library
         6.   Cemetery
         7.   Municipal Electrical System
         8.   Cogeneration
         9.   Utilities Generally
         10.   Penal Provision
   CHAPTER 4: HEALTH AND SANITATION
      1.   General Provisions
      2.   Garbage Disposal
      3.   Nuisances and Pollution
      4.   Junk Yards
      5.   Solid Waste Disposal
      6.   Penal Provision
   CHAPTER 5: TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
      1.   Municipal Traffic Regulations
      2.   Operator and Vehicle Qualifications
      3.   Parking
   CHAPTER 6: POLICE REGULATIONS
      1.   Dogs and Cats
      2.   Animals Generally
         3.   Miscellaneous Misdemeanors
         4.   Penal Provision
   CHAPTER 7: FIRE REGULATIONS
         1.   Fires
         2.   Fire Prevention
         3.   Gasoline Storage
         4.   Penal Provision
   CHAPTER 8: PUBLIC WAYS AND PROPERTY
         1.   Municipal Property
         2.   Sidewalks
         3.   Streets
         4.   Curb and Gutter
         5.   Penal Provision
   CHAPTER 9: BUILDING REGULATIONS
         1.   Building Code
         2.   Residential Code
         3.   Plumbing Code
         4.   Electrical Code
         5.   Penal Provision
   CHAPTER 10: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
         1.   Alcoholic Beverages
         2.   Sales and Advertising
         3.   Public Amusements
         4.   Business Enterprises
         5.   Occupation Taxes
         6.   Franchise Agreements
         7.   Tobacco Sales
         8.   Lottery
         9.   Sexually Oriented Businesses
         10.   Sales and Use Tax
         11.   Penal Provision
   CHAPTER 11: MUNICIPAL PLANNING
         1.   Comprehensive Plan
         2.   Zoning Regulations
         3.   Subdivision Regulations
         4.   Conflicts
         5.   Group Homes
         6.   Flood Plain Regulations
         7.   Penal Provision
   PARALLEL REFERENCES
      References to Nebraska Revised Statutes
      References to Ordinances
   Section 2. The Code of Ordinances contains all the provisions of a general
nature pertaining to the subjects enumerated and embraced in the code. All
prior ordinances pertaining to the subjects treated by the code are repealed,
except that nothing shall affect any rights acquired under, actions involving,
or fines, penalties, forfeitures, or liabilities incurred pursuant to such
ordinances prior to repeal.
   Section 3. All ordinances of a temporary or special nature and all other
ordinances pertaining to subjects not embraced in the Code of Ordinances,
including ordinances specified in this section, shall remain in full force and
effect unless repealed expressly or by necessary implication.
      a.   Vacating or setting the boundaries of streets, alleys, or other
public places.
      b.   Annexing or detaching territory.
      c.   Granting or accepting easements, plats, or dedication of land to
public use.
      d.   Providing for the acquisition or conveyance of real or personal
property.
      e.   Authorizing or directing public improvements to be made.
      f.   Levying taxes or special assessments.
      g.   Appropriating money.
      h.   Granting franchises or special licenses.
      i.   Providing for the issuance of bonds or other instruments of
indebtedness.
   Section 4. At least one copy of the Code of Ordinances shall be on file in
the office of the City Clerk and available for inspection by members of the
public during the hours the office is kept open for the ordinary transaction of
business. The Clerk shall file a copy of the ordinances with the County Court.
   Section 5. This ordinance will be in full force and shall take effect from
and after its passage, approval, and publication according to law.
PASSED AND APPROVED this 9th day of November, 2015.
                              APPROVED:
                              Jeremy D. Bonham /s/
                              Mayor
ATTEST:
Cheryl K. Saathoff /s/
City Clerk
(Seal)
CHAPTER 1: ADMINISTRATIVE
   Article
      
1.   ELECTED OFFICIALS
      
2.   APPOINTED OFFICIALS
      
3.   BONDS AND OATH
      
4.   CORPORATE SEAL
      
5.   MEETINGS
      
6.   ORDINANCES, RESOLUTIONS AND MOTIONS
      
7.   ELECTIONS
      
8.   FISCAL MANAGEMENT
      
9.   COMPENSATION
      
10.   INITIATIVE AND REFERENDUM
      
11.   INTERGOVERNMENTAL RISK MANAGEMENT
      
12.   PENAL PROVISION
ARTICLE 1: ELECTED OFFICIALS
Section
   
1-101   Mayor; election; qualifications; term
   
1-102   Mayor; powers and duties
   
1-103   Mayor; vacancy
   
1-104   City Council; election; qualifications; terms
   
1-105   City Council; President; Acting President
   
1-106   City Council; standing committees
   
1-107   City Council; vacancy; general provisions
   
1-108   City Council; vacancy due to unexcused absences
§ 1-101 MAYOR; ELECTION; QUALIFICATIONS; TERM.
   (A)   The Mayor shall be elected as provided in the Election Act. The Mayor
shall take office on the date of the first regular meeting of the City Council
held in December following the statewide general election. The Mayor shall be a
resident and registered voter of the city.
(Neb. RS 17-107)
   (B)   The Mayor shall serve for a term of four years or until his or her
successor is elected and qualified.
(Neb. RS 32-533)
(Ord. 312, passed 6-14-1976; Ord. 376, passed 10-13-1980)
§ 1-102 MAYOR; POWERS AND DUTIES.
   (A)   The Mayor shall preside at all meetings of the City Council. The Mayor
may vote when his or her vote would provide the additional vote required to
attain the number of votes equal to a majority of the number of members elected
to the City Council on any pending matter, legislation, or transaction, and the
Mayor shall, for the purpose of such vote, be deemed to be a member of the
Council. He or she shall have superintendence and control of all the officers
and affairs of the city, and shall take care that the ordinances of the city
and all laws governing cities of the second class are complied with.
(Neb. RS 17-110)
   (B)   The Mayor shall have the power to veto or sign any ordinance passed by
the City Council and to approve or veto any order, bylaw, resolution, award of
or vote to enter into any contract, or the allowance of any claim. If the Mayor
approves the ordinance, order, bylaw, resolution, contract, or claim, he or she
shall sign it, and it shall become effective. If the Mayor vetoes the
ordinance, order, bylaw, resolution, contract, or any item or items of
appropriations or claims, he or she shall return it to the City Council stating
that the measure is vetoed. The Mayor may issue the veto at the meeting at
which the measure passed or within seven calendar days after the meeting. If
the Mayor issues the veto after the meeting, the Mayor shall notify the City
Clerk of the veto in writing. The Clerk shall notify the City Council in
writing of the Mayor's veto. Any order, bylaw, resolution, award of or vote to
enter into any contract, or the allowance of any claim vetoed by the Mayor may
be passed over his or her veto by a vote of two-thirds of the members of the
Council. If the Mayor neglects or refuses to sign any ordinance, order, bylaw,
resolution, award of or vote to enter into any contract, or the allowance of
any claim, but fails to veto the measure within the time required by this
section, the measure shall become effective without his or her signature. The
Mayor may veto any item or items of any appropriation bill or any claims bill,
and approve the remainder thereof, and the item or items vetoed may be passed
by the Council over the veto as in other cases.
(Neb. RS 17-111)
   (C)   The Mayor shall, from time to time, communicate to the City Council
such information and recommend such measures as, in his or her opinion, may
tend to the improvement of the finances, the police, health, security,
ornament, comfort, and general prosperity of the city.
(Neb. RS 17-112)
   (D)   The Mayor shall have the power, when he or she deems it necessary, to
require any officer of the city to exhibit his or her accounts or other papers,
and to make reports to the Council, in writing, touching any subject or matter
pertaining to his or her office.
(Neb. RS 17-113)
   (E)   The Mayor shall have such jurisdiction as may be vested in him or her
by ordinance, over all places within five miles of the corporate limits of the
city, for the enforcement of any health or quarantine ordinance and regulation
thereof, and shall have jurisdiction in all matters vested in him or her by
ordinance, excepting taxation, within the extraterritorial zoning jurisdiction
of the city.
(Neb. RS 17-114)
   (F)   The Mayor shall have the power to remit fines and forfeitures, and to
grant reprieves and pardons for all offenses arising under the ordinances of
the city.
(Neb. RS 17-117)
   (G)   The Mayor shall hold no other elective or appointive office or
employment with the city.
   (H)   The Mayor shall sign the City Clerk's minutes of all meetings of the
City Council, and he or she shall sign all resolutions that have been passed
and warrants for the payment of money when ordered by the Council.
   (I)   The Mayor shall have such other duties as are reposed in the Mayor by
the laws of the State of Nebraska or as the Council may by resolution confer
upon the Mayor.
(Ord. 312, passed 6-14-1976; Ord. 376, passed 10-13-1980; Ord. 925, passed 2-
13-2018)
Statutory reference:
   Restrictions on holding other office or employment, see Neb. RS 17-108.02,
32-109, 32-603, and 32-604
§ 1-103 MAYOR; VACANCY.
   (A)   The office of Mayor shall be vacant upon the happening of any of the
events specified in Neb. RS 32-560 except as provided in Neb. RS 32-561.
   (B)   (1)   In case of any vacancy in the office of Mayor, or in case of his
or her disability or absence, the President of the City Council shall exercise
the office of Mayor for the unexpired term, until such disability is removed,
or in case of temporary absence, until the Mayor returns.
(Neb. RS 32-568)
      (2)   If the President of the Council assumes the office of Mayor for the
unexpired term, there shall be a vacancy on the Council.
(Neb. RS 17-107, 32-568) (Ord. 313, passed 6-14-1976)
Statutory reference:
   Additional and similar provisions, see Neb. RS 32-560 through 32-572
   Ineligibility of person subjected to recall, see Neb. RS 32-1308
§ 1-104 CITY COUNCIL; ELECTION; QUALIFICATIONS; TERMS.
   (A)   The City Council shall consist of not less than four nor more than 12
residents of the city who are registered voters.
(Neb. RS 17-103)
   (B)   All Council members shall be nominated and elected on a nonpartisan
ballot unless the city provides for a partisan ballot by ordinance.
(Neb. RS 32-557)
   (C)   If members of the Council are not elected at large:
      (1)   The city shall be divided into not less than two nor more than six
wards, as may be provided by ordinance of the City Council, and each ward shall
contain, as nearly as practicable, an equal portion of the population;
(Neb. RS 17-102)
      (2)   Each ward of the city shall have at least two Council members
elected in the manner provided in the Election Act. No person shall be eligible
to the office of Council member who is not at the time of the election an
actual resident of the ward for which he or she is elected and a registered
voter; and
(Neb. RS 17-104)
      (3)   Such wards shall be substantially equal in population as determined
by the most recent federal decennial census.
(Neb. RS 32-553)
   (D)   The term of office shall begin on the first regular meeting of the
Council in December following the statewide general election.
(Neb. RS 17-104)
   (E)   Members of the Council shall serve for terms of four years or until
their successors are elected and qualified.
(Neb. RS 32-533)
   (F)   If the city operates under a city manager plan, members of the City
Council shall be residents and registered voters of the city and shall hold no
other employment with the city. Any Council member who ceases to possess any of
the qualifications required by this section or who has been convicted of a
felony or of any public offense involving the violation of the oath of office
of such member while in office shall forthwith forfeit such office.
(Neb. RS 19-613)
Statutory reference:
   Restrictions on holding other office or employment, see Neb. RS 17-108.02,
32-109, 32-603, 32-604
   Election Act, see Neb. RS 32-101
   Other requirements for wards, see Neb. RS 32-552 and 32-553
   Ability to elect council members at large or by ward, see Neb. RS 32-554
§ 1-105 CITY COUNCIL; PRESIDENT; ACTING PRESIDENT.
   (A)   The City Council shall elect one of its own body who shall be styled
the President of the Council and who shall preside at all meetings of the
Council in the absence of the Mayor.
   (B)   In the absence of the President, the Council shall elect one of its
own body to occupy his or her place temporarily, who shall be styled Acting
President of the Council.
   (C)   The President, and Acting President, when occupying the place of the
Mayor, shall have the same privileges as other members of the Council; and all
acts of the President or Acting President, while so acting, shall be as binding
upon the Council and upon the city as if done by the Mayor.
(Neb. RS 17-148)
§ 1-106 CITY COUNCIL; STANDING COMMITTEES.
   At the organizational meeting of the City Council, the Mayor shall appoint
members of such standing committees as the Council may create by ordinance or
resolution. The membership of such standing committees may be changed at any
time by the Mayor. The Mayor shall be an ex officio member of each standing
committee. The members of the standing committees shall serve a term of office
of one year, unless reappointed.
§ 1-107 CITY COUNCIL; VACANCY; GENERAL PROVISIONS.
   (A)   The office of member of the City Council shall be vacant upon the
happening of any of the events specified in Neb. RS 32-560 except as provided
in Neb. RS 32-561.
   (B)   Any vacancy on the City Council shall be filled as provided in
division (C) of this section.
(Neb. RS 32-568)
   (C)   (1)   (a)   Except as otherwise provided in division (C)(2) or (3) or
§
1-103, vacancies in city elective offices shall be filled by the Mayor and
Council for the balance of the unexpired term. Notice of a vacancy, except a
vacancy resulting from the death of the incumbent, shall be in writing and
presented to the Council at a regular or special meeting and shall appear as a
part of the minutes of such meeting. The Council shall at once give public
notice of the vacancy by causing to be published in a newspaper of general
circulation within the city or by posting in three public places in the city
the office vacated and the length of the unexpired term.
         (b)   The Mayor shall call a special meeting of the Council or place
the issue of filling such vacancy on the agenda at the next regular meeting at
which time the Mayor shall submit the name of a qualified registered voter to
fill the vacancy for the balance of the unexpired term. The regular or special
meeting shall occur upon the death of the incumbent or within four weeks after
the meeting at which such notice of vacancy has been presented. The Council
shall vote upon the nominee, and if a majority votes in favor of the nominee,
the vacancy shall be declared filled. If the nominee fails to receive a
majority of the votes, the nomination shall be rejected and the Mayor shall, at
the next regular or special meeting, submit the name of another qualified
registered voter to fill the vacancy. If the subsequent nominee fails to
receive a majority of the votes, the Mayor shall continue at that meeting to
submit the names of qualified registered voters in nomination and the Council
shall continue to vote upon the nominations at such meeting until the vacancy
is filled. The Mayor shall cast his or her vote for or against the nominee in
case of a tie vote of the Council. All Council members present shall cast a
ballot for or against the nominee. Any member of the Council who has been
appointed to fill a vacancy on the Council shall have the same rights,
including voting, as if that person were elected.
      (2)   The Mayor and Council may, in lieu of filling a vacancy in a city
elected office as provided in division (C)(1), call a special city election to
fill such vacancy.
      (3)   If vacancies exist in the offices of a majority of the members of
the City Council, the Secretary of State shall conduct a special city election
to fill such vacancies.
(Neb. RS 32-569)
(Ord. 313, passed 6-14-1976; Ord. 455, passed 8-14-1984; Ord. 550, passed 12-
10-1990; Ord. 664, passed 10-12-1998)
Statutory reference:
   Additional and similar provisions, see Neb. RS 32-560 through 32-572
   Ineligibility of person subjected to recall, see Neb. RS 32-1308
§ 1-108 CITY COUNCIL; VACANCY DUE TO UNEXCUSED ABSENCES.
   (A)   In addition to the events listed in Neb. RS 32-560 and any other
reasons for a vacancy provided by law, after notice and a hearing, a vacancy on
the City Council shall exist if a member is absent from more than five
consecutive regular meetings of the Council unless the absences are excused by
a majority vote of the remaining members.
(Neb. RS 19-3101)
   (B)   The City Council shall take a vote on whether to excuse a member's
absence from a meeting upon either:
      (1)   A written request from the member submitted to the City Clerk; or
      (2)   A motion of any other Council member.
   (C)   If a Council member has been absent from six consecutive regular
meetings and none of the absences have been excused by a majority vote of the
remaining members, the City Clerk shall include this as an item on the agenda
for the next regular meeting. At that meeting, the Council shall set a date for
a hearing and direct the City Clerk to give the member notice of the hearing by
personal service or first class mail to the member's last known address.
   (D)   At the hearing, the Council member shall have the right to present
information on why one or more of the absences should be excused. If the
Council does not excuse one or more of the member's absences by a majority vote
at the conclusion of the hearing, there shall be a vacancy on the Council.
(Ord. 749, passed 3-10-2003)
ARTICLE 2: APPOINTED OFFICIALS
Section
   
1-201   Appointed officials; appointment; terms; removal; powers; duties
   
1-202   Appointed officials; qualification for office
   
1-203   Appointed officials; merger of offices
   
1-204   Appointed officials; City Clerk
   
1-205   Appointed officials; City Treasurer
   
1-206   Appointed officials; City Attorney
   
1-207   Appointed officials; Police Chief
   
1-208   Appointed officials; police officers
   
1-209   Appointed officials; Water Commissioner/Public Works Commissioner
   
1-210   Appointed officials; Sewer Commissioner
   
1-211   Appointed officials; Overseer of Streets
   
1-212   Appointed officials; City Engineer; Special Engineer
   
1-213   Appointed officials; salaries
   
1-214   Appointed officials; Ordinance Enforcement Officer
§ 1-201 APPOINTED OFFICIALS; APPOINTMENT; TERMS; REMOVAL; POWERS; DUTIES.
   (A)   (1)   The Mayor, with the consent of the City Council, may appoint
such officers as shall be required by ordinance or otherwise required by law.
Such officers may be removed from office by the Mayor.
      (2)   The terms of office for all officers, except regular police
officers, appointed by the Mayor and confirmed by the Council shall be
established by the City Council by ordinance. The ordinance shall provide that
either:
         (a)   The officers hold the office to which they have been appointed
until the end of the Mayor’s term of office and until their successors are
appointed and qualified unless sooner removed; or
         (b)   The officers hold office for one year unless sooner removed.
(Neb. RS 17-107)
   (B)   (1)   The city may enact ordinances or bylaws to regulate and
prescribe the powers and duties of officers not provided for in state law.
(Neb. RS 17-604)
      (2)   If the Mayor and City Council appoint any of the officials
specified in this chapter or any other officials, the officials shall have the
powers and duties, if any, provided in this chapter or as otherwise provided by
city ordinances and state law.
(Ord. 331, passed 3-14-1977; Ord. 636, passed 6-9-1997)
§ 1-202 APPOINTED OFFICIALS; QUALIFICATION FOR OFFICE.
   Each appointive officer who is required to give bond shall qualify by filing
the required bond and oath as provided in §§
1-301 and
1-302. Each appointive officer who is not required to give bond shall qualify
by filing the required oath as provided in §
1-302.
§ 1-203 APPOINTED OFFICIALS; MERGER OF OFFICES.
   (A)   The City Council may at its discretion by ordinance combine and merge
any elective or appointive office or employment or any combination of duties of
any such offices or employments, except Mayor and Council member, with any
other elective or appointive office or employment so that one or more of such
offices or employments or any combination of duties of any such offices or
employments may be held by the same officer or employee at the same time.
   (B)   The offices or employments so merged and combined shall always be
construed to be separate, and the effect of the combination or merger shall be
limited to a consolidation of official duties only.
   (C)   The salary or compensation of the officer or employee holding the
merged and combined offices or employments or offices and employments shall not
be in excess of the maximum amount provided by law for the salary or
compensation of the office, offices, employment, or employments so merged and
combined.
   (D)   For purposes of this section, volunteer firefighters and ambulance
drivers shall not be considered officers.
(Neb. RS 17-108.02) (Ord. 456, passed 8-14-1984)
§ 1-204 APPOINTED OFFICIALS; CITY CLERK.
   (A)   The City Clerk shall have the custody of all laws and ordinances and
shall keep a correct journal of the proceedings of the City Council. After the
period of time specified by the State Records Administrator pursuant to the
Records Management Act, the Clerk may transfer the journal of the proceedings
of the City Council to the State Archives of the Nebraska State Historical
Society for permanent preservation. The Clerk shall also perform such other
duties as may be required by the ordinances of the city.
(Neb. RS 17-605)
   (B)   (1)   It shall be the duty of the Clerk to prepare and publish the
official proceedings of the City Council within 30 days after any meeting of
the Council. The publication shall be in a newspaper of general circulation in
the city, shall set forth a statement of the proceedings of the meeting, and
shall also include the amount of each claim allowed, the purpose of the claim,
and the name of the claimant, except that the aggregate amount of all payroll
claims may be included as one item. Between July 15 and August 15 of each year,
the employee job titles and the current annual, monthly, or hourly salaries
corresponding to such job titles shall be published. Each job title published
shall be descriptive and indicative of the duties and functions of the
position. The charge for the publication shall not exceed the rates provided
for in Neb. RS 23-122.
(Neb. RS 19-1102)
      (2)   Publication under division (B)(1) shall be made in one legal
newspaper of general circulation in the city. If no legal newspaper is
published in the city, then the publication shall be made in one legal
newspaper published or of general circulation within the county in which the
city is located. The cost of publication shall be paid out of the general funds
of the city.
(Neb. RS 19-1103)
   (C)   The Clerk shall dispose of or destroy city public records when the
records have been determined to be of no further legal, administrative, fiscal,
or historical value by the State Records Administrator pursuant to Neb. RS 84-
1201 through 84-1220, provided the provisions of this division shall not apply
to the minutes of the Clerk and the permanent ordinance and resolution books,
or any other record classified as permanent by the State Records Administrator.
(Neb. RS 18-1701)
   (D)   (1)   The Clerk shall permit any person to examine and copy the public
records in the Clerk's custody, and may charge a fee for providing copies of a
public record, as provided in Neb. RS 84-712 through 84-712.09.
      (2)   The Clerk may charge a reasonable fee for certified copies of any
record in his or her office as set by resolution of the City Council.
   (E)   The Clerk shall permit no records, public papers, or other documents
of the city kept and preserved in his or her office to be taken therefrom,
except by such officers of the city as may be entitled to the use of the same,
but only upon their leaving a receipt therefor, and except pursuant to Neb. RS
84-712(2). He or she shall keep all the records of his or her office, including
a record of all licenses issued by him or her, in a blank book with a proper
index. He or she shall include as part of his or her records all petitions
under which the City Council shall order public work to be done at the expense
of the property fronting thereon, together with references to all resolutions
and ordinances relating to the same. He or she shall endorse the date and hour
of filing upon every paper or document so filed in his or her office. All such
filings made by him or her shall be properly docketed. Included in his or her
records shall be all standard codes, amendments thereto, and other documents
incorporated by reference and arranged in triplicate in a manner convenient for
reference. He or she shall keep an accurate and complete account of the
appropriation of the several funds and draw, sign, and attest all warrants
ordered for the payment of money on the particular fund from which the same is
payable. At the end of each month, he or she shall then make a report of the
amounts appropriated to the various funds and the amount of the warrants drawn
thereon.
   (F)   The Clerk shall deliver all warrants, ordinances, and resolutions
under his or her charge to the Mayor for his or her signature. He or she shall
also deliver to officers, employees, and committees all resolutions and
communications which are directed at such officers, employees, or committees.
With the seal of the city, he or she shall duly attest the Mayor's signature to
all ordinances, deeds, and papers required to be attested to when ordered to do
so by the City Council.
   (G)   The Clerk shall issue and sign all licenses, permits, and occupation
tax receipts authorized by law and required by the city ordinances. He or she
shall collect all occupation taxes and license money, except where some other
city officer is specifically charged with that duty. He or she shall keep a
register of all licenses granted in the city and the purpose for which they
have been issued.
   (H)   The Clerk shall keep in a book with a proper index, copies of all
notices required to be published or posted by the Clerk by order of the City
Council or under the ordinances of the city. To each of the file copies of the
notices shall be attached the printer's affidavit of publication, if the
notices are required to be published, or the Clerk's certificate under seal
where the same are required to be posted only.
   (I)   The Clerk shall receive all objections to creation of paving districts
and other street improvements. He or she shall receive the claims of any person
against the city, and in the event that the claim is disallowed in part or in
whole, the Clerk shall notify the claimant or his or her agent or attorney by
letter within five days after the disallowance, and the Clerk shall then
prepare transcripts on appeals of any disallowance of a claim in all proper
cases.
(Ord. 314, passed 6-14-1976)
§ 1-205 APPOINTED OFFICIALS; CITY TREASURER.
   (A)   (1)   The City Treasurer shall be the custodian of all money belonging
to the city. He or she shall keep a separate account of each fund or
appropriation and the debts and credits belonging thereto. He or she shall give
every person paying money into the treasury a receipt therefor, specifying the
date of payment and on what account paid. He or she shall also file copies of
such receipts with his or her monthly reports. The Treasurer shall, at the end
of every month, and as often as may be required, render an account to the City
Council, under oath, showing the state of the treasury at the date of such
account and the balance of money in the treasury. He or she shall also
accompany such accounts with a statement of all receipts and disbursements,
together with all warrants redeemed and paid by him or her, which warrants,
with any and all vouchers held by him or her, shall be filed with his or her
account in the City Clerk's office. If the Treasurer fails to render his or her
account within 20 days after the end of the month, or by a later date
established by the City Council, the Mayor may use this failure as cause to
remove the Treasurer from office.
      (2)   The Treasurer shall keep a record of all outstanding bonds against
the city, showing the number and amount of each bond, for and to whom the bonds
were issued, and the date upon which any bond is purchased, paid, or canceled.
The Treasurer shall accompany the annual statement submitted pursuant to Neb.
RS 19-1101 with a description of the bonds issued and sold in that year and the
terms of sale, with every item of expense thereof.
(Neb. RS 17-606)
   (B)   (1)   The Treasurer shall prepare and publish annually within 60 days
after the close of the city fiscal year a statement of the receipts and
expenditures of funds of the city for the preceding fiscal year. The statement
shall also include the information required by Neb. RS 16-318(3) or Neb. RS 17-
606(2). Not more than the legal rate provided for in Neb. RS 33-141 shall be
charged and paid for such publication.
(Neb. RS 19-1101)
      (2)   Publication shall be made in one legal newspaper of general
circulation in the city. If no legal newspaper is published in the city, then
such publication shall be made in one legal newspaper published or of general
circulation within the county in which the city is located.
(Neb. RS 19-1103)
   (C)   (1)   All warrants upon the Treasurer shall be paid in the order of
their presentation therefor and as otherwise provided in Neb. RS 77-2201
through 77-2215.
(Neb. RS 77-2201)
      (2)   The Treasurer shall keep a warrant register, which register shall
show in columns arranged for that purpose the number, the date, and the amount
of each warrant presented and registered, the particular fund upon which the
same is drawn, the date of presentation, the name and address of the person in
whose name the warrant is registered, the date of payment, the amount of
interest, and the total amount paid thereon, with the date when notice to the
person in whose name such warrant is registered is mailed.
(Neb. RS 77-2202)
      (3)   The Treasurer shall make duplicate receipts for all sums which
shall be paid into his or her office, which receipts shall show the source from
which such funds are derived, and shall, by distinct lines and columns, show
the amount received to the credit of each separate fund, and whether the same
was paid in cash, in warrants, or otherwise. The Treasurer shall deliver one of
the duplicates to the person making the payment and retain the other in his or
her office.
(Neb. RS 77-2209)
      (4)   The Treasurer shall daily, as money is received, foot the several
columns of the cash book and of the register, and carry the amounts forward,
and at the close of each year, in case the amount of money received by the
Treasurer is insufficient to pay the warrants registered, he or she shall close
the account for that year in the register and shall carry forward the excess.
(Neb. RS. 77-2210)
      (5)   The cash book, register, and retained receipts of the Treasurer
shall at all times be open to the inspection of any person in whose name any
warrants are registered and unpaid.
(Neb. RS 77-2212)
   (D)   The Treasurer shall permit any person to examine and copy the public
records in the Treasurer's custody, and may charge a fee for providing copies
of a public record, as provided in Neb. RS 84-712 through 84-712.09.
   (E)   The Treasurer shall keep all money belonging to the city separate and
distinct from his or her own money. He or she shall cancel all bonds, coupons,
warrants, and other evidences of debt against the city, whenever paid by him or
her, by writing or stamping on the face thereof, "Paid by the City Treasurer,"
with the date of payment written or stamped thereon. He or she shall collect
all special taxes, allocate special assessments to the several owners, and
obtain from the County Treasurer a monthly report as to the collection of
delinquent taxes.
§ 1-206 APPOINTED OFFICIALS; CITY ATTORNEY.
   (A)   The City Attorney shall be the legal advisor of the City Council. He
or she shall commence, prosecute, and defend all suits and actions necessary to
be commenced, prosecuted, or defended on behalf of the city, or that may be
ordered by the Council. When requested, he or she shall attend meetings of the
Council and give them his or her opinion upon any matters submitted to him or
her, either orally or in writing, as may be required. He or she shall draft or
review for legal correctness ordinances, contracts, franchises, and other
instruments as may be required, and he or she shall perform such other duties
as may be imposed upon him or her by general law or ordinance. The Council
shall have the right to pay the City Attorney compensation for legal services
performed by him or her for it on such terms as the Council and Attorney may
agree, and to employ additional legal assistance and to pay for such legal
assistance out of the funds of the city.
(Neb. RS 17-610)
   (B)   The City Attorney shall also examine, when requested to do so by the
City Council, the ordinance records and advise and assist the City Clerk as
much as may be necessary to the end that each procedural step will be taken in
the passage of each ordinance to insure that it will be a valid and subsisting
local law in so far as its passage and approval are concerned.
§ 1-207 APPOINTED OFFICIALS; POLICE CHIEF.
   (A)   The Police Chief shall direct the police work of the city and shall be
responsible for the maintenance of law and order. Unless the Mayor and City
Council provide otherwise, he or she shall act as Health Inspector and Building
Inspector.
   (B)   If the city has an agreement with the County Sheriff for law
enforcement purposes, the County Sheriff shall have all the powers and duties
of the Police Chief and city police officers as specified in the agreement.
§ 1-208 APPOINTED OFFICIALS; POLICE OFFICERS.
   (A)   (1)   The Mayor, by and with the consent of the Council, shall appoint
such a number of regular police officers as may be necessary. All police
officers appointed by the Mayor and Council may be removed, demoted, or
suspended at any time by the Mayor as provided in division (A)(2) of this
section. A police officer, including the Chief of Police, may appeal to the
City Council such removal, demotion, or suspension with or without pay. After a
hearing, the City Council may uphold, reverse, or modify the action.
      (2)   The City Council shall by ordinance adopt rules and regulations
governing the removal, demotion, or suspension with or without pay of any
police officer, including the Chief of Police. The ordinance shall include a
procedure for such removal, demotion, or suspension with or without pay of any
police officer, including the Chief of Police, upon the written accusation of
the Police Chief, the Mayor, or any citizen or taxpayer. The City Council shall
establish by ordinance procedures for acting upon such written accusation, in
accordance with Neb. RS 17-107. Nothing in this section shall be construed to
prevent the preemptory suspension or immediate removal from duty of an officer
by the appropriate authority, pending the hearing authorized by this section,
in cases of gross misconduct, neglect of duty, or disobedience of orders.
      (3)   This section does not apply to a police officer during his or her
probationary period.
(Neb. RS 17-107)
   (B)   The City Council may establish a law enforcement reserve force.
Members of such force shall be appointed at the discretion of the Council. The
Council may limit the size of such reserve force.
(Neb. RS 81-1438)
Statutory reference:
   Other provisions on law enforcement reserve force, see Neb. RS 81-1439
through 81-1446
§ 1-209 WATER COMMISSIONER/PUBLIC WORKS COMMISSIONER.
   (A)   (1)   As soon as a system of waterworks or mains or portion or
extension of any system of waterworks or water supply has been established by
the city, the Mayor shall nominate and by and with the advice and consent of
the City Council shall appoint any competent person who shall be known as the
Water Commissioner of the city and whose term of office shall be for one fiscal
year or until his or her successor is appointed and qualified. Annually at the
first regular meeting of the City Council in December, the Water Commissioner
shall be appointed as provided in this section.
      (2)   The Water Commissioner may at any time, for sufficient cause, be
removed by a two-thirds vote of the City Council. Any vacancy occurring in the
office of Water Commissioner by death, resignation, removal from office, or
removal from the city may be filled in the manner provided in this section for
the appointment of the Commissioner.
      (3)   The Water Commissioner shall, before he or she enters upon the
discharge of his or her duties, execute a bond or provide evidence of
equivalent insurance to the city in a sum to be fixed by the Mayor and Council,
but not less than $5000, conditioned upon the faithful discharge of his or her
duties, and such bond shall be signed by one or more good and sufficient
sureties, to be approved by the Mayor and Council or executed by a corporate
surety.
      (4)   The Water Commissioner, subject to the supervision of the Mayor and
City Council, shall have the general management and control of the system of
waterworks or mains or portion or extension of any system of waterworks or
water supply in the city.
      (5)   In a city where no Board of Public Works exists, and the city has
other public utilities than its waterworks system, the Mayor and Council shall
by ordinance designate Water Commissioner as Public Works Commissioner with
authority to manage not only the system of waterworks but also other public
utilities, and all of the provisions of this division (A) applying to the Water
Commissioner shall apply to the Public Works Commissioner.
(Neb. RS 17-541)
   (B)   (1)   The Water Commissioner shall collect all money received by the
city on account of its system of waterworks and shall faithfully account for
and pay over the same to the City Treasurer, taking his or her receipt therefor
in duplicate, filing one of the same with the City Clerk.
      (2)   He or she shall make a detailed report to the City Council, at
least once every six months, of the condition of the water system, of all
mains, pipes, hydrants, reservoirs, and machinery, and such improvements,
repairs, and extension thereof as he or she may think proper. The report shall
show the amount of receipts and expenditures on account thereof for the
preceding six months. No money shall be expended for improvements, repairs, or
extension of the waterworks system except upon recommendation of the Water
Commissioner.
      (3)   The Water Commissioner shall perform such other duties as may be
prescribed by ordinance.
      (4)   The Water Commissioner shall be paid such salary as the Council may
by ordinance provide, and upon his or her written recommendation, the Mayor and
Council shall employ such laborers and clerks as may to them seem necessary.
      (5)   Neither the Mayor nor any member of the Council shall be eligible
to the office of Water Commissioner during the term for which he or she was
elected.
      (6)   If the city owns public utilities other than the waterworks system
and the Water Commissioner has been designated by ordinance as the Public Works
Commissioner under the authority of division (A) of this section, then all
provisions of this division (B) in reference to a Water Commissioner shall
apply to the Public Works Commissioner.
(Neb. RS 17-543)
   (C)   In the event the city shall have created a Board of Public Works, the
Water Commissioner shall, subject to confirmation by the Mayor and Council, be
employed thereafter by the Board at such reasonable compensation as may be
agreed upon at the time of such employment and shall thereafter be under the
jurisdiction of the Board, any of the provisions of Neb. RS 17-401 through 17-
426, 17-501 through 17-560 and 19-1401 through 19-1404 to the contrary
notwithstanding. Any Water Commissioner under the jurisdiction and control of
the Board of Public Works may be removed by the Board, after an opportunity to
be heard before the Mayor and Council if he or she shall so request, for
malfeasance, misfeasance or neglect in office.
(Neb. RS 17-804)
§ 1-210 APPOINTED OFFICIALS; SEWER COMMISSIONER.
   (A)   The Sewer Commissioner, subject to the supervision of the Mayor and
City Council, shall have the general management and control of the sewer system
in the city.
   (B)   He or she shall collect all money received by the city on account of
its sewer system and shall faithfully account for and pay over the same to the
City Treasurer, taking his or her receipt therefor in duplicate, filing one of
the same with the City Clerk.
   (C)   He or she shall make a detailed report to the City Council, at least
once every six months, of the condition of the sewer system and such
improvements, repairs, and extension thereof as he or she may think proper. The
report shall show the amount of receipts and expenditures on account thereof
for the preceding six months.
   (D)   He or she shall issue permits for all connections to the sewer system
and inspect and supervise all repairs made to the system.
   (E)   The Sewer Commissioner shall perform such other duties as may be
prescribed by ordinance.
§ 1-211 APPOINTED OFFICIALS; OVERSEER OF STREETS.
   (A)   The Overseer of Streets shall, subject to the order of the Mayor and
Council, have general charge, direction, and control of all works on the
streets, sidewalks, culverts, and bridges of the city, and shall perform such
other duties as the Council may require.
(Neb. RS 17-119)
   (B)   It shall be his or her responsibility to see that gutters and drains
in the city function properly and that they are kept in good repair.
   (C)   He or she shall, at the request of the City Council make a detailed
report to the Council on the condition of the streets, sidewalks, culverts,
alleys, and bridges of the city and shall direct their attention to such
improvements, repairs, and extension thereof as he or she may think proper.
   (D)   The Overseer of Streets shall issue such permits and perform such
other duties as may be prescribed by ordinance.
Statutory reference:
   Incentive payments to street superintendents, see Neb. RS 39-2512
§ 1-212 APPOINTED OFFICIALS; CITY ENGINEER; SPECIAL ENGINEER.
   (A)   (1)   The City Engineer shall, when requested by the Mayor or City
Council, make estimates of the cost of labor and material which may be done or
furnished by contract with the city and make all surveys, estimates, and
calculations necessary to be made for the establishment of grades, building of
culverts, sewers, electric light system, waterworks, power plant, public
heating system, bridges, curbing, and gutters, the improvement of streets, and
the erection and repair of buildings and shall perform such other duties as the
City Council may require.
      (2)   When the city has appointed a Board of Public Works and the Mayor
and City Council have by ordinance so authorized, the Board may utilize its own
engineering staff and may hire consulting engineers for the design and
installation of extensions and improvements of the works under the jurisdiction
of the Board.
(Neb. RS 17-568.01)
   (B)   The Mayor and City Council may, when they deem it expedient, employ a
special engineer to make, or assist in making, any estimate necessary or to
perform any other duty provided for in Neb. RS 17-568.01. Any work executed by
such special engineer shall have the same validity and serve in all respects as
though executed by the City Engineer.
(Neb. RS 17-568)
   (C)   The City Engineer shall make a record of the minutes of his or her
surveys and of all work done for the city and, when directed by the Mayor and
City Council, shall accurately make such plats, sections, profiles, and maps as
may be necessary in the prosecution of any public work, which shall be public
records and belong to the city and be turned over to his or her successor.
Statutory reference:
   Duties related to areas to be annexed, see Neb. RS 17-405
   Duties related to sewerage systems, see Neb. RS 17-150 and 17-919
§ 1-213 APPOINTED OFFICIALS; SALARIES.
   (A)   The salary ranges for the appointed officials of the city are hereby
fixed as follows:
Electric Superintendent/Plant Supervisor $20 to $30 per hour
Deputy Clerk/Secretary                   $9 to $20 per hour
Temporary Clerical/City Hall             $9 to $12.50 per hour
Electric Lineman                         $9 to $25 per hour
City Clerk/Treasurer                     $12.50 to $25 per hour
Water and Sewer Manager                  $10 to $25 per hour
City Attorney                            $250 to $1,500 per month
Chief of Police                          $45,000 to $60,000 per year
Police Officer                           $40,000 to $55,000 per year
Part-Time Police Officer                 $12 to $20 per hour
Part-Time On Call Police Officer         $2 to $4 per hour
Library Director                         $12.50 to $17 per hour
Assistant Librarian                      $10.50 to $15 per hour
Street Commissioner                      $15 to $30 per hour
Recycling and Sanitation                 $9 to $25 per hour
Park and Cemetery                        $9 to $20 per hour
Temporary Recycling Employee             $9 to $15 per hour
Swimming Pool Manager                    $14 to $18 per hour
Assistant Swimming Pool Manager          $9 to $15 per hour
Lifeguards                               $9 to $14 per hour
Junior Lifeguards                        $7.50 to $9 per hour
 
   (B)   The exact salary of the above-named appointed officials within the
salary ranges set forth above shall be established from time to time by
resolution of the City Council, and this section and the resolutions adopted
pursuant hereto shall be available for public inspection in the office of the
City Clerk. All salaries of elected and appointed officials of the city shall
be published as provided by law.
(Ord. 857, passed 10-10-2011; Ord. 859, passed 1-3-2012; Ord. 863, passed 5-14-
2012; Ord. 882, passed 9-9-2013; Ord. 899, passed 11-10-2014; Ord. 919, passed
11-14-2017; Ord. 942, passed 4-13-2021; Ord. 944, passed 11-8-2022)
§ 1-214 APPOINTED OFFICIALS; ORDINANCE ENFORCEMENT OFFICER.
   The Ordinance Enforcement Officer shall be appointed by the Mayor and
Council, and shall have the following duties and authority:
   (A)   He or she shall conduct surveys and make inspections of buildings,
structures and lots within the municipality to determine whether they are in
compliance with the municipal ordinances;
   (B)   He or she shall be designated as the Zoning Enforcement Officer of the
municipality and shall discharge all duties and exercise all authority provided
in the zoning code of the municipality and in the statutes of the State of
Nebraska;
   (C)   He or she shall investigate all complaints charging that a violation
of a municipal ordinance exists and that any building, structure or lot is
unfit or unsafe for human habitation or that the same contains or constitutes a
nuisance, and shall keep records of all such complaints and the disposition of
the same;
   (D)   He or she shall have the authority to issue citations and institute
proceedings for abatement of nuisances and for enforcement of ordinances
relating to the condition and use of properties within the municipality, and
shall be considered to be a peace officer for the purposes of obtaining an
inspection warrant under Neb. RS 29-830 et seq.;
   (E)   He or she shall be issued an identification badge or card, which he or
she shall exhibit upon request in the discharge of his or her duties;
   (F)   He or she shall have no financial interest in the furnishing of labor,
materials or appliances for the construction, alteration or maintenance of a
building or for the abatement of a nuisance, and he or she shall not act as
agent for any said dealer or as an agent for the sale, lease or rental of any
real estate.; and
   (G)   He or she shall report to the Mayor and Council as often as they deem
necessary, and shall have such other duties and issue such permits as they may
direct.
(Ord. 808, passed 4-9-2007)
ARTICLE 3: BONDS AND OATH
Section
   
1-301   Bonds; requirements
   
1-302   Oath of office; municipal officers
§ 1-301 BONDS; REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   The city may enact ordinances or bylaws to require from all officers
and servants, elected or appointed, bonds and security or evidence of
equivalent insurance for the faithful performance of their duties. The city may
pay the premium for such bonds or insurance coverage.
(Neb. RS 17-604)
   (B)   (1)   All official bonds of officers of the city shall be in form
joint and several and made payable to the city in such penalty as the City
Council may fix.
      (2)   In place of the individual bonds required to be furnished by
municipal officers, a schedule, position, blanket bond or undertaking, or
evidence of equivalent insurance may be given by municipal officers, or a
single corporate surety fidelity, schedule, position, or blanket bond or
undertaking, or evidence of insurance coverage covering all the officers,
including officers required by law to furnish an individual bond or
undertaking, may be furnished. The municipality may pay the premium for the
bond or insurance coverage. The bond or insurance coverage shall be, at a
minimum, an aggregate of the amounts fixed by law or by the City Council, and
with such terms and conditions as may be required.
(Neb. RS 11-104)
      (3)   The penalty amount on any bond shall not fall below the legal
minimum, when one has been set by the state, for each particular official.
   (C)   (1)   Official bonds, with the oath endorsed thereon, shall be filed
in the City Clerk's office within the following time:
         (a)    Of all officers elected at any general election, following
receipt of their election certificate and not later than ten days before the
first Thursday after the first Tuesday in January next succeeding the election;
         (b)   Of all appointed officers, within 30 days after their
appointment; and
         (c)   Of officers elected at any special election and city officers,
within 30 days after the canvass of the votes of the election at which they
were chosen.
      (2)   The filing of the bond with the oath endorsed thereon does not
authorize a person to take any official action prior to the beginning of his or
her term of office pursuant to Article XVII, section 5, of the Constitution of
Nebraska.
(Neb. RS 11-105)
   (D)   All official bonds of city officers shall be executed by the principal
named in such bonds and by at least two sufficient sureties who shall be
freeholders of the county in which such bonds are given, or any official bond
of a city officer may be executed by the officer as principal and by a
guaranty, surety, fidelity, or bonding company as surety, or by two or more
such companies. Only such companies as are legally authorized to transact
business in this state shall be eligible to suretyship on the bond of a city
officer.
(Neb. RS 11-109)
   (E)   The City Clerk shall carefully record and preserve the bonds in his or
her office and shall give certified copies thereof, when required, under the
seal of his or her office, and shall be entitled to receive for the same the
usual fee allowed by law for certified copies of records in other cases.
(Neb. RS 11-110)
   (F)   (1)   The approval of each official bond shall be endorsed upon such
bond by the officer approving the same, and no bond shall be filed and recorded
until so approved.
(Neb. RS 11-111)
      (2)   No bond shall be deemed to be given or complete until the approval
of the City Council and all sureties are endorsed in writing on the instrument
by the Mayor and City Clerk pursuant to the approval of the City Council.
   (G)   All official bonds shall obligate the principal and sureties for the
faithful discharge of all duties required by law of such principal and shall
inure to the benefit of any persons injured by a breach of the conditions of
such bonds.
(Neb. RS 11-112)
   (H)   No official bond shall be rendered void by reason of any informality
of irregularity in its execution or approval.
(Neb. RS 11-113)
   (I)   No city official shall be taken as security on the bond of any
administrator, executor, or other officer from whom by law bond is or may be
required.
(Neb. RS 11-114)
   (J)   If any person elected or appointed to any office neglects to have his
or her official bond executed and approved as provided by law and filed for
record within the time limited by this section, the City Clerk shall
immediately issue an order to such person to show cause why he or she has
failed to properly file such bond and why his or her office should not be
declared vacant. If such person properly files the official bond within ten
days of the issuance of the show cause order for appointed officials or before
the date for taking office for elected officials, such filing shall be deemed
to be in compliance with this section. If such person does not file the bond
within ten days of the issuance of such order for appointed officials or before
the date for taking office for elected officials and sufficient cause is not
shown within that time, his or her office shall thereupon ipso facto become
vacant and such vacancy shall thereupon immediately be filled by election or
appointment as the law may direct in other cases of vacancy in the same office.
(Neb. RS 11-115)
   (K)   Any person appointed to fill a vacancy, before entering upon the
duties of the office, must give a bond corresponding in substance and form with
the bond required of the officer originally elected or appointed, as herein
provided.
(Neb. RS 11-116)
   (L)   When the incumbent of an office is reelected or reappointed, he or she
shall qualify by taking the oath and giving the bond as above directed, but
when such officer has had public funds or property in his or her control, his
or her bond shall not be approved until he or she has produced and fully
accounted for such funds and property. When it is ascertained that the
incumbent of an office holds over by reason of the non-election or non-
appointment of a successor or of the neglect or refusal of the successor to
qualify, he or she shall qualify anew within ten days from the time at which
his or her successor, if elected, should have qualified.
(Neb. RS 11-117)
   (M)   No person shall be surety for the same officer for more than two
successive terms of the same office, but this provision shall not apply to
incorporated surety companies.
(Neb. RS 11-118)
   (N)   If the sureties on the official bond of any appointed officer of the
city, in the opinion of the City Council, become insufficient, the Council may,
by resolution, fix a reasonable time within which the officer may give a new
bond or additional sureties as directed. If the officer fails, refuses, or
neglects to give a new bond or additional sureties to the satisfaction and
approval of the Council, the office shall, by such failure, refusal, or
neglect, become vacant and it shall be the duty of the Council to appoint a
competent and qualified person to fill the office.
§ 1-302 OATH OF OFFICE; MUNICIPAL OFFICERS.
   All officials of the municipality, whether elected or appointed, except when
a different oath is specifically provided herein, shall, before entering upon
their respective duties, take and subscribe the following oath which shall be
endorsed upon their respective bonds:
“I __________________________________________ do solemnly swear that I will
support the Constitution of the United States and the Constitution of the State
of Nebraska, against all enemies foreign and domestic; that I will bear true
faith and allegiance to the same; that I take this obligation freely, and
without mental reservation, or for the purpose of evasion; and that I will
faithfully and impartially perform the duties of the office of
________________________, according to law, and to the best of my ability. And
I do further swear that I do not advocate, nor am I a member of any political
party or organization that advocates the overthrow of the government of the
United States or of this State by force, or violence; and that during such time
as I am in this position I will not advocate, nor become a member of any
political party or organization that advocates the over throw of the government
of the United States or of this State by force or violence. So help me God.”
(Neb. RS 11-101)
ARTICLE 4: CORPORATE SEAL
Section
   
1-401   Seal; official corporate
§ 1-401 SEAL; OFFICIAL CORPORATE.
   The official corporate seal of the municipality shall be kept in the office
of the Municipal Clerk, and shall bear the following inscription, “Seal, City
of Franklin, Nebraska.” The Municipal Clerk shall affix an impression of the
said official seal to all warrants, licenses, permits, ordinances and all other
official papers issued by order of the governing body and countersigned by the
Municipal Clerk.
(Neb. RS 17-502)
ARTICLE 5: MEETINGS
Section
   
1-501   Meetings; definitions
   
1-502   Meetings; open to public; notice; agenda
   
1-503   Meetings; notice to news media
   
1-504   Meetings; Council meetings; when; quorum; votes
   
1-505   Meetings; emergency meetings
   
1-506   Meetings; attendance other than in person
   
1-507   Meetings; closed sessions
   
1-508   Meetings; prohibited acts; exempt events
   
1-509   Meetings; public participation
   
1-510   Meetings; City Council; order of business
   
1-511   Meetings; votes
   
1-512   Meetings; City Council; parliamentary procedure
   
1-513   Meetings; minutes
   
1-514   Meetings; change in office
§ 1-501 MEETINGS; DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this article, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   MEETING. All regular, special, or called meetings, formal or informal, of a
public body for the purposes of briefing, discussion of public business,
formation of tentative policy, or the taking of any action.
   PUBLIC BODY.
      (1)   (a)   The City Council;
         (b)   All independent boards, commissions, bureaus, committees,
councils, subunits, or any other bodies created by the Constitution of
Nebraska, statute, ordinance, or otherwise pursuant to law; and
         (c)   Advisory committees of the bodies listed above.
      (2)   PUBLIC BODY does not include subcommittees of such bodies unless a
quorum of the public body attends a subcommittee meeting or unless the
subcommittees are holding hearings, making policy, or taking formal action on
behalf of their parent body.
(Neb. RS 84-1409)
(Ord. 315, passed 6-14-1976; Ord. 437, passed 10-11-1983)
§ 1-502 MEETINGS; OPEN TO PUBLIC; NOTICE; AGENDA.
   (A)   The formation of public policy is public business and may not be
conducted in secret. Every meeting of a public body shall be open to the public
in order that citizens may exercise their democratic privilege of attending and
speaking at meetings of public bodies, except as otherwise provided by the
Constitution of Nebraska, federal statutes, and the Open Meetings Act.
(Neb. RS 84-1408)
   (B)   Each public body shall give reasonable advance publicized notice of
the time and place of each meeting by a method designated by the public body
and recorded in its minutes. The notice shall be transmitted to all members of
the public body and to the public. The notice shall contain an agenda of
subjects known at the time of the publicized notice or a statement that the
agenda, which shall be kept continually current, is readily available for
public inspection at the office of the public body during normal business
hours. Agenda items shall be sufficiently descriptive to give the public
reasonable notice of the matters to be considered at the meeting. Except for
items of an emergency nature, the agenda shall not be altered later than 24
hours before the scheduled commencement of the meeting or 48 hours before the
scheduled commencement of a meeting of the City Council scheduled outside the
corporate limits of the city. The public body shall have the right to modify
the agenda to include items of an emergency nature only at such public meeting.
(Neb. RS 84-1411)
(Ord. 315, passed 6-14-1976; Ord. 437, passed 10-11-1983; Ord. 518, passed 9-
14-1987)
§ 1-503 MEETINGS; NOTICE TO NEWS MEDIA.
   The City Clerk, in the case of the City Council, and the secretary or other
designee of each other public body shall maintain a list of the news media
requesting notification of meetings and shall make reasonable efforts to
provide advance notification to them of the time and place of each meeting and
the subjects to be discussed at that meeting.
(Neb. RS 84-1411) (Ord. 315, passed 6-14-1976)
§ 1-504 MEETINGS; COUNCIL MEETINGS; WHEN; QUORUM; VOTES.
   (A)   Regular meetings of the City Council shall be held in the meeting
place of the municipality. Regular meetings shall be held on the second Tuesday
of each month at the hour of 7:30 p.m. A majority of all the members elected to
the Council shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of any business, but
a fewer number may adjourn from time to time and compel the attendance of
absent members. Unless a greater vote is required by law, an affirmative vote
of at least one-half of the elected members shall be required for the
transaction of any business. The Mayor may vote when his or her vote would
provide the additional vote required to attain the number of votes equal to a
majority of the number of members elected to the City Council on any pending
matter, legislation or transaction, and the Mayor shall, for the purpose of
such vote, be deemed to be a member of the City Council.
(Neb. RS 17-110) (Ord. 480, passed 10-8-1985; Ord. 498, passed 2-10-1987; Ord.
573, passed 5-11-1992; Ord. 616, passed 1-8-1996; Ord. 915, passed 6-12-2017;
Ord. 945, passed 11-8-2022)
   (B)   (1)   The Mayor or any three Council members shall have power to call
special meetings of the City Council, the object of which shall be submitted to
the Council in writing; and the call and object, as well as the disposition
thereof, shall be entered upon the journal by the City Clerk.
(Neb. RS 17-106)
      (2)   On filing the call for a special meeting, the City Clerk shall
notify the Mayor and Council members of the special meeting, stating the time
and purpose.
   (C)   Unless otherwise provided by the Council, on the request of any two
members, whether a quorum is present or not, all absent members shall be sent
for and compelled to attend.
   (D)   At the hour appointed for a meeting, the City Clerk shall proceed to
call the roll of members and announce whether a quorum is present. If a quorum
is present, the Council shall be called to order by the Mayor, if present, or
if absent, by the President of the Council.
§ 1-505 MEETINGS; EMERGENCY MEETINGS.
   When it is necessary to hold an emergency meeting without reasonable advance
public notice, the nature of the emergency shall be stated in the minutes and
any formal action taken in that meeting shall pertain only to the emergency.
Such emergency meetings may be held by means of electronic or telecommunication
equipment. The provisions of §
1-503 shall be complied with in conducting emergency meetings. Complete minutes
of such emergency meetings specifying the nature of the emergency and any
formal action taken at the meeting shall be made available to the public by no
later than the end of the next regular business day.
(Neb. RS 84-1411) (Ord. 315, passed 6-14-1976; Ord. 437, passed 10-11-1983)
§ 1-506 MEETINGS; ATTENDANCE OTHER THAN IN PERSON.
   A public body may allow a member of the public or any other witness other
than a member of the public body to appear before the public body by means of
video or telecommunications equipment.
(Neb. RS 84-1411)
§ 1-507 MEETINGS; CLOSED SESSIONS.
   (A)   (1)   Any public body may hold a closed session by the affirmative
vote of a majority of its voting members if a closed session is clearly
necessary for the protection of the public interest or for the prevention of
needless injury to the reputation of an individual and if that individual has
not requested a public meeting. The subject matter and the reason necessitating
the closed session shall be identified in the motion to close. Closed sessions
may be held for, but shall not be limited to, such reasons as:
         (a)   Strategy sessions with respect to collective bargaining, real
estate purchases, pending litigation, or litigation which is imminent as
evidenced by communication of a claim or threat of litigation to or by the
public body;
         (b)   Discussion regarding deployment of security personnel or
devices;
         (c)   Investigative proceedings regarding allegations of criminal
misconduct; or
         (d)   Evaluation of the job performance of a person when necessary to
prevent needless injury to the reputation of a person and if that person has
not requested a public meeting.
      (2)   Nothing in this section shall permit a closed meeting for
discussion of the appointment or election of a new member to any public body.
   (B)   The vote to hold a closed session shall be taken in open session. The
entire motion, the vote of each member on the question of holding a closed
session, and the time when the closed session commenced and concluded shall be
recorded in the minutes. If the motion to close passes, then the presiding
officer immediately prior to the closed session shall restate on the record the
limitation of the subject matter of the closed session. The public body holding
such a closed session shall restrict its consideration of matters during the
closed portions to only those purposes set forth in the motion to close as the
reason for the closed session. The meeting shall be reconvened in open session
before any formal action may be taken. For purposes of this section, formal
action means a collective decision or a collective commitment or promise to
make a decision on any question, motion, proposal, resolution, order, or
ordinance or formation of a position or policy but shall not include
negotiating guidance given by members of the public body to legal counsel or
other negotiators in closed sessions authorized under division (A)(1)(a) of
this section.
   (C)   Any member of any public body shall have the right to challenge the
continuation of a closed session if the member determines that the session has
exceeded the reason stated in the original motion to hold a closed session or
if the member contends that the closed session is neither clearly necessary for
the protection of the public interest or the prevention of needless injury to
the reputation of an individual. Such challenge shall be overruled only by a
majority vote of the members of the public body. The challenge and its
disposition shall be recorded in the minutes.
   (D)   Nothing in this section shall be construed to require that any meeting
be closed to the public.
(Neb. RS 84-1410) (Ord. 780, passed 11-8-2004)
§ 1-508 MEETINGS; PROHIBITED ACTS; EXEMPT EVENTS.
   (A)   No person or public body shall fail to invite a portion of its members
to a meeting, and no public body shall designate itself a subcommittee of the
whole body for the purpose of circumventing this article or the Open Meetings
Act. No closed session, informal meeting, chance meeting, social gathering,
email, fax, or electronic communication shall be used for the purpose of
circumventing the requirements of this article or the Act.
   (B)   This article and the Act do not apply to chance meetings or to
attendance at or travel to conventions or workshops of members of a public body
at which there is no meeting of the body then intentionally convened, if there
is no vote or other action taken regarding any matter over which the public
body has supervision, control, jurisdiction, or advisory power.
(Neb. RS 84-1410) (Ord. 780, passed 11-8-2004)
§ 1-509 MEETINGS; PUBLIC PARTICIPATION.
   (A)   Subject to this article and the Open Meetings Act, the public has the
right to attend and the right to speak at meetings of public bodies, and all or
any part of a meeting of a public body, except for closed sessions called
pursuant to §
1-507, may be videotaped, televised, photographed, broadcast, or recorded by
any person in attendance by means of a tape recorder, camera, video equipment,
or any other means of pictorial or sonic reproduction or in writing.
   (B)   It shall not be a violation of division (A) of this section for any
public body to make and enforce reasonable rules and regulations regarding the
conduct of persons attending, speaking at, videotaping, televising,
photographing, broadcasting, or recording its meetings. A body may not be
required to allow citizens to speak at each meeting, but it may not forbid
public participation at all meetings.
   (C)   No public body shall require members of the public to identify
themselves as a condition for admission to the meeting nor shall such body
require that the name of any member of the public be placed on the agenda prior
to such meeting in order to speak about items on the agenda. The body may
require any member of the public desiring to address the body to identify
himself or herself.
   (D)   No public body shall, for the purpose of circumventing this article or
the Open Meetings Act, hold a meeting in a place known by the body to be too
small to accommodate the anticipated audience.
   (E)   No public body shall be deemed in violation of this section if it
holds its meeting in its traditional meeting place which is located in this
state.
   (F)   No public body shall be deemed in violation of this section if it
holds a meeting outside of this state if, but only if, a member entity of the
public body is located outside of this state and the other requirements of Neb.
RS 84-1412 are met.
   (G)   The public body shall, upon request, make a reasonable effort to
accommodate the public’s right to hear the discussion and testimony presented
at the meeting.
   (H)   Public bodies shall make available at the meeting, for examination and
copying by members of the public, at least one copy of all reproducible written
material to be discussed at an open meeting. Public bodies shall make available
at least one current copy of the Open Meetings Act posted in the meeting room
at a location accessible to members of the public. At the beginning of the
meeting, the public shall be informed about the location of the posted
information.
(Neb. RS 84-1412) (Ord. 315, passed 6-14-1976; Ord. 437, passed 10-11-1983;
Ord. 481, passed 10-8-1985; Ord. 514, passed 9-14-1987)
§ 1-510 MEETINGS; CITY COUNCIL; ORDER OF BUSINESS.
   Promptly at the hour set by law on the day of each regular meeting, the
members of the City Council, the Mayor, the City Clerk, and such other city
officials that may be required shall take their regular stations in the meeting
place, and the business of the city shall be taken up for consideration and
disposition in the manner prescribed by the official agenda on file at the
office of the City Clerk.
§ 1-511 MEETINGS; VOTES.
   (A)   Any action taken on any question or motion duly moved and seconded
shall be by roll call vote of the public body in open session, and the record
shall state how each member voted, or if the member was absent or not voting.
The requirements of a roll call or viva voce vote shall be satisfied by a city
which utilizes an electronic voting device which allows the yeas and nays of
each member of the City Council to be readily seen by the public.
   (B)   The vote to elect leadership within a public body may be taken by
secret ballot, but the total number of votes for each candidate shall be
recorded in the minutes.
(Neb. RS 84-1413) (Ord. 315, passed 6-14-1976)
Cross-reference: 
   City Council voting procedures, see §§
1-605 and
1-504
§ 1-512 MEETINGS; CITY COUNCIL; PARLIAMENTARY PROCEDURE.
   Unless the City Council provides otherwise, the rules of parliamentary
procedure specified in this section shall apply to meetings of the City
Council. The Mayor shall preserve order during meetings of the City Council and
shall decide all questions of order, subject to an appeal to the Council. When
any person is called to order, he or she shall be seated until the point is
decided. When the Mayor is putting the question, no person shall leave the
meeting room. Every person present, previous to speaking, shall rise from his
or her seat and address the presiding officer and while speaking shall confine
his or her comments to the question. When two or more persons rise at once, the
Mayor shall recognize the one who spoke first. All resolutions or motions shall
be reduced to writing before being acted upon, if requested by the City Clerk
or any member of the Council. Every member of the Council who is present when a
question is voted upon shall cast his or her vote unless excused by a majority
of the members of the Council present. No motion shall be put or debated unless
seconded. When seconded, it shall be stated by the Mayor before being
debatable. In all cases where a motion or resolution is entered on the minutes,
the name of the member of the Council making the motion or resolution shall be
entered also. After each vote, the “yeas” and “nays” shall be taken and entered
in the minutes. Before the vote is actually taken, any resolution, motion, or
proposed ordinance may be withdrawn from consideration by the sponsor with the
consent of the member of the Council seconding the resolution, motion, or
ordinance. When, in the consideration of an ordinance, different times or
amounts are proposed, the question shall be put on the largest sum, or the
longest time. A question to reconsider shall be in order when made by a member
voting with the majority, but the motion to reconsider must be made before the
expiration of the third regular meeting after the initial consideration of the
question. When any question is under debate, no motion shall be made,
entertained, or seconded except the previous question, a motion to table, and
to adjourn. Each of those motions shall be decided without debate. Any of the
rules of the Council for meetings may be suspended by a two-thirds vote of the
members present. In all cases in which provisions are not made by these rules,
Robert’s Rules of Order is the authority by which the Council shall decide all
procedural disputes that may arise.
§ 1-513 MEETINGS; MINUTES.
   (A)   Each public body shall keep minutes of all meetings showing the time,
place, members present and absent, and the substance of all matters discussed.
   (B)   The minutes of all meetings and evidence and documentation received or
disclosed in open session shall be public records and open to public inspection
during normal business hours.
   (C)   Minutes shall be written and available for inspection within ten
working days or prior to the next convened meeting, whichever occurs earlier,
except that the city may have an additional ten working days if the employee
responsible for writing the minutes is absent due to a serious illness or
emergency.
(Neb. RS 84-1413) (Ord. 315, passed 6-14-1976)
§ 1-514 MEETINGS; CHANGE IN OFFICE.
   (A)   The Mayor and City Council shall meet at the time and place of the
first regular meeting in December in each election year, and the outgoing
officers and the outgoing members of the Council shall present their reports.
Upon the outgoing Council having completed its business, the outgoing members
of the Council shall surrender their offices to the incoming members, and the
outgoing officers shall thereupon each surrender to their successors in office
all property, records, papers, and moneys belonging to the same.
   (B)   The newly elected members of the Council and those continuing in
office shall convene immediately after the prior Council adjourns and proceed
to organize themselves for the ensuing year. The Mayor shall call the meeting
to order. The Clerk shall report to the Council the names of all Council
members-elect who have qualified for their respective offices. The Council
shall examine the credentials of its members and any other elective officers of
the city to see that each has been duly and properly elected and to see that
such oaths and bonds as are required have been given. The Clerk’s report shall
be spread upon the minutes of the meeting preceding the roll call.
   (C)   After ascertaining that all Council members and officers are duly
qualified and after the Clerk has called the roll, the Council shall elect a
President of the Council. The Mayor shall nominate his or her candidates for
appointive offices in which the terms of incumbents are expired and call for a
vote on approval of the candidates. The Mayor shall then proceed with the
regular order of business.
(Ord. 325, passed 6-14-1976)
ARTICLE 6: ORDINANCES, RESOLUTIONS AND MOTIONS
Section
   
1-601   Ordinances, resolutions and motions; grant of power
   
1-602   Ordinances; introduction of ordinances
   
1-603   Resolutions and motions; procedure for resolutions and motions
   
1-604   Ordinances; style, title
   
1-605   Ordinances, resolutions, orders, bylaws; reading and passage
   
1-606   Ordinances; publication
   
1-606.1   Ordinances; notices; publication
   
1-607   Ordinances; certificate of publication or posting
   
1-608   Ordinances; emergency ordinances
   
1-609   Ordinances; amendments and revisions
§ 1-601 ORDINANCES, RESOLUTIONS AND MOTIONS; GRANT OF POWER.
   In addition to its special powers, the city shall have the power to make all
ordinances, bylaws, rules, regulations, and resolutions, not inconsistent with
the laws of the state, as may be expedient for maintaining the peace, good
government, and welfare of the city and its trade, commerce, and manufactories,
and to enforce all ordinances by inflicting fines or penalties for the breach
thereof, not exceeding $500 for any one offense, recoverable with costs.
(Neb. RS 17-505) (Ord. 638, passed 6-9-1997)
Statutory reference:
   Adoption of standard codes, see Neb. RS 18-132 and 19-922
   Prosecution in county court, see Neb. RS 25-2703
§ 1-602 ORDINANCES; INTRODUCTION OF ORDINANCES.
   Unless the City Council provides otherwise, ordinances shall be introduced
by members of the City Council in one of the following ways:
   (A)   With the recognition of the Mayor, a member may, in the presence and
hearing of a majority of the members elected to the City Council, read aloud
the substance of the proposed ordinance and file a copy with the City Clerk for
future consideration; or
   (B)   With the recognition of the Mayor, a member may present the proposed
ordinance to the Clerk, who, in the presence and hearing of a majority of the
members elected to the City Council, shall read aloud the substance of the
ordinance and file it for future consideration.
(Ord. 639, passed 6-9-1997)
§ 1-603 RESOLUTIONS AND MOTIONS; PROCEDURE FOR RESOLUTIONS AND MOTIONS.
   Unless the City Council provides otherwise, resolutions and motions shall be
introduced in one of the methods prescribed in §
1-602 for the introduction of ordinances. The issue raised by the resolution or
motion shall be disposed of in accordance with the usage of parliamentary law
adopted for the guidance of the City Council. A majority vote shall be required
to pass any resolution or motion. The vote on any resolution or motion shall be
by roll call vote.
§ 1-604 ORDINANCES; STYLE, TITLE.
   (A)   Style. The style of all city ordinances shall be: "Be it ordained by
the Mayor and Council of the City of __________, Nebraska:…."
(Neb. RS 17-613)
   (B)   Title. No ordinance shall contain a subject which is not clearly
expressed in the title.
(Neb. RS 17-614)
§ 1-605 ORDINANCES, RESOLUTIONS, ORDERS, BYLAWS; READING AND PASSAGE.
   (A)   All ordinances and resolutions or orders for the appropriation or
payment of money shall require for their passage or adoption the concurrence of
a majority of all members elected to the City Council. The Mayor may vote when
his or her vote would provide the additional vote required to attain the number
of votes equal to a majority of the number of members elected to the Council,
and the Mayor shall, for the purpose of such vote, be deemed to be a member of
the Council. Ordinances of a general or permanent nature shall be read by title
on three different days unless three-fourths of the City Council vote to
suspend this requirement, except that this requirement shall not be suspended
for any ordinance for the annexation of territory. In case this requirement is
suspended, the ordinance shall be read by title and then moved for final
passage. Three-fourths of the City Council may require a reading of any such
ordinance in full before enactment under either procedure set out in this
section.
(Neb. RS 17-614)
   (B)   On the passage or adoption of every bylaw or ordinance, and every
resolution or order to enter into a contract by the City Council, the yeas and
nays shall be called and recorded. To pass or adopt any bylaw, ordinance, or
any such resolution or order, a concurrence of a majority of the whole number
of members elected to the City Council shall be required. All appointments of
the officers by the City Council shall be made viva voce, and the concurrence
of a like majority shall be required, and the names of those, and for whom they
voted, on the vote resulting in an appointment, shall be recorded. The
requirements of a roll call or viva voce vote shall be satisfied by a city
which utilizes an electronic voting device which allows the yeas and nays of
each member of the City Council to be readily seen by the public.
(Neb. RS 17-616)
§ 1-606 ORDINANCES; PUBLICATION.
   All ordinances of a general nature shall, before they take effect, be
published one time, within 15 days after they are passed:
   (A)   In newspaper in or of general circulation in the city; or
   (B)   In book or pamphlet form.
(Ord. 493, passed 11-11-1976; Ord. 641, passed 6-9-1997; Ord. 929, passed 2-13-
2018)
Statutory reference:
   Additional provisions, see Neb. RS 18-131
§ 1-606.1 ORDINANCES; NOTICES; PUBLICATION.
   If the municipality is required to publish a notice or advertisement in a
legal newspaper in or of general circulation in the municipality, and if there
is no legal newspaper in or of general circulation in the municipality, then
the municipality shall publish such notice or advertisement in a legal
newspaper in or of general circulation in the county in which the municipality
is located. If there is no legal newspaper in or of general circulation in such
county, then the municipality shall publish such notice or advertisement by
posting a written or printed copy thereof in each of three public places in the
municipality for the same period of time the municipality is required to
publish the notice or advertisement in a legal newspaper.
(Ord. 926, passed 2-13-2018)
§ 1-607 ORDINANCES; CERTIFICATE OF PUBLICATION OR POSTING.
   The passage, approval, and publication or posting of an ordinance shall be
sufficiently proved by a certificate under the seal of the city from the City
Clerk showing that the ordinance was passed and approved, and when and in what
paper the ordinance was published, or when and by whom and where the ordinance
was posted.
(Neb. RS 17-613)
Statutory reference:
   Passage; rules and regulations, see Neb. RS 17-615
§ 1-608 ORDINANCES; EFFECTIVE DATE; EMERGENCY ORDINANCES.
   (A)   Except as provided in §
1-606 and division (B) of this section, an ordinance for the government of the
city which has been adopted by the City Council without submission to the
voters of the city shall not go into effect until 15 days after the passage of
the ordinance.
(Neb. RS 19-3701)
   (B)   In the case of riot, infectious or contagious diseases, or other
impending danger, failure of a public utility, or any other emergency requiring
its immediate operation, an ordinance shall take effect upon the proclamation
of the Mayor and the posting thereof in at least three of the most public
places in the city. The emergency ordinance shall recite the emergency, be
passed by a three-fourths vote of the City Council, and be entered of record on
the City Clerk's minutes.
(Neb. RS 17-613)
(Ord. 642. passed 6-9-1997)
§ 1-609 ORDINANCES: AMENDMENTS AND REVISIONS.
   No ordinance or section thereof shall be revised or amended unless the new
ordinance contains the entire ordinance or section as revised or amended and
the ordinance or section so amended is repealed, except that an ordinance
revising all the ordinances of the city and modifications to zoning or building
districts may be adopted as otherwise provided by law.
(Neb. RS 17-614)
(Ord. 643, passed 6-9-1997)
Statutory reference:
   Modifications to zoning or building districts, see Neb. RS 19-915
   Ordinances revising all the ordinances of the city, see Neb. RS 17-614
ARTICLE 7: ELECTIONS
Section
   
1-701   Elections; generally
   
1-702   Elections; notice
   
1-703   Elections; registered voters; qualifications
   
1-704   Elections; special elections
   
1-705   Elections; election of officers; certifications required
   
1-706   Elections; partisan ballot; when allowed; requirements
   
1-707   Elections; candidate filing forms; deadlines; filing officer
   
1-708   Elections; filing fee
   
1-709   Elections; petition, write-in, and other candidates for general
election ballot; procedures
   
1-710   Elections; recall procedure
   
1-711   Elections; exit polls
   
1-712   Elections; wards
Statutory reference:
   Election Act, see Neb. RS 32-101
§ 1-701 ELECTIONS; GENERALLY.
   (A)   All city issues and offices shall be combined on the statewide primary
and general election ballots whenever possible. The issuance of separate
ballots shall be avoided in a statewide election if city offices or issues can
reasonably be combined with the nonpartisan ballot and state law does not
require otherwise. All city elections involving the election of officers shall
be held in accordance with the Election Act and in conjunction with the
statewide primary or general election.
(Neb. RS 32-556)
   (B)   When the city holds an election in conjunction with the statewide
primary or general election, the election shall be held as provided in the
Election Act. Any other election held by the city shall be held as provided in
the Election Act unless otherwise provided by the charter, code, or bylaws of
the city.
(Neb. RS 32-404)
(Ord. 326, passed 6-14-1976; 783, passed 11-8-2004)
§ 1-702 ELECTIONS; NOTICE.
   The notice of election required to be published by the Election Commissioner
or County Clerk pursuant to Neb. RS 32-802 shall serve as the notice
requirement for all city elections which are held in conjunction with the
statewide primary or general election.
§ 1-703 ELECTIONS; REGISTERED VOTERS; QUALIFICATIONS.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      REGISTERED VOTER. An elector who has a current voter registration record
on file with the Election Commissioner or County Clerk in the county of his or
her residence.
(Neb. RS 32-115)
   (B)   All registered voters residing within the corporate limits of the city
on or before election day shall be entitled to vote at all city elections.
(Neb. RS 17-602)
Statutory reference:
   Definition of elector, see Neb. RS 32-110
§ 1-704 ELECTIONS; SPECIAL ELECTIONS.
   (A)   (1)   Except as provided in Neb. RS 77-3444, any issue to be submitted
to the registered voters at a special election by the city shall be certified
by the City Clerk to the Election Commissioner or County Clerk at least 50 days
prior to the election. A special election may be held by mail as provided in
Neb. RS 32-952 through 32-959. Any other special election under this section
shall be subject to division (B) of this section.
      (2)   In lieu of submitting the issue at a special election, the city may
submit the issue at a statewide primary or general election or at any scheduled
county election, except that no such issue shall be submitted at a statewide
election or scheduled county election unless the issue to be submitted has been
certified by the City Clerk to the Election Commissioner or County Clerk by
March 1 for the primary election and by September 1 for the general election.
      (3)   After the Election Commissioner or County Clerk has received the
certification of the issue to be submitted, he or she shall be responsible for
all matters relating to the submission of the issue to the registered voters,
except that the City Clerk shall be responsible for the publication or posting
of any required special notice of the submission of the issue other than the
notice required to be given of the statewide election issues. The Election
Commissioner or County Clerk shall prepare the ballots and issue ballots for
early voting and shall also conduct the submission of the issue, including the
receiving and counting of ballots on the issue. The election returns shall be
made to the Election Commissioner or County Clerk. The ballots shall be counted
and canvassed at the same time and in the same manner as the other ballots.
Upon completion of the canvass of the vote by the County Canvassing Board, the
Election Commissioner or County Clerk shall certify the election results to the
City Council. The canvass by the County Canvassing Board shall have the same
force and effect as if made by the City Council.
(Neb. RS 32-559)
   (B)   Any special election under the Election Act shall be held on the first
Tuesday following the second Monday of the selected month unless otherwise
specifically provided. No special election shall be held under the Election Act
in April, May, June, October, November, or December of an even- numbered year
unless it is held in conjunction with the statewide primary or general
election.
(Neb. RS 32-405)
(Ord. 457, passed 8-14-1984; Ord. 644, passed 6-9-1997; Ord. 764, passed 1-12-
2004)
§ 1-705 ELECTIONS; ELECTION OF OFFICERS; CERTIFICATIONS REQUIRED.
   No later than January 5 of each even-numbered year, the City Council shall
certify to the Secretary of State, the Election Commissioner, or the County
Clerk the name of the city, the number of officers to be elected, the length of
the terms of office, the vacancies to be filled by election and length of
remaining term, and the number of votes to be cast by a registered voter for
each office. The Secretary of State, Election Commissioner, and County Clerk
shall prescribe the forms to be used for certification to him or her.
(Neb. RS 32-404) (Ord. 783, passed 11-8-2004)
§ 1-706 ELECTIONS; PARTISAN BALLOT; WHEN ALLOWED; REQUIREMENTS.
   All elective city officers shall be nominated and elected on a nonpartisan
basis unless the city provides for a partisan ballot by ordinance. No ordinance
providing for nomination and election on a partisan ballot shall permit
affiliation with any party not recognized as a political party for purposes of
the Election Act. Such ordinance providing for nomination and election on a
partisan ballot shall be adopted and effective not less than 60 days prior to
the filing deadline.
(Neb. RS 32-557)
§ 1-707 ELECTIONS; CANDIDATE FILING FORMS; DEADLINES; FILING OFFICER.
   (A)   Any candidate may place his or her name on the primary election ballot
by filing a candidate filing form prescribed by the Secretary of State as
provided in division (B). If a candidate is an incumbent of any elective
office, the filing period for filing the candidate filing form shall be between
December 1 and February 15 prior to the date of the primary election. No
incumbent who resigns from elective office prior to the expiration of his or
her term shall file for any office after February 15 of that election year. All
other candidates shall file for office between December 1 and March 1 prior to
the date of the general election.
(Neb. RS 32-606)
   (B)   Candidate filing forms shall be filed in the office of the Election
Commissioner or County Clerk.
(Neb. RS 32-607)
Statutory reference:
   Filling of vacancy on ballot, see Neb. RS 32-625 and 32-627
   Withdrawal after filing, see Neb. RS 32-622
§ 1-708 ELECTIONS; FILING FEE.
   (A)   Except as provided in division (D) or (E) of this section, a filing
fee shall be paid to the City Treasurer by or on behalf of each candidate for
city office prior to filing for office. The fee shall be placed in the general
fund of the city. No candidate filing forms shall be filed until the proper
payment or the proper receipt showing the payment of such filing fee is
presented to the filing officer. On the day of the filing deadline, the City
Treasurer's office shall remain open to receive filing fees until the hour of
the filing deadline.
   (B)   Except as provided in division (D) or (E) of this section, the filing
fee shall be a sum equal to 1% of the annual salary as of November 30 of the
year preceding the election for the office for which he or she files as a
candidate.
   (C)   All declared write-in candidates shall pay the filing fees that are
required for the office at the time that they present the write-in affidavit to
the filing officer. Any undeclared write-in candidate who is nominated or
elected by write-in votes shall pay the filing fee required for the office
within 10 days after the canvass of votes by the county canvassing board and
shall file the receipt with the person issuing the certificate of nomination or
the certificate of election prior to the certificate being issued.
   (D)   No filing fee shall be required for any candidate filing for an office
in which a per diem is paid rather than a salary or for which there is a salary
of less than $500 per year.
   (E)   (1)   No filing fee shall be required of any candidate completing an
affidavit requesting to file for elective office in forma pauperis.
      (2)    For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
         AVAILABLE RESOURCES. Includes every type of property or interest in
property that an individual owns and may convert into cash except:
            1.   Real property used as a home;
            2.   Household goods of a moderate value used in the home; and
            3.   Assets to a maximum value of $3,000 used by a recipient in a
planned effort directed towards self-support.
          PAUPER.  A person whose income and other resources for maintenance
are found under assistance standards to be insufficient for meeting the cost of
his or her requirements and whose reserve of cash or other available resources
does not exceed the maximum available resources that an eligible individual may
own.
   (F)   If any candidate dies prior to an election, the spouse of the
candidate may file a claim for refund of the filing fee with the City Council
prior to the date of the election. Upon approval of the claim by the City
Council, the filing fee shall be refunded.
(Neb. RS 32-608)
§ 1-709 ELECTIONS; PETITION, WRITE-IN, AND OTHER CANDIDATES FOR GENERAL
ELECTION BALLOT; PROCEDURES.
   (A)   (1)   Any registered voter who was not a candidate in the primary
election and who was not registered to vote with a party affiliation on or
after March 1 and before the general election in the calendar year of the
general election may have his or her name placed on the general election ballot
for a partisan office by filing petitions as prescribed in this section and
Neb. RS 32-621 or by nomination by political party convention or committee
pursuant to Neb. RS 32-627 or 32-710.
      (2)   Any candidate who was defeated in the primary election and any
registered voter who was not a candidate in the primary election may have his
or her name placed on the general election ballot if a vacancy exists on the
ballot under Neb. RS 32-625(2) and the candidate files for the office by
petition as prescribed in divisions (B) and (C) of this section, files as a
write-in candidate as prescribed in Neb. RS 32-615, or is nominated by
political party convention or committee pursuant to Neb. RS 32-710.
(Neb. RS 32-616)
   (B)   Petitions for nomination shall conform to the requirements of Neb. RS
32-628. Petitions shall state the office to be filled and the name and address
of the candidate. Petitions for partisan office shall also indicate the party
affiliation of the candidate. A sample copy of the petition shall be filed with
the filing officer prior to circulation. Petitions shall be signed by
registered voters residing in the city, if candidates are chosen at large, or
in the ward in which the officer is to be elected, if candidates are chosen by
ward, and shall be filed with the filing officer in the same manner as provided
for candidate filing forms in §
1-707. Petition signers and petition circulators shall conform to the
requirements of Neb. RS 32-629 and 32-630. No petition for nomination shall be
filed unless there is attached thereto a receipt showing the payment of the
filing fee required pursuant to Neb. RS 32-608. The petitions shall be filed by
September 1 in the year of the general election.
(Neb. RS 32-617)
   (C)   (1)   The number of signatures of registered voters needed to place
the name of a candidate upon the nonpartisan ballot for the general election
shall be at least 10% of the total number of registered voters voting for
Governor or President of the United States at the immediately preceding general
election in the city or in the ward in which the officer is to be elected, not
to exceed 2,000.
      (2)   The number of signatures of registered voters needed to place the
name of a candidate upon the partisan ballot for the general election shall be
at least 20% of the total vote for Governor or President of the United States
at the immediately preceding general election within the city or in the ward in
which the officer is to be elected, as appropriate, not to exceed 2,000.
(Neb. RS 32-618)
(Ord. 457, passed 8-14-1984; Ord. 666, passed 10-12-1998; Ord. 750, passed 3-
10-2003)
§ 1-710 ELECTIONS; RECALL PROCEDURE.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      FILING CLERK. The Election Commissioner or County Clerk.
(Neb. RS 32-1301)
   (B)   (1)   The Mayor, any member of the City Council, and any other elected
official of the city may be removed from office by recall pursuant to this
section.
      (2)   The recall procedure and special election provisions of this
section shall apply to members of the City Council who are elected by ward.
Only registered voters of such member's ward may sign a recall petition or vote
at the recall election. The recall election shall be held within the member's
ward. When a member of the City Council is nominated by ward in the primary
election and elected at large in the general election, the recall provisions
shall apply to the registered voters at the general election.
(Neb. RS 32-1302)
   (C)   (1)   A petition demanding that the question of removing the Mayor, a
member of the City Council, or any other elected official be submitted to the
registered voters shall be signed by registered voters equal in number to at
least 35% of the total vote cast for that office in the last general election,
except that for City Council office for which more than one candidate is
chosen, the petition shall be signed by registered voters equal in number to at
least 35% of the number of votes cast for the person receiving the most votes
for such office in the last general election. The signatures shall be affixed
to petition papers and shall be considered part of the petition.
      (2)   Petition circulators shall conform to the requirements of Neb. RS
32-629 and 32-630.
      (3)   The petition papers shall be procured from the filing clerk. Prior
to the issuance of such petition papers, an affidavit shall be signed and filed
with the filing clerk by at least 1 registered voter. Such voter or voters
shall be deemed to be the principal circulator or circulators of the recall
petition. The affidavit shall state the name and office of the official sought
to be removed, shall include in typewritten form in concise language of 60
words or less the reason or reasons for which recall is sought, and shall
request that the filing clerk issue initial petition papers to the principal
circulator for circulation. The filing clerk shall notify the official sought
to be removed by any method specified in Neb. RS 25-505.01 or, if notification
cannot be made with reasonable diligence by any of the methods specified in
Neb. RS 25-505.01, by leaving a copy of the affidavit at the official's usual
place of residence and mailing a copy by first-class mail to the official's
last-known address. If the official chooses, he or she may submit a defense
statement in typewritten form in concise language of 60 words or less for
inclusion on the petition. Any such defense statement shall be submitted to the
filing clerk within 20 days after the official receives the copy of the
affidavit. The principal circulator or circulators shall gather the petition
papers within 20 days after the receipt of the official’s defense statement.
The filing clerk shall notify the principal circulator or circulators that the
necessary signatures must be gathered within 30 days from the date of issuing
the petitions.
      (4)   The filing clerk, upon issuing the initial petition papers or any
subsequent petition papers, shall enter in a record, to be kept in his or her
office, the name of the principal circulator or circulators to whom the papers
were issued, the date of issuance, and the number of papers issued. The filing
clerk shall certify on the papers the name of the principal circulator or
circulators to whom the papers were issued and the date they were issued. No
petition paper shall be accepted as part of the petition unless it bears such
certificate. The principal circulator or circulators who check out petitions
from the filing clerk may distribute such petitions to persons who may act as
circulators of such petitions.
      (5)   Petition signers shall conform to the requirements of Neb. RS 32-
629 and 32-630. Each signer of a recall petition shall be a registered voter
and qualified by his or her place of residence to vote for the office in
question.
(Neb. RS 32-1303)
   (D)   Each petition paper shall conform to the requirements of Neb. RS 32-
1304.
   (E)   (1)   The principal circulator or circulators shall file, as one
instrument, all petition papers comprising a recall petition for signature
verification with the filing clerk within 30 days after the filing clerk issues
the initial petition papers to the principal circulator or circulators as
provided in division (C) of this section.
      (2)   Within 15 days after the filing of the petition, the filing clerk
shall ascertain whether or not the petition is signed by the requisite number
of registered voters. No new signatures may be added after the initial filing
of the petition papers. No signatures may be removed unless the filing clerk
receives an affidavit signed by the person requesting his or her signature be
removed before the petitions are filed with the filing clerk for signature
verification. If the petition is found to be sufficient, the filing clerk shall
attach to the petition a certificate showing the result of such examination. If
the requisite number of signatures has not been gathered, the filing clerk
shall file the petition in his or her office without prejudice to the filing of
a new petition for the same purpose.
(Neb. RS 32-1305)
   (F)   (1)   If the recall petition is found to be sufficient, the filing
clerk shall notify the official whose removal is sought and the City Council
that sufficient signatures have been gathered. Notification of the official
sought to be removed may be by any method specified in Neb. RS 25-505.01 or, if
notification cannot be made with reasonable diligence by any of the methods
specified in Neb. RS 25-505.01, by leaving such notice at the official's usual
place of residence and mailing a copy by first-class mail to the official's
last-known address.
      (2)   The City Council shall order an election to be held not less than
30 nor more than 75 days after the notification of the official whose removal
is sought under division (F)(1) of this section, except that if any other
election is to be held in the city within 90 days after such notification, the
City Council shall provide for the holding of the recall election on the same
day. All resignations shall be tendered as provided in Neb. RS 32-562. If the
official whose removal is sought resigns before the recall election is held,
the City Council may cancel the recall election if the City Council notifies
the election commissioner or county clerk of the cancellation at least 16 days
prior to the election, otherwise the recall election shall be held as
scheduled.
      (3)   If the City Council fails or refuses to order a recall election
within the time required, the election may be ordered by the district court
having jurisdiction over a county in which the elected official serves. If a
filing clerk is subject to a recall election, the Secretary of State shall
conduct the recall election.
(Neb. RS 32-1306)
   (G)   The form of the official ballot at a recall election held pursuant to
division (F) of this section shall conform to the requirements of Neb. RS 32-
1307.
   (H)   (1)   If a majority of the votes cast at a recall election are against
the removal of the official named on the ballot or the election results in a
tie, the official shall continue in office for the remainder of his or her term
but may be subject to further recall attempts as provided in division (I) of
this section.
      (2)   If a majority of the votes cast at a recall election are for the
removal of the official named on the ballot, he or she shall, regardless of any
technical defects in the recall petition, be deemed removed from office unless
a recount is ordered. If the official is deemed removed, the removal shall
result in a vacancy in the office which shall be filled as otherwise provided
in this section and Neb. RS 32-567 through 32-570.
      (3)   If the election results show a margin of votes equal to 1% or less
between the removal or retention of the official in question, the Secretary of
State, Election Commissioner, or County Clerk shall order a recount of the
votes cast unless the official named on the ballot files a written statement
with the filing clerk that he or she does not want a recount.
      (4)   If there are vacancies in the offices of a majority or more of the
members of the City Council or any other governing body at one time due to the
recall of such members, a special election to fill such vacancies shall be
conducted as expeditiously as possible by the Secretary of State, Election
Commissioner, or County Clerk.
      (5)   No official who is removed at a recall election or who resigns
after the initiation of the recall process shall be appointed to fill the
vacancy resulting from his or her removal or the removal of any other member of
the same governing body during the remainder of his or her term of office.
(Neb. RS 32-1308)
   (I)   No recall petition shall be filed against an elected official within
12 months after a recall election has failed to remove him or her from office
or within 6 months after the beginning of his or her term of office or within 6
months prior to the incumbent filing deadline for the office.
(Neb. RS 32-1309)
§ 1-711 ELECTIONS; EXIT POLLS.
   No person shall conduct an exit poll, a public opinion poll, or any other
interview with voters on election day seeking to determine voter preference
within 20 feet of the entrance of any polling place or, if inside the polling
place or building, within 100 feet of any voting booth.
(Neb. RS 32-1525) (Ord. 479, passed 10-8-1985)
§ 1-712 ELECTIONS; WARDS.
   Except when otherwise provided by ordinance of the governing body, the wards
of the city shall be defined as follows:
   (A)   First Ward.
      All territory east of a line commencing at the south corporate limits and
running north on the line of the center of Fifteenth (15th) Street to the
center line of M Street; thence west on the line of the center of M Street to
the center line of Fourteenth (14th) Street; thence north on the line of the
center of Fourteenth (14th) Street to the north corporate limits.
   (B)   Second Ward.
      All the remainder of the territory embraces within the corporate limits
and lying west of the line designated as the westerly limits of the foregoing
First Ward.
ARTICLE 8: FISCAL MANAGEMENT
Section
   
1-801   Financial management; definitions
   
1-802   Financial management; annual audit; financial statements
   
1-803   Financial management; contracts and purchases; bidding and other
requirements
   
1-804   Financial management; orders or warrants for money; contracts;
expenditures; requirements
   
1-805   Financial management; claims and accounts payable
   
1-806   Financial management; collection of special assessments; procedure
   
1-807   Financial management; special assessment fund
   
1-808   Financial management; sinking funds; gifts of money or property
   
1-809   Financial management; deposit of funds
   
1-810   Financial management; certificates of deposit; time deposits;
conditions
   
1-811   Financial management; investment and use of surplus funds
   
1-812   Financial management; bond issues
   
1-813   Financial management; debt collection; authority to contract with
collection agency
   
1-814   Financial management; credit cards; authority to accept
   
1-815   Financial management; fiscal year
   
1-816   Financial management; budget procedures
   
1-817   Financial management; expenditures prior to adoption of budget
   
1-818   Financial management; proposed budget statement; contents;
availability; correction
   
1-819   Financial management; proposed budget statement; hearing; adoption;
certification of tax amount
   
1-820   Financial management; adopted budget statement; filing; certification
of tax amount
   
1-821   Financial management; appropriation bill
   
1-822   Financial management; general fund
   
1-823   Financial management; transfer of funds
   
1-824   Financial management; budget revision
   
1-825   Financial management; proprietary functions; fiscal year; budget
statements; filing; hearing; adoption; reconciliation
   
1-826   Financial management; property tax levy for general revenue purposes
   
1-827   Financial management; levies for other taxes and special assessments
   
1-828   Financial management; all-purpose levy; extraordinary levies;
allocation; abandonment
   
1-829   Financial management; property tax levy; maximum; authority to exceed
   
1-830   Financial management; property tax levy; certification of amount;
collection
   
1-831   Financial management; property tax request; procedure for setting
   
1-832   Financial management; motor vehicle fee
§ 1-801 FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT; DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this article, the following definition shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BIENNIAL BUDGET. A budget by the city that provides for a biennial period to
determine and carry on the city’s financial and taxing affairs.
   BIENNIAL PERIOD. The two fiscal years comprising a biennium commencing in
odd-numbered or even-numbered years used by the city in determining and
carrying on its financial and taxing affairs.
   PUBLIC FUNDS. All money, including non-tax money, used in the operation and
functions of governing bodies. If the city has a lottery established under the
Nebraska County and City Lottery Act, only those net proceeds which are
actually received by the city from a licensed lottery operator shall be
considered PUBLIC FUNDS, and PUBLIC FUNDS shall not include amounts awarded as
prizes.
(Neb. RS 13-503)
§ 1-802 FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT; ANNUAL AUDIT; FINANCIAL STATEMENTS.
   (A)   (1)   For the purpose of this division (A), the following definitions
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
         ACCOUNTANT. A duly licensed public accountant or certified public
accountant who otherwise is not an employee of or connected in any way with the
city.
         ANNUAL AUDIT REPORT. The written report of the accountant and all
appended statements and schedules relating thereto presenting or recording the
findings of an examination or audit of the financial transactions, affairs, or
financial condition of the city and its proprietary functions for the fiscal
year immediately prior to the making of the annual report.
         FISCAL YEAR. The fiscal year for the city or the fiscal year
established in Neb. RS 18-2804 for a proprietary function if different than the
city fiscal year.
(Neb. RS 19-2902)
      (2)   The City Council shall cause an audit of the city’s accounts to be
made by a recognized independent and qualified accountant as expeditiously as
possible following the close of the fiscal year and to cover all financial
transactions and affairs of the city for that preceding fiscal year. The audit
shall be made on a cash or accrual method at the discretion of the City
Council. The audit shall be completed and the annual audit report made by the
accountant shall be submitted within six months after the close of the fiscal
year in any event, unless an extension of time is granted by a written
resolution adopted by the City Council. If the city owns or operates any type
of public utility or other enterprise which substantially generates its own
revenue, that phase of the affairs of the city shall be audited separately from
other functions of the city and the result shall appear separately in the
annual audit report made by the accountant to the city and such audit shall be
on an accrual basis and shall contain statements and materials which conform to
generally accepted accounting principles. For the utilities operated through
the Board of Public Works, the City Council may provide for an entirely
separate audit, on an accrual basis, of such operations and report and by a
different accountant than the one making the general audit.
(Neb. RS 19-2903)
      (3)   The annual audit report shall set forth, insofar as possible, the
financial position and results of financial operations for each fund or group
of accounts of the city. When the accrual method is selected for the annual
audit report, the report shall be in accordance with generally accepted
accounting principles. The annual audit report shall also include the
professional opinion of the accountant with respect to the financial
statements, or, if an opinion cannot be expressed, a declaration that the
accountant is unable to express such an opinion with an explanation of the
reasons why he or she cannot do so.
(Neb. RS 19-2904)
      (4)   At least three copies of such annual audit report shall be properly
signed and attested by the accountant; two copies shall be filed with the City
Clerk, and 1 copy shall be filed with the Auditor of Public Accounts. The
annual audit report filed, together with any accompanying comment or
explanation, shall become a part of the public records of the City Clerk and
shall at all times thereafter be open and subject to public inspection.
(Neb. RS 19-2905)
   (B)   The City Council shall provide and file with the City Clerk, not later
than August 1 of each year, financial statements showing the city’s actual and
budgeted figures for the most recently completed fiscal year.
(Neb. RS 13-606)
(Ord. 459, passed 8-14-1984)
Statutory reference:
   Other provisions on audits, Neb. RS 19-2906 through 19-2909
§ 1-803 FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT; CONTRACTS AND PURCHASES; BIDDING AND OTHER
REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Except as provided in Neb. RS 18-412.01 for a contract with a public
power district to operate, renew, replace, or add to the electric distribution,
transmission, or generation system of the municipal, no contract for
enlargement or general improvements, such as water extensions, sewers, public
heating system, bridges, work on streets, or any other work or improvement when
the cost of the enlargement or improvement is assessed to the property, costing
over $30,000, shall be made unless it is first approved by the governing body.
   (B)   Except as provided in Neb. RS 18-412.01, before the governing body
makes any contract in excess of $30,000 for enlargement or general
improvements, such as water extensions, sewers, public heating system, bridges,
work on streets, or any other work or improvement when the cost of the
enlargement or improvement is assessed to the property, an estimate of the cost
shall be made by the Municipal Engineer and submitted to the governing body. In
advertising for bids as provided in divisions (C) and (E) of this section, the
governing body may publish the amount of the estimate.
   (C)   Advertisements for bids shall be required for any contract costing
over $30,000 entered into:
      (1)   For enlargement or general improvements, such as water extensions,
sewers, public heating system, bridges, work on streets, or any other work or
improvement when the cost of the enlargement or improvement is assessed to the
property; or
      (2)   For the purchase of equipment used in the construction of the
enlargement or general improvements.
   (D)   A municipal electric utility may enter into a contract for the
enlargement or improvement of the electric system or for the purchase of
equipment used for the enlargement or improvement without advertising for bids
if the price is:
      (1)   $30,000 or less;
      (2)   $60,000 or less and the municipal electric utility has gross annual
revenue from retail sales in excess of $1,000,000;
      (3)   $90,000 or less and the municipal electric utility has gross annual
revenue from retail sales in excess of $5,000,000; or
      (4)   $120,000 or less and the municipal electric utility has gross
annual revenue from retail sales in excess of $10,000,000.
   (E)   The advertisement provided for in division (C) of this section shall
be published at least seven days prior to the bid closing in a legal newspaper
in or of general circulation in the municipality. In case of a public emergency
resulting from infectious or contagious diseases, destructive windstorms,
floods, snow, war, or an exigency or pressing necessity or unforeseen need
calling for immediate action or remedy to prevent a serious loss of or serious
injury or damage to life, health, or property, estimates of costs and
advertising for bids may be waived in the emergency ordinance authorized by
Neb. RS 17-613 when adopted by a 3/4 vote of the governing body and entered of
record.
   (F)   If, after advertising for bids as provided in this section, the
governing body receives fewer than two bids on a contract or if the bids
received by the governing body contain a price which exceeds the estimated
cost, the governing body may negotiate a contract in an attempt to complete the
proposed enlargement or general improvements at a cost commensurate with the
estimate given.
   (G)   If the materials are of such a nature that, in the opinion of the
manufacturer and with the concurrence of the governing body or Board of Public
Works, no cost can be estimated until the materials have been manufactured or
assembled to the specific qualifications of the municipal, the governing body
or Board of Public Works may authorize the manufacture and assemblage of those
materials and may thereafter approve the estimated cost expenditure when it is
provided by the manufacturer.
(Neb. RS 17-568.01)
   (H)   Any municipal bidding procedure may be waived by the governing body or
Board of Public Works:
      (1)   When materials or equipment are purchased at the same price and
from the same seller as materials or equipment which have formerly been
obtained pursuant to the state bidding procedure in Neb. RS 81-145 through 81-
162;
      (2)   When the contract is negotiated directly with a sheltered workshop
pursuant to Neb. RS 48-1503; or
      (3)   When required to comply with any federal grant, loan, or program.
(Neb. RS 17-568.02)
   (I)   (1)   Notwithstanding any other provisions of law or a home rule
charter, a municipality which has established, by an interlocal agreement with
any county, a joint purchasing division or agency may purchase personal
property without competitive bidding if the price for the property has been
established by the federal General Services Administration or the materiel
division of the Department of Administrative Services.
      (2)   For the purpose of this division (I), the following definitions
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
         PERSONAL PROPERTY. Includes but is not limited to supplies, materials,
and equipment used by or furnished to any officer, office, department,
institution, board, or other agency.
         PURCHASING or PURCHASE. The obtaining of personal property by sale,
lease, or other contractual means.
(Neb. RS 18-1756)
(Ord. 316, passed 6-14-1976; Ord. 362, passed 9-10-1979; Ord. 438, passed 10-
11-1983; Ord. 675, passed 10-12-1998; Ord. 887, passed 12-9-2013; Ord. 923,
passed 2-13-2018)
Statutory reference:
   Requirements for public lettings, see Neb. RS 73-101 et seq.
§ 1-804 FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT; ORDERS OR WARRANTS FOR MONEY; CONTRACTS;
EXPENDITURES; REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   The Mayor and City Council shall have no power to appropriate, issue,
or draw any order or warrant on the City Treasurer for money, unless the same
has been appropriated or ordered by ordinance, or the claim for the payment of
which such order or warrant is issued has been allowed according to the
provisions of §
1-805, and funds for the class or object out of which such claim is payable
have been included in the adopted budget statement or transferred according to
law.
(Neb. RS 17-708)
   (B)   No contract shall be hereafter made by the City Council, or any
committee or member thereof, and no expense shall be incurred by any of the
officers or departments of the city, whether the object of the expenditures
shall have been ordered by the City Council or not, unless an appropriation
shall have been previously made concerning such expense, except as otherwise
expressly provided in division (A).
(Neb. RS 17-709)
   (C)   All warrants drawn upon the City Treasurer must be signed by the Mayor
and countersigned by the City Clerk, stating the particular fund to which the
same is chargeable, the person to whom payable, and for what particular object.
No money shall be otherwise paid than upon such warrants so drawn. Each warrant
shall specify the amount included in the adopted budget statement for such fund
upon which it is drawn and the amount already expended of such fund.
(Neb. RS 17-711)
§ 1-805 FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT; CLAIMS AND ACCOUNTS PAYABLE.
   (A)   (1)   All liquidated and unliquidated claims and accounts payable
against the city shall:
         (a)   Be presented in writing;
         (b)   State the name and address of the claimant and the amount of the
claim; and
         (c)   Fully and accurately identify the items or services for which
payment is claimed or the time, place, nature, and circumstances giving rise to
the claim.
      (2)   As a condition precedent to maintaining an action for a claim,
other than a tort claim as defined in Neb. RS 13-903, the claimant shall file
such claim within 90 days of the accrual of the claim in the office of the City
Clerk.
      (3)   The City Clerk shall notify the claimant or his or her agent or
attorney by letter mailed to the claimant's address within five days if the
claim is disallowed by the City Council.
      (4)   No costs shall be recovered against the city in any action brought
against it for any claim or for any claim allowed in part which has not been
presented to the City Council to be audited, unless the recovery is for a
greater sum than the amount allowed with the interest due.
(Neb. RS 17-714)
   (B)   Upon the allowance of claims by the City Council, the order for their
payment shall specify the particular fund or appropriation out of which they
are payable as specified in the adopted budget statement; and no order or
warrant shall be drawn in excess of 85% of the current levy for the purpose for
which it is drawn, unless there is sufficient money in the treasury at the
credit of the proper fund for its payment; provided that if there exists at the
time such warrant is drawn, obligated funds from the federal government or the
state, or both from the federal government and the state, for the general
purpose or purposes of such warrant, then such warrant may be drawn in excess
of 85% of the current levy for the purpose for which it is drawn to the
additional extent of 100% of such obligated federal or state funds. No claim
shall be audited or allowed unless an order or warrant for the payment thereof
may legally be drawn.
(Neb. RS 17-715)
(Ord. 407, passed 3-9-1982)
§ 1-806 FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT; COLLECTION OF SPECIAL ASSESSMENTS; PROCEDURE.
   (A)   The city shall have authority to collect the special assessments which
it levies and to perform all other necessary functions related thereto
including foreclosure.
   (B)   The City Council of any city collecting its own special assessments
shall direct that notice that special assessments are due shall be mailed or
otherwise delivered to the last known address of the person against whom those
special assessments are assessed or to the lending institution or other party
responsible for paying those special assessments. Failure to receive the notice
shall not relieve the taxpayer from any liability to pay the special
assessments and any interest or penalties accrued thereon.
   (C)   A city collecting its own assessments shall:
      (1)   File notice of the assessments and the amount of assessment being
levied for each lot or tract of land to the Register of Deeds; and
      (2)   File a release of assessment upon final payment of each assessment
with the Register of Deeds.
(Neb. RS 18-1216) (Ord. 647, passed 6-9-1997)
Statutory reference: 
   Refunding erroneously paid special assessments, see Neb. RS 17-703
§ 1-807 FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT; SPECIAL ASSESSMENT FUND.
   All money received on special assessments shall be held by the City
Treasurer as a special fund to be applied to the payment of the improvement for
which the assessment was made, and this money shall be used for no other
purpose whatever, unless to reimburse the city for money expended for any such
improvement.
(Neb. RS 17-710)
§ 1-808 FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT; SINKING FUNDS; GIFTS OF MONEY OR PROPERTY.
   (A)   The city is hereby empowered to receive money or property by donation,
bequest, gift, devise, or otherwise for the benefit of any one or more of the
public purposes for which sinking funds are established by the provisions of
this section, as stipulated by the donor. The title to the money or property so
donated shall vest in the City Council, or in its successors in office, who
shall become the owners thereof in trust to the uses of the sinking fund or
funds; provided, if the donation is real estate, the City Council may manage
the same as in the case of real estate donated to the city for city library
purposes under the provisions of Neb. RS 51-215 and 51-216.
(Neb. RS 19-1301)
   (B)   The City Council, subject to all the limitations set forth in this
section, shall have the power to levy a tax of not to exceed $0.105 on each
$100 in any one year upon the taxable value of all the taxable property within
the city for a term of not to exceed ten years, in addition to the amount of
tax which may be annually levied for the purposes of the adopted budget
statement of the city, for the purpose of establishing a sinking fund for the
construction, purchase, improvement, extension, original equipment, or repair,
not including maintenance, of any one or more of the following public
improvements, including acquisition of any land incident to the making thereof:
City library; city auditorium or community house for social or recreational
purposes; city hall; city public library, auditorium, or community house in a
single building; city swimming pool and appurtenances thereto; city jail; city
building to house equipment or personnel of a fire department, together with
firefighting equipment or apparatus; city park; city cemetery; city medical
clinic building, together with furnishings and equipment; or city hospital. The
city shall not be authorized to levy the tax or to establish the sinking fund
as provided in this division if, having bonded indebtedness, such city has been
in default in the payment of interest thereon or principal thereof for a period
of ten years prior to the date of the passage of the resolution providing for
the submission of the proposition for establishment of the sinking fund as
required in division (C).
(Neb. RS 19-1302)
   (C)   Before any sinking fund or funds are established or before any annual
tax is levied for any such planned city improvement mentioned in division (B)
by the city, the City Council shall declare its purpose by resolution to submit
to the qualified electors of the city at the next general city election the
proposition to provide the city with the specific city improvement planned for
consummation under this section. The resolution of submission shall, among
other things, set forth a clear description of the improvement planned, the
estimated cost according to the prevailing costs, the amount of annual levy
over a definite period of years, not exceeding ten years, required to provide
such cost, and the specific name or designation for the sinking fund sought to
be established to carry out the planned improvement, together with a statement
of the proposition for placement upon the ballot at the election. Notice of the
submission of the proposition, together with a copy of the official ballot
containing the same, shall be published in its entirety three successive weeks
before the day of the election in a legal newspaper published in the city or,
if no legal newspaper is published therein, in some legal newspaper published
in the county in which the city is located and of general circulation. If no
legal newspaper is published in the county, such notice shall be published in
some legal newspaper of general circulation in the county in which the city is
located. No such sinking fund shall be established unless the same has been
authorized by a majority or more of the legal votes of the city cast for or
against the proposition. If less than a majority of the legal votes favor the
establishment of the sinking fund, the planned improvement shall not be made,
no annual tax shall be levied therefor, and no sinking fund or sinking funds
shall be established in connection therewith, but such resolution of submission
shall immediately be repealed. If the proposition shall carry at such election
in the manner prescribed in this division, the City Council and its successors
in office shall proceed to do all things authorized under such resolution of
submission but never inconsistent with this section. Provisions of the statutes
of this state relating to election of officers, voting places, election
apparatus and blanks, preparation and form of ballots, information to voters,
delivery of ballots, conduct of elections, manner of voting, counting of votes,
records and certificates of elections, and recounts of votes, so far as
applicable, shall apply to voting on the proposition under this section.
(Neb. RS 19-1303)
   (D)   All funds received by the City Treasurer, by donation or by tax levy,
as hereinbefore provided, shall, as they accumulate, be immediately invested by
the Treasurer, with the written approval of the City Council, in the manner
provided in §
1-811. Whenever investments of such sinking fund or funds are made, as
aforesaid, the nature and character of the same shall be reported to the City
Council, and the investment report shall be made a matter of record by the City
Clerk in the proceedings of the City Council. The sinking fund, or sinking
funds, accumulated under the provisions of this section, shall constitute a
special fund, or funds, for the purpose or purposes for which the same was
authorized and shall not be used for any other purpose unless authorized by 60%
of the qualified electors of the city voting at a general election favoring
such change in the use of the sinking fund or sinking funds; provided that the
question of the change in the use of the sinking fund or sinking funds, when it
fails to carry, shall not be resubmitted in substance for a period of one year
from and after the date of such election.
(Neb. RS 19-1304)
Statutory reference:
   Additional levy limitations, see Neb. RS 17-702
   Investment in warrants, see Neb. RS 77-2337
§ 1-809 FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT; DEPOSIT OF FUNDS.
   (A)   (1)   The City Treasurer shall deposit, and at all times keep on
deposit, for safekeeping, in banks, capital stock financial institutions, or
qualifying mutual financial institutions of approved and responsible standing,
all money collected, received, or held by him or her as City Treasurer. These
deposits shall be subject to all regulations imposed by law or adopted by the
City Council for the receiving and holding thereof. The fact that a
stockholder, director, or other officer of the bank, capital stock financial
institution, or qualifying mutual financial institution is also serving as
Mayor, a member of the City Council, as a member of the Board of Public Works,
or as any other officer of the city shall not disqualify the bank, capital
stock financial institution, or qualifying mutual financial institution from
acting as a depository for the city funds.
      (2)   The City Council shall require from all banks, capital stock
financial institutions, or qualifying mutual financial institutions a bond in
such penal sum as may be the maximum amount on deposit at any time less the
amount insured or guaranteed by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation or,
in lieu thereof, security given as provided in the Public Funds Deposit
Security Act, to secure the payment of all such deposits and accretions. The
City Council shall approve this bond or giving of security. The City Treasurer
shall not be liable for any loss of any money sustained by reason of the
failure of any such depository so designated and approved.
(Neb. RS 17-607)
   (B)   The insurance afforded to depositors in banks, capital stock financial
institutions, or qualifying mutual financial institutions through the Federal
Deposit Insurance Corporation shall be deemed and construed to be a surety bond
or bonds to the extent that the deposits are insured or guaranteed by that
corporation, and for deposits so insured or guaranteed, no other surety bond or
bonds or other security shall be required.
(Neb. RS 77-2362)
   (C)   Neb. RS 77-2366 shall apply to deposits in capital stock financial
institutions. Neb. RS 77-2365.01 shall apply to deposits in qualifying mutual
financial institutions.
(Neb. RS 17-607 and 77-2362)
(Ord. 673, passed 10-12-1998; Ord. 766, passed 1-12-2004)
Statutory reference: 
   Other provisions on deposits of public funds, see Neb. RS 77-2363 and 77-
2364
   Public Funds Deposit Security Act, see Neb. RS 77-2386
§ 1-810 FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT; CERTIFICATES OF DEPOSIT; TIME DEPOSITS;
CONDITIONS.
   The City Treasurer may, upon resolution of the Mayor and City Council
authorizing the same, purchase certificates of deposit from and make time
deposits in any bank, capital stock financial institution, or qualifying mutual
financial institution in the state to the extent that those certificates of
deposit or time deposits are insured or guaranteed by the Federal Deposit
Insurance Corporation. Deposits may be made in excess of the amounts so secured
by the corporation, and the amount of the excess deposit shall be secured by a
bond or by security given in the same manner as is provided for cities of the
first class in Neb. RS 16-714 through 16-716 as of the time the deposit is
made. Neb. RS 77-2366 shall apply to deposits in capital stock financial
institutions. Neb. RS 77-2365.01 shall apply to deposits in qualifying mutual
financial institutions.
(Neb. RS 17-720) (Ord. 674, passed 10-12-1998)
§ 1-811 FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT; INVESTMENT AND USE OF SURPLUS FUNDS.
   (A)   When the City Treasurer holds funds of the city in excess of the
amount required for maintenance or set aside for betterments and improvements,
the Mayor and City Council may, by resolution, direct and authorize the
Treasurer to invest the surplus funds in the outstanding bonds or registered
warrants of the city, bonds and debentures issued either singly or collectively
by any of the 12 federal land banks, the 12 intermediate credit banks, or the
13 banks for cooperatives under the supervision of the Farm Credit
Administration, or in interest-bearing bonds or the obligations of the United
States. The interest on such bonds or warrants shall be credited to the fund
out of which the bonds or warrants were purchased.
(Neb. RS 17-608)
   (B)   All income received by the city from public utilities and from the
payment and collection of water taxes, rents, rates or assessments shall be
applied to the payment of running expenses, interest on bonds or money borrowed
and the erection and construction of public utilities; should there be any
surplus, it shall be annually created into a sinking fund for the payment of
public utility bonds or for the improvements of the works, or into the general
fund as the Council may direct. The surplus remaining, if any, may, if the
Council, be invested in interest-bearing bonds or obligations of the United
States.
(Neb. RS 17-540)
   (C)   The Mayor and City Council may, by resolution, direct and authorize
the Treasurer to dispose of the surplus electric light, water, or gas funds, or
the funds arising from the sale of electric light, water, or natural gas
distribution properties, by the payment of outstanding electric light, water,
or gas distribution bonds or water warrants then due. The excess, if any, after
such payments, may be transferred to the general fund of the city.
(Neb. RS 17-609)
   (D)   Any surplus funds arising out of the operation of any system of
waterworks, power plant, ice plant, gas plant, sewerage, heating or lighting
plant, or distribution system by the Board of Public Works, or by the City
Council, where any of such utilities are not being operated by such a Board,
may be invested, if not invested pursuant to the provisions of any other law
upon the subject, in like manner and subject to the same conditions as the
investment of similar funds of cities of the first class, as provided in Neb.
RS 16-691.01.
(Neb. RS 17-803)
   (E)   (1)   Whenever the city has accumulated a surplus of any fund in
excess of its current needs or has accumulated a sinking fund for the payment
of its bonds and the money in such sinking fund exceeds the amount necessary to
pay the principal and interest of any such bonds which become due during the
current year, the City Council may invest any such surplus in excess of current
needs or such excess in its sinking fund in certificates of deposit, in time
deposits, and in any securities in which the State Investment Officer is
authorized to invest pursuant to the Nebraska Capital Expansion Act and the
Nebraska State Funds Investment Act and as provided in the authorized
investment guidelines of the Nebraska Investment Council in effect on the date
the investment is made. The State Investment Officer shall upon request furnish
a copy of current authorized investment guidelines of the Nebraska Investment
Council.
      (2)   Nothing in division (E)(1) shall be construed to authorize
investments in venture capital.
(Neb. RS 77-2341)
(Ord. 540, passed 11-13-1989)
§ 1-812 FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT; BOND ISSUES.
   The City Council may, after meeting all the requirements of state law, issue
bonds, fund bonds, and retire bonds for such purposes as may be permitted by
state law. The City Council shall have the authority to levy special
assessments for the payment of interest and principal on these bonds and may
spread the payments up to the maximum number of years permitted by state law.
Statutory reference:
   Bonds in general, see Neb. RS 18-1801 through 18-1805
   Funding and refunding bonds, see Neb. RS 10-606 through 10-612
   General provisions, see Neb. RS 10-101 through 10-143
§ 1-813 FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT; DEBT COLLECTION; AUTHORITY TO CONTRACT WITH
COLLECTION AGENCY.
   (A)   The city may contract to retain a collection agency licensed pursuant
to Neb. RS 45-601 through 45-622, within or without this state, for the purpose
of collecting public debts owed by any person to the city.
   (B)   No debt owed pursuant to division (A) of this section may be assigned
to a collection agency unless:
      (1)   There has been an attempt to advise the debtor by first-class mail,
postage prepaid, at the last known address of the debtor:
         (a)   Of the existence of the debt; and
         (b)   That the debt may be assigned to a collection agency for
collection if the debt is not paid; and
      (2)   At least 30 days have elapsed from the time the notice was sent.
   (C)   A collection agency which is assigned a debt under this section shall
have only those remedies and powers which would be available to it as an
assignee of a private creditor.
   (D)   For purposes of this section, debt shall include all delinquent fees
or payments except delinquent property taxes on real estate. In the case of
debt arising as a result of an order or judgment of a court in a criminal or
traffic matter, a collection fee may be added to the debt. The collection fee
shall be $25 or 4.5% of the debt, whichever is greater. The collection fee
shall be paid by the person who owes the debt directly to the person or agency
providing the collection service.
(Neb. RS 45-623)
§ 1-814 FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT; CREDIT CARDS; AUTHORITY TO ACCEPT.
   (A)   If authorized by the City Council, any city official may accept credit
cards, charge cards, or debit cards, whether presented in person or
electronically, or electronic funds transfers as a method of cash payment of
any tax, levy, excise, duty, custom, toll, interest, penalty, fine, license,
fee, or assessment of whatever kind or nature, whether general or special, as
provided by Neb. RS 77-1702.
   (B)   The total amount of the taxes, levies, excises, duties, customs,
tolls, interest, penalties, fines, licenses, fees, or assessments of whatever
kind or nature, whether general or special, paid for by credit card, charge
card, debit card, or electronic funds transfer shall be collected by the city
official.
   (C)   With respect to a facility which it operates in a proprietary
capacity, the City Council may choose to accept credit cards, charge cards, or
debit cards, whether presented in person or electronically, or electronic funds
transfers as a means of cash payment and may adjust the price for services to
reflect the handling and payment costs.
   (D)   The city official shall obtain, for each transaction, authorization
for use of any credit card, charge card, or debit card used pursuant to this
section from the financial institution, vending service company, credit card or
charge card company, or third-party merchant bank providing that service.
   (E)   The types of credit cards, charge cards, or debit cards accepted and
the payment services provided shall be determined by the State Treasurer and
the Director of Administrative Services with the advice of a committee convened
by the State Treasurer and the director. The committee shall consist of the
State Treasurer, the Tax Commissioner, the director, and representatives from
counties, cities, and other political subdivisions as may be appropriate. The
committee shall develop recommendations for the contracting of such services.
The State Treasurer and the director shall contract with one or more credit
card, charge card, or debit card companies or third-party merchant banks for
services on behalf of the state and those counties, cities, and political
subdivisions that choose to participate in the state contract for such
services. The State Treasurer and the director shall consider, for purposes of
this section, any negotiated discount, processing, or transaction fee imposed
by a credit card, charge card, or debit card company or third-party merchant
bank as an administrative expense. If the City Council chooses not to
participate in the state contract, it may choose types of credit cards, charge
cards, and debit cards and may negotiate and contract independently or
collectively as a governmental entity with 1 or more financial institutions,
vending service companies, credit card, charge card, or debit card companies,
or third-party merchant banks for the provision of these services.
   (F)   Subject to the direction of the City Council, a city official
authorizing acceptance of credit card or charge card payments shall be
authorized but not required to impose a surcharge or convenience fee upon the
person making a payment by credit card or charge card so as to wholly or
partially offset the amount of any discount or administrative fees charged to
the city, but the surcharge or convenience fee shall not exceed the surcharge
or convenience fee imposed by the credit card or charge card companies or
third-party merchant banks which have contracted under division (E) of this
section. The surcharge or convenience fee shall be applied only when allowed by
the operating rules and regulations of the credit card or charge card involved
or when authorized in writing by the credit card or charge card company
involved. When a person elects to make a payment to the city by credit card or
charge card and such a surcharge or convenience fee is imposed, the payment of
the surcharge or convenience fee shall be deemed voluntary by that person and
shall be in no case refundable. If a payment is made electronically by credit
card, charge card, debit card, or electronic funds transfer as part of a system
for providing or retrieving information electronically, the city official shall
be authorized but not required to impose an additional surcharge or convenience
fee upon the person making a payment.
   (G)   For the purpose of this section, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      ELECTRONIC FUNDS TRANSFER. The movement of funds by nonpaper means,
usually through a payment system, including, but not limited to, an automated
clearinghouse or the Federal Reserve’s Fedwire system.
(Neb. RS 13-609) (Ord. 687, passed 10-12-1998; Ord. 756, passed 3-10-2003)
§ 1-815 FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT; FISCAL YEAR.
   The fiscal year of the city and any public utility of the city commences on
October 1 and extends through the following September 30 except as provided in
the Municipal Proprietary Function Act.
(Neb. RS 17-701) (Ord. 617, passed 1-8-1996)
§ 1-816 FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT; BUDGET PROCEDURES.
   The budget instruction manual prepared by the Auditor of Public Accounts is
incorporated by reference for the purpose of proper budget preparation.
§ 1-817 FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT; EXPENDITURES PRIOR TO ADOPTION OF BUDGET.
   (A)   On and after the first day of its fiscal year in 1993 and of each
succeeding year or on or after the first day of its biennial period and until
the adoption of the budget by the City Council in September, the City Council
may expend any balance of cash on hand for the current expenses of the city.
Except as provided in division (B) of this section, these expenditures shall
not exceed an amount equivalent to the total amount expended under the last
budget in the equivalent period of the prior budget year or biennial period.
These expenditures shall be charged against the appropriations for each
individual fund or purpose as provided in the budget when adopted.
(Neb. RS 13-509.01)
   (B)   The restriction on expenditures in division (A) of this section may be
exceeded upon the express finding of the City Council that expenditures beyond
the amount authorized are necessary to enable the city to meet its statutory
duties and responsibilities. The finding and approval of the expenditures in
excess of the statutory authorization shall be adopted by the City Council in
open public session. Expenditures authorized by this section shall be charged
against appropriations for each individual fund or purpose as provided in the
budget when adopted, and nothing in this section shall be construed to
authorize expenditures by the city in excess of that authorized by any other
statutory provision.
(Neb. RS 13-509.02)
(Ord. 604, passed 8-14-1995)
§ 1-818 FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT; PROPOSED BUDGET STATEMENT; CONTENTS;
AVAILABILITY; CORRECTION.
   (A)   The City Council shall annually or biennially prepare a proposed
budget statement on forms prescribed and furnished by the Auditor of Public
Accounts. The proposed budget statement shall be made available to the public
prior to publication of the notice of the hearing on the proposed budget
statement pursuant to §
1-819. A proposed budget statement shall contain the following information,
except as provided by state law:
      (1)   For the immediately preceding fiscal year or biennial period, the
revenue from all sources, including motor vehicle taxes, other than revenue
received from personal and real property taxation, allocated to the funds and
separately stated as to each such source: the unencumbered cash balance at the
beginning and end of the year or biennial period; the amount received by
taxation of personal and real property; and the amount of actual expenditures;
      (2)   For the current fiscal year or biennial period, actual and
estimated revenue from all sources, including motor vehicle taxes, allocated to
the funds and separately stated as to each such source: the actual unencumbered
cash balance available at the beginning of the year or biennial period; the
amount received from personal and real property taxation; and the amount of
actual and estimated expenditures, whichever is applicable. This statement
shall contain the cash reserve for each fiscal year or biennial period and
shall note whether or not the reserve is encumbered. The cash reserve
projections shall be based upon the actual experience of prior years or
biennial periods. The cash reserve shall not exceed 50% of the total budget
adopted exclusive of capital outlay items;
      (3)   For the immediately ensuing fiscal year or biennial period, an
estimate of revenue from all sources, including motor vehicle taxes, other than
revenue to be received from taxation of personal and real property, separately
stated as to each such source: the actual or estimated unencumbered cash
balances, whichever is applicable, to be available at the beginning of the year
or biennial period; the amounts proposed to be expended during the year or
biennial period; and the amount of cash reserve, based on actual experience of
prior years or biennial period, which cash reserve shall not exceed 50% of the
total budget adopted exclusive of capital outlay items;
      (4)   A statement setting out separately the amount sought to be raised
from the levy of a tax on the taxable value of real property:
         (a)   For the purpose of paying the principal or interest on bonds
issued by the City Council; and
         (b)   For all other purposes.
      (5)   A uniform summary of the proposed budget statement, including each
proprietary function fund included in a separate proprietary budget statement
prepared pursuant to the Municipal Proprietary Function Act, and a grand total
of all funds maintained by the City Council; and
      (6)   A list of the proprietary functions which are not included in the
budget statement. These proprietary functions shall have a separate budget
statement which is approved by the City Council as provided in the Municipal
Proprietary Function Act.
   (B)   The actual or estimated unencumbered cash balance required to be
included in the budget statement by this section shall include deposits and
investments of the city as well as any funds held by the County Treasurer for
the city and shall be accurately stated on the proposed budget statement.
   (C)   The city shall correct any material errors in the budget statement
detected by the Auditor of Public Accounts or by other sources.
(Neb. RS 13-504)
   (D)   The estimated expenditures plus the required cash reserve for the
ensuing fiscal year or biennial period less all estimated and actual
unencumbered balances at the beginning of the year or biennial period and less
the estimated income from all sources, including motor vehicle taxes, other
than taxation of personal and real property shall equal the amount to be
received from taxes, and that amount shall be shown on the proposed budget
statement pursuant to this section. The amount to be raised from taxation of
personal and real property, as determined above, plus the estimated revenue
from other sources, including motor vehicle taxes, and the unencumbered
balances shall equal the estimated expenditures, plus the necessary required
cash reserve, for the ensuing year or biennial period.
(Neb. RS 13-505)
(Ord. 458, passed 8-14-1984; Ord. 645, passed 6-9-1997; Ord. 667, passed 10-12-
1998; Ord. 726, passed 4-9-2001; Ord. 752, passed 3-10-2003)
§ 1-819 FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT; PROPOSED BUDGET STATEMENT; HEARING; ADOPTION;
CERTIFICATION OF TAX AMOUNT.
   (A)   The governing body shall each year or biennial period conduct a public
hearing on its proposed budget statement. Notice of the place and time of the
hearing, together with a summary of the proposed budget statement, shall be
published four calendar days prior to the date set for hearing in a newspaper
of general circulation within the municipality's jurisdiction. For purposes of
such notice, the four calendar days shall include the day of publication but
not the day of hearing. When the total operating budget, not including
reserves, does not exceed $10,000 per year or $20,000 per biennial period, the
proposed budget summary may be posted at the governing body's principal
headquarters.
   (B)   After the hearing, the proposed budget statement shall be adopted, or
amended and adopted as amended, and a written record shall be kept of the
hearing. The amount to be received from personal and real property taxation
shall be certified to the levying board after the proposed budget statement is
adopted or is amended and adopted as amended. The certification of the amount
to be received from personal and real property taxation shall specify
separately the amount to be applied to the payment of principal or interest on
bonds issued by the governing body and the amount to be received for all other
purposes.
   (C)   If the adopted budget statement reflects a change from that shown in
the published proposed budget statement, a summary of the changes shall be
published within 20 calendar days after its adoption in the manner provided in
this section, but without provision for hearing, setting forth the items
changed and the reasons for the changes.
   (D)   Upon approval by governing body, the budget shall be filed with the
Auditor of Public Accounts. The Auditor may review the budget for errors in
mathematics, improper accounting, and noncompliance with the Nebraska Budget
Act or Neb. RS 13-518 to 13-522. If the Auditor detects such errors, he or she
shall immediately notify the Governing body of such errors. The governing body
shall correct any such error as provided in §
1-824. Warrants for the payment of expenditures provided in the budget adopted
under this section shall be valid notwithstanding any errors or noncompliance
for which the Auditor has notified the governing body.
(Neb. RS 13-506)
   (E)   When a levy increase has been authorized by vote of the electors, the
adopted budget statement shall indicate the amount of the levy increase.
(Neb. RS 13-507)
(Ord. 668, passed 10-12-1998; Ord. 753, passed 3-10-2003; Ord. 922, passed 2-
13-2018)
§ 1-820 FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT; ADOPTED BUDGET STATEMENT; FILING; CERTIFICATION
OF AMOUNT OF TAX.
   (A)   (1)   After publication and hearing on the proposed budget statement
and within the time prescribed by law, the governing body shall file with and
certify to the levying board or boards on or before September 20 of each year
or September 20 of the final year of a biennial period and file with the
Auditor of Public Accounts a copy of the adopted budget statement which
complies with Neb. RS 13-518 to 13-522, together with the amount of the tax
required to fund the adopted budget, setting out separately:
         (a)   The amount to be levied for the payment of principal or interest
on bonds issued by the governing body; and
         (b)   The amount to be levied for all other purposes.
      (2)   Proof of publication shall be attached to the statements.
   (B)   If the prime rate published by the Federal Reserve Board is 10% or
more at the time of the filing and certification required under this
subsection, the governing body, in certifying the amount required, may make
allowance for delinquent taxes not exceeding 5% of the amount required plus the
actual percentage of delinquent taxes for the preceding tax year or biennial
period and for the amount of estimated tax loss from any pending or anticipated
litigation which involves taxation and in which tax collections have been or
can be withheld or escrowed by court order. For purposes of this section,
anticipated litigation shall be limited to the anticipation of an action being
filed by a taxpayer who or which filed a similar action for the preceding year
or biennial period which is still pending. Except for such allowances, the
governing body shall not certify an amount of tax more than 1% greater or
lesser than the amount determined under municipal ordinance.
   (C)   The governing body shall use the certified taxable values as provided
by the County Assessor pursuant to Neb. RS 13-509 for the current year in
setting or certifying the levy. The governing body may designate one of its
members to perform any duty or responsibility required of the governing body by
this section.
(Neb. RS 13-508)
(Ord. 618, passed 1-8-1996; Ord. 646, passed 6-9-1997; Ord. 669, passed 10-12-
1998; Ord. 924, passed 2-13-2018)
§ 1-821 FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT; APPROPRIATION BILL.
   The City Council shall adopt a budget statement pursuant to the Nebraska
Budget Act, to be termed, “The Annual Appropriation Bill,” in which the Council
may appropriate those sums of money as may be deemed necessary to defray all
necessary expenses and liabilities of the city.
(Neb. RS 17-706) (Ord. 619, passed 1-8-1996)
§ 1-822 FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT; GENERAL FUND.
   If the city has not decided to follow the all-purpose levy method of
financing for the fiscal year, all money not specifically appropriated in the
annual appropriation bill shall be deposited in and known as the General Fund.
§ 1-823 FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT; TRANSFER OF FUNDS.
   (A)   Whenever during the current fiscal year it becomes apparent to the
City Council that due to unforeseen emergencies there is temporarily
insufficient money in a particular fund to meet the requirements of the adopted
budget of expenditures for that fund, the Council may by a majority vote,
unless otherwise provided by state law, transfer money from other funds to such
fund.
   (B)   No expenditure during any fiscal year shall be made in excess of the
amounts indicated in the adopted budget statement, except as authorized in §
1-824 or by state law.
   (C)   Any officer or officers of the City Council who obligate funds
contrary to the provisions of this section shall be guilty of an offense.
(Neb. RS 13-510) (Ord. 713, passed 10-9-2000)
§ 1-824 FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT; REVISION OF BUDGET.
   (A)   Unless otherwise provided by law, the City Council may propose to
revise the previously adopted budget statement and shall conduct a public
hearing on that proposal whenever during the current fiscal year it becomes
apparent to the City Council that:
      (1)   There are circumstances which could not reasonably have been
anticipated at the time the budget for the current year was adopted;
      (2)   The budget adopted violated Neb. RS 13-518 through 13-522, such
that the revenue of the current fiscal year for any fund thereof will be
insufficient, additional expenses will be necessarily incurred, or there is a
need to reduce the budget requirements to comply with Neb. RS 13-518 through
13-522; or
      (3)   The City Council has been notified by the Auditor of Public
Accounts of a mathematical or accounting error or noncompliance with the
Nebraska Budget Act.
   (B)   Notice of the time and place of the hearing shall be published at
least five days prior to the date set for hearing in a newspaper of general
circulation within the Council’s jurisdiction. This published notice shall set
forth:
      (1)   The time and place of the hearing;
      (2)   The amount in dollars of additional or reduced money required and
for what purpose;
      (3)   A statement setting forth the nature of the unanticipated
circumstances and, if the budget requirements are to be increased, the reasons
why the previously adopted budget of expenditures cannot be reduced during the
remainder of the current year to meet the need for additional money in that
manner;
      (4)   A copy of the summary of the originally adopted budget previously
published; and
      (5)   A copy of the summary of the proposed revised budget.
   (C)   At the hearing any taxpayer may appear or file a written statement
protesting any application for additional money. A written record shall be kept
of all such hearings.
   (D)   Upon conclusion of the public hearing on the proposed revised budget
and approval of the proposed revised budget by the City Council, the Council
shall file with the County Clerk of the county or counties in which the City
Council is located, and with the Auditor of Public Accounts, a copy of the
revised budget, as adopted. The City Council may then issue warrants in payment
for expenditures authorized by the adopted revised budget. These warrants shall
be referred to as registered warrants and shall be repaid during the next
fiscal year from funds derived from taxes levied therefor.
   (E)   Within 30 days after the adoption of the budget under §
1-819, the City Council may, or within 30 days after notification of an error
by the Auditor of Public Accounts, the Council shall correct an adopted budget
which contains a clerical, mathematical, or accounting error which does not
affect the total amount budgeted by more than 1% or increase the amount
required from property taxes. No public hearing shall be required for such a
correction. After correction, the City Council shall file a copy of the
corrected budget with the County Clerk of the county or counties in which the
City Council is located and with the Auditor of Public Accounts. The City
Council may then issue warrants in payment for expenditures authorized by the
budget.
(Neb. RS 13-511) (Ord. 713, passed 10-9-2000; Ord. 755, passed 3-10-2003)
§ 1-825 FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT; PROPRIETARY FUNCTIONS; FISCAL YEAR; BUDGET
STATEMENTS; FILING; HEARING; ADOPTION; RECONCILIATION.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      PROPRIETARY FUNCTION. A water supply or distribution utility, a
wastewater collection or treatment utility, an electric generation,
transmission, or distribution utility, a gas supply, transmission, or
distribution utility, an integrated solid waste management collection,
disposal, or handling utility, or a hospital or a nursing home owned by the
city.
(Neb. RS 18-2803)
      SUBSIDIZATION. The costs of operation of a proprietary function are
regularly financed by appropriations from the city’s general fund in excess of
the amount paid by the city to the proprietary function for actual service or
services received.
(Neb. RS 18-2804)
   (B)   The City Council may establish a separate fiscal year for each
proprietary function, except that any proprietary function which is subsidized
by appropriations from the city’s general fund shall have the same fiscal year
as the city.
   (C)   (1)   At least 30 days prior to the start of the fiscal year of each
proprietary function, a proposed proprietary budget statement shall be prepared
in writing and filed with the City Clerk containing the following information:
         (a)   For the immediately preceding fiscal year, the revenue from all
sources, the unencumbered cash balance at the beginning and end of the year,
the amount received by taxation, and the amount of actual expenditure;
         (b)   For the current fiscal year, actual and estimated revenue from
all sources separately stated as to each such source, the actual unencumbered
cash balance available at the beginning of the year, the amount received from
taxation, and the amount of actual and estimated expenditure, whichever is
applicable;
         (c)   For the immediately ensuing fiscal year, an estimate of revenue
from all sources separately stated as to each such source, the actual or
estimated unencumbered cash balance, whichever is applicable, to be available
at the beginning of the year, the amounts proposed to be expended during the
fiscal year, and the amount of cash reserve based on actual experience of prior
years; and
         (d)   A uniform summary of the proposed budget statement which shall
include a total of all funds maintained for the proprietary function.
      (2)   The statement shall contain the estimated cash reserve for each
fiscal year and shall note whether or not the reserve is encumbered. The cash
reserve projections shall be based upon the actual experience of prior years.
      (3)   Each proprietary budget statement shall be filed on forms
prescribed and furnished by the Auditor of Public Accounts following
consultation with representatives of such governing bodies as operate
proprietary functions subject to the provisions of the Municipal Proprietary
Function Act.
(Neb. RS 18-2805)
   (D)   (1)   After a proposed proprietary budget statement is filed with the
City Clerk, the City Council shall conduct a public hearing on the statement.
Notice of the time and place of the hearing, a summary of the proposed
proprietary budget statement, and notice that the full proposed proprietary
budget statement is available for public review with the City Clerk during
normal business hours shall be published 1 time at least 5 days prior to the
hearing in a newspaper of general circulation within the City Council’s
jurisdiction or by mailing to each resident within the City Council’s
jurisdiction.
      (2)   After the hearing, the proposed proprietary budget statement shall
be adopted or amended and adopted as amended, and a written record shall be
kept of the hearing. If the adopted proprietary budget statement reflects a
change from the proposed proprietary statement presented at the hearing, a copy
of the adopted proprietary budget statement shall be filed with the City Clerk
within 20 days after its adoption and published in a newspaper of general
circulation within the City Council’s jurisdiction or by mailing to each
resident within the City Council’s jurisdiction.
(Neb. RS 18-2806)
   (E)   If the actual expenditures for a proprietary function exceed the
estimated expenditures in the proprietary budget statement during its fiscal
year, the City Council shall adopt a proprietary function reconciliation
statement within 90 days after the end of the fiscal year which reflects any
difference between the adopted proprietary budget statement for the previous
fiscal year and the actual expenditures and revenue for that fiscal year. After
the adoption of a proprietary function reconciliation statement, it shall be
filed with the City Clerk and published in a newspaper of general circulation
within the City Council’s jurisdiction or by mailing to each resident within
the City Council’s jurisdiction. If the difference between the adopted
proprietary budget for the previous fiscal year and the actual expenditures and
revenues for that fiscal year is greater than 10%, the proprietary function
reconciliation statement shall only be adopted following a public hearing.
(Neb. RS 18-2807)
   (F)   If the budget of a proprietary function is included in the city budget
statement created pursuant to the Nebraska Budget Act, the Municipal
Proprietary Function Act need not be followed for that proprietary function.
Any income from a proprietary function which is transferred to the general fund
of the city shall be shown as a source of revenue in the city budget statement
created pursuant to the Nebraska Budget Act.
(Neb. RS 18-2808)
§ 1-826 FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT; PROPERTY TAX LEVY FOR GENERAL REVENUE PURPOSES.
   The city shall have power to levy taxes for general revenue purposes in any
one year not to exceed $0.35 on each $100 upon the taxable value of all the
taxable property in the city. The valuation of such property shall be
ascertained from the books or assessment rolls of the County Assessor.
(Neb. RS 17-506)
§ 1-827 FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT; LEVIES FOR OTHER TAXES AND SPECIAL ASSESSMENTS.
   The city shall have power to levy any other tax or special assessment
authorized by law.
(Neb. RS 17-507)
§ 1-828 FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT; ALL-PURPOSE LEVY; EXTRAORDINARY LEVIES;
ALLOCATION; ABANDONMENT.
   (A)   Notwithstanding provisions in the statutes of Nebraska and this code
to the contrary, for any fiscal year the City Council may decide to certify to
the County Clerk for collection one all-purpose levy required to be raised by
taxation for all city purposes instead of certifying a schedule of levies for
specific purposes added together. Subject to the limits in § 35.48, the all-
purpose levy shall not exceed an annual levy of $1.05 on each $100 upon the
taxable valuation of all the taxable property in the city. Otherwise authorized
extraordinary levies to service and pay bonded indebtedness of the city may be
made by the city in addition to such all-purpose levy.
(Neb. RS 19-1309)
   (B)   If the method provided in division (A) is followed in city financing,
the city shall allocate the amount so raised to the several departments of the
city in its annual budget and appropriation ordinance, or in other legal
manner, as the City Council deems wisest and best.
(Neb. RS 19-1310)
   (C)   If the city elects to follow the method provided in division (A), it
shall be bound by that election during the ensuing fiscal year but may abandon
such method in succeeding fiscal years.
(Neb. RS 19-1311)
   (D)   If it is necessary to certify the amount to county officers for
collection, the same shall be certified as a single amount for general fund
purposes.
(Neb. RS 19-1312)
§ 1-829 FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT; PROPERTY TAX LEVY; MAXIMUM; AUTHORITY TO EXCEED.
   (A)   Property tax levies for the support of the city for fiscal years
beginning on or after July 1, 1998, shall be limited to the amounts set forth
in this division (A), except as provided in division (C). The city may levy a
maximum levy of $0.45 per $100 of taxable valuation of property subject to the
levy plus an additional $0.05 per $100 of taxable valuation to provide
financing for the city's share of revenue required under an agreement or
agreements executed pursuant to the Interlocal Cooperation Act or the Joint
Public Agency Act. The maximum levy shall include amounts levied to pay for
sums to support a library pursuant to Neb. RS 51-201, museum pursuant to Neb.
RS 51-501, visiting community nurse, home health nurse, or home health agency
pursuant to Neb. RS 71-1637, or statue, memorial, or monument pursuant to Neb.
RS 80-202. Property tax levies for judgments, except judgments or orders from
the Commission of Industrial Relations, obtained against the city which require
or obligate the city to pay that judgment, to the extent the judgment is not
paid by liability insurance coverage of the city, for preexisting lease-
purchase contracts approved prior to July 1, 1998, for bonded indebtedness
approved according to law and secured by a levy on property, and for payments
by a public airport to retire interest-free loans from the Division of
Aeronautics in lieu of bonded indebtedness at a lower cost to the public
airport are not included in the levy limits established by this division (A).
The limitations on tax levies provided in this division (A) are to include all
other general or special levies provided by law. Notwithstanding other
provisions of law, the only exceptions to the limits in this division (A) are
those provided by or authorized by this section. Tax levies in excess of the
limitations in this section shall be considered unauthorized levies under Neb.
RS 77-1606 unless approved under division (C).
(Neb. RS 77-3442)
   (B)   (1)   All city airport authorities established under the Cities
Airport Authorities Act, community redevelopment authorities established under
the Community Development Law, and off-street parking districts established
under the Offstreet Parking District Act may be allocated property taxes as
authorized by law which are authorized by the city and are counted in the
municipal levy limit provided by division (A), except that such limitation
shall not apply to property tax levies for preexisting lease-purchase contracts
approved prior to July 1, 1998, for bonded indebtedness approved according to
law and secured by a levy on property, and for payments by a public airport to
retire interest-free loans from the Division of Aeronautics in lieu of bonded
indebtedness at a lower cost to the public airport. For off-street parking
districts established under the Offstreet Parking District Act, the tax shall
be counted in the allocation by the city proportionately, by dividing the total
taxable valuation of the taxable property within the district by the total
taxable valuation of the taxable property within the city multiplied by the
levy of the district. The City Council shall review and approve or disapprove
the levy request of the political subdivisions subject to this division (B).
The City Council may approve all or a portion of the levy request and may
approve a levy request that would allow a levy greater than that permitted by
law. The levy allocated by the city may be exceeded as provided in division
(C).
      (2)   On or before August 1, all political subdivisions subject to city
levy authority under this division (B) shall submit a preliminary request for
levy allocation to the City Council. The preliminary request of the political
subdivision shall be in the form of a resolution adopted by a majority vote of
members present of the political subdivision's governing body. The failure of a
political subdivision to make a preliminary request shall preclude that
political subdivision from using procedures set forth in Neb. RS 77-3444 to
exceed the final levy allocation as determined in this division (B).
      (3)   (a)   The City Council shall:
            1.   Adopt a resolution by a majority vote of members present which
determines a final allocation of levy authority to its political subdivisions;
and
            2.   Forward a copy of that resolution to the chairperson of the
governing body of each of its political subdivisions.
         (b)   No final levy allocation shall be changed after September 1
except by agreement between both the City Council and the governing body of the
political subdivision whose final levy allocation is at issue.
(Neb. RS 77-3443)
   (C)   (1)   The city may exceed the limits provided in division (A) by an
amount not to exceed a maximum levy approved by a majority of registered voters
voting on the issue in a primary, general, or special election at which the
issue is placed before the registered voters. A vote to exceed the limits must
be approved prior to October 10 of the fiscal year which is to be the first to
exceed the limits.
      (2)   The City Council may call for the submission of the issue to the
voters:
         (a)   By passing a resolution calling for exceeding the limits by a
vote of at least 2/3 of the members of the City Council and delivering a copy
of the resolution to the County Clerk or Election Commissioner of every county
which contains all or part of the city; or
         (b)   Upon receipt of a petition by the County Clerk or Election
Commissioner of every county containing all or part of the city requesting an
election signed by at least 5% of the registered voters residing in the city.
      (3)   The resolution or petition shall include the amount of levy which
would be imposed in excess of the limits provided in division (A) and the
duration of the excess levy authority. The excess levy authority shall not have
a duration greater than 5 years. Any resolution or petition calling for a
special election shall be filed with the County Clerk or Election Commissioner
no later than 30 days prior to the date of the election, and the time of
publication and providing a copy of the notice of election required in Neb. RS
32-802 shall be no later than 20 days prior to the election.
      (4)   The County Clerk or Election Commissioner shall place the issue on
the ballot at an election as called for in the resolution or petition which is
at least 30 days after receipt of the resolution or petition. The election
shall be held pursuant to the Election Act. For petitions filed with the County
Clerk or Election Commissioner on or after May 1, 1998, the petition shall be
in the form as provided in Neb. RS 32-628 through 32-631.
      (5)   Any excess levy authority approved under this division (C) shall
terminate pursuant to its terms, on a vote of the City Council to terminate the
authority to levy more than the limits, at the end of the fourth fiscal year
following the first year in which the levy exceeded the limit, or as provided
in division (C)(8), whichever is earliest.
      (6)   The City Council may pass no more than 1 resolution calling for an
election pursuant to this division (C) during any 1 calendar year. Only 1
election may be held in any 1 calendar year pursuant to a petition initiated
under this division (C). The ballot question may include any terms and
conditions set forth in the resolution or petition and shall include the
language specified in Neb. RS 77-3444.
      (7)   If a majority of the votes cast upon the ballot question are in
favor of the tax, the County Board shall authorize a tax in excess of the
limits in division (A), but the tax shall not exceed the amount stated in the
ballot question. If a majority of those voting on the ballot question are
opposed to the tax, the City Council shall not impose the tax.
      (8)   (a)   The city may rescind or modify a previously approved excess
levy authority prior to its expiration by a majority of registered voters
voting on the issue in a primary, general, or special election at which the
issue is placed before the registered voters. A vote to rescind or modify must
be approved prior to October 10 of the fiscal year for which it is to be
effective.
         (b)   The City Council may call for the submission of the issue to the
voters:
            1.   By passing a resolution calling for the rescission or
modification by a vote of at least 2/3 of the members of the City Council and
delivering a copy of the resolution to the County Clerk or Election
Commissioner of every county which contains all or part of the city; or
            2.   Upon receipt of a petition by the County Clerk or Election
Commissioner of every county containing all or part of the city requesting an
election signed by at least 5% of the registered voters residing in the city.
         (c)   The resolution or petition shall include the amount and the
duration of the previously approved excess levy authority and a statement that
either the excess levy authority will be rescinded or the excess levy authority
will be modified. If the excess levy authority will be modified, the amount and
duration of the modification shall be stated. The modification shall not have a
duration greater than 5 years. The County Clerk or Election Commissioner shall
place the issue on the ballot at an election as called for in the resolution or
petition which is at least 30 days after receipt of the resolution or petition,
and the time of publication and providing a copy of the notice of election
required in Neb. RS 32-802 shall be no later than 20 days prior to the
election. The election shall be held pursuant to the Election Act.
(Neb. RS 77-3444)
(Ord. 671, passed 10-12-1998; Ord. 754, passed 3-10-2003; Ord. 928, passed 2-
13-2018)
§ 1-830 FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT; PROPERTY TAX LEVY; CERTIFICATION OF AMOUNT;
COLLECTION.
   The City Council shall, at the time and in the manner provided by law, cause
to be certified to the County Clerk the amount of tax to be levied upon the
taxable value of all the taxable property of the city which the city requires
for the purposes of the adopted budget statement for the ensuing year,
including all special assessments and taxes assessed as otherwise provided. The
County Clerk shall place the same on the property tax lists to be collected in
the manner provided by law for the collection of county taxes in the county
where the city is situated. In all sales for any delinquent taxes for municipal
purposes, if there are other delinquent taxes due from the same person or a
lien on the same property, the sale shall be for all the delinquent taxes. Such
sales and all sales made under or by virtue of this section or the provision of
law herein referred to shall be of the same validity and in all respects be
deemed and treated as though such sales had been made for the delinquent county
taxes exclusively.
(Neb. RS 17-702)
§ 1-831 FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT; PROPERTY TAX REQUEST; PROCEDURE FOR SETTING.
   (A)   The property tax request for the prior year shall be the property tax
request for the current year for purposes of the levy set by the County Board
of Equalization in Neb. RS 77-1601 unless the City Council passes by a majority
vote a resolution or ordinance setting the tax request at a different amount.
That resolution or ordinance shall only be passed after a special public
hearing called for the purpose is held and after notice is published in a
newspaper of general circulation in the area of the city at least five days
prior to the hearing.
   (B)   The hearing notice shall contain the following information:
      (1)   The dollar amount of the prior year’s tax request and the property
tax rate that was necessary to fund that tax request;
      (2)   The property tax rate that would be necessary to fund last year’s
tax request if applied to the current year’s valuation; and
      (3)   The proposed dollar amount of the tax request for the current year
and the property tax rate that will be necessary to fund that tax request.
   (B)   Any resolution setting a tax request under this section shall be
certified and forwarded to the County Clerk on or before October 13 of the year
for which the tax request is to apply.
   (C)   Any tax levy which is not in compliance with this section and Neb. RS
77-1601 shall be construed as an unauthorized levy under Neb. RS 77-1606.
(Neb. RS 77-1601.02) (Ord. 648, passed 6-9-1997; Ord. 672, passed 10-12-1998;
Ord. 709, passed 10-9-2000)
§ 1-832 FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT; MOTOR VEHICLE FEE.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      LIMITS OF THE CITY. Includes the extraterritorial zoning jurisdiction of
the city.
      PERSON. Includes bodies corporate, societies, communities, the public
generally, individuals, partnerships, limited liability companies, joint-stock
companies, cooperatives, and associations. Person does not include any federal,
state, or local government or any political subdivision thereof.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in division (D) of this section, the
governing body of the city shall have power to require any individual whose
primary residence or person who owns a place of business which is within the
limits of the city and that owns and operates a motor vehicle within such
limits to pay an annual motor vehicle fee and to require the payment of such
fee upon the change of ownership of such vehicle. All such fees which may be
provided for under this section shall be used exclusively for constructing,
repairing, maintaining, or improving streets, roads, alleys, public ways, or
parts thereof or for the amortization of bonded indebtedness when created for
such purposes.
   (C)   No motor vehicle fee shall be required under this section if:
      (1)   A vehicle is used or stored but temporarily in the city for a
period of six months or less in a 12-month period;
      (2)   An individual does not have a primary residence or a person does
not own a place of business within the limits of the city and does not own and
operate a motor vehicle within the limits of the city; or
      (3)   An individual is a full-time student attending a post-secondary
institution within the limits of the city and the motor vehicle’s situs under
the Motor Vehicle Certificate of Title Act is different from the place at which
he or she is attending such institution.
   (D)   After December 31, 2012, no motor vehicle fee shall be required of any
individual whose primary residence is or person who owns a place of business
within the extraterritorial zoning jurisdiction of the city.
   (E)   The fee shall be paid to the County Treasurer of the county in which
the city is located when the registration fees as provided in the Motor Vehicle
Registration Act are paid. These fees shall be credited by the County Treasurer
to the road fund of the city.
(Neb. RS 18-1214) (Ord. 531, passed 12-12-1998)
Statutory reference:
   Motor Vehicle Registration Act, see Neb. RS 60-301
ARTICLE 9: COMPENSATION
Section
   
1-901   Compensation; municipal officials
   
1-902   Compensation; conflict of interest involving contracts
§ 1-901 COMPENSATION; MUNICIPAL OFFICIALS.
   (A)   The officers and employees of the city shall receive such compensation
as the Mayor and Council shall fix by ordinance.
(Neb. RS 17-108)
   (B)   The city may enact ordinances or bylaws to regulate and prescribe the
compensation of officers not provided for in state law.
(Neb. RS 17-604)
   (C)   No officer shall receive any pay or perquisites from the city other
than his or her salary. The City Council shall not pay or appropriate any money
or other valuable thing to any person not an officer for the performance of any
act, service, or duty, the doing or performance of which shall come within the
proper scope of the duties of any officer of the city.
(Neb. RS 17-611)
   (D)   The emoluments of any elective officer shall not be increased or
diminished during the term for which he or she shall have been elected, except
when there has been a combination and merger of offices as provided in §
1-203, except that when there are officers elected to the Council, or any other
board or commission having more than one member and the terms of one or more
members commence and end at different times, the compensation of all members of
such council, board or commission may be increased or diminished at the
beginning of the full term of any member thereof. No person who shall have
resigned or vacated any office shall be eligible to the same during the time
for which he or she was elected if during the same time the emoluments thereof
were increased.
(Neb. RS 17-612)
§ 1-902 COMPENSATION; CONFLICT OF INTEREST INVOLVING CONTRACTS.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      BUSINESS ASSOCIATION.
         (a)   A business:
            1.   In which the individual is a partner, limited liability
company member, director, or officer; or
            2.   In which the individual or a member of the individual’s
immediate family is a stockholder of closed corporation stock worth $1,000 or
more at fair market value or which represents more than a 5% equity interest or
is a stockholder of publicly traded stock worth $10,000 or more at fair market
value or which represents more than 10% equity interest.
         (b)   An individual who occupies a confidential professional
relationship protected by law shall be exempt from this definition. This
definition shall not apply to publicly traded stock under a trading account if
the filer reports the name and address of the stockbroker.
(Neb. RS 49-1408)
      IMMEDIATE FAMILY. A child residing in an individual’s household, a spouse
of an individual, or an individual claimed by that individual or that
individual’s spouse as a dependent for federal income tax purposes.
(Neb. RS 49-1425)
      OFFICER.
         (a)   Includes:
            1.   A member of any board or commission of the city which spends
and administers its own funds, who is dealing with a contract made by such
board or commission; or
            2.   Any elected city official.
         (b)   OFFICER does not mean volunteer firefighters or ambulance
drivers with respect to their duties as firefighters or ambulance drivers.
   (B)   (1)   Except as provided in Neb. RS 49-1499.04 or 70-624.04, no
officer may have an interest in any contract to which his or her governing
body, or anyone for its benefit, is a party. The existence of such an interest
in any contract shall render the contract voidable by decree of a court of
competent jurisdiction as to any person who entered into the contract or took
assignment of the contract with actual knowledge of the prohibited conflict. An
action to have a contract declared void under this section may be brought by
the County Attorney, the governing body, or any resident within the
jurisdiction of the governing body and shall be brought within one year after
the contract is signed or assigned. The decree may provide for the
reimbursement of any person for the reasonable value of all money, goods,
material, labor, or services furnished under the contract, to the extent that
the governing body has benefitted thereby.
      (2)   The prohibition in this division (B) shall apply only when the
officer or his or her parent, spouse, or child:
         (a)   Has a business association with the business involved in the
contract; or
         (b)   Will receive a direct pecuniary fee or commission as a result of
the contract.
   (C)   Division (B) of this section does not apply if the contract is an
agenda item approved at a meeting of the governing body and the interested
officer:
      (1)   Makes a declaration on the record to the governing body responsible
for approving the contract regarding the nature and extent of his or her
interest prior to official consideration of the contract;
      (2)   Does not vote on the matters of granting the contract, making
payments pursuant to the contract, or accepting performance of work under the
contract, or similar matters relating to the contract, except that if the
number of members of the governing body declaring an interest in the contract
would prevent the body with all members present from securing a quorum on the
issue, then all members may vote on the matters; and
      (3)   Does not act for the governing body which is a party to the
contract as to inspection or performance under the contract in which he or she
has an interest.
   (D)   An officer who has no business association with the business involved
in the contract, or will not receive a direct pecuniary fee or commission as a
result of the contract, shall not be deemed to have an interest within the
meaning of this section.
   (E)   The receiving of deposits, cashing of checks, and buying and selling
of warrants and bonds of indebtedness of any such governing body by a financial
institution shall not be considered a contract for purposes of this section.
The ownership of less than 5% of the outstanding shares of a corporation shall
not constitute an interest within the meaning of this section.
   (F)   If an officer’s parent, spouse, or child is an employee of the
officer’s governing body, the officer may vote on all issues of the contract
which are generally applicable to all employees, or all employees within a
classification, and do not single out his or her parent, spouse, or child for
special action.
   (G)   Neb. RS 49-14,102 does not apply to contracts covered by this section.
(Neb. RS 49-14,103.01)
   (H)   (1)   The person charged with keeping records for the governing body
shall maintain separately from other records a ledger containing the
information listed in divisions (H)(1)(a) through (H)(1)(e) of this section
about every contract entered into by the governing body in which an officer of
the body has an interest and for which disclosure is made pursuant to division
(C) of this section. This information shall be kept in the ledger for five
years from the date of the officer’s last day in office and shall include:
         (a)   The names of the contracting parties;
         (b)   The nature of the interest of the officer in question;
         (c)   The date that the contract was approved by the governing body;
         (d)   The amount of the contract; and
         (e)   The basic terms of the contract.
      (2)   The information supplied relative to the contract shall be provided
no later than ten days after the contract has been signed by both parties. The
ledger kept pursuant to this division (H) shall be available for public
inspection during the normal working hours of the office in which it is kept.
(Neb. RS 49-14,103.02)
   (I)   An open account established for the benefit of any governing body with
a business in which an officer has an interest shall be deemed a contract
subject to this section. The statement required to be filed by division (H) of
this section shall be filed within ten days after the account is opened.
Thereafter, the person charged with keeping records for the governing body
shall maintain a running account of amounts purchased on the open account.
Purchases made from petty cash or a petty cash fund shall not be subject to
this section.
(Neb. RS 49-14,103.03)
   (J)   Notwithstanding divisions (A) through (I) of this section, the
governing body may prohibit contracts over a specific dollar amount in which an
officer of the governing body may have an interest.
(Neb. RS 49-14,103.05)
   (K)   The governing body may exempt from divisions (A) through (I) of this
section, contracts involving $100 or less in which an officer of that body may
have an interest.
(Neb. RS 49-14,103.06)
(Ord. 426, passed 8-24-1982; Ord. 439, passed 10-11-1983; Ord. 460, passed 8-
14-1984; Ord. 492, passed 11-11-1986; Ord. 740, passed 5-13-2002)
Statutory reference:
   Other provisions on conflicts of interest, see Neb. RS 18-305 through 18-312
and 49-1499.03 through 49-14,103
   Penalty for violation of restrictions on contracts, see Neb. RS 49-14,103.04
ARTICLE 10: INITIATIVE AND REFERENDUM
Section
   
1-1001   Initiative and referendum; definitions
   
1-1002   Initiative and referendum; petitions, ballots
   
1-1003   Initiative and referendum; petition form
   
1-1003.01   Initiative and referendum; declaratory judgment
   
1-1004   Initiative and referendum; signature sheets
   
1-1005   Initiative and referendum; petitions, affidavit
   
1-1006   Initiative and referendum; petitions, notifications
   
1-1007   Initiative and referendum; frequency of occurrence
   
1-1008   Initiative and referendum; direct vote
   
1-1009   Initiative and referendum; elections
   
1-1010   Initiative and referendum; ballots
   
1-1011   Initiative and referendum; initiative
   
1-1012   Initiative and referendum; referendum limitations
   
1-1013   Initiative and referendum; referendum, passage
   
1-1014   Initiative and referendum; violations, penalties
   
1-1015   Initiative and referendum; applicability
§ 1-1001 INITIATIVE AND REFERENDUM; DEFINITIONS.
   The powers of initiative and referendum are reserved to the qualified
electors of the municipality by state law. This article shall govern the use of
initiative to enact, and the use of referendum to amend or repeal measures
affecting the governance of the municipality. For purposes of this article, the
definitions set out in this section, unless the context otherwise requires,
shall apply.
   CIRCULATOR. Any person who solicits signatures for an initiative or
referendum petition.
   CLERK. The Municipal Clerk or the municipal official in charge of elections.
   GOVERNING BODY. The legislative authority of the municipality.
   MEASURE. An ordinance, charter provision or resolution which is within the
legislative authority of the governing body to pass, and which is not excluded
from the operation of referendum by the exceptions in §
1-1012.
   MUNICIPALITY. The City of Franklin, Nebraska.
   PETITION. A document authorized for circulation pursuant to §
1-1002, or any copy of such document.
   PLACE OF RESIDENCE. The street and number of the residence. If there is no
street and number for the residence, PLACE OF RESIDENCE shall mean the mailing
address.
   PROSPECTIVE PETITION. A sample document containing the information necessary
for a completed petition, including a sample signature sheet, which has not yet
been authorized for circulation.
   QUALIFIED ELECTORS. All persons registered to vote, at the time the
prospective petition is filed, in the jurisdiction governed or to be governed
by any measure sought to be enacted by initiative, or altered or repealed by
referendum.
   RESIDENCE. That place at which a person has established his or her home,
where he or she is habitually present, and to which, when he or she departs, he
or she intends to return.
   SIGNATURE SHEET. A sheet of paper which is part of a petition and which is
signed by persons wishing to support the petition effort.
(Neb. RS 18-2501 through 18-2511) (Ord. 425, passed 8-24-1982; Ord. 461, passed
8-14-1984)
§ 1-1002 INITIATIVE AND REFERENDUM; PETITIONS, BALLOTS.
   (A)   Before circulating an initiative or referendum petition, the
petitioner shall file with the Clerk a prospective petition. The Clerk shall
date the prospective petition immediately upon its receipt. The Clerk shall
verify that the prospective petition is in proper form and shall provide a
ballot title for the initiative or referendum proposal, as described below. If
the prospective petition is in proper form, the Clerk shall authorize the
circulation of the petition and such authorization shall be given within three
working days from the date the prospective petition was filed. If the form of
the prospective petition is incorrect, the Clerk shall, within three working
days from the date the prospective petition was filed, inform the petitioner of
necessary changes and request that those changes be made. When the requested
changes have been made and the revised prospective petition has been submitted
to the Clerk in proper form, the Clerk shall authorize the circulation of the
petition and such authorization shall be given within two working days from the
receipt of the properly revised petition. Verification by the Clerk that the
prospective petition is in proper form does not constitute an admission by the
Clerk, governing body or municipality that the measure is subject to referendum
or limited referendum or that the measure may be enacted by initiative.
   (B)   The ballot title of any measure to be initiated or referred shall
consist of:
      (1)   A briefly-worded caption by which the measure is commonly known or
which accurately summarizes the measure;
      (2)   A briefly-worded question which plainly states the purpose of the
measure, and is phrased so that an affirmative response to the question
corresponds to an affirmative vote on the measure; and
      (3)   A concise and impartial statement, of not more than 75 words, of
the chief purpose of the measure.
   (C)   The ballots used when voting on an initiative or referendum proposal
shall contain the entire ballot title. Proposals for initiative and referendum
shall be submitted on separate ballots and the ballots shall be printed in
lower case ten point type, except that the caption shall be in bold face type.
All initiative and referendum measures shall be submitted in a nonpartisan
manner without indicating or suggesting on the ballot that they have or have
not been approved or endorsed by any political party or organization.
(Neb. RS 18-2512, 18-2513) (Ord. 425, passed 8-24-1982; Ord. 461, passed 8-14-
1984)
§ 1-1003 INITIATIVE AND REFERENDUM; PETITION FORM.
   (A)   The forms designed by the Secretary of State to be used for initiative
and referendum petitions shall be made available to the public by the City
Clerk, and they shall serve as a guide for individuals preparing prospective
petitions. Substantial compliance with initiative and referendum forms is
required before authorization to circulate such petition shall be granted by
the City Clerk. Chief petitioners or circulators preparing prospective
petitions shall be responsible for making copies of the petition for
circulation after authorization for circulation has been granted.
(Neb. RS 18-2514)
   (B)   Each petition presented for signature must be identical to the
petition authorized for circulation by the City Clerk. Every petition shall
contain the name and place of residence of not more than three persons as chief
petitioners or sponsors of the measure. The chief petitioners or sponsors shall
be qualified electors of the municipality potentially affected by the
initiative or referendum proposal. Every petition shall contain the caption and
the statement specified to be part of the ballot title. When a special election
is being requested, such fact shall be stated on every petition.
(Neb. RS 18-2515) (Ord. 425, passed 8-24-1982; Ord. 461, passed 8-14-1984; Ord.
767, passed 1-12-2004)
§ 1-1003.01 INITIATIVE AND REFERENDUM; DECLARATORY JUDGMENT.
   (A)   The city or any chief petitioner may seek a declaratory judgment
regarding any questions arising under this article, as it may be from time to
time amended, including, but not limited to, determining whether a measure is
subject to referendum or limited referendum or whether a measure may be enacted
by initiative. If a chief petitioner seeks a declaratory judgment, the city
shall be served by personal, residence or certified mail service upon the chief
executive officer or City Clerk. If the city seeks a declaratory judgment, only
the chief petitioner or chief petitioners shall be required to be served.
   (B)   Any action brought for declaratory judgment for purposes of
determining whether a measure is subject to limited referendum or referendum,
or whether a measure may be enacted by initiative, may be filed in the District
Court at any time after the filing of a referendum or initiative petition with
the City Clerk for signature verification until 40 days from the date the City
Council received notification from the verifying official that the necessary
signatures have been obtained. If the city does not bring an action for
declaratory judgment to determine whether the measure is subject to limited
referendum or referendum, or whether the measure may be enacted by initiative,
until after it has received such notification, it shall be required to proceed
with the initiative or referendum election in accordance with the provisions of
this article. If the city does file such an action prior to receiving such
notification, it shall not be required to proceed to hold such election until a
final decision has been rendered in the action.
   (C)   Any action for a declaratory judgment shall be governed generally by
Neb. RS 25-21,149 through 25-21,164, except that only the city and each chief
petitioner shall be required to be made parties. The city, City Clerk, City
Council or any of the city’s officers shall be entitled to rely on any order
rendered by the court in any such proceeding. Any action brought for
declaratory judgment pursuant to this section shall be given priority in
scheduling hearings and in disposition as determined by the court. When an
action is brought to determine whether the measure is subject to limited
referendum or referendum, or whether a measure may be enacted by initiative, a
decision shall be rendered by the court no later than five days prior to the
election.
   (D)   The provisions of this section relating to declaratory judgments shall
not be construed as limiting, but construed as supplemental and additional to
other rights and remedies conferred by law. (Neb. RS 18-2538) (Ord. 425, passed
8-24-1982; Ord. 461, passed 8-14-1984; Ord. 767, passed 1-12-2004)
§ 1-1004 INITIATIVE AND REFERENDUM; SIGNATURE SHEETS.
   (A)   Every signature sheet shall:
      (1)   Contain the caption required in §
1-1002(A) of this article;
      (2)   Be part of a complete and authorized petition when presented to
potential signatories;
      (3)   Provide space for signatories to write their names, residential
addresses and the date of signing; and
      (4)   Contain a statement that anyone falsifying information on a
signature sheet shall be subject to penalties provided by law.
   (B)   No more than 25 signatures on each signature sheet shall be counted.
In order to be valid, a signature shall be that of an individual registered to
vote, at the time of signing, in the jurisdiction governed or to be governed by
the measure addressed in the petition. A signature shall include the
signatory’s full name, his or her place of residence and the date of signing.
No signatory shall use ditto marks as a means of affixing his or her place of
residence or date on any petition. A wife shall not use her husband’s Christian
or given name when she signs a petition and she shall sign her own Christian or
given name along with her surname.
(Neb. RS 18-2516) (Ord. 425, passed 8-24-1982; Ord. 461, passed 8-14-1984)
§ 1-1005 INITIATIVE AND REFERENDUM; PETITIONS, AFFIDAVIT.
   Included in the contents of every petition shall be an affidavit, to be
signed by the circulator in the presence of a notary, which states that the
circulator is a qualified elector, that each person who signed the petition did
so in the presence of the circulator on the date indicated, and that the
circulator believes that each signatory was registered to vote in the affected
jurisdiction at the time he or she signed the petition and that the circulator
believes that each signatory has stated his or her name and place of residence
correctly.
(Neb. RS 18-2517) (Ord. 425, passed 8-24-1982; Ord. 461, passed 8-14-1984)
§ 1-1006 INITIATIVE AND REFERENDUM; PETITIONS, NOTIFICATIONS.
   (A)   Signed petitions shall be filed with the Clerk for signature
verification. Upon the filing of a petition, and passage of a resolution by the
governing body, the municipality and the County Clerk or Election Commissioner
of the county in which such municipality is located may by mutual agreement
provide that the County Clerk or Election Commissioner shall ascertain whether
the petition is signed by the requisite number of voters. The municipality
shall reimburse the county for any costs incurred by the County Clerk or
Election Commissioner. When the verifying official has determined that 100% of
the necessary signatures required by this article have been obtained, he or she
shall notify the governing body of that fact, and shall immediately forward to
the governing body a copy of the petition.
   (B)   In order for an initiative or referendum proposal to be submitted to
the governing body and the voters, the necessary signatures shall be on file
with the Clerk within six months from the date the prospective petition was
authorized for circulation. If the necessary signatures are not obtained by
such date, the petition shall be void.
(Neb. RS 18-2518) (Ord. 425, passed 8-24-1982)
§ 1-1007 INITIATIVE AND REFERENDUM; FREQUENCY OF OCCURRENCE.
   The same measure, either in form or in essential substance, may not be
submitted to the people by initiative petition, either affirmatively or
negatively, more often than once every two years. No attempt to repeal or alter
an existing measure or portion of such measure by referendum petition may be
made within two years from the last attempt to do the same. Such prohibition
shall apply only when the subsequent attempt to repeal or alter is designed to
accomplish the same, or essentially the same purpose as the previous attempt.
(Neb. RS 18-2519) (Ord. 425, passed 8-24-1982)
§ 1-1008 INITIATIVE AND REFERENDUM; DIRECT VOTE.
   The executive officer and governing body of the municipality may at any
time, by resolution, provide for the submission to a direct vote of the
electors of any measure pending before it, passed by it, including an override
of any veto, if necessary, or enacted by the electors under this article and
may provide in such resolution that such measure shall be submitted at a
special election or the next regularly scheduled primary or general election.
Immediately upon the passage of any such resolution for submission, the Clerk
shall cause such measure to be submitted to a direct vote of the electors, at
the time specified in such resolution and in the manner provided in this
article for submission of measures upon proposals and petitions filed by
voters. Such matter shall become law if approved by a majority of the votes
cast.
(Neb. RS 18-2520) (Ord. 425, passed 8-24-1982; Ord. 461, passed 8-14-1984)
§ 1-1009 INITIATIVE AND REFERENDUM; ELECTIONS.
   (A)   The Clerk shall call elections under this article, either at a special
election or regularly scheduled primary or general election. He or she shall
cause notice of every such election to be printed in one or more newspapers of
general circulation in such municipality at least once not less than 30 days
prior to such election and also posted in the office of the Clerk and in at
least three conspicuous places in such municipality at least 30 days prior to
such election. The notice shall be substantially as follows:
 
   Notice is hereby given that on Tuesday, the________ day of _____________, 20____, at (identify polling
place or precinct) of the municipality of _________________________, Nebraska, an election will be held at
which there will be submitted to the electors of the municipality for their approval or rejection, the
following measures, propositions, or issues:
 
   _______________________________________________
   _______________________________________________
   (naming measures, propositions, or issues),
 
which election will be open at 8:00 a.m. and will continue open until 8:00 p.m., of the same day.
 
                              Dated this _______ day of __________________, 20_____.
                              ______________________________________________
                              Clerk of the City/Village of ________, Nebraska.
 
   (B)   The Clerk shall make available for photocopying a copy in pamphlet
form of measures initiated or referred. Such notice provided in this section
shall designate where such a copy in pamphlet form may be obtained.
(Neb. RS 18-2521) (Ord. 425, passed 8-24-1982; Ord. 461, passed 8-14-1984)
§ 1-1010 INITIATIVE AND REFERENDUM; BALLOTS.
   All ballots for use in special elections under this article shall be
prepared by the Clerk and furnished by the governing body, unless the governing
body contracts with the county for such service, and shall be in form the same
as provided by law for election of the executive officer and governing body of
such municipality. When ordinances under such sections are submitted to the
electors at a regularly scheduled primary or general election they shall be
placed upon the official ballots as provided in this article.
(Neb. RS 18-2522) (Ord. 425, passed 8-24-1982; Ord. 461, passed 8-14-1984)
§ 1-1011 INITIATIVE AND REFERENDUM; INITIATIVE.
   (A)   The power of initiative allows citizens the right to enact measures
affecting the governance of the municipality. An initiative proposal shall not
have as its primary or sole purpose the repeal or modification of existing law
except if such repeal or modification is ancillary to and necessary for the
adoption and effective operation of the initiative measure.
   (B)   An initiative shall not be effective if the direct or indirect effect
of the passage of such initiative measure shall be to repeal or alter an
existing law, or portion thereof, which is not subject to referendum or subject
only to limited referendum pursuant to §
1-1012.
   (C)   Whenever an initiative petition bearing signatures equal in number to
at least 15% of the qualified electors of the municipality has been filed with
the Clerk and verified, it shall be the duty of the governing body to consider
passage of the measure contained in the petition including an override of any
veto, if necessary. If the governing body fails to pass the measure without
amendment, including an override of any veto, if necessary, within 30 days from
the date it received notification, the Clerk shall cause the measure to be
submitted to a vote of the people at the next regularly scheduled primary or
general election held within the municipality. If the governing body desires to
submit the measure to a vote of the people at a special election prior to the
next regularly scheduled primary or general election held within the
municipality, the governing body, shall, by resolution, direct the Clerk to
cause the measure to be submitted at a special election. Such resolution shall
not be subject to referendum or limited referendum.
   (D)   Whenever an initiative petition bearing signatures equal in number to
at least 20% of the qualified electors which requests that a special election
be called to submit the initiative measure to a vote of the people, has been
filed with the Clerk and verified pursuant to §
1-1006, it shall be the duty of the governing body to consider passage of the
measure contained in the petition including an override of any veto, if
necessary. If the governing body fails to pass the measure, without amendment,
including an override of any veto, if necessary, within 30 days from the date
it received notification, the Clerk shall cause the measure to be submitted to
a vote of the people at a special election called for such purpose. The date of
such election shall not be less than 30 nor more than 60 days from the date the
governing body received notification pursuant to §
1-1006.
   (E)   If a majority of voters voting on the initiative measure shall vote in
favor of such measure, it shall become a valid and binding measure of the
municipality 30 days after certification of the election results, unless the
governing body by resolution orders an earlier effective date or the measure
itself provides for a later effective date, which resolution shall not be
subject to referendum or limited referendum. A measure passed by such method
shall not be amended or repealed except by two-thirds majority of the members
of the governing body. No such attempt to amend or repeal shall be made within
one year from the passage of the measure by the electors.
(Neb. RS 18-2523 through 18-2526) (Ord. 425, passed 8-24-1982; Ord. 461, passed
8-14-1984)
§ 1-1012 INITIATIVE AND REFERENDUM; REFERENDUM LIMITATIONS.
   (A)   The power of referendum allows citizens the right to repeal or amend
existing measures, or portions thereof, affecting the governance of the
municipality.
(Neb. RS 18-2527)
   (B)   The following measures shall not be subject to referendum or limited
referendum:
      (1)   Measures necessary to carry out contractual obligations including,
but not limited to, those relating to the issuance of or provided for in bonds,
notes, warrants or other evidences of indebtedness, for projects previously
approved by a measure which was, or is, subject to referendum or limited
referendum or previously approved by a measure adopted prior to July 17, 1982;
      (2)   Measures relating to any industrial development projects,
subsequent to measures giving initial approval to such projects;
      (3)   Measures adopting proposed budget statements following compliance
with procedures set forth in the Nebraska Budget Act;
      (4)   Measures relating to the immediate preservation of the public
peace, health or safety which have been designated as urgent measures by
unanimous vote of those present and voting of the governing body and approved
by the Mayor;
      (5)   Measures relating to projects for which notice has been given as
provided for in division (E) of this section for which a sufficient referendum
petition was not filed within the time limit stated in such notice or which
received voter approval after the filing of such petition;
      (6)   Resolutions directing the Municipal Clerk to cause measures to be
submitted to a vote of the people at a special election as provided in §
1-1011(C) and §
1-1013(A) of this code;
      (7)   Resolutions ordering an earlier effective date for measures enacted
by initiative as provided in §
1-1011(E) of this code;
      (8)   Measures relating to any facility or system adopted or enacted
pursuant to the Integrated Solid Waste Management Act by the municipality and
which are necessary to carry out contractual obligations provided for in
previously issued bonds, notes, warrants or other evidence of indebtedness;
      (9)   Measures that amend, supplement, change, modify or repeal a zoning
regulation, restriction or boundary and are subject to protest as provided in
Neb. RS 19-905; and
      (10)   Measures relating to personnel issues, including, but not limited
to, establishment, modification or elimination of any personnel position,
policy, salary or benefit and any hiring, promotion, demotion or termination of
personnel.
(Neb. RS 18-2528(1))
   (C)   The following measures shall be subject to limited referendum:
      (1)   Measures in furtherance of a policy of the municipality or relating
to projects previously approved by a measure which was subject to referendum or
which was enacted by initiative or has been approved by the voters at an
election, except that such measures shall not be subject to referendum or
limited referendum for a period of one year after any such policy or project
was approved at a referendum election, enacted by initiative or approved by the
voters at an election;
      (2)   Measures relating to the acquisition, construction, installation,
improvement or enlargement, including the financing or refinancing of the costs
of public ways, public property, utility systems and other capital projects,
and measures giving initial approval for industrial development projects;
      (3)   Measures setting utility system rates and charges, except for
measures necessary to carry out contractual obligations provided for in
previously issued bonds, notes, warrants or other evidences of indebtedness,
and pay rates and salaries for municipal employees other than the members of
the governing body and the Mayor; and
      (4)   Measures relating to any facility or system adopted or enacted
pursuant to the Integrated Solid Waste Management Act by the municipality
except for measures necessary to carry out contractual obligations provided for
in previously issued bonds, notes, warrants or other evidence of indebtedness.
(Neb. RS 18-2528(2))
   (D)   Measures subject to limited referendum shall ordinarily take effect 30
days after their passage by the governing body, including an override of any
veto, if necessary. Referendum petitions directed at measures subject to
limited referendum shall be filed for signature verification pursuant to §
1-1006 of this code within 30 days after such measure’s passage by the
governing body, including an override of any veto, if necessary, or after
notice is first published pursuant to division (E)(3) of this section. If the
necessary number of signatures as provided in §
1-1011 of this code has been obtained within the time limitation, the
effectiveness of the measure shall be suspended unless approved by the voters.
(Neb. RS 18-2528(3))
   (E)   For any measure relating to the acquisition, construction,
installation, improvement or enlargement of public ways, public property,
utility systems or other capital projects or any measure relating to any
facility or system adopted or enacted pursuant to the Integrated Solid Waste
Management Act, the municipality may exempt all subsequent measures relating to
the same project from the referendum and limited referendum procedures provided
for in this article by the following procedure:
      (1)   By holding a public hearing on the project, the time and place of
such hearing being published at least once not less than five days prior to the
date set for hearing in a newspaper of general circulation within the governing
body’s jurisdiction;
      (2)   By passage of a measure approving the project, including an
override of a veto, if necessary, at a meeting held on any date subsequent to
the date of hearing; and
      (3)   After passage of such measure, including an override of a veto, if
necessary, by giving notice as follows:
         (a)   For those projects for which applicable statutes require an
ordinance or resolution of necessity, creating a district or otherwise
establishing the project, notice shall be given for such project by including
either as part of such ordinance or resolution or as part of any publicized
notice concerning such ordinance or resolution a statement that the project as
described in the ordinance or resolution is subject to limited referendum for a
period of 30 days after the first publication of such notice and that, after
such 30-day period, the project and measures related to it will not be subject
to any further right of referendum; and
         (b)   For projects for which applicable statutes do not require an
ordinance or resolution of necessity, notice shall be given by publication of a
notice concerning such projects stating in general terms the nature of the
project and the engineer’s estimate of costs of such project and stating that
the project described in the notice is subject to limited referendum for a
period of 30 days after the first publication of such notice and that, after
such 30-day period, the project and measures related to it will not be subject
to any further right of referendum. The notice required by this subdivision
shall be published in at least one newspaper of general circulation within the
municipality and shall be published not later than 15 days after passage by the
governing body, including an override of a veto, if necessary, of a measure
approving the project.
      (4)   The right of the municipality to hold such a hearing prior to the
passage of the measure by the governing body and give such notice after passage
of such measure by the governing body to obtain exemption for any particular
project in a manner described in this subsection is optional, and the
municipality shall not be required to hold such a hearing or give such notice
for any particular project.
(Neb. RS 18-2528(4))
   (F)   All measures, except as provided in divisions (B), (C) and (E) of this
section, shall be subject to the referendum procedure at any time after such
measure has been passed by the governing body, including an override of a veto,
if necessary, or enacted by the voters by initiative.
(Neb. RS 18-2528(5))
(Ord. 425, passed 8-24-1982; Ord. 461, passed 8-14-1984; Ord. 727, passed 4-9-
2001)
§ 1-1013 INITIATIVE AND REFERENDUM; REFERENDUM, PASSAGE.
   (A)   Whenever a referendum petition bearing signatures equal in number to
at least 15% of the qualified electors of the municipality has been filed with
the Clerk and verified pursuant to §
1-1006, it shall be the duty of the governing body to reconsider the measure or
portion of such measure which is the object of the referendum. If the governing
body fails to repeal or amend the measure or portion thereof in the manner
proposed by the referendum, including an override of any veto, if necessary,
within 30 days from the date the governing body receives notification pursuant
to §
1-1006, the Clerk shall cause the measure to be submitted to a vote of the
people at the next regularly scheduled primary or general election held within
the municipality. If the governing body desires to submit the measure to a vote
of the people at a special election prior to the next regularly scheduled
primary or general election held within the municipality, the governing body
shall, by resolution, direct the Clerk to cause the measure to be submitted at
a special election. Such resolution shall not be subject to referendum or
limited referendum.
   (B)   Whenever a referendum petition bearing signatures equal in number to
at least 20% of the qualified voters of the municipality which requests that a
special election be called to submit the referendum measure to a vote of the
people, has been filed with the Clerk and verified, it shall be the duty of the
governing body to reconsider the measure or portion of such measure which is
the object of the referendum. If the governing body fails to repeal or amend
the measure or portion thereof, in the manner proposed by the referendum,
including an override of any veto, if necessary, the Clerk shall cause the
measure to be submitted to a vote of the people at a special election called
for such purpose within 30 days from the date the governing body received
notification. The date of such special election shall not be less than 30 nor
more than 60 days from the date the governing body received notification.
   (C)   If a majority of the electors voting on the referendum measure shall
vote in favor of such measure, the law subject to the referendum shall be
repealed or amended. A measure repealed or amended by referendum shall not be
reenacted or returned to its original form except by a two-thirds majority of
the members of the governing body. No such attempt to reenact or return the
measure to its original form shall be made within one year of the repeal or
amendment of the measure by the electors. If the referendum measure does not
receive a majority vote, the ordinance shall immediately become effective or
remain in effect.
(Neb. RS 18-2529 through 18-2531) (Ord. 425, passed 8-24-1982; Ord. 461, passed
8-14-1984)
§ 1-1014 INITIATIVE AND REFERENDUM; VIOLATIONS, PENALTIES.
   (A)   Whoever knowingly or willfully makes a false affidavit or takes a
false oath regarding the qualifications of any person to sign petitions under
Neb. RS 18-2501 through 18-2531 shall be guilty of a Class I misdemeanor with a
limit of $300 on the fine.
   (B)   Whoever falsely makes or willfully destroys a petition or any part
thereof, or signs a false name thereto, or signs or files any petition knowing
the same or any part thereof to be falsely made, or suppresses any petition, or
any part thereof, which has been duly filed, pursuant to Neb. RS 18-2501
through 18-2531 shall be guilty of a Class I misdemeanor with a limit of $500
on the fine.
   (C)   Whoever signs any petition under Neb. RS 18-2501 through 18-2531
knowing that he or she is not a registered voter in the place where such
petition is made, aids or abets any other person in doing any of the acts
mentioned in this section, bribes or gives or pays any money or thing of value
to any person directly or indirectly to induce him or her to sign such
petition, or engages in any deceptive practice intended to induce any person to
sign a petition, shall be guilty of a Class I misdemeanor with a limit of $300
on the fine.
   (D)   Any Clerk who willfully refuses to comply with the provisions of Neb.
RS 18-2501 through 18-2531 or who willfully causes unreasonable delay in the
execution of his or her duties under such sections shall be guilty of a Class I
misdemeanor but imprisonment shall not be included as part of the punishment.
(Neb. RS 18-2532 through 18-2535) (Ord. 425, passed 8-24-1982; Ord. 461, passed
8-14-1984)
§ 1-1015 INITIATIVE AND REFERENDUM; APPLICABILITY.
   (A)   The provisions of the statutes of the State of Nebraska relating to
election officers, voting places, election apparatus and blanks, preparation
and form of ballots, information to voters, delivery of ballots, calling of
elections, conduct of elections, manner of voting, counting of votes, records
and certificates of election, and recounts of votes, so far as applicable,
shall apply to voting on ordinances by the electors pursuant to this article.
   (B)   Nothing in this article shall apply to procedures for initiatives or
referendums provided in Neb. RS 18-412 and 18-412.02 relating to municipal
light and power plants, Neb. RS 70-504, 70-650.01 and 70-650.02, relating to
public power districts, and Neb. RS 80-203 to 80-205 relating to soldiers and
sailors monuments.
(Neb. RS 18-2536, 18-2537) (Ord. 425, passed 8-24-1982)
ARTICLE 11: INTERGOVERNMENTAL RISK MANAGEMENT
Section
   
1-1101   Intergovernmental risk management; authority
§ 1-1101 INTERGOVERNMENTAL RISK MANAGEMENT; AUTHORITY.
   The governing body and any one or more public agencies, as defined in Neb.
RS 44-4303, may make and execute an agreement providing for joint and
cooperative action in accordance with Neb. RS 44-4301 through 44-4339, to form,
become members of, and operate a risk management pool for the purpose of
providing to members risk management services and insurance coverages in the
form of group self-insurance or standard insurance, including any combination
of group self-insurance and standard insurance, to protect members against
losses arising from any of the following:
   (A)   General liability;
   (B)   Damage, destruction or loss of real or personal property, including,
but not limited to, loss of use or occupancy, and loss of income or extra
expense resulting from loss of use or occupancy;
   (C)   Errors and omissions liability; and
   (D)   Workers’ compensation liability.
(Neb. RS 44-4301 through 44-4339) (Ord. 512, passed 9-14-1987)
ARTICLE 12: PENAL PROVISION
Section
   
1-1201   Violations; penalty
§ 1-1201 VIOLATIONS; PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person, or any person’s agent or servant, who violates any of the
provisions of this chapter, unless otherwise specifically provided herein,
shall be deemed guilty of an offense and upon conviction thereof shall be fined
in any sum not exceeding $500. A new violation shall be deemed to have been
committed every 24 hours of failure to comply with the provisions of this
chapter.
   (B)   (1)   Whenever a nuisance exists as defined in this code of
ordinances, the municipality may proceed by a suit in equity to enjoin, abate
and remove the same in the manner provided by law.
      (2)   Whenever, in any action, it is established that a nuisance exists,
the court may, together with the fine or penalty imposed, enter an order of
abatement as a part of the judgment in the case.
(Neb. RS 17-505, 18-1720, 18-1722) (Ord. 710, passed 10-9-2000)
CHAPTER 2: COMMISSIONS AND BOARDS
   Article
      
1.   COMMISSIONS AND BOARDS
      
2.   PENAL PROVISION
ARTICLE 1: COMMISSIONS AND BOARDS
Section
   
2-101   Library Board
   
2-102   Planning Commission
   
2-103   Board of Adjustment
   
2-104   Board of Health
   
2-105   Cemetery Board
   
2-106   Housing Authority Board
   
2-107   Housing Authority; operation and management
   
2-108   Housing Authority; reports
   
2-109   Joint Housing Authority
   
2-110   Housing Authority; continued existence as Housing Agency
   
2-111   Ballpark Board
   
2-112   Pool Board
   
2-113   Community Development Authority
§ 2-101 LIBRARY BOARD.
   (A)   When the City Council has decided by ordinance to establish and
maintain a public library and reading room under Neb. RS 51-201 to 51-219, and
except as otherwise provided by the Council pursuant to Neb. RS 51-202, the
Library Board shall have five appointed members who shall be residents of the
city and who shall serve terms of four years. The Board members shall be
appointed by a majority vote of the members of the City Council. Neither the
Mayor nor any member of the City Council shall be a member of the Library
Board. The terms of members serving on the effective date of a change in the
number of members shall not be shortened, and any successors to those members
shall be appointed as the terms of those members expire. In cases of vacancies
by resignation, removal, or otherwise, the City Council shall fill the vacancy
for the unexpired term. No member shall receive any pay or compensation for any
services rendered as a member of the Library Board.
(Neb. RS 51-202)
   (B)   (1)   The members of the Library Board shall immediately after their
appointment meet and organize by electing from their number a president, a
secretary, and such other officers as may be necessary. A majority of the
members of the Library Board shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of
business.
(Neb. RS 51-204)
      (2)   No member of the Board shall serve in the capacity of both the
president and secretary of the Board. It shall be the duty of the secretary to
keep the full and correct minutes and records of all meetings and to file the
same with the City Clerk where they shall be available for public inspection at
any reasonable time.
      (3)   The Board shall meet at such times as the Board may designate.
Special meetings may be held upon the call of the president or a majority of
the members of the Board.
(Ord. 317, passed 6-14-1976; Ord. 399, passed 9-8-1981)
Cross-reference:
   Library provisions, see Chapter 3, Article 5
§ 2-102 PLANNING COMMISSION.
   (A)   (1)   If the governing body adopts zoning or other regulations
pursuant to Neb. RS 19-901 et seq., the Planning Commission shall consist of
five, seven, or nine regular members, as specified by the governing body by
ordinance, who shall represent, insofar as is possible, the different
professions or occupations in the municipality and shall be appointed by the
Mayor, by and with the approval of a majority vote of the members elected to
the governing body. Two of the regular members may be residents of the area
over which the municipality is authorized to exercise extraterritorial zoning
and subdivision regulation. When there are 500 residents in the area over which
the municipality exercises extraterritorial zoning and subdivision regulation,
one regular member of the Commission shall be a resident from such area. If it
is determined by the governing body that 500 residents reside in the area
subject to extraterritorial zoning or subdivision regulation, and no such
resident is a regular member of the Commission, the first available vacancy on
the Commission shall be filled by the appointment of such an individual. A
number of commissioners equal to a majority of the number of regular members
appointed to the Commission shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of
any business. All regular members of the Commission shall serve without
compensation. The term of each regular member shall be three years, except that
one-third or fewer of the regular members of the first commission to be so
appointed shall serve for terms of one year, one-third or fewer for terms of
two years, and the remaining members for terms of three years. All regular
members shall hold office until their successors are appointed. Any member may,
after a public hearing before the governing body, be removed by the Mayor with
the consent of a majority vote of the members elected to the governing body for
inefficiency, neglect of duty, or malfeasance in office or other good and
sufficient cause. Vacancies occurring otherwise than through the expiration of
term shall be filled for the unexpired portion of the term by the Mayor.
      (2)   The Mayor may, with the approval of a majority vote of the elected
members of the governing body, appoint one alternate member to the Planning
Commission. The alternate member shall serve without compensation. The term of
the alternate member shall be three years, and he or she shall hold office
until his or her successor is appointed and approved. The alternate member may
be removed from office in the same manner as a regular member. If the alternate
member position becomes vacant other than through the expiration of the term,
the vacancy shall be filled for the unexpired portion of the term by the Mayor
with the approval of a majority vote of the elected members of the governing
body. The alternate member may attend any meeting and may serve as a voting and
participating member of the Commission at any time when less than the full
number of regular Commission members is present and capable of voting.
      (3)   A regular or alternate member of the Planning Commission may hold
any other municipal office except:
         (a)   Mayor;
         (b)   A member of the governing body;
         (c)   A member of any community redevelopment authority or limited
community redevelopment authority created under Neb. RS 18-2102.01; or
         (d) A member of any citizen advisory review committee created under
Neb. RS 18-2715.
(Neb. RS 19-926)
   (B)   The Commission shall elect its Chairperson from its members and create
and fill such other of its offices as it may determine. The term of the
Chairperson shall be one year, and he or she shall be eligible for reelection.
The Commission shall hold at least one regular meeting in each calendar
quarter, except the governing body may require the Commission to meet more
frequently and the Chairperson of the Commission may call for a meeting when
necessary to deal with business pending before the Commission. The Commission
shall adopt rules and regulations for the transaction of business and shall
keep a record of its resolutions, transactions, findings, and determinations,
which shall be a public record.
(Neb. RS 19-927)
   (C)   No member of the Commission shall serve in the capacity of both the
Mayor and Secretary of the Commission. The Secretary shall keep the full and
correct minutes and records of all meetings and file them with the Municipal
Clerk where they shall be available for public inspection during office hours.
   (D)   The governing body may provide the funds, equipment, and
accommodations necessary for the work of the Commission, but the expenditures
of the Commission, exclusive of gifts, shall be within the amounts appropriated
for that purpose by the governing body; and no expenditures nor agreements for
expenditures shall be valid in excess of such amounts.
(Neb. RS 19-928)
   (E)   (1)   (a)   Except as provided in Neb. RS 19-930 to 19-933, the
Planning Commission shall:
            1.   Make and adopt plans for the physical development of the
municipality, including any areas outside its boundaries which in the
Commission's judgment bear relation to the planning of such municipality and
including a comprehensive development plan as defined by Neb. RS 19-903;
            2.   Prepare and adopt such implemental means as a capital
improvement program, subdivision regulations, building codes, and a zoning
ordinance in cooperation with other interested municipality departments; and
            3.   Consult with and advise public officials and agencies, public
utilities, civic organizations, educational institutions, and citizens with
relation to the promulgation and implementation of the comprehensive
development plan and its implemental programs. The Commission may delegate
authority to any such group to conduct studies and make surveys for the
commission, make preliminary reports on its findings, and hold public hearings
before submitting its final reports.
         (b)   The governing body shall not take final action on matters
relating to the comprehensive development plan, capital improvements, building
codes, subdivision development, the annexation of territory, or zoning until it
has received the recommendation of the Planning Commission, provided that the
Planning Commission shall make its recommendation so that it is received by the
governing body within 60 days after the Commission begins consideration of a
matter or within such other number of days as the governing body has set by
ordinance.
         (c)   A recommendation from the Planning Commission shall not be
required for subdivision of existing lots and blocks whenever all required
public improvements have been installed, no new dedication of public rights-of-
way or easements is involved, and such subdivision complies with the ordinance
requirements concerning minimum areas and dimensions of such lots and blocks,
if the governing body has designated, by ordinance, an agent pursuant to Neb.
RS 19-916.
      (2)   (a)   The Commission may, with the consent of the governing body,
in its own name:
            1.   Make and enter into contracts with public or private bodies;
            2.   Receive contributions, bequests, gifts, or grant funds from
public or private sources;
            3.   Expend the funds appropriated to it by the municipality;
            4.   Employ agents and employees; and
            5.   Acquire, hold, and dispose of property.
         (b)   The Commission may on its own authority make arrangements
consistent with its program, conduct or sponsor special studies or planning
work for any public body or appropriate agency, receive grants, remuneration,
or reimbursement for such studies or work, and at its public hearings, summon
witnesses, administer oaths, and compel the giving of testimony.
      (3)   (a)   The Commission may grant conditional uses or special
exceptions to property owners for the use of their property if the governing
body has, through a zoning ordinance or special ordinance, generally authorized
the Commission to exercise such powers and has approved the standards and
procedures adopted by the Commission for equitably and judiciously granting
such conditional uses or special exceptions. The granting of a conditional use
permit or special exception shall only allow property owners to put their
property to a special use if it is among those uses specifically identified in
the zoning ordinance as classifications of uses which may require special
conditions or requirements to be met by the owners before a use permit or
building permit is authorized.
         (b)   The power to grant conditional uses or special exceptions shall
be the exclusive authority of the Commission, except that the governing body
may choose to retain for itself the power to grant conditional uses or special
exceptions for those classifications of uses specified in the zoning ordinance.
The governing body may exercise such power if it has formally adopted standards
and procedures for granting such conditional uses or special exceptions in a
manner that is equitable and will promote the public interest.
         (c)   An appeal of a decision by the Commission or governing body
regarding a conditional use or special exception shall be made to the district
court.
(Neb. RS 19-929)
(Ord. 350, passed 9-11-1978; Ord. 605, passed 8-14-1995; Ord. 620, passed 1-8-
1996; Ord. 927, passed 2-13-2018)
§ 2-103 BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT.
   (A)   The Mayor shall appoint, with the consent of the City Council, a Board
of Adjustment, which shall consist of five regular members plus one additional
member designated as an alternate who shall attend and serve only when one of
the regular members is unable to attend for any reason. Each member shall be
appointed for a term of three years and shall be removable for cause by the
Mayor upon written charges and after public hearings. Vacancies shall be filled
for the unexpired term of any member whose term becomes vacant. One member only
of the Board of Adjustment shall be appointed from the membership of the
Planning Commission, and the loss of membership on the Planning Commission by
such member shall also result in his or her immediate loss of membership on the
Board of Adjustment and the appointment of another Planning Commissioner to the
Board of Adjustment. If the Board does not include a member who resides in the
extraterritorial zoning jurisdiction of the city, the first vacancy occurring
on the Board of Adjustment after the effective date of this section shall be
filled by the appointment of a person who resides in the extraterritorial
zoning jurisdiction of the city at such time as more than 200 persons reside
within such area. Thereafter, at all times, at least one member of the Board of
Adjustment shall reside outside the corporate boundaries of the city but within
its extraterritorial zoning jurisdiction. Neither the Mayor nor any member of
the City Council shall serve as a member of the Board of Adjustment.
   (B)   The members of the Board shall serve without compensation and may be
required, in the discretion of the City Council, to give a bond in a sum set by
resolution of the City Council and conditioned upon the faithful performance of
their duties. The Board shall organize at its first meeting each year after the
City Council meeting when appointments are regularly made and shall elect from
its membership a Chairperson and Secretary. No member of the Board of
Adjustment shall serve in the capacity of both Chairperson and Secretary of the
Board.
   (C)   The Board shall adopt rules in accordance with the provisions of this
section and Neb. RS 19-901 through 19-914. Meetings of the Board shall be held
at the call of the Chairperson and at such other times as the Board may
determine. Special meetings may be also held upon the call of any three members
of the Board. A majority of the Board shall constitute a quorum for the purpose
of doing business. The Chairperson, or in his or her absence the Acting
Chairperson, may administer oaths and compel the attendance of witnesses. All
meetings of the Board shall be open to the public. It shall be the duty of the
Secretary to keep complete and accurate minutes of the Board’s proceedings,
showing the vote of each member upon each question, or, if absent or failing to
vote, indicating such fact, and to keep records of the Board’s examinations and
other official actions, all of which shall be immediately filed in the office
of the Board and shall be public record. The Board shall be responsible for
making such reports and performing such other duties as the Mayor and City
Council may designate.
(Neb. RS 19-908)
   (D)   Appeals to the Board may be taken by any person aggrieved or by any
officer, department, board or bureau of the city affected by any decision of
the administrative officer. Such appeal shall be taken within a reasonable
time, as provided by the rules of the Board, by filing with the officer from
whom the appeal is taken and with the Board a notice of appeal specifying the
grounds thereof. The officer from whom the appeal is taken shall forthwith
transmit to the Board all the papers constituting the record upon which the
action appealed from was taken. An appeal stays all proceedings in furtherance
of the action appealed from, unless the officer from whom the appeal is taken
certifies to the Board, after the notice of appeal shall have been filed with
him or her, that by reason of facts stated in the certificate a stay would, in
his or her opinion, cause imminent peril to life or property. In such case,
proceedings shall not be stayed otherwise than by a restraining order which may
be granted by the Board or by a court of record on application on notice to the
officer from whom the appeal is taken and on clue cause shown. The Board shall
fix a reasonable time for the hearing of the appeal, give public notice
thereof, as well as due notice to the parties in interest, and decide the same
within a reasonable time. Upon the hearing, any party may appear in person or
by agent or by attorney.
(Neb. RS 19-909)
   (E)   The Board shall have only the following powers:
      (1)   To hear and decide appeals when it is alleged there is error in any
order, requirement, decision or determination made by an administrative
official or agency based on or made in the enforcement of any zoning regulation
or any regulation relating to the location or soundness of structures, except
that the authority to hear and decide appeals shall not apply to decisions made
by the City Council or Planning Commission regarding a conditional use or
special exception;
      (2)   To hear and decide, in accordance with the provisions of any zoning
regulation, requests for interpretation of any map; and
      (3)   When by reason of exceptional narrowness, shallowness or shape of a
specific piece of property at the time of the enactment of the zoning
regulations, or by reason of exceptional topographic conditions or other
extraordinary and exceptional situation or condition of such piece of property,
the strict application of any zoning regulation would result in peculiar and
exceptional practical difficulties to or exceptional and undue hardships upon
the owner of such property, to authorize, upon an appeal relating to the
property, a variance from such strict application so as to relieve such
difficulties or hardship, if such relief may be granted without substantial
detriment to the public good and without substantially impairing the intent and
purpose of any ordinance or resolution.
   (F)   (1)   No such variance shall be authorized by the Board unless it
finds that:
         (a)   The strict application of the zoning regulation would produce
undue hardship;
         (b)   Such hardship is not shared generally by other properties in the
same zoning district and the same vicinity;
         (c)   The authorization of such variance will not be of substantial
detriment to adjacent property and the character of the district will not be
changed by the granting of the variance; and
         (d)   The granting of such variance is based upon reason of
demonstrable and exceptional hardship as distinguished from variations for
purposes of convenience, profit or caprice.
      (2)   No variance shall be authorized unless the Board finds that the
condition or situation of the property concerned or the intended use of the
property is not of so general or recurring a nature as to make reasonably
practicable the formulation of a general regulation to be adopted as an
amendment to the zoning regulations.
   (G)   In exercising the powers granted in this section, the Board may, in
conformity with Neb. RS 19-901 through 19-915, reverse or affirm, wholly or
partly, or may modify the order, requirement, decision or determination
appealed from, and may make such order, requirement, decision or determination
as ought to be made, and to that end shall have all the powers of the officer
from whom the appeal is taken. The concurring vote of four members of the Board
shall be necessary to reverse any order, requirement, decision or determination
of any such administrative official, or to decide in favor of the applicant on
any matter upon which it is required to pass under any such regulation or to
effect any variation in such regulation.
(Neb. RS 19-910)
   (H)   Appeals from a decision by the Board may be taken as provide in Neb.
RS 19-912.
(Neb. RS 19-907 through 19-910) (Ord. 318, passed 6-14-1976; Ord. 347, passed
9-11-1978; Ord. 621, passed 1-8-1996; Ord. 784, passed 11-8-2004)
§ 2-104 BOARD OF HEALTH.
   (A)   (1)   The Board of Health shall consist of four members: The Mayor,
who shall be chairperson, the President of the City Council, and two other
members. One member shall be a physician or health care provider, if one can be
found who is willing to serve. Such physician or health care provider, if
appointed, shall be the Board's medical advisor. If the Mayor has appointed a
Chief of Police, the Chief of Police shall serve on the Board as secretary and
quarantine officer.
      (2)   A majority of the Board of Health shall constitute a quorum and
shall enact rules and regulations, which shall have the full force and effect
of law, to safeguard the health of the people of the city, may enforce them,
and may provide fines and punishments for the violation thereof. The Board
shall have power to and shall make all needful rules and regulations relating
to matters of sanitation of the city, including the removal of dead animals,
the sanitary condition of the streets, alleys, vacant grounds, stockyards,
cattle and hog pens, wells, cisterns, privies, waterclosets, cesspools,
stables, and all buildings and places not specified where filth, nuisances, or
offensive matter is kept or is liable to or does accumulate. It may regulate,
suppress, and prevent the occurrence of nuisances and enforce all laws of the
state and ordinances of the city relating to nuisances or to matters of
sanitation of the city. The Board shall also have control of hospitals,
dispensaries, places for treatment of sick, and matters relating to the same
under such restrictions and provisions as may be provided by ordinance of the
city.
(Neb. RS 17-121)
   (B)   The members of the Board of Health other than the Mayor, President of
the Council, and Chief of Police shall serve terms of office of the length
specified by the City Council and may be reappointed.
   (C)   The Board of Health shall reorganize at its meeting after appointments
are regularly considered by the City Council and, if necessary, select a member
to serve as secretary. No member of the Board of Health shall hold more than
one Board of Health position. The secretary shall keep full and correct minutes
and records of all meetings and file the same with the City Clerk where they
shall be available for public inspection during office hours.
   (D)   The Board shall meet at such times as the City Council may designate.
Special meetings may be held upon the call of the Chairperson or any two
members of the Board of Health.
   (E)   The members of the Board of Health shall serve without compensation.
The Board of Health shall be funded by the City Council from time to time out
of the general fund.
   (F)   The Board of Health shall regularly inspect such premises and
businesses as the City Council may direct.
   (G)   All members of the Board of Health shall be responsible for making
such reports and performing such other duties as the City Council may, from
time to time, designate.
(Ord. 649, passed 6-9-1997)
§ 2-105 CEMETERY BOARD.
   The governing body shall appoint the Cemetery Board which shall consist of
six members who are residents of the municipality and who shall serve without
compensation for a term of three years. Two members shall be appointed each
year and may be required in the discretion of the governing body, to give a
bond in a sum set by resolution of the governing body, and conditioned upon the
faithful performance of their duties. At the first meeting in June of each
year, the Board shall organize by selecting from its membership a Chairperson
and Secretary. The Secretary shall keep the full and correct minutes and
records of all meetings and file the same with the Municipal Clerk where they
shall be available for public inspection at any reasonable time. A majority of
the Board members shall constitute a quorum for the purpose of doing business.
The Board shall meet at such times as the governing body may designate. Special
meetings may be held upon the call of the Chairperson or any three members of
the Board. The Board shall have the general care, management and supervision of
the municipal cemetery with the power and authority to limit and regulate the
number of cemetery lots that may be owned by the same person; to prescribe
rules for enclosing, adorning and erecting monuments and tombstones on cemetery
lots; and to prohibit any diverse or improper use thereof; provided, no
religious tests shall be made as to the ownership of lots, the burial therein,
and the ornamentation of graves. The Board shall pass rules and regulations for
the proper use of the cemetery and prescribe penalties and fines for violations
thereof. The Board shall use all revenue received from the sale of lots, gifts
or by devise for the care, management and administration of the cemetery. All
actions of the Board shall be subject to the review and supervision of the
governing body and it shall be responsible for making such reports and
performing such additional duties as the governing body may designate. No
member of the governing body shall serve as a member of the Board while serving
a term of office as a member of the governing body. No member of the Cemetery
Board shall hold more than one Cemetery Board office.
(Neb. RS 12-401 through 12-403)
Cross reference:
   Cemetery, see Chapter 3, Article 6
§ 2-106 HOUSING AUTHORITY BOARD.
   (A)   The governing body shall appoint five persons who shall constitute the
Housing Authority and such persons shall be called the Commissioners. One
Commissioner shall be appointed each year. Each Commissioner shall serve a
five-year term of office or until his or her successor is duly appointed;
provided, that all vacancies shall be filled for the unexpired terms. The
governing body may appoint one of its members to serve as one of the five
members of such Housing Authority for such term as the governing body may
determine. No person shall serve as a Commissioner unless he or she resides
within the area of operation of that Housing Authority. A certificate of the
appointment or reappointment of any Commissioner shall be filed with the
Municipal Clerk and such certificate shall be conclusive evidence of the proper
appointment of such Commissioner. A Commissioner shall receive no compensation
for his or her services, but he or she shall be entitled to the necessary
expenses, including travel expenses, incurred in discharge of his or her
duties. A majority of Commissioners shall constitute a quorum of the Authority
for the purpose of conducting its business, exercising its powers, and for all
other purposes. Action may be taken by the Authority upon the vote of the
majority of the Commissioners present unless in any case the bylaws of the
Authority shall require a larger number. The Commissioners shall elect a
Chairperson and Vice-Chairperson from among the Commissioners and shall have
the power to employ an executive director who shall serve as ex officio
Secretary of the Authority. The Authority may also employ legal counsel, or it
may call upon the chief law officer of the municipality, for such services as
it may require. It may employ technical experts and such other officers, agents
and employees as it may require and shall determine their qualifications,
duties, compensations and terms of office. The Authority may delegate such
other powers and duties to its agents or employees as it may deem proper.
During his or her tenure, and for one year thereafter, no Commissioner, officer
or employee of the Municipal Housing Authority shall voluntarily acquire any
interest, direct or indirect, in any project or in any property included or
planned to be included in any project, or in any contract or proposed contract
relating to any housing project. If any such Commissioner, officer or employee
involuntarily acquires any such interest, or voluntarily or involuntarily
acquired any such interest prior to appointment or employment as Commissioner,
officer or employee, he or she shall immediately disclose his or her interest
in writing to the Authority, and such disclosure shall be entered upon the
minutes of the Authority, and he or she shall not participate in any action by
the Authority relating to the property or contract in which he or she has any
such interest; provided, that nothing herein shall apply to the acquisition of
any interest in notes or bonds of the Authority issued in connection with any
housing project, or to the execution of agreements by banking institutions for
deposit or handling of funds in connection with a project or to act as trustee
under any trust indenture, or to utility services, the rates for which are
fixed or controlled by a governmental agency. The Mayor may remove a
Commissioner for neglect of duty or misconduct in office in the manner
prescribed hereinafter. The Mayor shall send a notice of removal to such
Commissioner which notice shall contain a statement containing the charges
against him or her. Unless within ten days from the receipt of such notice,
such Commissioner files with the Clerk a request for a hearing before the
governing body, the Commissioner shall be deemed as removed from office. If a
request for a hearing is filed with the Clerk, the governing body of the
municipality shall hold a hearing at which the Commissioner shall have the
right to appear in person or by counsel and the governing body shall determine
whether the removal shall be disapproved or upheld. If the removal is
disapproved, the Commissioner shall continue to hold his or her position.
   (B)   The Housing Authority shall keep an accurate account of all its
activities and of all its receipts and disbursements and shall make a report to
the governing body on all such information.
(Neb. RS 71-1524 through 71-1526, 71-1552) (Ord. 340, passed 10-10-1977; Ord.
411, passed 8-24-1982)
§ 2-107 HOUSING AUTHORITY; OPERATION AND MANAGEMENT.
   (A)   The Authority shall at all times observe the following duties with
respect to rentals and tenant selection.
      (1)   It may rent or lease dwelling accommodations therein only to
persons of low income, elderly or handicapped persons of low income, and
displaced persons in need.
      (2)   There shall be no discrimination in the eligibility or occupancy of
tenants on the basis of race, sex, marital status, religion, color, creed,
national origin or ancestry.
      (3)   The Authority shall not accept any person as a tenant in any
dwelling in the housing project if the persons who occupy the dwelling have an
aggregate annual income which equals or exceeds the amount which the Authority
has conclusively determined to be sufficient to enable one to secure, safe,
sanitary and uncongested dwelling accommodations within the area served by the
Authority and to provide an adequate standard of living.
      (4)   The Authority may rent or lease to a tenant a dwelling consisting
of a number of rooms which is deemed necessary to provide safe and sanitary
accommodations to the occupants without overcrowding.
      (5)   The Authority shall fix income limits for occupancy and rents after
taking into consideration:
         (a)   The family size, composition, age, physical handicaps and other
factors which might affect the rent-paying ability of the person; and
         (b)   The economic factors which affect the financial stability and
solvency of the project.
      (6)   The Authority may accept as a tenant any displaced person or
persons in need, regardless of income, but in no event shall such person or
persons remain as a tenant or tenants of the Authority for more than a period
of six months unless such persons also qualify as persons of low income,
elderly or handicapped persons of low income.
      (7)   All persons of low income, elderly or handicapped persons of low
income, or displaced persons in need, shall be entitled to the benefits of this
article and the Authority may establish rules and regulations consistent with
the purposes of this article concerning eligibility and occupancy of the
housing project or other such shelter.
      (8)   Nothing herein shall prohibit the right of the Authority to inquire
into the financial condition, family composition, medical, personal and
employment history of any tenant or prospective tenant.
      (9)   The Authority shall prohibit subletting by tenants.
   (B)   The Authority may establish from time to time rules and regulations
consistent with federal and state laws and regulations and the purposes of this
article concerning the termination of tenancy. Any tenant so terminated shall
be sent a written notice of termination setting out the reasons for such
termination and any tenant served with a notice shall be given the opportunity
to contest the termination in an appropriate hearing, except that tenants who
have created or maintained a threat constituting a serious and clear danger to
the health or safety of other tenants or Authority employees need not be given
such a hearing by the Authority. Such notice may provide that if the tenant
fails to pay his or her rent or comply with any covenant or condition of his or
her lease, or the rules and regulations of such Authority, or cure a violation
or default thereof, as the case may be, as specified in such notice, or follow
the procedure for a hearing as set forth in the notice, all within the time or
times set forth in such notice, the tenancy shall then be automatically
terminated and no other notice or notices need be given of such termination or
the intent to terminate the tenancy, and upon such termination, and without any
notice other than as provided for in this section, the Authority may file suit
against any tenant for recovery of possession of the premises and may recover
the same as provided by law.
   (C)   The Authority may establish from time to time rules and regulations
consistent with the purposes of this article concerning personal property of
tenants and other persons located in projects of the Authority, and if such
personal property is not removed from a dwelling unit at the time of the
termination of the lease, at the time of vacation or abandonment of the
dwelling unit, or at the time of the death of any tenant, then the Authority
may remove the same and store such property at the tenant’s risk and expense.
In the event that possession of such personal property is not taken by the
tenant or other person authorized by law to take possession within 45 days
after such termination, vacation or abandonment, and any storage removal
charges remain unpaid, then the Authority may, at its option, dispose of the
personal property in any manner which the Authority deems fit, except that any
proceeds from the disposal of such personal property shall be paid to the
General Fund of the body which created the Authority. No tenant or other person
shall have any cause of action against the Authority for such removal or
disposition of such personal property.
(Neb. RS 71-1536) (Ord. 412, passed 8-24-1982)
§ 2-108 HOUSING AUTHORITY; REPORTS.
   The Housing Authority shall keep an accurate account of all its activities
and of all its receipts and disbursements and shall make an annual report at
the second regular meeting in January of each year to the governing body. Such
report shall include all mortgages and other interests in real property held by
the Housing Authority, including options to purchase and land sale contracts; a
listing of all bond issues and their essential terms and obligations; and all
other financial obligations of the Housing Authority over $50,000. Such reports
shall be considered public records. If there has been no change from the last
report in the status of any of the items reported pursuant to this section, the
Housing Authority may file a statement to that effect in lieu of the report.
(Neb. RS 71-1552) (Ord. 413, passed 8-24-1982)
§ 2-109 JOINT HOUSING AUTHORITY.
   (A)   Any two or more cities, villages or counties, or any combination
thereof, may, by resolution of their separate governing bodies, determine that
there is a need for a Joint Housing Authority to provide decent, safe and
sanitary housing for persons of low income living in a multijurisdictional
area, and that this need would be more efficiently served by the establishment
of such Joint Housing Authority. Such Joint Housing Authority shall have
perpetual existence; except that any city, village or county, as the case may
be, may withdraw from participation in the Joint Housing Authority by
resolution of its governing body only under the conditions set out in state
law. The area of operation of such Joint Housing Authority would be an area
equivalent to the total areas of operation which the housing authorities, if
created separately by the cities, villages or counties establishing the Joint
Authority would have. The creation of subsequent housing authorities shall not
affect the area of operation or territorial jurisdiction of any existing
housing authority. Whenever a Joint Housing Authority is created, it shall bear
such name as the political subdivision or subdivisions creating it shall
choose, and such name shall include the words Joint Housing Authority.
   (B)   (1)   When it is determined by resolution of the governing bodies of
two or more cities, villages or counties, or any combination thereof, that it
is expedient to create a Joint Housing Authority and to participate therein,
the governing bodies shall appoint persons who shall be residents of the area
of operations of the Authority and who shall constitute the Joint Housing
Authority, and such persons shall be called Commissioners. The Commissioners
shall be appointed as follows:
         (a)   When two political subdivisions constitute the participating
members in such Joint Authority, each shall appoint two persons to act as
Commissioners and such Commissioners shall elect a fifth person to act as a
Commissioner;
         (b)   When three political subdivisions constitute the participating
members in such Joint Authority, each shall appoint one person to act as a
Commissioner and such Commissioners shall elect a fourth and fifth person to
act as Commissioners;
         (c)   When four political subdivisions constitute the participating
members in such Joint Authority, each shall appoint one person to act as
Commissioner and such Commissioners shall elect a fifth person to act as a
Commissioner; and
         (d)   When five or more political subdivisions constitute the
participating members in the Joint Authority, each shall appoint one person to
act as Commissioner.
      (2)   Each Commissioner shall serve a term of five years from the date of
his or her appointment. All vacancies shall be filled for the unexpired term by
the entity originally appointing such Commissioner. Tenancy in a project
established by a Joint Housing Authority shall not preclude the appointment of
any person to serve as a Commissioner of such Joint Housing Authority. After a
Joint Housing Authority has been created, additional political subdivisions may
elect to participate as members of such Joint Housing Authority after
compliance with Neb. RS 71-1523, if the majority of existing Commissioners in
such Joint Housing Authority and all participating political subdivisions by
their respective governing bodies consent to such additional member. A Joint
Housing Authority having 12 or more Commissioners may, by resolution, establish
an Executive Committee of at least five but not more than seven Commissioners.
The Committee shall have such powers over the management and operation of such
Joint Housing Authority as the Commissioners of such Joint Housing Authority
shall specify and shall declare in the resolution. No person shall serve as a
Commissioner unless he or she resides within the area of operation of the Joint
Housing Authority involved.
(Neb. RS 71-1520, 71-1522 through 71-1524) (Ord. 414, passed 8-24-1982)
§ 2-110 HOUSING AUTHORITY; CONTINUED EXISTENCE AS HOUSING AGENCY.
   (A)   The local housing authority established under prior state law and in
existence on January 1, 2000, shall have continued existence as a housing
agency under the Nebraska Housing Agency Act.
   (B)   The local housing agency shall conduct its operations consistent with
the Nebraska Housing Agency Act. All property, rights in land, buildings,
records and equipment and any funds, money, revenue, receipts or assets of the
authority belong to the agency as successor. All obligations, debts,
commitments and liabilities of the authority are obligations, debts,
commitments and liabilities of the successor agency.
   (C)   Any resolution by the authority and any action taken by the authority
prior to January 1, 2000, with regard to any project or program which is to
completed within or to be conducted for a 12-month period following January 1,
2000, and which resolution or action is lawful under state law as it existed
prior to January 1, 2000, is a lawful resolution or action of the successor
agency and binding upon the successor agency and enforceable by or against the
agency notwithstanding that such resolution or action is inconsistent with, not
authorized by, or prohibited under the provisions of the Nebraska Housing
Agency Act.
   (D)   All Commissioners of the local housing agency and all officers, legal
counsel, technical experts, directors and other appointees or employees of the
agency holding office or employment by virtue of any such prior law on January
1, 2000, shall be deemed to have been appointed or employed under the Nebraska
Housing Agency Act.
(Neb RS 71-1576) (Ord. 712, passed 10-9-2000)
§ 2-111 BALLPARK BOARD.
   The Ballpark Board shall consist of six regular members including one member
of the City Council, who shall represent, insofar as is possible, the different
professions or occupations in Franklin County School District No. 506 and who
shall be appointed by the Mayor, by and with the approval of a majority vote of
the members elected to the City Council. All six members shall be residents of
Franklin County School District No. 506. The term of the members shall be shall
be one year except that the term of the Board member who is also a Council
member shall only extend as long as said Council member remains in office,
whereupon a new Council member shall be appointed to the Board by the Mayor, by
and with the approval of a majority vote of the members elected to the City
Council. The Board shall serve without compensation and may be required, in the
discretion of the governing body, to give a bond in a sum set by resolution of
the governing body, and conditioned upon the faithful performance of their
duties. At the time of the Board’s first meeting in March of each year, the
Board shall organize by selecting from their number a Chairperson and
Secretary. It shall be the duty of the City Clerk or Deputy Clerk to keep the
full and correct minutes and records of all meetings and make them available
for public inspection. A majority of the Board members shall constitute a
quorum for the transaction of business. The Board shall meet at such times as
the governing body may designate. Special meetings may be held upon the call of
the Chairperson or any three members of the Board. The Ballpark Board shall
have the authority to appoint all employees of the ballpark. It shall be the
duty of the Board to have general charge of the ballpark and to establish
appropriate rules and regulations for the management, operation and use of the
same. The Board shall have supervisory authority over all employees of the
ballpark. All actions of the Board shall be subject to the review and
supervision of the governing body. The Board shall be responsible for making
such reports and performing such additional duties as the governing body may
designate from time to time. No member of the Ballpark Board shall serve in the
capacity of both the Chairperson and Secretary of said Board.
(Ord. 875, passed 3-11-2013; Ord. 889, passed 12-9-2013)
§ 2-112 POOL BOARD.
Editor’s note:
   This section was added by Ord. 875, passed 3-11-2013 then repealed by Ord.
888 passed 12-9-2013.
§ 2-113 COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY.
   (A)   Creation. There is hereby created the Community Development Authority
of the City of Franklin, Nebraska.
   (B)   Officers. Five persons, all of whom shall be residents of the City of
Franklin shall constitute the Authority, except that a resident of Franklin
County who resides outside the city limits may be appointed upon a unanimous
vote of the City Council. The five members shall be appointed by the Mayor,
with the approval of the City Council. The Mayor shall designate the term of
office for each member, as provided in Neb. RS 18-2102.01. The Authority shall
select one of its members as chairperson and another as vice-chairperson. A
total of four members of the Authority shall constitute a quorum for the
transaction of business. The Authority shall adopt rules for the transaction of
business and shall keep a record of its resolutions, transactions, findings and
recommendations, which records shall be made available for public inspection
during regular business hours.
   (C)   Director. The Authority shall have power to employ a Director who
shall be Ex Officio Secretary of the Community Development Authority and that
person shall perform such duties as may be assigned by the Authority, including
the necessary administrative functions described in the statutes, under which
the Authority has been created.
   (D)   Funds. All income, revenue, profits and other funds received by the
Authority shall be deposited with the City Treasurer as Ex Officio Treasurer of
such Authority without commingling such money with any other money under his/
her control and disbursed by him/her by check or draft only upon warrants,
orders of requisitions by the Chairperson of such Authority or other person
authorized by such Authority, which shall state distinctly the purpose for
which the same are drawn. A permanent record shall be kept by the Authority of
all warrants, orders or requisitions so drawn, showing the date, amount,
consideration and to whom payable.
   (E)   Power, duties and responsibilities. The Authority shall be vested with
all the powers, duties and responsibilities set forth in the Community
Development Law, Neb. RS 18-2101 et seq.
(Ord. 918, passed 9-12-2017)
ARTICLE 2: PENAL PROVISION
Section
   
2-201   Violation; penalty
§ 2-201 VIOLATION; PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person, or any person’s agent or servant, who violates any of the
provisions of this chapter, unless otherwise specifically provided herein,
shall be deemed guilty of an offense and upon conviction thereof shall be fined
in any sum not exceeding $500. A new violation shall be deemed to have been
committed every 24 hours of failure to comply with the provisions of this
chapter.
   (B)   (1)   Whenever a nuisance exists as defined in this code of
ordinances, the municipality may proceed by a suit in equity to enjoin, abate
and remove the same in the manner provided by law.
      (2)   Whenever, in any action, it is established that a nuisance exists,
the court may, together with the fine or penalty imposed, enter an order of
abatement as a part of the judgment in the case.
(Neb. RS 17-505, 18-1720, 18-1722) (Ord. 710, passed 10-9-2000)
CHAPTER 3: DEPARTMENTS
   Article
      
1.   WATER DEPARTMENT
      
2.   SEWER DEPARTMENT
      
3.   POLICE DEPARTMENT
      
4.   PARKS
      
5.   LIBRARY
      
6.   CEMETERY
      
7.   MUNICIPAL ELECTRICAL SYSTEM
      
8.   COGENERATION
      
9.   UTILITIES GENERALLY
      
10.   PENAL PROVISION
ARTICLE 1: WATER DEPARTMENT
Section
   
3-101   Municipal Water Department; operation and funding
   
3-102   Municipal Water Department; definitions
   
3-103   Municipal Water Department; consumer’s application
   
3-104   Municipal Water Department; water contract
   
3-105   Municipal Water Department; installation procedure
   
3-106   Municipal Water Department; installation expense
   
3-107   Municipal Water Department; repairs
   
3-108   Municipal Water Department; water bills
   
3-109   Municipal Water Department; lien
   
3-110   Municipal Water Department; single premises
   
3-111   Municipal Water Department; restricted use
   
3-112   Municipal Water Department; fire hydrants
   
3-113   Municipal Water Department; pollution
   
3-114   Municipal Water Department; mandatory hook-up
   
3-115   Municipal Water Department; water service contracts
   
3-116   Municipal Water Department; inspection
   
3-117   Municipal Water Department; extension mains
   
3-118   Municipal Water Department; complaints
   
3-119   Municipal Water Department; fees and collections
   
3-120   Municipal Water Department; fluoride
   
3-121   Municipal Water Department; rates
   
3-122   Municipal Water Department; cross connections and backflow prevention
   
3-123   Municipal Water Department; sprinkler systems; permits
   
3-124   Municipal Water Department; establishment of wellhead protection area
   
3-125   Drilling and operation of wells and installation of certain other
facilities and activities; spacing requirements
   
3-126   Geothermal wells; requirements
   
3-127   Adoption of drought emergency contingency plan
   
3-128   Violations; penalties
§ 3-101 MUNICIPAL WATER DEPARTMENT; OPERATION AND FUNDING.
   The municipality owns and operates the Municipal Water Department through
the Utilities Superintendent. The governing body, for the purpose of defraying
the cost of the care, management and maintenance of the Municipal Water
Department may each year levy a tax not exceeding the maximum limit prescribed
by state law, on the actual valuation of all real estate and personal property
within the corporate limits that is subject to taxation. The revenue from the
said tax shall be known as the Water Fund, and shall remain in the custody of
the Municipal Treasurer. The Utilities Superintendent shall have the direct
management and control of the Municipal Water Department, and shall faithfully
carry out the duties of his or her office. The Utilities Superintendent shall
have the authority to adopt rules and regulations for the sanitary and
efficient management of the Water Department subject to the supervision and
review of the governing body. The governing body shall set the rates to be
charged for services rendered by ordinance and shall file a copy of the rates
in the office of the Municipal Clerk for public inspection at any reasonable
time.
(Neb. RS 17-531, 17-534, 19-1305)
§ 3-102 MUNICIPAL WATER DEPARTMENT; DEFINITIONS.
   The following definitions shall be applied throughout this chapter. Where no
definition is specified, the normal dictionary usage of the word shall apply.
   MAIN. Any pipe other than a supply or service pipe that is used for the
purpose of carrying water to, and disbursing the same in the municipality.
   SEPARATE PREMISES. More than one consumer procuring water from the same
service or supply pipe. The second premises may be a separate dwelling,
apartment, building or structure used for a separate business.
   SERVICE PIPE. Any pipe extending from the shut-off, stop box or curb cock at
or near the lot line to and beyond the property line of the consumer to the
location on the premises where the water is to be disbursed.
   SUPPLY PIPE. Any pipe tapped into a main and extending from there to a point
at or near the lot line of the consumer’s premises where the shut-off, stop box
or curb cock is located.
§ 3-103 MUNICIPAL WATER DEPARTMENT; CONSUMER’S APPLICATION.
   Every person or persons desiring a supply of water must make application
therefor to the Municipal Clerk. The Municipal Clerk may require any rental
applicant to make a service deposit in such amount as he or she deems
necessary, subject to the review of the governing body. Water may not be
supplied to any house or private service pipe except upon the written order of
the Utilities Superintendent. The Department shall not supply to any person
outside the corporate limits water service without special permission from the
governing body; provided, the entire cost of laying mains, service pipe and
supply pipe shall be paid by the consumer. Nothing herein shall be construed to
obligate the municipality to provide water service to nonresidents.
(Neb. RS 17-537, 19-2701)
§ 3-104 MUNICIPAL WATER DEPARTMENT; WATER CONTRACT.
   The municipality through its Water Department, shall furnish water to
persons within its corporate limits whose premises abut a street or alley in
which a commercial main now is or may hereafter be laid. The municipality may
furnish water to persons within its corporate limits whose premises do not abut
a street or alley in which a municipal commercial main is now or may hereafter
be laid and may also furnish water to persons whose premises are situated
outside the corporate limits of the municipality, as and when, according to
law, the governing body may see fit to do so. The rules, regulations and water
rates hereinafter named in this article, shall be considered a part of every
application hereafter made for water service and shall be considered a part of
the contract between every consumer now or hereafter served. Without further
formality, the making of application on the part of any applicant or the use or
consumption of water service by present consumers thereof and the furnishing of
water service to said consumer shall constitute a contract between the consumer
and the municipality, to which said contract both parties are bound. If the
consumer shall violate any of the provisions of said contract or any reasonable
rules and regulations that the governing body may hereafter adopt, the
Utilities Superintendent or his or her agent, may cut off or disconnect the
water service from the building or premises or place of such violation. No
further connection for water service to said building, premises or place shall
again be made except by order of said Superintendent or his or her agent.
§ 3-105 MUNICIPAL WATER DEPARTMENT; INSTALLATION PROCEDURE.
   In making excavations in streets, alleys or sidewalks for the purpose of
installing pipe, or making repairs, the paving, stones and earth must be
removed and deposited in a manner that will occasion the least inconvenience to
the public and provide for adequate drainage. No person shall leave an
excavation made in the street, alley or sidewalk open at any time without a
barricade, and during the night, warning lights. After service pipes are laid,
the streets, alleys and sidewalks shall be restored to good condition. If the
excavation in any street, alley or sidewalk is left open or unfinished for a
period of 24 hours or more, the Utilities Superintendent shall have the duty to
finish or correct the work, and all expenses so incurred shall be charged to
the consumer. All installations or repairs of pipes require two inspections by
the Utilities Superintendent. The first inspection shall be made when
connections or repairs are completed and before the pipes are covered. The
second inspection shall be made after the dirt work is completed and the
service is restored. It is the customer’s responsibility to notify the
Superintendent at the time the work is ready for each inspection. All
installation shall be done under the supervision and strictly in accordance
with the rules, regulations and specifications prescribed for such installation
by the Utilities Superintendent; provided that the said rules, regulations and
specifications have been reviewed and approved by the governing body.
(Neb. RS 17-537)
§ 3-106 MUNICIPAL WATER DEPARTMENT; INSTALLATION EXPENSE.
   (A)   The municipality shall charge a tap fee of $200 plus the cost of parts
to compensate the municipality for tapping the water main and installing the
meter. The municipality will furnish the labor to connect the service line to
the water main and will run the service line to the edge of the street right-
of-way or utility easement where the water main is located for the fee stated
above. In addition to charging for the cost of parts for tapping the water main
and installing the meter, the municipality will sell to the customer, at cost,
all pipe and other appurtenances needed to supply to the customer water
service. The customer shall pay all other costs of installation.
   (B)   Each water meter within the city shall be equipped with an electronic
display device attached to the meter with the head or dial being located on the
exterior of the building to allow reading of the meter without entry to the
building. Such device shall be initially installed at the expense of the
property owner and thereafter the device shall be considered part of the water
meter and shall be maintained or replaced under the provisions providing for
replacement or maintenance of meters as provided in §
3-107 of this chapter.
(Neb. RS 17-542) (Ord. 558, passed 5-13-1991; Ord. 723, passed 4-9-2001; Ord.
868, passed 11-12-2012)
§ 3-107 MUNICIPAL WATER DEPARTMENT; REPAIRS.
   (A)   Repairs to the service pipe from the curb stop to the point of use
shall be made by and at the expense of the customer. If the Utilities
Superintendent shall discover that a service pipe is leaking and in need of
repair, he or she shall immediately notify the customer and direct him or her
to make the necessary repairs within such time as shall be directed by the
Utilities Superintendent. If the customer shall fail or refuse to make such
repairs within the time allowed, the Municipal Water Department may make such
repairs and charge the cost of the same to the customer on his or her next
water bill, or if the Utilities Superintendent deems it necessary, the
Department may, after due notice to the customer, suspend service until
necessary repairs can be made.
   (B)   All other repairs to the property of the Water Department, including
the meter, shall be made by the municipality.
   (C)   All water meters shall be kept in repair by the municipality at the
expense of the municipality. When meters are worn out, they shall be replaced
and reset by the municipality at the expense of the municipality; provided,
that if the customer permits or allows a water meter to be damaged, injured or
destroyed through his or her own recklessness, carelessness or neglect so that
the meter must be repaired or replaced, the Utilities Superintendent shall bill
and collect from the customer the cost of such meter repair or replacement in
the same manner as water rent is collected. Permitting a water meter to be
damaged or destroyed by freezing shall always be considered negligence on the
part of the customer.
   (D)   All meters shall be tested at the customer’s request at the expense of
the customer any reasonable number of times; provided, that if the test shows
the water meter to be running 2% or more fast, the expense of such test shall
be borne by the municipality. The municipality reserves the right to test any
water service meter at any time, and if said meter is found to be beyond repair
the municipality shall always have the right to place a new meter on the
customer’s water service fixtures at municipal expense. Should a customer’s
meter fail to register properly, the customer shall be charged for water during
the time the meter is out of repair on the basis of the monthly consumption
during the same month of the preceding year; provided, that if no such basis
for comparison exists, the customer shall be charged such amount as may be
reasonably fixed by the Utilities Superintendent.
(Neb. RS 17-537) (Ord. 810, passed 5-14-2007)
§ 3-108 MUNICIPAL WATER DEPARTMENT; WATER BILLS.
Editor's Note:
   For provisions on discontinuance of service and notice procedure, see §
3-901
   For provisions on utilities generally, see Chapter 3, Article 9
§ 3-109 MUNICIPAL WATER DEPARTMENT; LIEN.
   In addition to all other remedies, if a customer shall for any reason remain
indebted to the municipality for water service furnished, such amount due,
together with any rents and charges in arrears, shall be considered a
delinquent water rent which is hereby declared to be a lien upon the real
estate for which the same was used. The Municipal Clerk shall notify in writing
or cause to be notified in writing, all owners of premises or their agents
whenever their tenants or lessees are 60 days or more delinquent in the payment
of water rent. It shall be the duty of the Municipal Clerk on the first day of
June of each year to report to the governing body a list of all unpaid accounts
due for water together with a description of the premises upon which the same
was used. The report shall be examined, and if approved by the governing body,
shall be certified by the Municipal Clerk to the County Clerk to be collected
as a special tax in the manner provided by law.
(Neb. RS 17-538)
§ 3-110 MUNICIPAL WATER DEPARTMENT; SINGLE PREMISES.
   No consumer shall supply water to other families, or allow them to take
water from his or her premises, nor after water is supplied into a building
shall any person make or employ a plumber or other person to make a tap or
connection with the pipe upon the premises for alteration, extension or
attachment without the written permission of the Utilities Superintendent. It
shall further be unlawful for any person to tamper with any water meter or by
means of any contrivance or device to divert the water from the service pipe so
that the water will not pass through the meter or while passing through said
meter to cause the meter to register inaccurately.
(Neb. RS 17-537)
§ 3-111 MUNICIPAL WATER DEPARTMENT; RESTRICTED USE.
   The governing body or the Utilities Superintendent may order a reduction in
the use of water or shut off the water on any premises in the event of a water
shortage due to fire or other good and sufficient cause. The municipality shall
not be liable for any damages caused by shutting off the supply of water of any
consumer while the system or any part thereof is undergoing repairs or when
there is a shortage of water due to circumstances over which the municipality
has no control.
(Neb. RS 17-537)
§ 3-112 MUNICIPAL WATER DEPARTMENT; FIRE HYDRANTS.
   All hydrants for the purpose of extinguishing fires are hereby declared to
be public hydrants, and it shall be unlawful for any person other than members
of the Municipal Fire Department under the orders of the Fire Chief, or the
Assistant Fire Chief; or members of the Water Department to open or attempt to
open any of the hydrants and draw water from the same, or in any manner to
interfere with the hydrants.
§ 3-113 MUNICIPAL WATER DEPARTMENT; POLLUTION.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to pollute or attempt to pollute any
stream or source of water for the supply of the Municipal Water Department.
(Neb. RS 17-536)
§ 3-114 MUNICIPAL WATER DEPARTMENT; MANDATORY HOOK-UP.
   All persons within 300 feet of a water main shall be required, upon notice
by the governing body, to hook-up with the municipal water system.
(Neb. RS 17-539)
§ 3-115 MUNICIPAL WATER DEPARTMENT; WATER SERVICE CONTRACTS.
   Contracts for water service are not transferable. Any person wishing to
change from one location to another shall make a new application and sign a new
contract. If any consumer shall move from the premises where service is
furnished, or if the said premises is destroyed by fire or other casualty, he
or she shall at once inform the Utilities Superintendent who shall cause the
water service to be shut off at the said premises. If the consumer should fail
to give such notice, he or she shall be charged for all water used on the said
premises until the Utilities Superintendent is otherwise advised of such
circumstances.
(Neb. RS 17-537)
§ 3-116 MUNICIPAL WATER DEPARTMENT; INSPECTION.
   The Utilities Superintendent, or his or her duly authorized agents, shall
have free access, at any reasonable time, to all parts of each premises and
building to, or in which, water is delivered for the purpose of examining the
pipes, fixtures and other portions of the system to ascertain whether there is
any disrepair or unnecessary waste of water.
(Neb. RS 17-537)
§ 3-117 MUNICIPAL WATER DEPARTMENT; EXTENSION MAINS.
   The extension of commercial mains into unsupplied territory within the
corporate limits, may be made by means of water extension districts. If the
creation of a Water Extension District is not feasible or practical, such
applicant shall be supplied with water service on such basis as the governing
body shall determine. If, in the sound discretion of the governing body it is
neither feasible or practical to create a Water Extension District, applicants
may upon resolution duly passed by the governing body be permitted and allowed
to connect with the nearest commercial main. Such applicant may, under the
supervision of the Utilities Superintendent, install a water main in the
unsupplied territory, using the streets and alleys of the municipality, and
shall pay for water service furnished at the same rate as other customers for
similar service; provided, pursuant to such resolution permitting and allowing
such residents to connect with the municipal mains, the same shall be built and
constructed under such terms, specifications and conditions as may be agreed
upon by written contract, executed by and between such owners and the
municipality. Among other things, such contract shall provide that the
municipality shall repay such owners or applicants the expense of constructing
such water main in water service supplied to such owners or applicant, but in
no event exceeding the necessary, original cost of construction of said mains.
When the municipality shall have entered into said contract and the water is
supplied to such applicants, it shall be the duty of the Municipal Clerk to
keep, or cause to be kept, a separate account of all water rents collected from
such owners or applicants and the same shall be deposited and kept as a
separate fund for each such owner or applicant and shall only be drawn upon,
from time to time, by claims filed to reimburse such owners or applicants for
moneys expended by them in constructing such water extension mains. Whenever
rentals for water supplied under such contracts shall be collected in a sum
equal to the amount expended by such private individuals, the mains so extended
shall become the property of the Municipal Water Department.
§ 3-118 MUNICIPAL WATER DEPARTMENT; COMPLAINTS.
Editor’s note:
   This section was repealed by Ord. 363, passed 9-10-1979.
§ 3-119 MUNICIPAL WATER DEPARTMENT; FEES AND COLLECTIONS.
   (A)   The governing body has the power and authority to fix the rates to be
paid by the water consumers for the use of water from the Water Department. All
such fees shall be on file for public inspection at the office of the Municipal
Clerk.
   (B)   No flat rates for water service shall be quoted or allowed by the
governing body. No water service shall be furnished to any customer at a rate
that is different from other customers of the same class or type. Persons,
firms or corporations desiring to use water temporarily shall pay such rates as
the Utilities Superintendent, with the approval of the governing body, shall
set.
   (C)   Without respect to schedule of rates for other customers, the
governing body may enter into special contracts with large consumers of water,
but never at a rate less than the cost of production; provided, that the
contract shall always provide that the said large consumer shall be made on the
basis of water consumed in excess of said minimum.
   (D)   A meter shall always be attached to the water service of each
consumer, including contract consumers, and read as provided in §
3-108. All water meters shall be equipped with a remote-reading device which
will permit the reading of the meter at a location on the outside of the
building or structure where the water meter is located; provided, that the
Utilities Superintendent may waive the use of remote-reading devices in
individual instances.
   (E)   Water service furnished to the other departments of the municipality
and to other governmental subdivisions of the State of Nebraska shall be
measured and billed for at such rates as the governing body shall set from time
to time without respect to the schedule of rates on file at the office of the
Municipal Clerk, but never at rates that do not cover the cost of providing
water.
   (F)   Whenever water service is supplied to more than one customer through
the same supply pipe, each customer shall pay the minimum water service charge
each month. In the event that two or more customers are supplied through the
same meter, the owner of the premises where the meter is located shall pay for
all water consumed thereon plus separate minimums. One bill only shall be
computed for each meter.
(Neb. RS 17-540) (Ord. 545, passed 12-11-1989)
§ 3-120 MUNICIPAL WATER DEPARTMENT; FLUORIDE.
   Fluoride shall not be added to the municipal water supply of the City of
Franklin, Franklin County, Nebraska.
(Ord. 298, passed 6-10-1974)
Editor’s note:
   This section reflects the results of a special election held 5-14-1974.
§ 3-121 MUNICIPAL WATER DEPARTMENT; RATES.
   (A)   The rates for all customers (industrial, commercial, churches and
domestic) users of water from the municipal water supply shall be $16.50 per
month plus $2 for each 1,000 gallons of water used.
   (B)   The customer charge of $16.50 per month shall be assessed for each
water meter held by each customer of the municipal water distribution system.
   (C)   The rates for all industrial, commercial, churches and domestic users
of water from the municipal water supply obtained from the power plant shall be
$5 for the first 500 gallons of water used plus $1 for each 100 gallons of
water used thereafter.
   (D)   The rates for all industrial, commercial, churches and domestic users
of water from the municipal water supply obtained from fire hydrants shall be
$5 for the first 500 gallons of water used plus $1 for each 100 gallons of
water used thereafter.
   (E)   Bills for use of water from the municipal water system shall be
rendered and collected as provided in § 3-108 of the municipal code of the
city.
   (F)   When water service to any meter has been disconnected for any reason,
the customer shall pay a reconnection fee of $25 for restoration of service.
   (G)   The Municipal Clerk shall begin collection of the rates herein
provided effective with the October 15, 2021 billing.
(Ord. 433, passed 6-14-1983; Ord. 593, passed 8-8-1994; Ord. 816, passed 10-8-
2007; Ord. 826, passed 11-9-2009; Ord. 831, passed 12-22-2009; Ord. 851, passed
5-9-2011; Ord. 871, passed 12-12-2012; Ord. 896, passed 9-8-2014; Ord. 896,
passed 9-14-2021)
§ 3-122 MUNICIPAL WATER DEPARTMENT; CROSS CONNECTIONS AND BACKFLOW PREVENTION.
   (A)   Purpose. The purpose of this section is:
      (1)   To protect the public potable water supply of the city water system
from contamination or pollution by containing within the consumer’s internal
distribution system or private water system contaminants or pollutants which
could backflow through the service connection into the public potable water
supply system;
      (2)   To promote the elimination, containment, isolation or control of
existing cross connections, actual or potential, between the public or
consumer’s potable water systems and nonpotable water systems, plumbing
fixtures and industrial-process systems; and
      (3)   To provide for the maintenance of a continuing program of cross
connection control which will systematically and effectively prevent the
contamination or pollution of all potable water systems.
   (B)   Application. This section shall apply to all premises served by the
public potable water system of the city.
   (C)   Policy.
      (1)   This section will be reasonably interpreted by the City Health
Board. It is the Board of Health’s intent to recognize the varying degrees of
hazard and to apply the principle that the degree of protection shall be
commensurate with the degree of hazard.
      (2)   The Board of Health shall have primary responsibility for
protection of the public potable water distribution system from contamination
or pollution due to backflow or contaminants or pollutants through the water
service connection. The cooperation of all consumers is required to implement
and maintain the program to control cross connections. The Board of Health and
consumer are jointly responsible for preventing contamination of the water
system within the consumer’s premises.
   (D)   Definitions. The following definitions shall apply in the
interpretation and enforcement of this section.
      AIR GAP SEPARATION. The unobstructed vertical distance through the free
atmosphere between the lowest opening from any pipe or faucet supplying water
to a tank, plumbing fixture or other device and the overflow level rim of the
receptacle, and shall be at least double the diameter of the supply pipe
measured vertically above the flood level rim of the vessel, but in no case
less than one inch.
      AUXILIARY WATER SUPPLY. Any water source or system, other than the public
water supply, that may be available in the building or premises.
      BACKFLOW. The flow other than the intended direction of flow, of any
foreign liquids, gases or substances into the distribution system of a public
water supply.
      BACKFLOW PREVENTION DEVICE. Any device, method or type of construction
intended to prevent backflow into a potable water system provided backflow
preventers have been tested and approved by a reputable testing laboratory.
      BOARD OF HEALTH. The Board appointed as provided in § 2-204 of the
municipal code.
      CONSUMER. The owner or person in control of any premises supplied by or
in any manner connected to a public water system.
      CONTAINMENT. Protection of the public water supply by installing a cross
connection control device or air gap separation on the main service line to a
facility, or as an installation within equipment handling potentially hazardous
materials.
      CONTAMINATION. An impairment of the quality of the water by sewage,
process fluids or other wastes to a degree which could create an actual hazard
to the public health through poisoning or through spread of disease by
exposure.
      CROSS CONNECTION. Any physical link, between a potable water supply and
any other substance, fluid or source, which makes possible contamination of the
potable water supply due to the reversal of flow of the water in the piping or
distribution system.
      HAZARD, DEGREE OF. An evaluation of the potential risk to public health
and the adverse effect of the hazard upon the potable water system.
         a.   HAZARD-HEALTH. Any condition, device or practice in the water
supply system and its operation which could create or may create a danger to
the health and well-being of the water consumer.
         b.   HAZARD-PLUMBING. A plumbing type cross connection in a consumer’s
potable water system that has not been properly protected by a vacuum breaker,
air-gap separation or backflow prevention device.
         c.   HAZARD-POLLUTIONAL. An actual or potential threat to the physical
properties of the water system or to the potability of the public or the
consumer’s potable water system but which would constitute a nuisance or be
aesthetically objectionable or could cause damage to the system or its
appurtenances, but would not be dangerous to health.
         d.   HAZARD-SYSTEM. An actual or potential threat of severe damage to
the physical properties of the public potable water system or the consumer’s
potable water system, or of a pollution or contamination which would have a
protracted effect on the quality of the potable water in the system.
      INDUSTRIAL PROCESS SYSTEM. Any system containing a fluid or solution
which may be chemically, biologically or otherwise contaminated or polluted in
a form or concentration such as would constitute a health, system, pollutional
or plumbing hazard if introduced into a potable water supply.
      ISOLATION. Protection of a facility service line by installing a cross
connection control device or air gap separation on an individual fixture,
appurtenance or system.
      POLLUTION. The presence of any foreign substance (organic, inorganic or
biological) in water which tends to degrade its quality so as to constitute a
hazard or impair the usefulness of the water to a degree which does not create
an actual hazard to the public health, but which does adversely and
unreasonably affect such waters for domestic use.
      PUBLIC POTABLE WATER SYSTEM. Any publicly- or privately-owned water
system supplying water to the general public which is satisfactory for
drinking, culinary and domestic purposes and meets the requirements of the
Nebraska Department of Health.
      SERVICE CONNECTION. The terminal end of a service line from the public
water system. If a meter is installed at the end of the service, then the
service connection means the downstream end of the meter.
   (D)   Cross connection; prohibited.
      (1)   No water service connection shall be installed or maintained to any
premises where actual or potential cross connections to the public potable or
consumer’s water system may exist, unless such actual or potential cross
connections are abated or controlled to the satisfaction of the Board of
Health, and as required by laws and regulations of the Nebraska Department of
Health.
      (2)   No connection shall be installed or maintained whereby an auxiliary
water supply may enter a public potable or consumer’s water system, unless such
auxiliary water supply and the method of connection and use of such supply
shall have been approved by the Board of Health and the Nebraska Department of
Health.
      (3)   No water service connection shall be installed or maintained to any
premises in which the plumbing system, facilities and fixtures have not been
constructed and installed using acceptable plumbing practices considered by the
Municipal Water Department as necessary for the protection of health and
safety.
   (E)   Survey and investigations.
      (1)   The consumer’s premises shall be open at all reasonable times to
the Board of Health, or its authorized representative, for the conduction of
surveys and investigations of water use practices within the consumer’s
premises to determine whether there are actual or potential cross connections
to the consumer’s water system through which contaminants or pollutants could
backflow into the public potable water system.
      (2)   On request by the Board of Health or its authorized representative,
the consumer shall furnish information on water use practices within his or her
premises.
      (3)   It shall be the responsibility of the water consumer to conduct
periodic surveys of water use practices on his or her premises to determine
whether there are actual or potential cross connections to his or her water
system through which contaminants or pollutants could backflow into his or her
or the public’s potable water system.
      (4)   The Board of Health may delegate to the Utility Superintendent the
authority to make inspections of cross connections to the municipal water
supply.
   (F)   Type of protection required. The type of protection required by this
section shall depend on the degree of hazard which exists, as follows.
      (1)   An approved air gap separation shall be installed where the public
potable water system may be contaminated with substances that could cause a
severe health hazard.
      (2)   An approved air gap separation or an approved reduced pressure
principal backflow prevention device shall be installed where the public
potable water system may be contaminated with a substance that could cause a
health hazard.
      (3)   An approved air gap separation or an approved reduced pressure
principal backflow prevention device or an approved double check valve assembly
shall be installed where the public potable water system may be polluted with
substances that cause a pollutional hazard not dangerous to health.
      (4)   An approved check valve device shall be installed on outdoor
hydrants or water valves which are used for delivery of water to lawns, gardens
or other outdoor applications.
   (G)   Where protection required.
      (1)   An approved backflow prevention device shall be installed on each
service line to a consumer’s water system serving premises, where in the
judgment of the Board of Health or the Nebraska Department of Health, actual or
potential hazards to the public potable water system exist. The type and degree
of protection required shall be commensurate with the degree of hazard.
      (2)   An approved air gap separation or reduced pressure principal
backflow prevention device shall be installed at the service connection or
within any premises where, in the judgment of the Board of Health or the
Nebraska Department of Health, the nature and extent of activities on the
premises, or the materials used in connection with the activities or materials
stored on the premises, would present an immediate and dangerous hazard to
health should a cross connection occur, even though such cross connection may
not exist at the time the backflow prevention device is required to be
installed. This includes, but is not limited to, the following situations:
         (a)   Premises having an auxiliary water supply, unless the quality of
the auxiliary supply is acceptable to the Board of Health and the Nebraska
Department of Health;
         (b)   Premises having internal cross connections that are not
correctable, or intricate plumbing arrangements which make it impractical to
ascertain whether or not cross connections exist;
         (c)   Premises where entry is restricted so that inspections for cross
connections cannot be made with sufficient frequency or at sufficiently short
notice to assure the cross connections do not exist;
         (d)   Premises that although not covered by code are subject to
frequent modification which would change their status, or premises that have
had backflow code violations;
         (e)   Premises on which any substance is handled under pressure so as
to permit entry into the public water supply, or where a cross connection could
reasonably be expected to occur. This shall include the handling of process
waters and cooling waters; and
         (f)   Premises where materials of a toxic or hazardous nature are
handled such that if backsiphonage or backpressure should occur, a serious
health hazard may occur.
      (3)   The following types of facilities are instances in which an
approved air gap separation or reduced pressure principal backflow prevention
device is required by the Board of Health and the Nebraska Department of Health
to protect the public water supply unless all hazardous or potentially
hazardous conditions have been eliminated or corrected by other methods to the
satisfaction of the Board of Health and the Nebraska Department of Health:
         (a)   Auxiliary water systems;
         (b)   Beverage bottling plants;
         (c)   Canneries, packing houses and reduction plants;
         (d)   Car washing facilities;
         (e)   Chemical manufacturing, processing, compounding or treatment
plants;
         (f)   Chemically contaminated water systems;
         (g)   Dairies and cold storage plants;
         (h)   Film laboratories;
         (i)   Fire protection systems;
         (j)   Hazardous waste storage and disposal;
         (k)   Hospital, mortuaries, clinics;
         (l)   Irrigation and sprinkler systems;
         (m)   Laundries and dye works;
         (n)   Metal manufacturing, cleaning, processing and fabricating
plants;
         (o)   Oil and gas production, storage or transmission properties;
         (p)   Plating plants;
         (q)   Printing and publishing facilities;
         (r)   Research and analytical laboratories;
         (s)   Rubber plants - natural and synthetic;
         (t)   Sewage and storm drainage facilities pumping stations;
         (u)   Zoological and horticultural gardens;
         (v)   All free discharge points on customer property that accommodates
a hose connection;
         (w)   Pet grooming and veterinarian hospitals;
         (x)   Class A, B and C swimming pools; and
         (y)   Cooling coil service lines (refrigeration, air conditioning and
the like).
      (4)   All outdoor hydrants or valves which are used for delivery of water
to lawns, gardens or other outdoor applications shall be equipped with an
approved check valve designed to prevent the backflow of water from a hose or
other device used to deliver water from the hydrant or valve to the point of
use. Such check valve shall be kept in use at all times when the hydrant or
valve is used for the delivery of water.
   (H)   Backflow prevention devices.
      (1)   Any backflow prevention device required by this section shall be a
model or construction approved by the Board of Health and the Nebraska
Department of Health.
         (a)   Air gap separation to be approved shall be at least four inches
above the top rim of the vessel.
         (b)   A double check valve assembly or a reduced pressure principal
backflow prevention device shall be approved by the Board of Health and shall
appear on the current “List of Approved Backflow Prevention Devices”
established by the City Water Department.
      (2)   Existing backflow prevention devices approved by the water purveyor
at the time of installation and properly maintained shall, except for
inspection and maintenance requirements, be excluded from the requirements of
this section, so long as the Board of Health is assured that they will
satisfactorily protect the water system. Whenever the existing device is moved
from its present location, or requires more than minimum maintenance, or when
the Board of Health finds that the maintenance constitutes a hazard to health,
the unit shall be replaced by a backflow prevention device meeting the
requirements of this section.
   (I)   Installation.
      (1)   Backflow prevention devices required by this section shall be
installed at a location and in a manner approved by the Board of Health and
shall be installed at the expense of the water consumer.
      (2)   Backflow prevention devices installed on the service line to the
consumer’s water system shall be located on the consumer’s side of the water
meter, as close to the meter as is reasonably practical, and prior to any other
connection.
      (3)   Backflow prevention devices shall be located so as to be readily
accessible for maintenance and testing, protected from freezing, and where no
part of the device will be submerged or subject to flooding by any fluid.
      (4)   Backflow prevention devices for underground sprinklers shall be
located at least six inches above the highest sprinkler head in the system.
   (J)   Inspection and maintenance.
      (1)   It shall be the duty of the consumer at any premises on which
backflow prevention devices required by this section are installed to have
inspections, tests and overhauls made in accordance with the following schedule
or more often where inspections indicate a need.
         (a)   Air gap separations shall be inspected at the time of
installation and at least every 12 months thereafter.
         (b)   Double check valve assemblies shall be inspected and tested for
tightness at the time of installation and at least every 12 months thereafter.
They shall be dismantled, inspected internally, cleaned and repaired whenever
needed and at least every three years.
         (c)   Reduced pressure principal backflow prevention devices shall be
inspected and tested for tightness at the time of installation and at least
every 12 months thereafter. They shall be dismantled, inspected internally,
cleaned and repaired whenever needed and at least every five years.
      (2)   Overhauls of backflow prevention devices shall be made at the
expense of the water consumer and shall be performed by the Board of Health,
his or her representative or a State of Nebraska certified backflow prevention
device tester.
      (3)   Inspections and tests each year will be at the expense of the Board
of Health.
      (4)   Whenever backflow prevention devices required by this section are
found to be defective, they shall be repaired or replaced at the expense of the
consumer without delay.
      (5)   The water consumer must maintain a complete record of each backflow
prevention device from purchase to retirement. This shall include a
comprehensive listing that includes a record of all tests, inspections and
repairs. Records of inspections, tests, repairs and overhauls shall be made
available to the Board of Health upon request.
      (6)   Backflow prevention devices shall not be bypassed, made
inoperative, removed or otherwise made ineffective without specific
authorization by the Board of Health.
      (7)   All plumbing to be in accordance with the Uniform Plumbing Code.
      (8)   All underground sprinkler systems must first obtain a permit for
installations from the Code Enforcement Department before installing system.
   (K)   Violations.
      (1)   The Board of Health or its designated representative shall deny or
discontinue, after 30 days’ notice to the occupants thereof, the water service
to any premises wherein any backflow prevention device required by this section
is not installed, tested and maintained in a manner acceptable to the Board of
Health, or it is found that the backflow prevention device has been removed or
bypassed or if an unprotected cross connection exists on the premises.
      (2)   Water service to such premises shall not be restored until the
consumer has corrected or eliminated such conditions or defects in conformance
with this section to the satisfaction of the Board of Health.
      (3)   The City Health Department shall be advised of inspection findings,
and the violation abatement action pursued by the Board of Health or its
representative, and consulted prior to violation abatement action on items
having to do with public health significance.
(Ord. 507, passed 8-17-1987; Ord. 572, passed 4-13-1992)
§ 3-123 MUNICIPAL WATER DEPARTMENT; SPRINKLER SYSTEMS; PERMITS.
   (A)   Permit required. No sprinkler system shall be installed in the city
limits until a permit for same has been issued by the Code Enforcement Officer,
or unless it is exempt from a permit in accordance with these regulations.
   (B)   Fees. A fee of $10 per sprinkler system installed shall be paid in
accordance with the governing body and hereto attached.
(Ord. 507, passed 8-17-1987)
§ 3-124 MUNICIPAL WATER DEPARTMENT; ESTABLISHMENT OF WELLHEAD PROTECTION AREA.
   (A)   Definition. For the purpose of this section, the following definition
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      WELLHEAD PROTECTION AREA. The surface and subsurface area, surrounding a
water well or well field supplying a public water system, through which
contaminants are reasonably likely to move.
   (B)   Establishment of wellhead protection area. The city hereby designates
a wellhead protection area for the purpose of protection of the public water
supply system. The following parcels or tracts of land shall comprise the
wellhead protection area:
      (1)   North Subdivision.
   The West Half of the Southwest Quarter (W1/2 SW1/4) of Section Thirty-five
(35), Township Three (3), North, Range Fifteen (15), West of the 6th P.M. in
Franklin County, Nebraska;
   The West Half of the Southwest Quarter (W1/2 SW1/4) of Section One (1); the
Northwest Quarter (NW 1/4), the Southeast Quarter (SE 1/4), the Northeast
Quarter of the Southwest Quarter (NE 1/4 SW 1/4), the South Half of the
Northeast Quarter (S 1/2 NE 1/4), and the Northwest Quarter of the Northeast
Quarter (NW 1/4 NE 1/4) of Section Two (2); the North Half of the Northeast
Quarter (N 1/2 NE 1/4) and the Southeast Quarter of the Northeast Quarter (SE
1/4 NE 1/4) of Section Eleven (11);
   The Northwest Quarter (NW 1/4), the Southeast Quarter (SE 1/4), the North
Half of the Southwest Quarter (N 1/2 SW 1/4), the Southeast Quarter of the
Southwest Quarter (SE 1/4 SW 1/4), and the Southwest Quarter of the Northeast
Quarter (SW 1/4 NE 1/4) of Section 12 (12); and the Northeast Quarter (NE 1/4),
the Northeast Quarter of the Northwest Quarter (NE 1/4 NW 1/4), and the
Northeast Quarter of the Southeast Quarter (NE 1/4 SE 1/4) of Section Thirteen
(13); ALL in Township Two (2), North Range Fifteen (15), West of the 6th P.M.
in Franklin County, Nebraska; and
   The Southwest Quarter of the Southwest Quarter (SW 1/4 SW 1/4) of Section
Seven (7); and the West Half of the Northwest Quarter (W 1/2 NW 1/4) and the
Northwest Quarter of the Southwest Quarter (NW 1/4 SW 1/4) of Section Eighteen
(18); ALL in Township Two (2), North, Range Fourteen (14), West of the 6th P.M.
in Franklin County, Nebraska.
      (2)   South Subdivision.
   The West Half (W 1/2) of Section Thirty-one (31), Township Two (2), North,
Range Fourteen (14), West of the 6th P.M. in Franklin County, Nebraska;
   All that part of the East Half (E 1/2) of Section Thirty-one (31), Township
Two (2), North, Range Fourteen (14), West of the 6th P.M. in Franklin County,
Nebraska lying west of Beauty Creek as the same meanders generally north-to-
south through said section;
   The East Half (E 1/2) of Section Thirty-six (36), Township Two (2), North,
Range Fifteen (15), West of the 6th P.M. in Franklin County, Nebraska;
   The North Half of the Northwest Quarter (N 1/2 NW 1/4) and the Northwest
Quarter of the Northeast Quarter (NW 1/4 NE 1/4) of Section Six (6), Township
One (1), North, Range Fourteen (14), West of the 6th P.M. in Franklin County,
Nebraska; and
   The North Half of the Northeast Quarter (N 1/2 NE 1/4) of Section One (1),
Township One (1), North, Range Fifteen (15), West of the 6th P.M. in Franklin
County, Nebraska.
   (C)   Wellhead protection area map. A map or plat showing the location and
boundaries of the wellhead protection area shall be kept on file in the office
of the City Clerk and shall be available for public inspection at all times
during regular business hours of said office.
(Ord. 661, passed 8-10-1998; Ord. 742, passed 5-13-2002)
§ 3-125 DRILLING AND OPERATION OF WELLS AND INSTALLATION OF CERTAIN OTHER
FACILITIES AND ACTIVITIES; SPACING REQUIREMENTS.
   No person shall drill any well for production of potable or nonpotable water
or install any sewage lagoon, absorption or disposal field for water, cesspool,
dumping ground, feedlot, livestock pasture or corral, chemical or petroleum
product storage facility, pit toilet, sanitary landfill, septic tank, sewage
treatment plant, sewage wet well or geothermal well within the municipal limits
or within the zoning jurisdiction of the city unless the same is located not
less than the following distances from the nearest municipal water well:
   (A)   For potable and non-potable water wells, any other well and sewage
lagoons, not less than 1,000 feet;
   (B)   For absorption or disposal fields for waste water, cesspools, dumping
grounds, feedlots or feedlot runoff, livestock pastures or corrals, chemical or
petroleum product storage facilities, pit toilets, sanitary landfills, septic
tanks, sewage treatment plants and sewage wet wells, not less than 500 feet;
   (C)   For closed loop geothermal wells, sanitary sewer connections or
manholes, 100 feet;
   (D)   For sanitary sewer lines, 50 feet; and
   (E)   For permanently water tight sanitary sewer lines, ten feet.
(Ord. 744, passed 7-15-2002)
§ 3-126 GEOTHERMAL WELLS; REQUIREMENTS.
   Any geothermal well installed within the city or within its zoning
jurisdiction, shall consist of a closed loop system of polybutylene or
polyethyolene pipe with heat fused joints. The well shall be sealed from bottom
to top with a cement slurry and the fluid used in it for thermal transfer shall
be an antifreeze consisting of potassium acetate, propelene glycol or other
food-grade substance.
(Ord. 744, passed 7-15-2002)
§ 3-127 ADOPTION OF DROUGHT EMERGENCY CONTINGENCY PLAN.
   (A)   Generally. The city shall address any short-term water shortage
problems through a series of stages based on conditions of supply and demand
with accompanying triggers, goals and actions. Each stage is more stringent in
water use than the previous stage since there will be a greater deterioration
in water supply conditions. The Mayor and Council may implement the appropriate
conservation measures as set forth in this section, when any of the conditions
have been reached which would qualify for any of the specific stages. The Mayor
and Council may by resolution declare each particular stage as deemed
appropriate after reviewing the severity of the trigger conditions and other
additional information, and may implement conservation measures within the
guidelines provided for each particular stage.
   (B)   Stage One: Water Watch.
      (1)   Conditions. This stage is triggered by any one of the following
conditions.
         (a)   Ground water levels have fallen five feet below normal seasonal
levels.
         (b)   System pressure falls below 40 pounds per square inch.
         (c)   Demand for one day is in excess of 2,000,000,000 gallons per
day.
      (2)   Goals. The goals of this stage are to heighten awareness of the
public of the water conditions and to maintain the integrity of the system.
      (3)   Management actions.
         (a)   Leaks will be repaired within 48 hours of detection.
         (b)   The city will monitor its use of water and will curtail
activities such as hydrant flushing and street cleaning.
      (4)   Regulation actions. The public will be informed through the local
media of the water watch and be asked to voluntarily reduce outdoor water use
and to efficiently use water for indoor purposes, for example, washing full
loads of clothing and/or dishes, limiting the length and frequency of showers,
checking for water leaks and dripping of faucets, to prevent any unnecessary
use of water.
   (C)   Stage Two: Water Warning.
      (1)   Conditions. This stage is triggered by any one of the following
conditions.
         (a)   Ground water levels have fallen ten feet below normal seasonal
levels.
         (b)   System pressure falls below 40 pound per square inch.
         (c)   Plant operations are at 80% capacity for more than three
consecutive days.
         (d)   Demand for one day is in excess of 2,000,000,000 gallons per
day.
      (2)   Goals. The goals of this stage are to reduce peak demands by 20%
and to reduce overall weekly consumption by 10%.
      (3)   Management actions.
         (a)   Water supply will be monitored daily.
         (b)   Leaks will be repaired within 24 hours of detection.
         (c)   Pumpage at wells will be reduced to decrease drawdown and to
maintain water levels over well screens.
         (d)   The city will curtail its water usage, including watering of
municipal grounds and washing of vehicles.
      (4)   Regulation actions. In addition to the regulation actions under
Stage One, the following regulatory authority may be exercised by the Mayor and
Council.
         (a)   An odd/even lawn watering system will be imposed on residents.
Residents with odd-numbered houses will water on odd days, even-numbered houses
on even days.
         (b)   Outdoor water use, including lawn watering and car washing will
be restricted to before 10:00 a.m. and after 9:00 p.m.
         (c)   Refilling of swimming pools will be limited to one day a week
after sunset.
         (d)   Waste of water will be prohibited.
   (D)   Stage Three: Water Emergency.
      (1)   Conditions. This stage is triggered by any one of the following
conditions.
         (a)   Ground water levels have fallen 15 feet below normal seasonal
levels.
         (b)   System pressure falls below 40 pounds per square inch.
         (c)   Pumping lowers water levels to within five feet of the top of
the well screens.
         (d)   Plant operations are at 90% capacity for more than three
consecutive days.
         (e)   Demand for one day is in excess of 2,000,000,000 gallons per
day.
      (2)   Goals. The goals of this stage are to reduce peak demands by 50%
and to reduce overall consumption by 25%.
      (3)   Education actions.
         (a)   The city will make news releases to local media describing
current conditions and indicate the water supply outlook for the city.
         (b)   The city will hold public meeting(s) to discuss the emergency,
the status of the water supply and further actions which need to be taken.
      (4)   Management actions.
         (a)   The city water supplies will be monitored daily.
         (b)   Leaks will be repaired within 24 hours of detection.
         (c)   Standby wells will be activated for contingency operation.
         (d)   Pumpage at wells will be reduced to decrease drawdown and to
maintain water levels over well screens.
         (e)   The city will seek additional emergency supplies from other
users, including the state or federal government.
      (5)   Regulation actions. In addition to the regulation actions available
under Stage Two, the following regulatory authority may be exercised by the
Mayor and Council.
         (a)   Outdoor water use will be banned, except for businesses which
require outdoor water use to operate.
         (b)   Waste of water will be prohibited.
   (E)   Enforcement. In the event that any water consumer fails to comply with
the regulatory action taken by the Mayor and Council, they may direct the
immediate discontinuance of water service to the location which is not in
compliance with the restrictions imposed. Water service may be resumed upon the
Mayor and Council being provided adequate evidence to show that compliance has
been instituted and that compliance will continue under the restrictions
imposed.
(Ord. 802, passed 8-23-2006)
§ 3-128 VIOLATIONS; PENALTIES.
   Any person who shall violate any of the provisions of this Chapter 3,
Article 1 shall be guilty of an offense and shall be punished as provided in §
3-1001 of this code.
(Ord. 744, passed 7-15-2002)
ARTICLE 2: SEWER DEPARTMENT
Section
   
3-201   Municipal Sewer Department; operation and funding
   
3-202   Municipal Sewer Department; application for permit
   
3-203   Municipal Sewer Department; sewer contract
   
3-204   Municipal Sewer Department; mandatory hook-up
   
3-205   Municipal Sewer Department; unlawful waste disposal
   
3-206   Municipal Sewer Department; service contracts
   
3-207   Municipal Sewer Department; installation procedure
   
3-208   Municipal Sewer Department; installation expense
   
3-209   Municipal Sewer Department; licensed plumber
   
3-210   Municipal Sewer Department; repairs and replacement
   
3-211   Municipal Sewer Department; classification
   
3-212   Municipal Sewer Department; rate setting
   
3-213   Municipal Sewer Department; sewer rental bills
   
3-214   Municipal Sewer Department; old house sewers
   
3-215   Municipal Sewer Department; unlawful use
   
3-216   Municipal Sewer Department; special equipment
   
3-217   Municipal Sewer Department; manholes
   
3-218   Municipal Sewer Department; inspections
   
3-219   Municipal Sewer Department; private sewers
   
3-220   Municipal Sewer Department; lien
   
3-221   Municipal Sewer Department; complaints
   
3-222   Municipal Sewer Department; sewer use charge
§ 3-201 MUNICIPAL SEWER DEPARTMENT; OPERATION AND FUNDING.
   (A)   The municipality owns and operates the municipal sewer system through
the city.
   (B)   For the purpose of defraying the cost of the maintenance and repairing
of any sewer or water utilities in the municipality, the governing body may
each year levy a tax not exceeding the maximum limit prescribed by state law on
the taxable value of all taxable property in the municipality. The revenue from
the tax shall be known as the Water and Sewer Maintenance Fund and shall be
used exclusively for the purpose of maintenance and repairs of the water and
sewer system.
   (C)   The city shall have the direct management and control of the Sewer
Department, shall faithfully carry out the duties of the office, and shall have
the authority to adopt rules and regulations for the sanitary and efficient
management of the Department subject to the supervision and review of the
governing body.
(Neb. RS 17-925.01) (Ord. 677, passed 10-12-1998)
§ 3-202 MUNICIPAL SEWER DEPARTMENT; APPLICATION FOR PERMIT.
   Any person wishing to connect with the sewer system shall make an
application therefor to the Utilities Superintendent. The Superintendent may
require any applicant to make a service deposit in such amount as has been set
by the governing body and placed on file at the office of the Municipal Clerk.
Sewer service may not be supplied to any house or building except upon the
written order of the Utilities Superintendent. The Department shall not supply
sewer service to any person outside the corporate limits without special
permission from the governing body; provided, that the entire cost of pipe and
other installation charges shall be paid by such consumers. Nothing herein
shall be construed to obligate the municipality to provide sewer service to
nonresidents.
(Neb. RS 17-149, 19-2701)
§ 3-203 MUNICIPAL SEWER DEPARTMENT; SEWER CONTRACT.
   The municipality through the Municipal Sewer Department shall furnish sewer
services to persons within its corporate limits whose premises abut a street or
alley in which a commercial main is now or may hereafter be laid. The
municipality may also furnish sewer service to persons whose premises are
situated outside the corporate limits of the municipality, as and when,
according to law, the Municipal Council may see fit to do so. The rules,
regulations and sewer rental rates hereinafter named in this article, shall be
considered a part of every application hereafter made for sewer service and
shall be considered a part of the contract between every customer now or
hereafter served. Without further formality, the making of the application on
the part of any applicant or the use of sewer service by present customers
thereof shall constitute a contract between the customer and the municipality
to which said contract both parties are bound. If the customer shall violate
any of the provisions of said contract or any reasonable rules and regulations
that the governing body may hereafter adopt, the Utilities Superintendent, or
his or her agent, may cut off or disconnect the sewer service from the building
or premises of such violation. No further connection for sewer service to said
building or premises shall again be made save or except by order of the
Superintendent or his or her agent.
(Neb. RS 17-901, 17-902)
§ 3-204 MUNICIPAL SEWER DEPARTMENT; MANDATORY HOOK-UP.
   Upon written notice by the Utilities Superintendent, the property owner,
occupant or lessee of any premises within 300 feet of any sewer main shall
without delay cause the said building to be connected with the sewer system and
equipped with inside sewerage facilities. Every building hereafter erected
shall be connected with the sewer system at the time of its construction. In
the event that any property owner, occupant or lessee shall neglect, fail or
refuse, within a period of ten days after notice has been given to him or her
to do so by registered mail or by publication in a newspaper in or of general
circulation in the municipality, to make such connection, the governing body
shall have the power to cause the same to be done, to assess the cost thereof
against the property, and to collect the assessment thus made in the manner
provided for collection of other special taxes and assessments.
(Neb. RS 17-149, 17-149.01)
§ 3-205 MUNICIPAL SEWER DEPARTMENT; UNLAWFUL WASTE DISPOSAL.
   Privies, cesspools or septic tanks for the reception of sewage or waste from
a drain from any building shall only be permitted or allowed when the sewerage
system is not available to the premises on which said privy, cesspool or septic
tank is located. The sewerage system shall be considered available for the
purposes of this section when said system abuts the premises on which said
privy, cesspool or septic tank is located. In case an available municipal sewer
is provided later, the existing privy, cesspool of septic tank used on said
premises must be abandoned forthwith when the sewer is installed, and the drain
for any building shall be connected to the municipal sewer and the abandoned
cesspool, septic tank or privy must then be cleaned and filled with fresh earth
and tamped in properly.
(Neb. RS 17-121)
§ 3-206 MUNICIPAL SEWER DEPARTMENT; SERVICE CONTRACTS.
   Contracts for sewer service are not transferable. Any person wishing to
change from one location to another shall make a new application and sign a new
contract. If any customer shall move from the premises where service is
furnished, or if the said premises is destroyed by fire or other casualty, he
or she shall at once inform the Utilities Superintendent who shall cause the
sewer service to be shut off from the said premises. If the customer should
fail to give notice, he or she shall be charged for that period of time until
the official in charge of sewers is otherwise advised of such circumstances.
(Neb. RS 18-503)
§ 3-207 MUNICIPAL SEWER DEPARTMENT; INSTALLATION PROCEDURE.
   In making excavations in streets, alleys or sidewalks for the purpose of
installing pipe, or making repairs, the paving, stones and earth must be
removed and deposited in a manner that will occasion the least inconvenience to
the public and provide for adequate drainage. No person shall leave an
excavation made in the street, alley or sidewalk open at any time without a
barricade, and during the night, warning lights. After the house sewer is laid,
the public ways and property shall be restored to good condition. If the
excavation in the public ways and property is left open or unfinished for a
period of 24 hours or more, the Utilities Superintendent shall have the duty to
finish or correct the work, and all expenses so incurred shall be charged to
the owner, occupant or lessee of the property. All installations or repairs of
pipes require two inspections by the Utilities Superintendent. The first
inspection shall be made when connections or repairs are complete and before
the pipes are covered. The second inspection shall be made after the dirt work
is completed and the service restored. It is the customer’s responsibility to
notify the Utilities Superintendent at the time the work is ready for each
inspection. All installation shall be done under the supervision and strictly
in accordance with the rules, regulations and specifications for such
installation prescribed by the Utilities Superintendent; provided, that the
said rules, regulations and specifications have been reviewed and approved by
the governing body.
(Neb. RS 18-503)
§ 3-208 MUNICIPAL SEWER DEPARTMENT; INSTALLATION EXPENSE.
   The customer, upon approval of his or her application for service, shall pay
to the Utilities Superintendent a tap fee of $100 which shall compensate the
municipality for the expense of processing his or her application and tapping
the sewer main. The Utilities Superintendent, in his or her discretion, may
direct the customer to hire a licensed plumber to tap the main. The customer
shall then be required to pay the expense of procuring the materials required
as well as the services of a licensed plumber and shall pay all other costs of
installation. In addition thereto the customer shall pay to the municipality
the cost of restoring the public ways and property which shall be assessed to
the customer in the event that the municipality should agree to do the work and
bill the customer. Otherwise all restorative work and the cost thereof shall be
the customer’s responsibility.
(Neb. RS 18-503) (Ord. 724, passed 4-9-2001)
§ 3-209 MUNICIPAL SEWER DEPARTMENT; LICENSED PLUMBER.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to engage in or
conduct the business of sewer connection and house drainage, excavate any
trenches for sewer pipe, open, uncover or in any manner make connection with or
lay any sewer drain or attach to, modify or repair any appurtenances thereto
without holding a municipal plumber’s license and without complying with the
rules and regulations of the Utilities Superintendent; provided, that nothing
herein shall be construed to apply to persons, firms or corporations under
special contract with the municipality for the construction, extension or
repair of the municipal sewer system.
§ 3-210 MUNICIPAL SEWER DEPARTMENT; REPAIRS AND REPLACEMENT.
   (A)   The Municipal Sewer Department may require the owner of any property
which is within the municipality and connected to the public sewers or drains
to repair or replace any connection line which serves the owner’s property and
is broken, clogged or otherwise in need of repair or replacement. The property
owner’s duty to repair or replace such a connection line shall include those
portions upon the owner’s property and those portions upon public property or
easements up to and including the point of junction with the public main.
   (B)   The Municipal Clerk shall give the property owner notice by registered
letter or certified mail, directed to the last-known address of such owner or
the agent of such owner, directing the repair or replacement of such connection
line. If within 30 days of mailing such notice the property owner fails or
neglects to cause such repairs or replacements to be made, the Utilities
Superintendent may cause such work to be done and assess the cost upon the
property served by such connection.
(Neb. RS 18-1748) (Ord. 462, passed 8-14-1984)
§ 3-211 MUNICIPAL SEWER DEPARTMENT; CLASSIFICATION.
   The governing body may classify for the purpose of rental fees the customers
of the Municipal Sewer Department; provided, that such classifications are
reasonable and do not discriminate unlawfully against any consumer or group of
consumers.
(Neb. RS 17-925.02)
§ 3-212 MUNICIPAL SEWER DEPARTMENT; RATE SETTING.
   Customers of the Municipal Sewer Department shall be charged a flat rate for
the use of sewer service. Rates shall be set by ordinance and shall be on file
at the office of the Municipal Clerk for public inspection at any reasonable
time.
§ 3-213 MUNICIPAL SEWER DEPARTMENT; SEWER RENTAL BILLS.
Editor's Note:
   For provisions on discontinuance of service and notice procedure, see §
3-901
   For provisions on utilities generally, see Chapter 3, Article 9
§ 3-214 MUNICIPAL SEWER DEPARTMENT; OLD HOUSE SEWERS.
   Old house sewers and drains may be used in connection with new buildings or
new plumbing only when they are found, on examination by the Utilities
Superintendent, to conform in all respects to the requirements governing new
sewers and drains. If the old work is found defective or otherwise
unsatisfactory, he or she shall notify the owner to make the necessary changes
to conform with the provisions of the municipal code.
§ 3-215 MUNICIPAL SEWER DEPARTMENT; UNLAWFUL USE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to discharge or cause to be discharged
any storm water, surface water, ground water, roof runoff, surface drainage or
unpolluted industrial process waters into the sanitary sewer. Except as
hereinafter provided, no person shall discharge or cause to be discharged any
of the following described waters or wastes into the municipal sewer system:
   (A)   Liquids or vapors having a temperature higher than 150°F;
   (B)   Water or waste which may contain more than 100 parts per million by
weight of fat, oil or grease;
   (C)   Gasoline, benzene, naptha, fuel oil, other flammable or explosive
liquid, solid or gas;
   (D)   Garbage that has not been properly shredded;
   (E)   Sand, mud, metal, rags, paper or other solid or viscous substance
capable of causing obstruction to the flow in the sewer system;
   (F)   Toxic or poisonous substances in sufficient quantity to interfere with
or injure the sewage treatment process, constitute a hazard to humans, animals
or fish, or create any hazard in the receiving area of the sewage treatment
plant;
   (G)   Suspended solids of such character and quantity that unusual attention
or expense is required to handle such materials;
   (H)   Waters or wastes having a pH lower than 5.5 or higher than 9.0 or
having other corrosive properties capable of causing damage to the structures,
equipment and personnel of the Municipal Sewer Department; and
   (I)   Any noxious or malodorous gas or substance capable of creating a
public nuisance.
(Neb. RS 17-145)
§ 3-216 MUNICIPAL SEWER DEPARTMENT; SPECIAL EQUIPMENT.
   In the event a customer of the Municipal Sewer Department discharges an
unusually large amount of waste daily, an unusually large amount of grease or
oil, or waste with an unusually high biochemical oxygen demand the chief sewer
official may require the said customer to install interceptors or other
preliminary treatment equipment to reduce the objectionable characteristics of
the waste to within such maximum limits as he or she shall prescribe subject to
the review of the governing body. All preliminary treatment facilities shall be
purchased and maintained continuously in satisfactory and efficient operation
at the customer’s expense. Nothing herein shall be construed to prohibit a
special agreement or arrangement between the governing body and an industrial
concern whereby an industrial waste of unusual strength or character may be
accepted by the municipality for treatment subject to additional rental fees or
other charges.
§ 3-217 MUNICIPAL SEWER DEPARTMENT; MANHOLES.
   Entrance into a manhole or opening for any purpose except by authorized
persons is hereby prohibited. It shall be unlawful to deposit or cause to be
deposited in any receptacle connected with the sewer system any substance which
is not the usual and natural waste carried by the sewer system.
§ 3-218 MUNICIPAL SEWER DEPARTMENT; INSPECTIONS.
   The chief sewer official or his or her authorized agents, shall have free
access at any reasonable time to all parts of each premises and building which
is connected with the sewer system to ascertain whether there is any disrepair
or violations of this article therein.
§ 3-219 MUNICIPAL SEWER DEPARTMENT; PRIVATE SEWERS.
   In the event that the governing body determines it is in the best interest
of the municipality not to create a sewer district for the extension of any
sewer main, a private sewer may be authorized by the governing body under the
terms and conditions prescribed herein. No private sewer shall be built by any
person without first making application therefor to the governing body and a
resolution authorizing the construction thereof by a majority of the members
elected to the governing body has been passed. No such resolution shall be
adopted unless the applicant agrees to construct such sewer main in such a
manner as to be available and feasible for use by all property owners within
the area where such private sewer is to be constructed. The private sewer shall
be constructed in accordance with the plans and specifications provided by the
Municipal Engineer and the construction shall be at all times under the direct
supervision and control of the Utilities Superintendent.
§ 3-220 MUNICIPAL SEWER DEPARTMENT; LIEN.
   In addition to all other remedies, if a customer shall for any reason remain
indebted to the municipality for sewer service furnished, such amount due,
together with any rents and charges in arrears shall be considered a delinquent
sewer rent which is hereby declared to be a lien upon the real estate for which
the same was furnished. The Municipal Clerk shall notify in writing or cause to
be notified in writing, all owners of premises or their agents whenever their
tenants or lessees are 60 days or more delinquent in the payment of sewer rent.
It shall be the duty of the Utilities Superintendent on the first day of June
of each year to report to the governing body a list of all unpaid accounts due
for sewer service together with a description of the premises served. The
report shall be examined, and if approved by the governing body, shall be
certified by the Municipal Clerk to the County Clerk to be collected as a
special tax in the manner provided by law.
(Neb. RS 17-925.01)
§ 3-221 MUNICIPAL SEWER DEPARTMENT; COMPLAINTS.
Editor’s note:
   This section was repealed by Ord. 363, passed 9-10-1979.
§ 3-222 MUNICIPAL SEWER DEPARTMENT; SEWER USE CHARGE.
   (A)   The city has constructed and owns and operates a sanitary sewerage
system, which system carries the liquid and solid waste sewage of such
community and residents thereof. There is hereby established a sanitary sewer
use charge against each lot, parcel of land or premises served by said sanitary
sewerage system or which may otherwise discharge sewage and industrial wastes,
either directly or indirectly, into such sanitary sewerage system or any part
thereof.
   (B)   The word CONSUMER as used in this section includes any persons using
the sanitary sewerage system of the city including all persons, firms or
corporations whose premises are served thereby and all owners and tenants of
real estate and buildings connected with said sanitary sewerage system or
served thereby, and all users of said system who in any way use the same or
discharge sanitary sewage, industrial waste water or other liquid, either
directly or indirectly, into the sanitary sewerage system of the city.
   (C)   For the use of said sanitary sewerage system, each consumer shall pay
a monthly sewer use charge of $20.
   (D)   Where, in the judgment of the City Council by reason of special
conditions, the application of the use charges hereinbefore set forth would be
inequitable or unfair to either the city or the user, or in cases where the
character of the sewerage from a consumer is such that an additional burden is
placed upon the sewerage system greater than that imposed by the average sewage
delivered to the sewage disposal plant, a special rate may be established by
contract or by resolution duly passed and approved by the Mayor and Council of
the city.
   (E)   All sewer use charges prescribed by this section shall be a lien upon
the premises and real estate for which the sewer service is supplied and used,
and if not paid when due, such charge shall be certified to the City Treasurer
and may be recovered by the city in an action at law from the owner or the
person, firm or corporation requesting the service or it may be certified to
the tax assessor and assessed against the premises served and collected or
returned in the same manner as other municipal taxes are certified, assessed,
collected and returned. Bills for the sewer use charges made by this section
shall be rendered monthly, at the same time that bills are rendered for
electrical service of the city, and all sewer use charges levied by this
section which are not paid at or before electrical service charges of the city
are required to be paid shall be delinquent and the water service of such
consumer may be discontinued.
   (F)   All use charges provided for by this section shall be billed and
collected at the same time and in the same manner as electrical charges are
billed and collected by the city.
   (G)   The sewer use charges shall be sufficient at all times to pay for the
operation and maintenance of the sanitary sewerage system and disposal plant.
All moneys collected for such sewer use shall be set aside and placed in a
separate fund designated as the Sewer Revenue Fund and shall be used only for
the purpose of paying for the reasonable expense of operation and maintenance
of the sanitary sewerage system and disposal plant and for the purpose of
creating reserves for any of the aforesaid purposes.
   (H)   The Municipal Clerk shall begin collection of the rates herein
provided effective with the October 15, 2021 billing.
(Ord. 291, passed 7-9-1983; Ord. 469, passed 1-8-1985; Ord. 633, passed 9-9-
1996; Ord. 705, passed 10-9-2000; Ord. 817, passed 10-8-2007; Ord. 832, passed
12-22-2009; Ord. 881, passed 9-9-2013; Ord. 897, passed 9-8-2014; Ord. 897,
passed 9-14-2021)
ARTICLE 3: POLICE DEPARTMENT
Section
   
3-301   Police Department; duties
   
3-302   Police Department; reserve officer bond
   
3-303   Police Department; arrest and enforcement jurisdiction
   
3-304   Police Department; police officers; discipline or removal from duty;
notice and hearing; determination
§ 3-301 POLICE DEPARTMENT; DUTIES.
   The Police Department shall consist of the Chief of Police and such further
number of regular police officers as may be duly ordered by resolution of the
Council. The Chief of Police shall, subject to the direction of the Mayor, have
control and management of all matters relating to the Police Department, its
officers and members, and shall have the custody and control of all property
and books belonging to the department. He or she shall devote his or her whole
time to the municipal affairs, interests of the municipality, and to the
preservation of peace, order, safety and cleanliness thereof. The Department
shall execute and enforce all laws and also the orders of the Mayor. It shall
be the duty of the Department to protect the rights of persons and property.
There shall be a proper police force at all fires. The Department shall take
notice of all nuisances, impediments, obstructions and defects in the streets,
avenues, alleys, business places and residences of the municipality. The
Department shall execute, or cause to be executed, the processes issued and
shall cause all persons arrested to be brought before the proper court for
trial as speedily as possible. The Chief of Police and all regular and special
police officers shall become thoroughly conversant with the laws of the
municipality, and shall see that the same are strictly enforced and shall make
sworn complaints against any person or persons for violation of the same.
§ 3-302 POLICE DEPARTMENT; RESERVE OFFICER BOND.
   No appointment of a law enforcement reserve officer shall be valid until a
bond in the amount of $2,000, payable to the city, has been filed with the
Municipal Clerk by the individual appointed, or a blanket surety bond arranged
and paid for by the governing body and bonding all such officers of the
governing body has been filed. Such bonds shall be subject to the provisions of
Neb. RS Chapter 11, Article 1.
(Neb. RS 81-1444) (Ord. 491, passed 11-11-1986)
§ 3-303 POLICE DEPARTMENT; ARREST AND ENFORCEMENT JURISDICTION.
   (A)   The police officers of the city shall have the power to arrest all
offenders against the laws of the state or of the city, by day or by night, in
the same manner as the County Sheriff and to keep such offenders in the city
prison, county jail or other place of confinement to prevent their escape until
trial can be had before the proper officer.
(Neb. RS 17-118)
   (B)   Every city law enforcement officer has the power and authority to
enforce the laws of this state and the city or otherwise perform the functions
of that office anywhere within his or her primary jurisdiction.
   (C)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      LAW ENFORCEMENT OFFICER IN NEED OF ASSISTANCE.
         (a)   A law enforcement officer whose life is in danger; or
         (b)   A law enforcement officer who needs assistance in making an
arrest and the suspect:
            1.   Will not be apprehended unless immediately arrested;
            2.   May cause injury to himself or herself or others or damage to
property unless immediately arrested; or
            3.   May destroy or conceal evidence of the commission of a crime.
      PRIMARY JURISDICTION. The geographic area within territorial limits of
the city.
   (D)   Any city law enforcement officer who is within this state, but beyond
his or her primary jurisdiction, has the power and authority to enforce the
laws of this state or any legal ordinance of any city or incorporated village
or otherwise perform the functions of his or her office, including the
authority to arrest and detain suspects, as if enforcing the laws or performing
the functions within his or her primary jurisdiction in the following cases:
      (1)   Any city law enforcement officer, if in a fresh attempt to
apprehend a person suspected of committing a felony, may follow that person
into any other jurisdiction in this state and there arrest and detain that
person and return that person to the officer's primary jurisdiction;
      (2)   Any city law enforcement officer, if in a fresh attempt to
apprehend a person suspected of committing a misdemeanor or a traffic
infraction, may follow that person anywhere in an area within 25 miles of the
boundaries of the officer's primary jurisdiction and there arrest and detain
that person and return that person to the officer's primary jurisdiction;
      (3)   Any city law enforcement officer has this enforcement and arrest
and detention authority when responding to a call in which a local, state, or
federal law enforcement officer is in need of assistance; and
      (4)   If the city, under the provisions of the Interlocal Cooperation Act
or the Joint Public Agency Act, enters into a contract with any other city or
county for law enforcement services or joint law enforcement services, law
enforcement personnel may have this enforcement authority within the
jurisdiction of each of the participating political subdivisions if provided
for in the agreement. Unless otherwise provided in the agreement, the city
shall provide liability insurance coverage for its own law enforcement
personnel as provided in Neb. RS 13-1802.
   (E)   When probable cause exists to believe that a person is operating or in
the actual physical control of any motor vehicle, motorboat, personal
watercraft, or aircraft while under the influence of alcoholic liquor or of any
drug or otherwise in violation of Neb. RS 28-1465, 28-1466, 28-1472, 37-
1254.01, 37-1254.02, 60-4,163, 60-4,164, 60-6,196, 60-6,197, 60-6,211.01, or
60-6,211.02, a city law enforcement officer has the power and authority to do
any of the following or any combination thereof:
      (1)   Transport that person to a facility outside of the law enforcement
officer's primary jurisdiction for appropriate chemical testing of the person;
      (2)   Administer outside of the law enforcement officer's primary
jurisdiction any post-arrest test advisement to the person; or
      (3)   With respect to that person, perform other procedures or functions
outside of the law enforcement officer's primary jurisdiction which are
directly and solely related to enforcing the laws that concern a person
operating or being in the actual physical control of any motor vehicle,
motorboat, or aircraft while under the influence of alcoholic liquor or of any
other drug or otherwise in violation of Neb. RS 28-1465, 28-1466, 28-1472, 37-
1254.01, 37-1254.02, 60-4,163, 60-4,164, 60-6,196, 60-6,197, 60-6,211.01, or
60-6,211.02.
(Neb. RS 29-215)
   (F)   If city law enforcement personnel are rendering aid in their law
enforcement capacity outside the limits of the city in the event of disaster,
emergency, or civil defense emergency or in connection with any program of
practice or training for a disaster, emergency, or civil defense emergency when
that program is conducted or participated in by the Nebraska Emergency
Management Agency or with any other related training program, the law
enforcement personnel have the power and authority to enforce the laws of this
state or any legal ordinances or resolutions of the local government where they
are rendering aid or otherwise perform the functions of their office, including
the authority to arrest and detain suspects, as if enforcing the laws or
performing the functions within their primary jurisdiction. The city shall
self-insure or contract for insurance against any liability for personal
injuries or property damage that may be incurred by it or by its personnel as
the result of any movement made pursuant to this division.
(Neb. RS 81-829.65)
(Ord. 606, passed 8-14-1995; Ord. 678, passed 10-12-1998; Ord. 769, passed 1-
12-2004; Ord. 921, passed 2-13-2018)
§ 3-304 POLICE DEPARTMENT; POLICE OFFICERS; DISCIPLINE OR REMOVAL FROM DUTY;
NOTICE AND HEARING; DETERMINATION.
   (A)   All police officers appointed by the Mayor and Council may be removed,
demoted or suspended at any time by the Mayor as provided in this section. A
police officer, including the Chief of Police, may appeal to the City Council
such removal, demotion or suspension with or without pay. After a hearing, the
City Council may uphold, reverse or modify the action.
   (B)   No police officer, including the Chief of Police, shall be demoted,
suspended or otherwise disciplined except upon written notice and a copy of the
written accusation to the police officer.
   (C)   The police officer shall have the right to have an attorney or
representative retained by him or her present with him or her at all hearings
or proceedings regarding the written accusation.
   (D)   The police officer or his or her attorney or representative has the
right to be heard and to present evidence and to record all hearings or
proceedings regarding the written accusation.
   (E)   The police officer may, within ten days after being notified of any
disciplinary action, including removal, demotion or suspension with or without
pay, file with the Municipal Clerk a written demand for a hearing before the
City Council. The City Council shall set the matter for hearing not less than
ten nor more than 20 days after the filing of the written demand for hearing
and shall give the police officer and his or her attorney or representative
written notice of the hearing not less than seven nor more than 14 days prior
to the hearing.
   (F)   At the hearing, the police officer and his or her attorney or
representative shall have the right to appear in person to respond to the
charges, to present witnesses and documentary evidence, and to confront and
cross-examine witnesses.
   (G)   Not later than 30 days following the hearing, the City Council shall
vote to uphold, reverse or modify the disciplinary action, suspension,
demotion, removal or discharge. The failure of the City Council to act within
30 days or the failure of a majority of the members of the City Council to vote
to reverse or modify the disciplinary action, suspension, demotion, removal or
discharge shall be construed as a vote to uphold the disciplinary action,
suspension, demotion, removal or discharge. The decision of the City Council
shall be based upon its determination that, under the facts and evidence
presented at the hearing, the challenged action was necessary for the proper
management and effective operation of the Police Department in the performance
of its duties under the state statutes.
   (H)   Nothing in this section shall be construed to prevent the preemptory
suspension or immediate removal from duty of an officer, pending the hearing
provided in this section, in cases of gross misconduct, neglect of duty or
disobedience of orders.
   (I)   This section and the proceedings provided herein do not apply to a
police officer during his or her probationary period.
   (J)   After an applicant is hired by the municipality, the municipality may
not require the peace officer to produce or disclose his or her personal
financial records except pursuant to a valid search warrant or subpoena.
   (K)   The municipality shall not release a photograph of a peace officer who
is the subject of an investigation without the written permission of the peace
officer, except that the municipality may display a photograph of a peace
officer to a prospective witness as part of the investigation.
   (L)   No disciplinary action may be included in a peace officer’s personnel
record unless such disciplinary action has been reduced to writing and the
peace officer has been given a copy, and no correspondence may be included in a
peace officer’s personnel record unless the peace officer has been given a copy
of the correspondence. The peace officer shall sign a written acknowledgment of
receipt for any copy of a disciplinary action.
   (M)   No peace officer may be discharged, subject to disciplinary action, or
threatened with discharge or disciplinary action as retaliation for or solely
by reason of the peace officer’s exercise of his or her rights provided herein
or provided in the laws of the State of Nebraska.
(Ord. 829, passed 12-14-2009)
ARTICLE 4: PARKS
Section
   
3-401   Municipal parks; operation and funding
   
3-402   Municipal parks; injury to property
§ 3-401 MUNICIPAL PARKS; OPERATION AND FUNDING.
   (A)   If the city has already acquired or hereafter acquires land for park
purposes or recreational facilities or has already built or hereafter builds
swimming pools, recreational facilities, or dams, the Mayor and City Council
may each year make and levy a tax upon the taxable value of all the taxable
property in the city. The levy shall be collected and put into the city
treasury and shall constitute the park and recreation fund of the city. The
funds so levied and collected shall be used for amusements, for laying out,
improving, and beautifying such parks, for maintaining, improving, managing,
and beautifying such swimming pools, recreational facilities, or dams, and for
the payment of salaries and wages of persons employed in the performance of
such labor.
(Neb. RS 17-951)
   (B)   If the Mayor and City Council create a Board of Park Commissioners or
Board of Park and Recreation Commissioners, when such Board has been appointed
and qualified, all accounts against the park fund or park and recreation fund,
as the case may be, shall be audited by the Board, and warrants against the
fund shall be drawn by the Chairperson of the Board, and warrants so drawn
shall be paid by the City Treasurer out of the fund.
(Neb. RS 17-952)
   (C)   (1)   Whether the title to real estate for parks, public grounds,
swimming pools, or dams, either for recreational or conservational purposes,
shall be acquired by gift, devise, or purchase as provided in Neb. RS 17-948,
the jurisdiction of the City Council or Park Board shall at once be extended
over such real estate; and the City Council or Park Board shall have power to
enact bylaws, rules or ordinances for the protection and preservation of any
real estate acquired as herein contemplated, and to provide rules and
regulations for the closing of the park or swimming pool, in whole or in part,
to the general public, and charge admission thereto during such closing, either
by the city or by any person, persons, or corporation leasing same. They may
provide suitable penalties for the violation of such bylaws, rules, or
ordinances; and the police power of the city shall be at once extended over the
same.
(Neb. RS 17-949)
      (2)   The Park Board shall not enter into a contract of any nature that
involves an expenditure of funds, except for ordinary operating expenses,
unless the contract has been approved by resolution of the majority of the
members of the City Council prior to the contractual agreement.
Statutory reference:
   Levy limits, see Neb. RS 77-3442
   Parks and recreational facilities generally, see Neb. RS 17-948 through 17-
952
§ 3-402 MUNICIPAL PARKS; INJURY TO PROPERTY.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to maliciously or willfully cut down,
injure, or destroy any tree, plant, or shrub in any city park or recreational
facility. It shall be unlawful for any person to injure or destroy any sodded
or planted area or injure or destroy any building, structure, equipment, fence,
bench, table, or any other property of any city park or recreational area. No
person shall commit any waste on or litter the city parks or other public
grounds.
Statutory reference:
   Littering of public and private property, see Neb. RS 28-523
ARTICLE 5: LIBRARY
Section
   
3-501   Municipal library; funding
   
3-502   Municipal library; Library Board; general powers
   
3-503   Municipal library; grounds and building
   
3-504   Municipal library; sale and conveyance of real estate
   
3-505   Municipal library; mortgages; release or renewal
   
3-506   Municipal library; cost of use
   
3-507   Municipal library; discrimination prohibited
   
3-508   Municipal library; Library Board; annual report
   
3-509   Municipal library; penalties; recovery; disposition
   
3-510   Municipal library; donations
   
3-511   Municipal library; improper book removal
§ 3-501 MUNICIPAL LIBRARY; FUNDING.
   (A)   (1)   If the City Council has established a public library free of
charge for the use of the inhabitants of the city or contracted for the use of
a public library already established, the Council may levy a tax of not more
than $0.105 on each $100 upon the taxable value of all the taxable property in
the city annually to be levied and collected in like manner as other taxes in
the city. The levy shall be subject to Neb. RS 77-3442 and 77-3443. The amount
collected from such levy shall be known as the library fund.
(Neb. RS 51-201)
      (2)   The fund shall also include all gifts, grants, deeds of conveyance,
bequests, or other valuable income-producing property and real estate from any
source for the purpose of endowing the public library.
   (B)   All taxes levied or collected and all funds donated or in any way
acquired for the erection, maintenance, or support of the public library shall
be kept for the use of the library separate and apart from all other funds of
the city, shall be drawn upon and paid out by the City Treasurer upon vouchers
signed by the president of the Library Board and authenticated by the secretary
of the Board, and shall not be used or disbursed for any other purpose or in
any other manner. The city may establish a public library sinking fund for
major capital expenditures.
(Neb. RS 51-209)
   (C)   Any money collected by the library shall be turned over at least
monthly by the Librarian to the City Treasurer along with a report of the
sources of the revenue.
§ 3-502 MUNICIPAL LIBRARY; LIBRARY BOARD; GENERAL POWERS AND DUTIES.
   (A)   The Library Board shall have the power to make and adopt such bylaws,
rules, and regulations for its own guidance and for the government of the
library and reading room as it may deem expedient, not inconsistent with Neb.
RS 51-201 through 51-219.
(Neb. RS 51-205)
   (B)   The Library Board shall have exclusive control of expenditures, of all
money collected or donated to the credit of the library fund, of the renting
and construction of any library building, and the supervision, care, and
custody of the grounds, rooms, or buildings constructed, leased, or set apart
for that purpose.
(Neb. RS 51-207)
   (C)   The Library Board may erect, lease, or occupy an appropriate building
for the use of such a library, and appoint a suitable librarian and assistants,
fix the compensation of such appointees, and remove such appointees at the
pleasure of the Board. The governing body of the city shall approve any
personnel administrative or compensation policy or procedure before
implementation of such policy or procedure by the Library Board.
   (D)   The Library Board may establish rules and regulations for the
government of the library as may be deemed necessary for its preservation and
to maintain its usefulness and efficiency. The Library Board may fix and
impose, by general rules, penalties and forfeitures for trespasses upon or
injury to the library grounds, rooms, books, or other property, for failure to
return any book, or for violation of any bylaw, rule, or regulation. The Board
shall have and exercise such power as may be necessary to carry out the spirit
and intent of Neb. RS 51-201 through 51-219 in establishing and maintaining the
library and reading room.
(Neb. RS 51-211)
§ 3-503 MUNICIPAL LIBRARY; GROUNDS AND BUILDING.
   The Library Board may purchase or lease grounds, exercise the power of
eminent domain, and condemn real estate for the purpose of securing a site for
a library building. The procedure to condemn property shall be exercised in the
manner set forth in Neb. RS 76-704 through 76-724.
(Neb. RS 51-210)
§ 3-504 MUNICIPAL LIBRARY; SALE AND CONVEYANCE OF REAL ESTATE.
   (A)   The Library Board may, by resolution, direct the sale and conveyance
of any real estate owned by the Board or by the public library, which is not
used for library purposes, or of any real estate so donated or devised to the
Board or to the library upon such terms as the Board may deem best.
   (B)   Before any such sale is made the Library Board shall advertise the
sale once each week for three consecutive weeks in a legal newspaper published
or, if none is published, of general circulation in the city. The notice shall
set out the time, place, terms, manner of sale, legal description of such real
estate, and the right to reject any and all bids. If the bid or bids have not
been rejected, then the real estate shall be sold to the highest bidder for
cash, and the Chairperson of the Library Board, upon resolution of the Library
Board directing him or her so to do, shall convey the real estate to the
purchaser of such real estate upon his or her payment of his or her bid. If
within 30 days after the third publication of the notice a remonstrance against
the sale is signed by 30% of the registered voters of the city voting at the
last regular city election and is filed with the City Council, the property
shall not then, nor within one year thereafter, be sold. If the date for filing
the remonstrance falls upon a Saturday, Sunday, or legal holiday, the
signatures shall be collected within the 30-day period, but the filing shall be
considered timely if filed or postmarked on or before the next business day.
(Neb. RS 51-216)
§ 3-505 MUNICIPAL LIBRARY; MORTGAGES; RELEASE OR RENEWAL.
   The president of the Library Board shall have the power to release, upon
full payment, any mortgage constituting a credit to the library fund and
standing in the name of the Library Board. The signature of the president on
any such release shall be authenticated by the secretary of the Board. The
president and secretary in like manner, upon resolution duly passed and adopted
by the Board, may renew any such mortgage.
(Neb. RS 51-206)
§ 3-506 MUNICIPAL LIBRARY; COST OF USE.
   (A)   Except as provided in division (B) of this section, the library and
reading room shall be free of charge for the use of the inhabitants of the
city, subject always to such reasonable regulations as the Library Board may
adopt to render the library of the greatest use to the inhabitants. The Library
Board may exclude from the use of the library and reading rooms any person who
willfully violates or refuses to comply with rules and regulations established
for the government thereof.
(Neb. RS 51-212)
   (B)   The public library shall make its basic services available without
charge to all residents of the city. The Board may fix and impose reasonable
fees, not to exceed the library’s actual cost, for nonbasic services.
(Neb. RS 51-211)
   (C)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      BASIC SERVICES. Include, but are not limited to, free loan of circulating
print and nonprint materials from the local collection and general reference
and information services.
      NONBASIC SERVICES. Include, but are not limited to, use of:
         (a)   Photocopying equipment;
         (b)   Telephones, facsimile equipment, and other telecommunications
equipment;
         (c)   Media equipment;
         (d)   Personal computers; and
         (e)   Videocassette recording and playing equipment.
(Neb. RS 51-201.01)
§ 3-507 MUNICIPAL LIBRARY; DISCRIMINATION PROHIBITED.
   No library service shall be denied to any person because of race, sex,
religion, age, color, national origin, ancestry, physical handicap, or marital
status.
(Neb. RS 51-211)
§ 3-508 MUNICIPAL LIBRARY; LIBRARY BOARD; ANNUAL REPORT.
   The Library Board shall, on or before the second Monday in February in each
year, make a report to the City Council of the condition of its trust on the
last day of the prior fiscal year. The report shall show all money received and
credited or expended; the number of materials held, including books, video and
audio materials, software programs, and materials in other formats; the number
of periodical subscriptions on record, including newspapers; the number of
materials added and the number withdrawn from the collection during the year;
the number of materials circulated during the year; and other statistics,
information, and suggestions as the Library Board may deem of general interest
or as the City Council may require. The report shall be verified by affidavit
of the president and secretary of the Library Board.
(Neb. RS 51-213)
§ 3-509 MUNICIPAL LIBRARY; PENALTIES; RECOVERY; DISPOSITION.
   Penalties imposed or accruing by any bylaw or regulation of the Library
Board and any court costs and attorney’s fees may be recovered in a civil
action before any court having jurisdiction, such action to be instituted in
the name of the Library Board. Money, other than any court costs and attorney’s
fees, collected in such actions shall be placed in the treasury of the city to
the credit of the library fund. Attorney’s fees collected pursuant to this
section shall be placed in the treasury of the city and credited to the budget
of the City Attorney’s office.
(Neb. RS 51-214)
§ 3-510 MUNICIPAL LIBRARY; DONATIONS.
   Any person may make donation of money, lands, or other property for the
benefit of the public library. The title to property so donated may be made to
and shall vest in the Library Board and their successors in office, and the
Board shall thereby become the owners thereof in trust to the uses of the
public library.
(Neb. RS 51-215)
§ 3-511 MUNICIPAL LIBRARY; IMPROPER BOOK REMOVAL.
   It shall be unlawful for any person not authorized by the regulations made
by the Library Board to take a book from the public library without the consent
of the Librarian or an authorized employee of the library. Any person removing
a book from the library without properly checking it out shall be deemed to be
guilty of an offense.
ARTICLE 6: CEMETERY
Section
   
3-601   Municipal cemetery; operation and funding
   
3-602   Municipal cemetery; conveyance of lots
   
3-603   Municipal cemetery; burial permit
   
3-604   Municipal cemetery; reclamation
§ 3-601 MUNICIPAL CEMETERY; OPERATION AND FUNDING.
   The municipality owns and manages the municipal cemetery through the
Cemetery Board. The governing body, for the purpose of defraying the cost of
the care, management, maintenance and beautification of the cemetery may each
year levy a tax not exceeding the maximum limit prescribed by state law, on the
actual valuation of all real estate and personal property within the
municipality that is subject to taxation. The revenue from the said tax shall
be known as the Cemetery Fund and shall include all gifts, grants, deeds of
conveyance, bequests, money, stocks, bonds or other valuable income- producing
personal property and real estate from any source for the purpose of endowing
the cemetery. The Cemetery Fund shall at all times be in the custody of the
Municipal Treasurer. The Board shall have the power and authority to hire and
supervise such employees as it may deem necessary and to pass such rules and
regulations for the operation of the Cemetery as may be proper for its
efficient operation. All actions by the Board shall be under the supervision
and control of the governing body.
(Neb. RS 12-301 through 12-403)
§ 3-602 MUNICIPAL CEMETERY; CONVEYANCE OF LOTS.
   The governing body may convey cemetery lots by certificate signed by the
Mayor, and countersigned by the Municipal Clerk under the municipal seal
specifying that the person to whom the same is issued is the owner of the lot
described therein by number for the purpose of interment. The said certificate
shall give a right in fee simple to the proprietor, his or her heirs, and
assigns. The certificate shall then be recorded in the office of the County
Clerk.
(Neb. RS 17-941)
§ 3-603 MUNICIPAL CEMETERY; BURIAL PERMIT.
   All persons desiring to bury a deceased person shall first be required to
file a completed death certificate with the Registrar of the county before any
body may be buried in the municipal cemetery. If it is impossible to complete
the certificate of death within the legal period of time prescribed by state
law, the funeral director shall notify the Registrar and obtain his or her
written approval before the deceased person may be buried in the municipal
cemetery. The burial permit so issued by the Registrar shall then be filed with
the Municipal Clerk. It shall be unlawful for the sexton, or other person, to
allow the interment of a body without first receiving such permit. The burial
permit shall then be countersigned and dated by the sexton. The interment of
any body shall be performed under the direct supervision of a licensed funeral
director. The applicant shall also file with the burial permit an application
containing the name, age, sex, race and cause of death of the deceased person
for the records of the Cemetery Board. Upon completion of the requirements
herein, the Municipal Clerk shall then issue a municipal burial permit which
shall entitle the applicant to bury a deceased person in the municipal
cemetery. In the event that the removal of the body of any deceased person is
requested the Municipal Clerk shall issue no permit until the applicant shall
have first complied with the laws of the State of Nebraska with respect to such
disinterment.
(Neb. RS 71-605)
§ 3-604 MUNICIPAL CEMETERY; RECLAMATION.
   When any lot has been transferred by warranty deed or by a deed conveying a
fee simple title, but there has been no burial in any such lot or subdivision
thereof and no payment of annual assessments for a period of three years, the
Cemetery Board with the sanction of the governing body, may reclaim the unused
portion of such lot or subdivision after notifying the record owner or his or
her heirs or assigns, if known, by certified mail and publishing notice of its
intention to do so. Such notice shall be published once each week for four
weeks in a newspaper of general circulation throughout the county in which the
cemetery is located, shall describe the lot or subdivision proposed to be
reclaimed, and shall be addressed to the person in whose name such portion
stands of record or, if there is no owner of record, to all persons claiming
any interest in such lot or subdivision. If no person appears to claim such lot
or subdivision and pay all delinquent assessments with interest within 15 days
after the last date of such publication, the Cemetery Board may by resolution
reclaim such lot or subdivision. Such reclamation shall be complete upon a
filing of a verified copy of such resolution, together with proof of
publication, in the office of the Register of Deeds.
(Ord. 496, passed 11-11-1986)
ARTICLE 7: MUNICIPAL ELECTRICAL SYSTEM
Section
   
3-701   Municipal electrical system; ownership
   
3-702   Municipal electrical system; contracts and terms
   
3-703   Municipal electrical system; consumer’s application
   
3-704   Municipal electrical system; electrical service contracts
   
3-705   Municipal electrical system; licensed electricians
   
3-706   Municipal electrical system; installation expense
   
3-707   Municipal electrical system; electrical bills
   
3-708   Municipal electrical system; fees and collections
   
3-709   Municipal electrical system; minimum rates
   
3-710   Municipal electrical system; restricted use
   
3-711   Municipal electrical system; responsibility of landlord and tenant
   
3-712   Municipal electrical system; building moving
   
3-713   Municipal electrical system; posting signs
   
3-714   Municipal electrical system; complaints
   
3-715   Municipal electrical system; inspections
   
3-716   Municipal electrical system; rates
   
3-717   Municipal electrical system; delinquent payment
§ 3-701 MUNICIPAL ELECTRICAL SYSTEM; OWNERSHIP.
   The municipality owns and operates the municipal electrical system through
the Utilities Superintendent. The governing body, for the purpose of defraying
the cost of the care, management and maintenance of the municipal electrical
system may each year levy a tax not exceeding the maximum limit prescribed by
state law, on the actual valuation of all real estate and personal property
within the corporate limits that is subject to taxation. The revenue from the
said tax shall be known as the Electrical Fund and shall remain in the custody
of the Municipal Treasurer. The Utilities Superintendent shall have the direct
management and control of the municipal electrical system and shall faithfully
carry out the duties of his or her office. He or she shall have the authority
to adopt rules and regulations for the safe and efficient management of the
electrical system subject to the supervision and review of the governing body.
The governing body shall by resolution set the rates to be charged for services
rendered and shall file the same in the office of the Municipal Clerk for
public inspection at any reasonable time.
(Neb. RS 17-902 through 17-904, 17-906, 17-909)
§ 3-702 MUNICIPAL ELECTRICAL SYSTEM; CONTRACTS AND TERMS.
   The municipality through its Electrical Department, shall furnish electric
current for light and power purposes to persons whose premises abut on any
supply wire of the distribution system and may furnish electric current to such
other persons within or without its corporate limits, as and when, according to
law, its governing body may see fit to do so. The rules, regulations and rates
for electric service, hereinafter named in this article, shall be considered a
part of every application hereafter made for electric service and shall be
considered a part of the contract between every consumer now served by the
Electrical Department. Without further formality, the making of application on
the part of any applicant or the use or consumption of electric energy by
present customers and the furnishing of electric service to said applicant or
customer shall constitute a contract between applicant or customer and the
municipality, to which both parties are bound. If a customer should violate any
of the provisions of said contract or any reasonable rules and regulations that
the governing body may hereafter adopt, the Utilities Superintendent, or his or
her agent, shall cut off or disconnect the electric service from the building
or place of such violation and no further connection of electric service for
such building or place shall again be made save or except by order of the
Superintendent or his or her agent.
§ 3-703 MUNICIPAL ELECTRICAL SYSTEM; CONSUMER’S APPLICATION.
   Every person or persons desiring electrical service must make application
therefor to the Utilities Superintendent. Any rental applicant may be required
to make a service deposit in such amount as deemed necessary subject to the
review of the governing body. Electricity may not be supplied to any house or
building except upon the written order of the Utilities Superintendent. The
system shall not supply to any person outside the corporate limits electrical
service without special permission from the governing body. Nothing herein
shall be construed to obligate the municipality to supply electrical service to
nonresidents.
(Neb. RS 17-902, 19-2701)
§ 3-704 MUNICIPAL ELECTRICAL SYSTEM; ELECTRICAL SERVICE CONTRACTS.
   Contracts for electrical service are not transferable. Any person wishing to
change from one location to another shall make a new application and sign a new
contract. If any consumer shall sell, dispose or remove from the premises where
service is furnished in his or her name, or if the said premises is destroyed
by fire or other casualty, he or she shall at once inform the Utilities
Superintendent who shall cause the electrical service to be shut off from the
said premises. If the consumer should fail to give such notice, he or she shall
be charged for all electricity used on the said premises until the Utilities
Superintendent is otherwise advised of such circumstances.
(Neb. RS 17-902)
§ 3-705 MUNICIPAL ELECTRICAL SYSTEM; LICENSED ELECTRICIANS.
   Under no circumstances shall connections be made between the wires of the
electrical distribution system of this municipality and the meter of the
consumer, except by an employee of the municipality or a licensed electrician
authorized to do so by the Utilities Superintendent. The consumer may have
wiring done by any competent licensed electrician from the meter to the points
of distribution. All wiring, equipment and apparatus shall be installed
according to the electrical code duly adopted by the municipality. All
installation shall be done under the supervision and strictly in accordance
with the rules, regulations and specifications for such installation prescribed
by the Utilities Superintendent and Building Inspector; provided, that such
rules, regulations and specifications have been reviewed and approved by the
governing body.
(Neb. RS 17-902)
§ 3-706 MUNICIPAL ELECTRICAL SYSTEM; INSTALLATION EXPENSE.
   The expense of installation and equipment up to and including the electrical
meter shall be paid by the municipality. The expense of installation and wiring
from the meter to the points of distribution shall be the responsibility of the
consumer. Maintenance and replacement expense shall be apportioned in the same
manner; provided, that the consumer shall have the responsibility of installing
the meter loop. In the event that the customer desires underground service, the
municipality shall provide underground service only for the first 100 feet and
it shall be the responsibility of the customer to provide for labor and
materials beyond that point or, in the discretion of the Utilities
Superintendent to compensate the municipality for the expense of extending
service beyond that point. The municipality shall repair the meter and wires
leading to the meter. The customer shall have the responsibility for repairing
the wires and appurtenances from the meter to the point of distribution.
(Neb. RS 17-902)
§ 3-707 MUNICIPAL ELECTRICAL SYSTEM; ELECTRICAL BILLS.
Editor's Note:
   For provisions on discontinuance of service and notice procedure, see §
3-901
   For provisions on utilities generally, see Chapter 3, Article 9
§ 3-708 MUNICIPAL ELECTRICAL SYSTEM; FEES AND COLLECTIONS.
   The governing body has the power and authority to fix the rates to be paid
by electrical consumers for the use of electricity. All rates shall be on file
for public inspection at the office of the Municipal Clerk.
(Neb. RS 17-902)
§ 3-709 MUNICIPAL ELECTRICAL SYSTEM; MINIMUM RATES.
   All electrical consumers shall be liable for the minimum rate provided by
ordinance unless and until the consumer shall, by written order direct the
Utilities Superintendent to shut off the electricity in which case he or she
shall not be liable thereafter for electrical service until the electricity is
turned on again.
(Neb. RS 17-902)
§ 3-710 MUNICIPAL ELECTRICAL SYSTEM; RESTRICTED USE.
   The municipal electrical system does not guarantee the delivery of electric
current over the lines of the distribution system except when it has sufficient
power, current, equipment and machinery to do so. The Utilities Superintendent
has the power and authority to disconnect or discontinue such service for any
good and sufficient reason without liability. The municipality shall use due
care and reasonable diligence to provide and supply uninterrupted service to
consumers, but shall not be liable for damages resulting from interruption of
service due to causes over which the municipality has no control and the
municipality expressly reserves the right to discontinue or disconnect any
consumer’s service without preliminary notice.
(Neb. RS 17-902)
§ 3-711 MUNICIPAL ELECTRICAL SYSTEM; RESPONSIBILITY OF LANDLORD AND TENANT.
   (A)   In cases of residential, commercial or industrial rental properties,
the property owner and the tenant or occupant shall be jointly responsible for
payment of bills for electrical service. The City Clerk shall first attempt to
collect the bill from the tenant, and if payment is not voluntarily made by the
tenant, then the City Clerk may look to the property owner for payment. The
tenant or occupant’s service deposit and any other payments shall be first
applied to the account before collection of the account balance from the
property owner. In case of delinquency, the property owner shall be provided a
copy of the notice of delinquency required in §
3-707 and notice of intent to terminate service under §
3-901.
   (B)   Unpaid accounts for water, sewer and solid waste collection services
may be filed as liens against the property as provided in §§
3-109,
3-220 and 5-609, and the property owner shall be provided copies of all notices
required in those sections.
(Ord. 775, passed 4-12-2004)
§ 3-712 MUNICIPAL ELECTRICAL SYSTEM; BUILDING MOVING.
   Should any house or building moving occur or be necessary and it becomes
necessary in said work to remove or disturb any of the property or wires of the
municipal electrical system, the same should not be done except upon written
permission received from the Utilities Superintendent, who shall then order
paid in advance the actual cost of moving the said wires and such cost shall be
paid by the applicant prior to the moving of the building or house. All expense
of removing, changing and replacing the said wires or apparatus of the
electrical system shall be paid out of the deposit made prior to moving and any
surplus remaining after all expenses are paid shall be returned to the
applicant; provided, that if in the course of moving the said building or house
it becomes apparent that additional expense will be incurred, such additional
deposit as deemed necessary may be demanded.
§ 3-713 MUNICIPAL ELECTRICAL SYSTEM; POSTING SIGNS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to post, tack or fasten to the poles,
structures, fixtures or equipment of the municipal electrical system any sign,
poster, advertisement or banner without written permission from the Utilities
Superintendent.
§ 3-714 MUNICIPAL ELECTRICAL SYSTEM; COMPLAINTS.
   Any consumer feeling himself or herself aggrieved by reason of any
controversy with the Utilities Superintendent may appear before the governing
body and present his or her grievance. Any consumer who considers himself or
herself aggrieved by being required to pay the charge demanded for the use of
electricity, or for the resumption of electric service after the same shall
have been shut off, shall pay such charge under protest, in which event the
Municipal Clerk shall write on the receipt given such customer the words, “Paid
Under Protest.” Such consumer may then present his or her verified claim in the
manner provided for presenting claims to the governing body for a refund of the
amount so paid under protest. Such claims shall then be considered by the
governing body in the same manner as other claims against the municipality.
§ 3-715 MUNICIPAL ELECTRICAL SYSTEM; INSPECTIONS.
   The Utilities Superintendent or his or her duly authorized agents shall have
free access at any reasonable time to each premises and building to or in which
electricity is supplied; provided, that in the event of an emergency, such
inspections may take place at any time.
(Neb. RS 17-902)
§ 3-716 MUNICIPAL ELECTRICAL SYSTEM; RATES.
   (A)   Each person desiring a supply of electric current must make
application therefor to the Municipal Clerk upon blanks to be furnished by and
for that purpose by the city. The application must state all uses to which the
electric current is to be applied and no additional use will be allowed except
by permission of the Utilities Superintendent. Not more than one house or
building shall be supplied from one connection except by special permission of
the Utilities Superintendent. The residential rates as hereinafter fixed shall
apply for current used for residential lighting and other household electrical
appliances. The general service rates fixed herein shall apply for current used
for commercial and industrial purposes.
   (B)   The following are established as a tariff for residential, general
service, churches, irrigation and street lighting rates for consumers of
electric service from the electric distribution system of the city:
      (1)   Residential.
 
First 600 KWH/month (summer) $0.1119/KWH
First 600 KWH/month (winter) $0.1164/KWH
Balance (summer)             $0.1241/KWH
Balance (winter)             $0.0748/KWH
Meter charge                 $ 9.10/month
 
      (2)   General service.
 
First 1,100 KWH/month       $0.1209/KWH
Balance (summer)            $0.1271 /KWH
Balance (winter)            $0.0919/KWH
Meter charge (single-phase) $13.90/month
Meter charge (3-phase)      $25.55/month
 
      (3)   Churches. Same as residential rates.
      (4)   All electric: residential.
         (a)   Winter.
 
First 600 KWH/month        $0.0706/KWH
All in excess of first 600
   KWH/month            $0.0540/KWH
   Meter charge         $9.10/month
 
         (b)   Summer.
 
All KWH/month $0.1123/KWH
Meter charge  $9.10/month
 
      (5)   All electric: general services.
         (a)   Winter.
 
First 1,100 KWH/month        $0.0752/KWH
All in excess of first 1,100
   KWH/month              $0.0585/KWH
   Meter charge           $13.90/month
 
         (b)   Summer.
 
All KWH/month $0.1169/KWH
Meter charge  $13.90/month
 
      (6)   Municipal residential facilities.
 
All KWH/month $0.0888/KWH
Meter charge  $9.10/month
 
      (7)   Irrigation wells.
 
Energy charge                     $0.0747/KWH
Horsepower charge (annual chg)    $52.33/hp
Standby charge for inactive wells $140.01/season
 
      (8)   General service demand.
 
Demand charge  $14.33/KW
Energy charge  $0.0536/KWH
Meter charge   $41.65/month
Ratchet charge 65%
The minimum bill for general service demand shall be the meter and energy
charge plus the greater of the demand charge for the current month or the
demand charge associated with 65% of the maximum summer billing demand for the
previous 11 months.
 
      (9)   Street lights. Flat rate of 8.40 cents per KWH.
   (C)   In all instances where summer rates and winter rates are applicable in
this section, winter rates shall apply from the fifteenth of October through
the fifteenth of May, and summer rates shall apply from the sixteenth of May
through the fourteenth of October.
   (D)   The meter charge shall be assessed for each electric meter held by
each customer of the municipal electric distribution system.
   (E)   The Mayor and Council may by resolution or motion make adjustments of
the rates to be charged to customers of the electric distribution system to
reflect periodic fluctuations in the cost of purchased power. Such adjustments
shall be temporary and shall remain in effect only until further adjustments
are necessary or until subsequent amendment of this section of the municipal
code.
   (F)   All bills for electric use shall be due and payable on the fifteenth
day of each month, without notice, at the office of the City Clerk. In no case
shall the minimum charge for any use of electric energy be less than the
minimum amounts herein provided for any respective type of electric use.
   (G)   When electric service to any meter has been disconnected for any
reason, the customer shall pay a reconnection fee of $25 for restoration of
service.
(Ord. 299, passed 7-8-1974; Ord. 344, passed 5-8-1978; Ord. 371, passed 10-8-
1979; Ord. 592, passed 8-8-1994; Ord. 706, passed 11-13-2000; Ord. 747, passed
1-13-2003; Ord. 815, passed 10-8-2007; Ord. 824, passed 9-14-2009; Ord. 830,
passed 12-22-2009; Ord. 847, passed 1-10-2011 ; Ord. 860, passed 1-9-2012; Ord.
873, passed 1-14-2013; Ord. 876, passed 6-10-2013; Ord. 886, passed 12-9-2013)
§ 3-717 MUNICIPAL ELECTRICAL SYSTEM; DELINQUENT PAYMENT.
   All bills for the furnishing of electric light and power shall be due and
payable not later than 5:00 p.m. on the fifteenth day of each month. If such
bills for electric light and power shall remain unpaid at 5:00 p.m. on the
fifteenth day of the month, the same shall be declared delinquent, and the
Municipal Collector shall add to the amount of such bill a penalty charge for
late payment equal to 10% of the amount of such bill, and such penalty charge
shall be added to and made a part of such delinquent electric light and power
bill. The Municipal Collector shall collect the penalty charge at the time the
bill is paid, and shall not accept payment of the bill without payment of the
penalty charge.
(Ord. 355, passed 8-13-1979; Ord. 694, passed 8-9-1999)
ARTICLE 8: COGENERATION
Section
   
3-801   Cogeneration; definitions
   
3-802   Cogeneration; rates for sales to qualifying facilities
   
3-803   Cogeneration; energy conversation system for in excess of 100 kw
   
3-804   Cogeneration; guidelines for energy conversion system for 100 kw or
less
§ 3-801 COGENERATION; DEFINITIONS.
   For the purposes of this article the following definitions shall be
applicable.
   AVOIDED COSTS. The incremental costs of capacity or energy or both that the
utility would, but for purchases from qualifying facilities, generate itself or
purchase from another source.
   COGENERATION FACILITY. A facility which produces:
      (1)   Electric energy; and
      (2)   Steam or forms of useful energy (such as heat) which are used for
industrial, commercial, heating or cooling purposes.
   QUALIFYING COGENERATION FACILITY. A cogeneration facility which:
      (1)   The Commission determines, by rule, meets such requirements
(including requirements
respecting minimum size, fuel use and fuel efficiency) as the Commission may,
by rule, prescribe; and
      (2)   Is owned by a person not primarily engaged in the generation or
sale of electric power (other than electric power solely from cogeneration
facilities or small power production facilities).
   QUALIFYING SMALL POWER PRODUCTION FACILITY. A small power production
facility:
      (1)    Which the Commission determines, by rule, meets such requirements
(including requirements respecting fuel use, fuel efficiency and reliability)
as the Commission may, by rule, prescribe; and
      (2)   Which is owned by a person not primarily engaged in the generation
or sale of electric power (other than electric power solely from cogeneration
facilities or small power production facilities).
   SMALL POWER PRODUCTION FACILITY. A facility which:
      (1)   Produces electric energy solely by the use, as a primary energy
source, of biomass, waste, renewable resources, or any combination thereof; and
      (2)   Has a power production capacity which, together with any other
facilities located at the same site (as determined by the Federal Energy
Regulatory Commission, hereinafter called the Commission), is not greater than
80 megawatts.
(Ord. 386, passed 3-10-1981)
§ 3-802 COGENERATION; RATES FOR SALES TO QUALIFYING FACILITIES.
   Rates for sales to qualifying facilities shall be just and reasonable and in
the public interest and shall not discriminate against any qualifying facility
in comparison to rates for sale to other customers served by the electric
utility. In determining a sales rate, the city will give consideration to the
class of service being provided and apply a rate applicable to such service
class.
(Ord. 386, passed 3-10-1981)
§ 3-803 COGENERATION; ENERGY CONVERSATION SYSTEM FOR IN EXCESS OF 100 KW.
   In order to interconnect and operate in parallel with the electric system of
the city, cogeneration and small power production facilities in excess of 100
kw shall:
   (A)   Submit a written request to the city setting forth in detail the
proposed interconnection and operation of such facility and all such other in
formation as may be requested by the city.
   (B)   The parties shall review such request in detail and attempt to reach a
definitive agreement to include all the terms and conditions for
interconnection and operation including services and payments to be made
therefore provided by each party.
(Ord. 386, passed 3-10-1981)
§ 3-804 COGENERATION; GUIDELINES FOR ENERGY CONVERSION SYSTEM FOR 100 KW OR
LESS.
   These guidelines set forth the requirements for electric service
installations where the customer installs an energy conversion system (ECS) in
parallel with municipal electric service to the customer’s service entrance
panel(s). These guidelines may be changed or amended from time to time.
   (A)   Electrical requirements.
      (1)   The interconnection (city) shall be electrically located on the
customer’s side of the city KWH meters and the customer’s main circuit breaker
installed for this purpose.
      (2)   The power generated by the customer’s ECS must not introduce
distortion to the system voltage or current waveform that causes, or can
reasonably be expected to cause, any perceptible annoying effects or damage to
equipment owned by any other customer or to city owned equipment.
      (3)   The ECS shall have an automatic disconnecting device which
instantly disconnects the customer’s generator from the city supply system in
case of a power outage of the city supply system, or a city overhead/
underground service break. (The reliability of this automatic circuit breaker
must be assured through regular testing and maintenance.)
      (4)   The ECS shall have automatic synchronizing equipment.
      (5)   The customer shall furnish and install a manually operated and safe
disconnect switch, accessible to city personnel, the opening of which would
isolate the ECS. This switch is to be enclosed in a metal box which can be
secured in the open position with a padlock. The city reserves the right to
open this disconnect switch, without prior notice to the customer for any of
the following reasons:
         (a)   System emergency operations require such action;
         (b)   City inspection of customer’s ECS reveal a hazardous condition,
or an apparent lack of maintenance that might effect the safe operation of the
ECS;
         (c)   The ECS interferes in any way with the electrical service
provided other customers of the city, or with the operation of any city-owned
equipment; or
         (d)   City servicing of its distribution system.
   (B)   Customer approval.
      (1)   The customer shall submit, for city approval and files, a complete
“request for service” which will be made available to the customer upon
request.
      (2)   The customer shall also submit detailed electrical diagrams and
description of the operation of the proposed ECS, its protective features and
method of interconnection with the city service voltage bus.
      (3)   Both the customer and the city shall execute an “agreement for
electric service” provided by the city.
   (C)   Meter requirements.
      (1)   The customer shall be responsible for and pay for all wiring and
equipment for the installation of any additional service meters required by the
city. At existing locations, the meter mounting equipment shall be installed as
close as practicable to the existing service meter. For new installations,
meter mounting equipment for all meters shall be installed. All meters shall be
the property of the city when installed. The city for a new installation will
furnish one meter, with additional meters to be paid for by the customer.
      (2)   The city will maintain two KWH meters equipped with detents to
prevent reverse rotation. One meter will measure energy into the customer’s
premises from the city system and the second will record energy flow back into
the city system from the ECS.
   (D)   Purchased power cost basis.
      (1)   The city will determine the purchase price of electric service
purchased from the customer on the basis of avoided cost.
      (2)   To determine what avoided cost may be for the city, there are a
number of factors to be considered and these factors should be included in an
agreement between the city and the customer. The following factors are among
the most apparent and normal items for consideration:
         (a)   Capacity costs, when and if capacity costs of the city will be
avoided. Reliability of the ECS which the city can rely upon to meet loads
during peak power periods; ands
         (b)   Energy costs, what energy production is displaced or avoided by
the ECS. Time periods may be established since costs will vary with time
periods. However, to accomplish some form of time pricing will require energy
segregation by hourly time periods through the use of special metering, which
the customer must weigh against an average avoided cost, without regard to
hourly time periods. In the event special metering is installed to segregate
energy for hourly time periods, such special metering will be furnished and
installed by the city and the total cost thereof shall be paid by the customer
to the city.
(Ord. 386, passed 3-10-1981)
ARTICLE 9: UTILITIES GENERALLY
Section
   
3-901   Utilities generally; discontinuance of service, notice procedure
   
3-902   Utilities generally; diversion of services; civil action
   
3-903   Utilities generally; diversion of services, meter tampering,
unauthorized reconnection, prohibited; evidence
   
3-904   Utilities generally; denial of utility service; when prohibited
§ 3-901 UTILITIES GENERALLY; DISCONTINUANCE OF SERVICE, NOTICE PROCEDURE.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      DOMESTIC SUBSCRIBER.  Shall not include municipalities, cities, villages,
political subdivisions, companies, corporations, partnerships, limited
liability companies, or businesses of any nature.
(Neb. RS 70-1602)
   (B)   No public or private utility company, including any utility owned and
operated by the city, furnishing water, natural gas, or electricity at retail
in this city shall discontinue service to any domestic subscriber for
nonpayment of any past-due account unless the utility company first gives
notice by first-class mail or in person to any subscriber whose service is
proposed to be terminated. If notice is given by first-class mail, such mail
shall be conspicuously marked as to its importance. Service shall not be
discontinued for at least seven days after notice is sent or given. Holidays
and weekends shall be excluded from the seven days. As to any subscriber who
has previously been identified as a welfare recipient to the company by the
Department of Health and Human Services, such notice shall be by certified mail
and notice of such proposed termination shall be given to the department.
(Neb. RS 70-1605)
   (C)   The notice required by division (A) shall contain the following
information:
      (1)   The reason for the proposed disconnection;
      (2)   A statement of the intention to disconnect unless the domestic
subscriber either pays the bill or reaches an agreement with the utility
regarding payment of the bill;
      (3)   The date upon which service will be disconnected if the domestic
subscriber does not take appropriate action;
      (4)   The name, address, and telephone number of the utility's employee
or department to whom the domestic subscriber may address an inquiry or
complaint;
      (5)   The domestic subscriber's right, prior to the disconnection date,
to request a conference regarding any dispute over such proposed disconnection;
      (6)   A statement that the utility may not disconnect service pending the
conclusion of the conference;
      (7)   A statement to the effect that disconnection may be postponed or
prevented upon presentation of a duly licensed physician's certificate which
shall certify that a domestic subscriber or resident within such subscriber's
household has an existing illness or handicap which would cause such subscriber
or resident to suffer an immediate and serious health hazard by the
disconnection of the utility's service to that household. Such certificate
shall be filed with the utility within five days of receiving notice under this
section and will prevent the disconnection of the utility's service for a
period of 30 days from such filing. Only one postponement of disconnection
shall be allowed under this division for each incidence of nonpayment of any
past-due account;
      (8)   The cost that will be borne by the domestic subscriber for
restoration of service;
      (9)   A statement that the domestic subscriber may arrange with the
utility for an installment payment plan;
      (10)   A statement to the effect that those domestic subscribers who are
welfare recipients may qualify for assistance in payment of their utility bill
and that they should contact their caseworker in that regard; and
      (11)   Any additional information not inconsistent with this section
which has received prior approval from the City Council or Board of Public
Works, in the case of a city utility, or the board of directors or
administrative board of any other utility.
(Neb. RS 70-1606)
   (D)   The utility shall establish a third-party notice procedure for the
notification of a designated third party of any proposed discontinuance of
service and shall advise its subscribers, including new subscribers, of the
availability of such procedures.
(Neb. RS 70-1607)
   (E)   The provisions of Neb. RS 70-1608 through 70-1614 shall apply to
disputes over a proposed discontinuance of service.
   (F)   The procedures adopted for resolving utility bills by the City Council
or Board of Public Works for any city utility, one copy of which is on file in
the office of the City Clerk, are hereby incorporated by reference in addition
to any amendments thereto and are made a part of this section as though set out
in full.
   (G)   This section shall not apply to any disconnections or interruptions of
services made necessary by the utility for reasons of repair or maintenance or
to protect the health or safety of the domestic subscriber or of the general
public.
(Neb. RS 70-1615)
(Ord. 359, passed 9-10-1979; Ord. 463, passed 8-14-1984; Ord. 580, passed 3-8-
1993; Ord. 614, passed 8-14-1995; Ord. 652, passed 6-9-1997)
§ 3-902 UTILITIES GENERALLY; DIVERSION OF SERVICES; CIVIL ACTION.
   (A)   For purposes of this section, the definitions found in Neb. RS 25-
21,275 shall apply.
   (B)   (1)   The city utility may bring a civil action for damages against
any person who commits, authorizes, solicits, aids, abets, or attempts
bypassing, tampering, or unauthorized metering, when that act results in
damages to the utility. A city utility may bring a civil action for damages
pursuant to this section against any person receiving the benefit of utility
service through means of bypassing, tampering, or unauthorized metering.
      (2)   In any civil action brought pursuant to this section, the city
utility shall be entitled, upon proof of willful or intentional bypassing,
tampering, or unauthorized metering, to recover as damages:
         (a)   The amount of actual damage or loss if the amount of the damage
or loss is susceptible of reasonable calculation; or
         (b)   Liquidated damages of $750 if the amount of actual damage or
loss is not susceptible of reasonable calculation.
      (3)   In addition to damage or loss under division (B)(2)(a) or (B)(2)
(b), the utility may recover all reasonable expenses and costs incurred on
account of the bypassing, tampering, or unauthorized metering including, but
not limited to, disconnection, reconnection, service calls, equipment, costs of
the suit, and reasonable attorneys’ fees in cases within the scope of Neb. RS
25-1801.
(Neb. RS 25-21,276)
   (C)   (1)   There shall be a rebuttable presumption that a tenant or
occupant at any premises where bypassing, tampering, or unauthorized metering
is proven to exist caused or had knowledge of that bypassing, tampering, or
unauthorized metering if the tenant or occupant:
         (a)   Had access to the part of the utility supply system on the
premises where the bypassing, tampering, or unauthorized metering is proven to
exist; and
         (b)   Was responsible or partially responsible for payment, either
directly or indirectly, to the utility or to any other person for utility
services to the premises.
      (2)   There shall be a rebuttable presumption that a customer at any
premises where bypassing, tampering, or unauthorized metering is proven to
exist caused or had knowledge of that bypassing, tampering, or unauthorized
metering if the customer controlled access to the part of the utility supply
system on the premises where the bypassing, tampering, or unauthorized metering
was proven to exist.
(Neb. RS 25-21,277)
   (D)   The remedies provided by this section shall be deemed to be
supplemental and additional to powers conferred by existing laws. The remedies
provided in this section are in addition to and not in limitation of any other
civil or criminal statutory or common-law remedies.
(Neb. RS 25-21,278)
(Ord. 440, passed 10-11-1983; Ord. 758, passed 3-10-2003)
§ 3-903 UTILITIES GENERALLY; DIVERSION OF SERVICES, METER TAMPERING,
UNAUTHORIZED RECONNECTION, PROHIBITED; EVIDENCE.
   (A)   It is an offense for any person to do any of the following:
      (1)   To connect any instrument, device, or contrivance with any wire
supplying or intended to supply electricity or electric current or to connect
any pipe or conduit supplying gas or water, without the knowledge and consent
of any city utility supplying such products or services, in such a manner that
any portion thereof may be supplied to any instrument by or at which
electricity, electric current, gas, or water may be consumed without passing
through the meter made or provided for measuring or registering the amount or
quantity thereof passing through it;
      (2)   To knowingly use or knowingly permit the use of electricity,
electric current, gas, or water obtained unlawfully pursuant to this section;
      (3)   To reconnect electrical, gas, or water service without the
knowledge and consent of any city utility supplying such service if the service
has been disconnected pursuant to Neb. RS 70-1601 through 70-1615 or §
3-901 code; or
      (4)   To willfully injure, alter, or by any instrument, device, or
contrivance in any manner interfere with or obstruct the action or operation of
any meter made or provided for measuring or registering the amount or quantity
of electricity, electric current, gas, or water passing through it, without the
knowledge and consent of any city utility supplying the electricity, electric
current, gas, or water passing or intended to pass through the meter.
   (B)   Proof of the existence of any wire, pipe, or conduit connection or
reconnection or of any injury, alteration, interference, or obstruction of a
meter is prima facie evidence of the guilt of the person in possession of the
premises where that connection, reconnection, injury, alteration, interference,
or obstruction is proved to exist.
(Neb. RS 28-515.02) (Ord. 622, passed 1-8-1996; Ord. 757, passed 3-10-2003)
§ 3-904 UTILITIES GENERALLY; DENIAL OF UTILITY SERVICE; WHEN PROHIBITED.
   No applicant for the services of a public or private utility company
furnishing water, natural gas or electricity at retail in this municipality
shall be denied service because of unpaid bills for similar service which are
not collectible at law because of statutes of limitation or discharge in
bankruptcy proceedings.
(Neb. RS 70-1601) (Ord. 690, passed 5-10-1999)
ARTICLE 10: PENAL PROVISION
Section
   
3-1001   Violations; penalty
§ 3-1001 VIOLATIONS; PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person, or any person’s agent or servant, who violates any of the
provisions of this chapter, unless otherwise specifically provided herein,
shall be deemed guilty of an offense and upon conviction thereof shall be fined
in any sum not exceeding $500. A new violation shall be deemed to have been
committed every 24 hours of failure to comply with the provisions of this
chapter.
   (B)   (1)   Whenever a nuisance exists as defined in this code of
ordinances, the municipality may proceed by a suit in equity to enjoin, abate
and remove the same in the manner provided by law.
      (2)   Whenever, in any action, it is established that a nuisance exists,
the court may, together with the fine or penalty imposed, enter an order of
abatement as a part of the judgment in the case.
(Neb. RS 17-505, 18-1720, 18-1722) (Ord. 710, passed 10-9-2000)
CHAPTER 4: HEALTH AND SANITATION
   Article
      
1.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
2.   GARBAGE DISPOSAL
      
3.   NUISANCES AND POLLUTION
      
4.   JUNK YARDS
      
5.   SOLID WASTE DISPOSAL
      
6.   PENAL PROVISION
ARTICLE 1: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
4-101   Health; regulations
   
4-102   Health; enforcement official
   
4-103   Health; County Health Board
§ 4-101 HEALTH; REGULATIONS.
   For the purpose of promoting the health and safety of the residents of the
municipality, the Board of Health shall, from time to time, adopt such rules
and regulations relative thereto and shall make such inspections prescribe such
penalties, and make such reports as may be necessary toward that purpose.
(Neb. RS 17-121)
§ 4-102 HEALTH; ENFORCEMENT OFFICIAL.
   The Municipal Police Chief shall be the health officer of the municipality.
It shall be his or her duty to notify the governing body of health nuisances
and of every case of contagious, infectious or malignant disease.
§ 4-103 HEALTH; COUNTY HEALTH BOARD.
   It shall be the duty of the Board of Health to work closely with the County
Health Board in protecting the health and welfare of the residents of the
municipality.
ARTICLE 2: GARBAGE DISPOSAL
Section
   
4-201   Garbage disposal; unlawful deposit
   
4-202   Garbage and trash disposal; bagging or other packaging required
§ 4-201 GARBAGE DISPOSAL; UNLAWFUL DEPOSIT.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to deposit or dispose of any garbage,
trash or waste material upon any street or alley within the municipality, or to
keep or expose the same on any private premises within the municipality. It
shall also be unlawful to deposit or dispose of the same in any manner contrary
to the rules and regulations to be established by the governing body.
(Neb. RS 19-2106)
§ 4-202 GARBAGE AND TRASH DISPOSAL; BAGGING OR OTHER PACKAGING REQUIRED.
   All household garbage, trash, paper products, newspapers or other items
which may be blown about by winds shall be placed in disposable trash bags or
shall be tightly baled or firmly tied into bundles before being deposited in
the city’s sanitary landfill; provided, that this requirement shall not apply
to grass and garden clippings, leaves, tree branches or other items of a
similar nature which do not cause litter upon or harm to the environment if
winds should blow them out of the landfill.
(Ord. 499, passed 5-11-1987)
ARTICLE 3: NUISANCES AND POLLUTION
Section
   
4-301   Nuisances; purpose and definitions
   
4-302   Nuisances; abatement services and notice procedure for nuisances
   
4-303   Nuisances; enforcement procedure
   
4-304   Nuisances; recovery of expenses
   
4-305   Water pollution; prohibited
   
4-306   Nuisances; adjoining land owners; intervention before trial
   
4-307   Unsafe buildings; special assessments
   
4-308   Nuisances; dead or diseased trees
   
4-309   Nuisances; weeds; litter; stagnant water
§ 4-301 NUISANCES; PURPOSE AND DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   Purpose.  The city, by §§
4-301 through
4-304 defines its authority to define, regulate, suppress and prevent
nuisances, and to declare what shall be a nuisance for its jurisdiction and to
provide services to abate same for the health and sanitation of the city.
   (B)   Definitions. For purpose of this article, the following definitions
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      (1)   NUISANCE. A nuisance consists in doing any unlawful act, or
omitting to perform a duty, or suffering or permitting any condition or thing
to be or exist, which act, omission, condition or thing:
         (a)   Injures or endangers the comfort, repose, health, or safety of
others;
         (b)   Offends decency;
         (c)   Is offensive to the senses;
         (d)   Unlawfully interferes with, obstructs, tends to obstruct, or
renders dangerous for passage any stream, public park, parkway, square, street,
or highway in the municipality;
         (e)   In any way renders other persons insecure in life or the use of
property; or
         (f)   Essentially interferes with the comfortable enjoyment of life
and property; or
         (g)   Tends to depreciate the value of the property of others.
      (2)   NUISANCE includes, but is not limited to. the maintaining, using,
placing, depositing, leaving, or permitting of any of the following specific
acts, omissions, places, conditions, and things of:
         (a)   Any odorous, putrid, unsound, or unwholesome grain, meat, hides,
skins, feathers, vegetable matter, or the whole or any part of any dead animal,
fish, or fowl;
         (b)   The emission of smoke, dust, fumes, gases, mists, odors, or
polluted air from any source that is injurious or dangerous to human health and
safety;
         (c)   Privies, vaults, cesspools, dumps, pits, or like places which
are not securely protected from flies or rats or other insects and rodents, or
which are foul or malodorous;
         (d)   Filthy, littered, or trash-covered cellars, house yards,
barnyards, stable-yards, factory-yards, mill yards, vacant areas in the rear of
stores, granaries, vacant lots, houses, buildings, or premises;
         (e)   Dead animals or dead animals buried within the corporate limits;
         (f)   Animal manure in any quantity which is not securely protected
from flies and the elements, or which is kept or handled in violation of any
ordinance of the municipality;
         (g)   Hauling any garbage, waste, or refuse matter through the
streets, alleys, and public ways except when the same is loaded and conveyed in
such a way when none of the contents shall be spilled;
         (h)   Liquid household waste, human excreta, garbage, butcher's
trimmings and offal, parts offish, or any waste vegetable or animal matter in
any quantity. Nothing herein contained shall prevent the temporary retention of
waste in receptacles nor the dumping of non-putrefying waste in a place and
manner approved by the approved by the municipality;
         (i)   Tin cans, bottles, glass, cans, ashes, small pieces of scrap
iron, wire metal articles, bric-a-brac, broken stone or cement, broken
crockery, broken glass, broken plaster, and all trash or abandoned material,
unless the same be kept in covered bins or galvanized iron receptacles;
         (j)   Trash, litter, rags, accumulations of barrels, boxes, crates,
packing crates, mattresses, bedding, excelsior, packing hay, straw or other
packing material, lumber not neatly piled, scrap iron, tin or other metal not
neatly piled, old automobiles or parts thereof, or any other waste materials
when any of the articles or materials create a condition in which flies or rats
or other insects or rodents may breed or multiply, or which may be a fire
danger, or which are so unsightly as to depreciate property values in the
vicinity;
         (k)   Any unsafe building, unsightly building, billboard, or other
structure, or any old, abandoned or partially destroyed building or structure
or any building or structure commenced and left unfinished, which buildings,
billboards, or other structures are a fire hazard, or a menace to the public
health or safety, or are so unsightly as to depreciate the value of property in
the vicinity;
         (l)   All places used or maintained as junk yards, or dumping grounds,
or for the wrecking and dissembling of automobiles, trucks, tractors, or
machinery of any kind, or for the storing or leaving of worn-out, wrecked or
abandoned automobiles, trucks, tractors, or machinery of any kind, or of any of
the parts thereof, or for the storing or leaving of any machinery or equipment
used by contractors or builders or by other persons, which places are kept or
maintained so as to essentially interfere with the comfortable enjoyment of
life or property by others, or which are so unsightly as to tend to depreciate
property values in the vicinity thereof;
         (m)   Stockyards, granaries, mills, pig pens, cattle pens, chicken
pens or any other place, building or enclosure, in which animals or fowls of
any kind are confined or on which are stored tankage or any other animal or
vegetable matter, or on which any animal or vegetable matter including grain is
being processed, when the places in which the animals are confined, or the
premises on which the vegetable or animal matter is located, are maintained and
kept in such a manner that foul and noxious odors are permitted to emanate
therefrom to the annoyance of inhabitants of the municipality, or are
maintained and kept in such a manner as to be injurious to the public health;
         (n)   Dead or diseased trees within the right-of-way of streets within
the corporate limits of the city, or on private property within the one mile
zoning jurisdiction beyond the corporate limits;
         (o)   Undrained lots which hold or may hold stagnant water or any
other nuisance;
         (p)   Any condition which allows the perpetuating of insects and
rodents;
         (q)   Storage, accumulation, keeping, placing, or allowing to remain
trash, garbage, scrap and wrecked, worn-out, broken or inoperative, or
partially destroyed or disassembled personal or real property of any kind,
including any junk or abandoned motor vehicles, tractors, trailers, machinery,
and equipment;
         (r)   Any vehicle which is not properly registered, or is inoperable,
wrecked, junked, or partially dismantled and remaining longer than 30 days on
private property. This does not apply to a vehicle in an enclosed building, a
vehicle on the premises of a business enterprise operated in a lawful place and
manner, when necessary to the lawful operation of such business enterprise
(such as a licensed salvage dealer, motor vehicle dealer, or farm implement
dealer), or a vehicle in an appropriate storage place or depository maintained
in a lawful place and manner, and so long as the premises which said vehicle is
located is not a nuisance and is maintained in a healthful and safe condition.
VEHICLE means the same as defined by Neb. RS 60-136: a motor vehicle, all-
terrain vehicle, minibike, trailer, or semitrailer. PROPERLY REGISTERED means
as required by Nebraska Statutes;
         (s)   Lots, pieces of ground, and the adjoining streets and alleys
with growth of weeds or noxious growth;
         (t)   All other things specifically designated as nuisances elsewhere
in the City Code.
(Neb. RS 17-555, 18-1720) (Ord. 894, passed 7-14-2014; Ord. 909, passed 2-8-
2016)
§ 4-302 NUISANCES; ABATEMENT SERVICES AND NOTICE PROCEDURE FOR NUISANCES.
   (A)   Nuisance Officer. The city shall appoint an individual or organization
to identify and enforce abatement of nuisances within the city. Said individual
or organization shall be identified as the "Nuisance Officer" and said
appointment shall be identified by resolution of the city.
   (B)   Identifying nuisances.
      (1)   The city may identify suspected nuisances, in which case the City
Clerk shall, upon direction of the City Council, notify Nuisance Officer of the
suspected location, person or persons in violation of any provision of this
article and provide the address of such alleged nuisance.
      (2)   The city may request that the Nuisance Officer audit the city for
nuisances in the city as defined by the City Code. The Nuisance Officer shall
then view the property or area for any violations of the nuisances of the city.
Nuisance Officer shall not go upon private property for said audit unless
granted permission by the resident/owner of suspected property.
   (C)   Conforming, documenting and presenting nuisances. Nuisance Officer
shall identify and confirm that in his or her opinion a nuisance exists as
defined by federal, state, or city law.
      (1)   Upon confirming that a nuisance appears to exist, the Nuisance
Officer shall document said
nuisance with photographs and other evidence pertinent to the situation.
Nuisance Officer will also obtain the legal description of the property and
identify the current owners and, if possible, the occupants of the property
upon which the nuisance exists.
      (2)   Nuisance Officer shall then present this information to the city
governing board at a regular or special meeting for its confirmation that a
nuisance exists as stated in §
4-304.
(Ord. 319, passed 6-14-1976; Ord. 729, passed 5-14-2001; Ord. 894, passed 7-14-
2014; Ord. 909, passed 2-8-2016)
§ 4-303 NUISANCES; ENFORCEMENT PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Generally.
      (1)   The nuisance, health and/or sanitation violation is brought to the
governing body by the Nuisance Officer, or the Board of Health or upon the
governing body's own action. The governing body then may declare by resolution
a nuisance, health and/or sanitation violation. The nuisance, health, and/or
sanitation ordinances may be enforced by:
         (1)   City administrative procedures;
         (2)   Penal prosecutions through the courts, and/or;
         (3)   By civil procedures in the courts.
      (2)   Any of these procedures, or any combination of these procedures,
may be used to enforce the nuisance, health and/or sanitation ordinances of the
city.
   (B)   Administrative procedure. The city may proceed with abatement of the
nuisance, sanitation, and/or health violation with or without court involvement
after the following procedure is followed:
      (1)   After a nuisance is declared, the City Clerk notifies the Nuisance
Officer to serve notice upon the violator(s).
      (2)   The Nuisance Officer shall prepare and serve notice which shall
describe the found nuisance and state the required date of abatement and
removal of the nuisance shall be accomplished. The notice shall also provide
information as to how the interested parties may request a hearing before the
governing body described in division (B)(4) below.
      (3)   The notice shall be given to each owner or owner's duly authorized
agent and to the occupant, if any, by personal service or certified mail. If
notice by personal service or certified mail is unsuccessful, said notice shall
be given by a single publication in a newspaper of general circulation in the
city or county of the city, and by conspicuously posting the notice on the lot
or ground upon which the nuisance is to be abated and removed. The date of
service is determined by the later of certified mail receipt, personal service
or publication date.
      (4)   The accused violator (owner/agent/occupant) may request in writing
a hearing before the governing body of the city within five days after notice
of violation is served or published. For tree nuisance violations, the period
for requesting a hearing is extended to 30 days after service.
      (5)   If no request for a hearing is received in the required time
period, the governing body may cause a hearing to be held. This option is at
the sole discretion of the governing body to be used in exceptional cases.
      (6)   If a hearing is requested, the City Clerk shall fix a date of said
hearing to be no later than 15 days from receipt of the request for the
hearing. Notice of said hearing and with the date and time shall be served upon
the agent, owner, and occupant of the nuisance property by certified and
regular mail.
      (7)   The hearing shall be a "show cause" hearing in which the agent,
owner, occupant of the nuisance property (objecting property) shall provide
evidence why the alleged condition should not be found to be a public nuisance
and remedied. This hearing shall be heard before a quorum of the governing
body. The presiding official of the governing body may conduct the hearing, or
said presiding official may appoint another person as the hearing officer, to
conduct the hearing (said hearing officer may be the City Attorney or the
Enforcement Officer). At the hearing, the hearing officer shall mark and
receive evidence which was presented when the finding of a nuisance was made,
relevant evidence of the nuisance since that time, and evidence that the
notices were properly given. The objecting party shall then provide its
evidence. The rules of evidence are not required at said hearing, but all
evidence must be relevant to the particular nuisance being heard. Testimony
shall be under oath as administered by the hearing officer, or any person so
designated by the hearing officer, and the person providing the testimony is
subject to the laws of perjury. Evidence may be submitted in writing by
affidavit.
      (8)   No later than 14 days after the hearing and consideration of the
evidence, the governing board may by majority vote rescind the resolution of
violation. If the resolution of violation is not rescinded, it shall stand.
Furthermore, if the objector or its designated agent fails to appear at the
hearing or does not provide evidence, the nuisance shall stand. If the
resolution is not rescinded, the governing board may, by resolution, extend the
date that owner, occupant, lessee, or mortgagee shall abate and remedy the said
public nuisance, but in no case shall this time exceed 60 days. The findings of
the governing board shall be made no later than 14 days after the hearing and
notice of its finding shall be served upon the objecting party by regular US
Mail within five days of the finding. The finding of this hearing is final,
provided that an interested party or parties may appeal such decision to the
appropriate court for adjudication.
      (9)   If the Nuisance Officer determines the nuisance is not remedied and
abated within the time period designated, the city shall cause the abatement of
the nuisance.
      (10)   If an interested party properly appeals to an appropriate court
the findings and orders of the city, the city actions shall be stayed during
until such time that the legal proceedings are completed or dismissed. In cases
of appeal from an action of the city condemning real property as a nuisance or
as dangerous under the police powers of the municipality, the owners of the
adjoining property may intervene in the action at any time before trial.
(Neb. RS 19-710)
   (C)   Penal court enforcement procedure. If the declared nuisance, health,
and/or sanitation violations are not abated within 15 days that the notice is
served upon the owner and/or occupant, and the City Clerk has not received a
request for hearing, the Nuisance Officer may cause issue of a citation for the
code violation.
      (1)   The citation shall be prosecuted to the appropriate court by the
City Attorney or other designated prosecutor for the city.
      (2)   A person or persons found guilty of these violations shall be
guilty of a misdemeanor and fined up to $500 per each offense.
      (3)   Each day that the nuisance as identified in the nuisance resolution
and notice, is not abated shall be a separate offense and subject to a separate
fine.
   (D)   Civil court procedure. The governing board may instruct by resolution
the City Attorney to file a civil action for the abatement of a nuisance. Said
civil suit may commence after 15 days' notice has been served as stated in this
section, and may be filed and prosecuted at the same time any other enforcement
procedure has commenced, terminated or in progress.
(Ord. 729, passed 5-14-2001; Ord. 894, passed 7-14-2014; Ord. 909, passed 2-8-
2016)
§ 4-304 NUISANCES; RECOVERY OF EXPENSES.
   (A)   When the city has effected the abatement of the nuisance, health and/
or sanitation violation through either city employees or through contract with
a third party and has incurred expenses and costs thereof, the actual cost
thereof shall be charged to the owner, agent, occupant or person in possession,
charge or control of such property. The billing shall be calculated at the
actual cost of abating the nuisance plus a $25 administrative fee.
   (B)   This billing shall be submitted to the last known address of the owner
of the nuisance property as found in the County Treasurer's office, by regular
US Mail.
   (C)   If said costs are not paid within two months after the work is done
and one month after the expenses and costs are submitted to the owner and/or
occupant, the city may levy and assess the expenses and costs upon the real
estate benefitted by the actions in the same manner as other special
assessments are levied and assessed, and the city may collect said assessments
in the same procedure as other special assessments are collected. The city may
also recover said expenses and costs of abating the nuisance, health and/or
sanitation violation(s) in a civil action in the courts of the appropriate
county in Nebraska.
(Ord. 894, passed 7-14-2014; Ord. 909, passed 2-8-2016)
§ 4-305 WATER POLLUTION; PROHIBITED.
Editor’s note:
   This section was repealed by Ord. 894, passed 7-14-2014.
§ 4-306 NUISANCES; ADJOINING LAND OWNERS; INTERVENTION BEFORE TRIAL.
Editor’s note:
   This section was repealed by Ord. 894, passed 7-14-2014.
§ 4-307 UNSAFE BUILDINGS; SPECIAL ASSESSMENTS.
Editor’s note:
   This section was repealed by Ord. 894, passed 7-14-2014.
§ 4-308 NUISANCES; DEAD OR DISEASED TREES.
Editor’s note:
   This section was repealed by Ord. 894, passed 7-14-2014.
§ 4-309 NUISANCES; WEEDS; LITTER; STAGNANT WATER.
   (A)   Lots or pieces of ground within the municipality or within its
extraterritorial zoning jurisdiction shall be drained or filled so as to
prevent stagnant water or any other nuisance accumulating thereon.
   (B)   The owner or occupant of any lot or piece of ground within the
municipality or within its extraterritorial zoning jurisdiction shall keep the
lot or piece of ground and the adjoining streets and alleys free of any growth
of 12 inches or more in height of weeds, grasses, or worthless vegetation.
   (C)   The throwing, depositing, or accumulation of litter on any lot or
piece of ground within the municipality or within its extraterritorial zoning
jurisdiction is prohibited.
   (D)   It is hereby declared to be a nuisance to permit or maintain any
growth of 12 inches or more in height of weeds, grasses, or worthless
vegetation on any lot or piece of ground within the municipality or within its
extraterritorial zoning jurisdiction or on the adjoining streets or alleys or
to litter or cause litter to be deposited or remain thereon except in proper
receptacles.
   (E)   Any owner or occupant of a lot or piece of ground shall, upon
conviction of violating this section, be guilty of an offense.
   (F)   (1)   Notice to abate and remove such nuisance shall be given to each
owner or owner's duly authorized agent and to the occupant, if any. The
municipality shall establish the method of notice by ordinance. If notice is
given by first-class mail, such mail shall be conspicuously marked as to its
importance. Within five days after receipt of such notice, the owner or
occupant of the lot or piece of ground may request a hearing with the
municipality to appeal the decision to abate or remove a nuisance by filing a
written appeal with the office of the Clerk. A hearing on the appeal shall be
held within 14 days after the filing of the appeal and shall be conducted by an
elected or appointed officer as designated in the ordinance. The hearing
officer shall render a decision on the appeal within five business days after
the conclusion of the hearing. If the appeal fails, the municipality may have
such work done. Within five days after receipt of such notice, if the owner or
occupant of the lot or piece of ground does not request a hearing with the
municipality or fails to comply with the order to abate and remove the
nuisance, the municipality may have such work done.
      (2)   The costs and expenses of any such work shall be paid by the owner.
If unpaid for two months after such work is done, the municipality may either:
         (a)   Levy and assess the costs and expenses of the work upon the lot
or piece of ground so benefitted as a special assessment in the same manner as
other special assessments for improvements are levied and assessed; or
         (b)   Recover in a civil action the costs and expenses of the work
upon the lot or piece of ground and the adjoining streets and alleys.
   (G)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      LITTER. Includes but is not limited to:
         (a)   Trash, rubbish, refuse, garbage, paper, rags, and ashes;
         (b)   Wood, plaster, cement, brick, or stone building rubble;
         (c)   Grass, leaves, and worthless vegetation except when used as
ground mulch or in a compost pile;
         (d)   Offal and dead animals; and
         (e)   Any machine or machines, vehicle or vehicles, or parts of a
machine or vehicle which have lost their identity, character, utility, or
serviceability as such through deterioration, dismantling, or the ravages of
time, are inoperative or unable to perform their intended functions, or are
cast off, discarded, or thrown away or left as waste, wreckage, or junk.
      WEEDS. Include, but are not limited to: bindweed (Convolvulus arvensis),
puncture vine (Tribulus terrestris), leafy spurge (Euphorbia esula), Canada
thistle (Cirsium arvense), perennial  peppergrass (Lepidium draba), Russian
knapweed (Centaurea picris), Johnson grass (Sorghum halepense), nodding or musk
thistle, quack grass (Agropyron repens), perennial sow thistle (Sonchus
arvensis), horse nettle (Solanum carolinense), bull thistle (Cirsium
lanceolatum), buckthorn (Rhamnus sp.) (tourn), hemp plant (Cannabis sativa),
and ragweed (Ambrosiaceae).
(Neb. RS 17-563)
(Ord. 934, passed 2-13-2018)
Cross reference:
   Misdemeanors; littering, see §
6-322
   Misdemeanors; raising or producing stagnant water, see §
6-323
ARTICLE 4: JUNK YARDS
Section
   
4-401   Junk yard; defined
   
4-402   Junk yards; regulation
§ 4-401 JUNK YARD; DEFINED.
   The term JUNK YARD shall mean an establishment or place which is maintained,
operated or used for storing, keeping, buying or selling wrecked, scrapped,
ruined or dismantled motor vehicles or motor vehicle parts, or old iron, steel
or scrap ferrous or nonferrous materials.
(Ord. 301, passed 9-9-1974)
§ 4-402 JUNK YARDS; REGULATION.
   No person, partnership or corporation shall hereafter establish a junk yard
within the corporate limits of the municipality within 300 feet of a dwelling
house other than the residence of the owner or operator of such junk yard.
(Ord. 301, passed 9-9-1974)
ARTICLE 5: SOLID WASTE DISPOSAL
Section
   
4-501   Solid waste; definitions
   
4-502   Solid waste; collection
   
4-503   Solid waste; collection equipment required
   
4-504   Solid waste; contracts for service
   
4-505   Solid waste; licensed facilities
   
4-506   Solid waste; private collection services prohibited
   
4-507   Solid waste; disposal of hazardous waste or waste requiring special
handling
   
4-508   Solid waste; bills
   
4-509   Solid waste; lien
   
4-510   Solid waste; single premises
   
4-511   Solid waste; hazardous items and items requiring special handling or
disposal
   
4-512   Solid waste; mandatory service
   
4-513   Solid waste; rates
   
4-514   Solid waste; Waste Recycling and Reduction Fund established
   
4-515   Solid waste; liability for charges; proof of proper disposal
§ 4-501 SOLID WASTE; DEFINITIONS.
   For purposes of this article, the following definitions shall apply:
   HAZARDOUS WASTE. A solid or liquid waste, or combination of solid and liquid
wastes, which because of its quantity, concentration or physical, chemical or
infectious characteristics may cause or significantly contribute to an increase
in mortality or an increase in serious irreversible, or incapacitated
reversible, illness or pose a substantial present or potential hazard to human
or animal health or the environment when improperly treated, stored,
transported, disposed of or otherwise managed.
   SOLID WASTE. All garbage, trash, rubbish or refuse commonly generated by
residential, commercial, institutional or governmental activities.
(Ord. 574, passed 10-12-1992)
§ 4-502 SOLID WASTE; COLLECTION.
   The city shall provide for the collection and disposal of nonhazardous solid
wastes from residential, commercial, institutional and governmental premises
within the municipal limits of the city. Such wastes shall be collected on a
regularly scheduled basis and shall be disposed of only in a licensed landfill
facility which meets all state and federal criteria.
(Ord. 574, passed 10-12-1992)
§ 4-503 SOLID WASTE; COLLECTION EQUIPMENT REQUIRED.
   Solid waste shall be collected only in vehicles equipped with a trash bed
constructed of substantial metal material, and such bed shall be completely
enclosed. The body and bed of any vehicle used in the collection or
transportation of solid wastes shall be maintained in a clean and odor-free
condition. Before any person, firm or corporation may engage in the business of
collecting, hauling or transporting nonhazardous solid waste within the city,
they shall demonstrate to the Mayor and Council that they currently own or have
made proper provision for all required equipment.
(Ord. 574, passed 10-12-1992)
§ 4-504 SOLID WASTE; CONTRACTS FOR SERVICE.
   The city may contract with an independent contractor to provide for the
collection and disposal of nonhazardous solid waste. Such contractor shall be
selected by competitive bidding and the length of the term of any such contract
shall be determined by the Mayor and Council, not to exceed five years. Any
such contractor shall enter into a written agreement with the city, which
agreement shall provide for the rates to be charged by the contractor and such
other terms and conditions as may be required by the Mayor and Council. The
contractor shall be responsible for selection of a licensed disposal facility
in which to dispose of nonhazardous solid waste collection within the city, and
for any contract for disposal service in such facility.
(Ord. 574, passed 10-12-1992)
§ 4-505 SOLID WASTE; LICENSED FACILITIES.
   All nonhazardous solid waste collected within the city shall be disposed of
only in a licensed solid waste facility. Any hazardous waste shall be disposed
of only in the manner provided by state or federal laws and regulations.
(Ord. 574, passed 10-12-1992)
§ 4-506 SOLID WASTE; PRIVATE COLLECTION SERVICES PROHIBITED.
   No person, firm or corporation who is not under contract with the city shall
collect or dispose of residential nonhazardous solid waste within the city,
except yard wastes, grass clippings, tree branches or materials which are
collected for recycling.
(Ord. 574, passed 10-12-1992)
§ 4-507 SOLID WASTE; DISPOSAL OF HAZARDOUS WASTE OR WASTE REQUIRING SPECIAL
HANDLING.
   Any person, firm or corporation within the city who generates or creates
hazardous waste or waste requiring special handling or disposal as specified in
§
4-511 shall be responsible for the transportation and disposal of the same. All
such handling and disposal shall in all respects comply with state and federal
laws and regulations pertaining to the specific type of waste generated.
(Ord. 574, passed 10-12-1992)
§ 4-508 SOLID WASTE; BILLS.
Editor's Note:
   For provisions on discontinuance of service and notice procedure, see §
3-901
   For provisions on utilities generally, see Chapter 3, Article 9
§ 4-509 SOLID WASTE; LIEN.
   In addition to all other remedies, if a customer shall for any reason remain
indebted to the municipality for solid waste collection service furnished, such
amount due, together with any charges in arrears, shall be considered
delinquent and are hereby declared to be a lien upon the real estate for which
the same was furnished. The Municipal Clerk shall notify in writing or cause to
be notified in writing, all owners of premises or their agents whenever their
tenants or lessees are 60 days or more delinquent in the payment of solid waste
collection fees. It shall be the duty of the Municipal Clerk on the first day
of June of each year to report to the governing body a list of all unpaid
accounts due for solid waste collection together with a description of the
premises for which the same was furnished. The report shall be examined, and if
approved by the governing body, shall be certified by the Municipal Clerk to
the County Clerk to be collected as a special tax in the manner provided by
law.
(Ord. 574, passed 10-12-1992)
§ 4-510 SOLID WASTE; SINGLE PREMISES.
   No person shall accept from any other person any of such other person’s
disposable solid waste to be commingled with and disposed of as a part of the
accepting person’s solid waste. All solid waste which is to be picked up by the
city or its contractor for each residence and for each commercial,
institutional or governmental building shall be only the solid waste which is
generated at that site and shall not include any items left for disposal by
another person.
(Ord. 574, passed 10-12-1992)
§ 4-511 SOLID WASTE; HAZARDOUS ITEMS AND ITEMS REQUIRING SPECIAL HANDLING OR
DISPOSAL.
   (A)   No person shall put out any of the items specified below to be
collected by the municipal solid waste collector for land disposal.
      (1)   Yard waste from the first of April through the thirtieth of
November of each year unless such yard waste has been separated from its source
and is put out for separate collection and delivery to the landfill for the
purpose of soil conditioning or composting under the conditions otherwise
specified;
      (2)   Lead-acid batteries;
      (3)   Waste oil;
      (4)   Waste tires in any form except tires that are nonrecyclable. Tires
are not considered disposed if they meet the requirements of Neb. RS 13-2039;
      (5)   Discarded household appliances; and
      (6)   Unregulated hazardous wastes, except household hazardous wastes,
which are exempt from the regulations under the Environmental Protection Act.
   (B)   Any such items shall be disposed of only as permitted under the
Nebraska Integrated Solid Waste Management Act or any amendments thereof.
(Neb. RS 13-2039)
   (C)   For purposes of this section:
      (1)   LAND DISPOSAL includes, but is not limited to, incineration at a
landfill.
      (2)   NONRECYCLABLE TIRE means a press-on solid tire, a solid pneumatic
shaped tire or a foam pneumatic tire.
(Neb. RS 13-2039)
      (3)   WASTE TIRE means a tire that is no longer suitable for its original
intended purpose because of wear, damage or defect.
(Neb. RS 13-2013.02)
      (4)   YARD WASTE means grass and leaves.
(Neb. RS 13-2016.01)
(Ord. 574, passed 10-12-1992; Ord. 770, passed 1-12-2004)
§ 4-512 SOLID WASTE; MANDATORY SERVICE.
   Every occupied residence and every commercial, institutional and
governmental building in which day-to-day activities are conducted within the
municipal limits of the city, shall be served by the city’s solid waste
collection and disposal services and shall be subject to the assessment and
payment of charges for such service as set from time to time by the governing
body. The city may also agree to provide service to persons who do not live
within the city limits but who are served by municipal utility services of any
kind or who are within such close distance to the city limits as to make such
service economical and practical for the city.
(Ord. 574, passed 10-12-1992)
§ 4-513 SOLID WASTE; RATES.
   (A)   Each customer who is served by the municipal solid waste collection
service shall pay a fee for such service.
   (B)   The rates to be paid by private residential customers shall be as
follows:
 
For each household                                               $15 per month
For an additional toter (no more than 2 toters at any residence) $10 per month
 
   (C)   The rates to be paid by commercial and governmental customers,
hospitals, nursing homes, schools and apartment buildings or residential
complexes containing more than one residential unit shall be based upon the
capacity of the disposal container required to contain the volume of solid
waste usually generated by the customer in a normal week. The rates to be paid
based on the volume of such containers are as follows:
 
Toter cart          $15 per month
An additional toter $10 per month
 
 
Containers Once a Week Twice a Week
2 yard     $40         $80
3 yard     $55         $110
 
   (D)   Containers in residential areas will be picked up once each week.
Commercial, governmental and multiple occupancy customers will receive weekly
service unless a more frequent pickup is agreed upon. Any additional services
required by the customer may be negotiated between the customer and the
contract hauler and will be at the customer’s own expense.
   (E)   The rates to be paid by private residential customers, commercial and
governmental customers, hospitals, nursing homes, schools and apartment
buildings or residential complexes containing more than one residential unit
who request a disposal container of at least one and one-half cubic yards and
who do not require once a week or twice a week pickup service, shall be based
upon the capacity of the disposal container requested as follows and shall be
subject to the following terms and conditions:
 
Containers Disposal Fee
1.5 yard   $24
2 yard     $32
3 yard     $48
 
   (F)   A monthly fee equal to the disposal fee for the applicable container
size is in addition to the above fees for each 30-day period the container is
not picked up for disposal by the city. Under no circumstances, may any
customer keep a disposal container for longer than six months without said
container being picked up for disposal by the city during that period.
   (G)   (1)   The Mayor and Council may, by motion or resolution, determine a
periodic fuel surcharge to be added to the charges to be paid for collection of
solid waste. The base cost of fuel to be used in determining such fuel
surcharge shall be $2.88 per gallon as the “average diesel fuel price.” The
surcharge shall be calculated in the following manner: (average price of fuel)
minus (base price of fuel) times average consumption of fuel per month for
solid waste collection and disposal) divided by (the number of customers being
served by the city’s solid waste collection system).
      (2)   The fuel surcharge as thus determined shall be added to each
customer’s monthly bill and shall be collected by the Municipal Clerk as part
of the cost of solid waste collection and disposal.
   (H)   Bills for solid waste collection and disposal shall be rendered and
collected as provided in §
4-508.
(Ord. 574, passed 10-12-1992; Ord. 825, passed 9-14-2009; Ord. 848, passed 3-
14-2011; Ord. 877, passed 6-10-2013; Ord. 910, passed 2-8-2016; Ord. 911,
passed 5-9-2016)
§ 4-514 SOLID WASTE; WASTE RECYCLING AND REDUCTION FUND ESTABLISHED.
   (A)   There is hereby established the Waste Recycling and Reduction Fund of
the city. All proceeds deposited in the Fund shall be used for the purchase of
equipment and the conduct of activities intended to conduct solid waste
recycling activities or to promote the reduction of volume of solid waste
generated within the city. The Fund shall be a part of the combined utilities
system of the city and shall be administered by the City Clerk in the same
manner as other funds of the municipality.
   (B)   Each nonresidential customer of the city’s solid waste collection
system is hereby assessed a monthly charge of $1, which shall be added to and
collected as a part of the monthly bill for solid waste collection. The
assessment shall be shown separately on the customer’s monthly billing and
shall be designated as a solid waste recycling and reduction fund assessment.
   (C)   The Mayor and Council may, by resolution, set any user fees or other
charges to be assessed to persons who dispose of solid waste through activities
conducted by the solid waste recycling and reduction fund program, and may
provide for the collection of the same. All such fees and charges shall be
deposited to the Waste Recycling and Reduction Fund.
   (D)   The Mayor and Council of the municipality may from time to time, by
resolution, designate the manner in which the resources of the Waste Recycling
and Reduction Fund shall be utilized.
(Ord. 574, passed 10-12-1992; Ord. 578, passed 10-12-1992)
§ 4-515 SOLID WASTE; LIABILITY FOR CHARGES; PROOF OF PROPER DISPOSAL.
   (A)   The governing body has separately established charges to be paid to it
by each person whose premises are served by the municipal solid waste
collection system. For purposes of such charges, a person’s premises are deemed
to be served by the municipal solid waste collection system and the owner and
occupant of the premises shall be deemed served and therefore liable for the
charges unless the owner or occupant proves to the governing body that:
      (1)   The premises are unoccupied; or
      (2)   The solid waste generated at the premises during the applicable
billing period was lawfully collected and hauled to a permitted facility or was
otherwise disposed of in conformance with all applicable laws, regulations and
ordinances.
   (B)   Proof of proper disposal during the applicable billing period may be
provided by means of any of the following:
      (1)   A billing receipt or other statement from a duly permitted solid
waste hauling service for collection of solid waste at the premises during the
applicable billing period;
      (2)   A billing receipt or register tab from a duly permitted transfer
station or disposal facility or landfill for solid waste received during the
applicable billing period; or
      (3)   Such other documentation of proper disposal as may be acceptable to
the governing body.
(Neb. RS 13-2020) (Ord. 574, passed 10-12-1992; Ord. 691, passed 5-10-1999)
ARTICLE 6: PENAL PROVISION
Section
   
4-601   Violations; penalty
   
4-602   Abatement of nuisance
§ 4-601 VIOLATIONS; PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person, or any person’s agent or servant, who violates any of the
provisions of this chapter, unless otherwise specifically provided herein,
shall be deemed guilty of an offense and upon conviction thereof shall be fined
in any sum not exceeding $500 A new violation shall be deemed to have been
committed every 24 hours of failure to comply with the provisions of this
chapter.
   (B)   (1)   Whenever a nuisance exists as defined in this chapter, the
municipality may proceed by a suit in equity to enjoin, abate, and remove the
same in the manner provided by law.
      (2)   Whenever, in any action, it is established that a nuisance exists,
the court may, together with the fine or penalty imposed, enter an order of
abatement as a part of the judgment in the case.
(Neb. RS 17-505, 18-1720, 18-1722) (Ord. 710, passed 10-9-2000)
§ 4-602 ABATEMENT OF NUISANCE.
Editor’s note:
   This section was repealed by Ord. 710, passed 10-9-2000.
CHAPTER 5: TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
   Article
      
1.   MUNICIPAL TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
      
2.   OPERATOR AND VEHICLE QUALIFICATIONS
      
3.   PARKING
ARTICLE 1: MUNICIPAL TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
Section
   
5-101   Definitions
   
5-102   Traffic regulations; general authority
   
5-103   Regulation of highways; police powers
   
5-104   Prohibitions on operation of vehicles
   
5-105   Ordinances contrary to state law prohibited
   
5-106   Placement and maintenance of traffic control devices
   
5-107   Enforcement of rules and laws
   
5-108   Failure or refusal to obey order
   
5-109   Obedience to traffic control devices; exceptions
   
5-110   Authorized emergency vehicles; privileges
   
5-111   Traffic officers
   
5-112   Traffic infractions; penalty
   
5-113   Restrictions on direction of travel
   
5-114   Right-of-way; stop and yield signs
   
5-115   Interference with traffic control devices or railroad signs or signals
   
5-116   Signs, markers, devices, or notices; prohibited acts
   
5-117   Tire requirements and prohibitions; permissive uses
   
5-118   Speed limits; basic rule
   
5-119   Speed limits; maximum limits
   
5-120   Speed limits; bridges and other elevated structures
   
5-121   Speed limits; alternative maximum limits
   
5-122   Speed limits; near schools
   
5-123   Speed limits; violations; fines
   
5-124   Truck traffic
   
5-125   School crossing zones; designation
   
5-126   School crossing zones; overtaking and passing
§ 5-101 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions and the other
definitions in Neb. RS 60-606 through 60-676 shall apply unless the context
clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ALL-TERRAIN VEHICLES (ATV).  Any motorized off-highway vehicle which:
      (1)   Is 50 inches or less in width;
      (2)   Has a dry weight of 900 pounds or less;
      (3)   Travels on three or more low pressure tires;
      (4)   Is designed for operator use only with no passengers or is
specifically designed by the original manufacturer for the operator and one
passenger;
      (5)   Has a seat or saddle designed to be straddled by the operator; and
      (6)   Has handle bars or any other sterling assembly for steering
control.
   ALLEY. A highway intended to provide access to the rear or side of lots or
buildings and not intended for the purpose of through vehicular traffic.
(Neb. RS 60-607)
   AUTHORIZED EMERGENCY VEHICLE. Such fire department vehicles, police
vehicles, rescue vehicles, and ambulances as are publicly owned, such other
publicly or privately owned vehicles as are designated by the Director of Motor
Vehicles, and such publicly owned military vehicles of the National Guard as
are designated by the Adjutant General pursuant to Neb. RS 55-133.
(Neb. RS 60-610)
   BUSINESS DISTRICT.  The territory contiguous to and including a highway when
within any 600 feet along such highway there are buildings in use for business
or industrial purposes, including, but not limited to, hotels, banks, office
buildings, railroad stations, or public buildings which occupy at least 300
feet of frontage on one side or 300 feet collectively on both sides of a
highway.
(Neb. RS 60-613)
   DEPARTMENT OF ROADS. All references within this chapter shall be updated to
DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION to harmonize with state law.
   GOLF CAR VEHICLES. A vehicle that has at least four wheels, has a maximum
level ground speed of less than 20 miles per hour, has a maximum payload
capacity of 1,200 pounds, has a maximum gross vehicle weight of 2,500 pounds,
has a maximum passenger capacity of not more than four persons and is designed
and manufactured for operation on a golf course for sporting and recreational
purposes.
   HIGHWAY. The entire width between the boundary limits of any street, road,
avenue, boulevard, or way which is publicly maintained when any part thereof is
open to the use of the public for purposes of vehicular travel.
(Neb. RS 60-624)
   MANUAL.  The Manual on Uniform Traffic Control Devices adopted by the
Department of Roads pursuant to Neb. RS 60-6,118.
(Neb. RS 60-631)
   MOTOR VEHICLE. Every self-propelled land vehicle, not operated upon rails,
except mopeds, self-propelled chairs used by persons who are disabled, and
electric personal assistive mobility devices.
(Neb. RS 60-638)
   PEACE OFFICER. The Police Chief or other chief law enforcement official, any
city police officer, or any other person authorized to enforce city ordinances.
With respect to directing traffic only, peace officer shall also include any
person authorized to direct or regulate traffic.
(Neb. RS 60-646)
   RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT.  The territory contiguous to and including a highway
not comprising a business district when the property on such highway for a
distance of 300 feet or more is in the main improved with residences or
residences and buildings in use for business.
(Neb. RS 60-654)
   ROADWAY. That portion of a highway improved, designed, or ordinarily used
for vehicular travel, exclusive of the berm or shoulder. If a highway includes
two or more separate roadways, the term roadway shall refer to any such roadway
separately but not to all such roadways collectively.
(Neb. RS 60-656)
   SCHOOL CROSSING ZONE.  The area of a roadway designated to the public by the
City Council as a school crossing zone through the use of a sign or traffic
control device as specified by the City Council in conformity with the Manual
but does not include any area of a freeway. A school crossing zone starts at
the location of the first sign or traffic control device identifying the school
crossing zone and continues until a sign or traffic control device indicates
that the school crossing zone has ended.
(Neb. RS 60-658.01)
   SHOULDER.  That part of the highway contiguous to the roadway and designed
for the accommodation of stopped vehicles, for emergency use, and for lateral
support of the base and surface courses of the roadway.
(Neb. RS 60-661)
   STREET. A public way for the purposes of vehicular travel in a city or
village and includes the entire area within the right-of-way.
   TRAFFIC.  Pedestrians, ridden or herded animals, and vehicles and other
conveyances either singly or together while using any highway for purposes of
travel.
(Neb. RS 60-669)
   TRAFFIC CONTROL DEVICE.  Any sign, signal, marking, or other device not
inconsistent with the Nebraska Rules of the Road placed or erected by authority
of the City Council or any official having jurisdiction for the purpose of
regulating, warning, or guiding traffic.
(Neb. RS 60-670)
   TRAFFIC CONTROL SIGNAL.  Any signal, whether manually, electrically, or
mechanically operated, by which traffic is alternately directed to stop and
permitted to proceed.
(Neb. RS 60-671)
   TRAFFIC INFRACTION.  The violation of any provision of the Nebraska Rules of
the Road or of any law, ordinance, order, rule, or regulation regulating
traffic which is not otherwise declared to be a misdemeanor or a felony or, in
this chapter, an offense.
(Neb. RS 60-672)
   UTILITY-TYPE VEHICLES (UTV).
      (1)   Any motorized off-highway vehicle which:
         (a)   Is not less than 48 inches nor more than 74 inches in width;
         (b)   Is not more than 135 inches, including bumper, in length;
         (c)   Has a dry weight of not less than 900 pounds nor more than 2,000
pounds;
         (d)   Travels on four or more low pressure tires; and
         (e)   Is equipped with a steering wheel and bench or bucket-type
seating designed for at least two people to sit side-by-side.
      (2)   UTILITY-TYPE VEHICLE does not include golf carts or low-speed
vehicles.
   VEHICLE. Every device in, upon, or by which any person or property is or may
be transported or drawn upon a highway except devices moved solely by human
power or used exclusively upon stationary rails or tracks.
(Neb. RS 60-676)
(Ord. 464, passed 8-14-1984; Ord. 904, passed 11-9-2015; Ord. 911, passed 5-9-
2016; Ord. 920, passed 11-14-2017; Ord. 932, passed 2-13-2018)
§ 5-102 TRAFFIC REGULATIONS; GENERAL AUTHORITY.
   (A)   The City Council may, in its jurisdiction, enact regulations
permitting, prohibiting, and controlling the use of motor vehicles, minibikes,
motorcycles, off-road recreation vehicles of any and all types, other powered
vehicles, electric personal assistive mobility devices, and vehicles which are
not self-propelled. Any person who operates any of such vehicles without the
permission of the City Council or its designated representative or in a place,
time, or manner which has been prohibited by the City Council shall be guilty
of an offense.
   (B)   The City Council may further authorize the supervising official of any
area under its ownership or control to permit, control, or prohibit operation
of any motor vehicle, minibike, motorcycle, off-road recreational vehicle of
any or all types, other powered vehicle, electric personal assistive mobility
device, or vehicle which is not self-propelled on all or any portion of any
area under its ownership or control at any time by posting or, in case of an
emergency, by personal notice. Any person operating any such vehicle where
prohibited, where not permitted, or in a manner so as to endanger the peace and
safety of the public or as to harm or destroy the natural features or manmade
features of any such area shall be guilty of an offense.
(Neb. RS 60-678)
§ 5-103 REGULATION OF HIGHWAYS; POLICE POWERS.
   (A)   The City Council with respect to highways under its jurisdiction and
within the reasonable exercise of the police power may:
      (1)   Regulate or prohibit stopping, standing, or parking;
      (2)   Regulate traffic by means of peace officers or traffic control
devices;
      (3)   Regulate or prohibit processions or assemblages on the highways;
      (4)   Designate highways or roadways for use by traffic moving in one
direction;
      (5)   Establish speed limits for vehicles in public parks;
      (6)   Designate any highway as a through highway or designate any
intersection as a stop or yield intersection;
      (7)   Restrict the use of highways as authorized in §
5-104;
      (8)   Regulate operation of bicycles and require registration and
inspection of such, including requirement of a registration fee;
      (9)   Regulate operation of electric personal assistive mobility devices;
      (10)   Regulate or prohibit the turning of vehicles or specified types of
vehicles;
      (11)   Alter or establish speed limits authorized in the Nebraska Rules
of the Road;
      (12)   Designate no-passing zones;
      (13)   Prohibit or regulate use of controlled-access highways by any
class or kind of traffic except those highways which are a part of the state
highway system;
      (14)   Prohibit or regulate use of heavily traveled highways by any class
or kind of traffic it finds to be incompatible with the normal and safe
movement of traffic, except that such regulations shall not be effective on any
highway which is part of the state highway system unless authorized by the
Department of Roads;
      (15)   Establish minimum speed limits as authorized in the Rules;
      (16)   Designate hazardous railroad grade crossings as authorized in the
Rules;
      (17)   Designate and regulate traffic on play streets;
      (18)   Prohibit pedestrians from crossing a roadway in a business
district or any designated highway except in a crosswalk as authorized in the
Rules;
      (19)   Restrict pedestrian crossings at unmarked crosswalks as authorized
in the Rules;
      (20)   Regulate persons propelling push carts;
      (21)   Regulate persons upon skates, coasters, sleds, and other toy
vehicles;
      (22)   (a)   Notwithstanding any other provision of law, adopt and
enforce an ordinance or resolution prohibiting the use of engine brakes on the
National System of Interstate and Defense Highways that has a grade of less
than five degrees within its jurisdiction.
         (b)   For the purpose of this division, the following definition shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
            ENGINE BRAKE.  A device that converts a power producing engine into
a power-absorbing air compressor, resulting in a net energy loss;
      (23)   Adopt and enforce such temporary or experimental regulations as
may be necessary to cover emergencies or special conditions; and
      (24)   Adopt other traffic regulations except as prohibited by state law
or contrary to state law.
   (B)   The City Council shall not erect or maintain any traffic control
device at any location so as to require the traffic on any state highway or
state-maintained freeway to stop before entering or crossing any intersecting
highway unless approval in writing has first been obtained from the Department
of Roads.
   (C)   No ordinance or regulation enacted under division (A)(4), (5), (6),
(7), (10), (11), (12), (13), (14), (16), (17), or (19) shall be effective until
traffic control devices giving notice of such local traffic regulations are
erected upon or at the entrances to such affected highway or part thereof
affected as may be most appropriate.
(Neb. RS 60-680)
§ 5-104 PROHIBITIONS ON OPERATION OF VEHICLES.
    (A)   The City Council may by ordinance or resolution prohibit the
operation of vehicles upon any highway or impose restrictions as to the weight
of vehicles, for a total period not to exceed 90 days in any one calendar year,
when operated upon any highway under the jurisdiction of and for the
maintenance of which the City Council is responsible whenever any such highway
by reason of deterioration, rain, snow, or other climatic condition will be
seriously damaged or destroyed unless the use of vehicles thereon is prohibited
or the permissible weight thereof reduced. The City Council shall erect or
cause to be erected and maintained signs designating the provisions of the
ordinance or resolution at each end of that portion of any highway affected
thereby, and the ordinance or resolution shall not be effective until such
signs are erected and maintained.
   (B)   The City Council may also, by ordinance or resolution, prohibit the
operation of trucks or other commercial vehicles or impose limitations as to
the weight thereof on designated highways, which prohibitions and limitations
shall be designated by appropriate signs placed on such highways.
(Neb. RS 60-681)
§ 5-105 ORDINANCES CONTRARY TO STATE LAW PROHIBITED.
   The City Council shall not enact or enforce any ordinance directly contrary
to the Nebraska Rules of the Road unless expressly authorized by the
Legislature.
(Neb. RS 60-6,108)
§ 5-106 PLACEMENT AND MAINTENANCE OF TRAFFIC CONTROL DEVICES.
   The City Council shall place and maintain such traffic control devices upon
highways under its jurisdiction as it deems necessary to indicate and to carry
out the provisions of this chapter or to regulate, warn, or guide traffic. All
such traffic control devices erected pursuant to this title shall conform with
the Manual.
(Neb. RS 60-6,121)
§ 5-107 ENFORCEMENT OF RULES AND LAWS.
   (A)   All peace officers are hereby specifically directed and authorized and
it shall be deemed and considered a part of the official duties of each of such
officers to enforce the provisions of Nebraska Rules of the Road and this
chapter, including the specific enforcement of maximum speed limits, and any
other state or city law regulating the operation of vehicles or the use of the
highways.
   (B)   To perform the official duties imposed by this section, peace officers
shall have the power:
      (1)   To make arrests upon view and without warrant for any violation
committed in their presence of any of the provisions of the Motor Vehicle
Operator's License Act or this chapter or of any other law regulating the
operation of vehicles or the use of the highways, if and when designated or
called upon to do so as provided by law;
      (2)   To make arrests upon view and without warrant for any violation
committed in their presence of any provision of the laws of this state relating
to misdemeanors or felonies or of similar city ordinances if and when
designated or called upon to do so as provided by law;
      (3)   At all times to direct all traffic in conformity with law or, in
the event of a fire or other emergency or in order to expedite traffic or
insure safety, to direct traffic as conditions may require;
      (4)   When in uniform, to require the driver of a vehicle to stop and
exhibit his or her operator's license and registration certificate issued for
the vehicle and submit to an inspection of such vehicle and the license plates
and registration certificate for the vehicle and to require the driver of a
motor vehicle to present the vehicle within five days for correction of any
defects revealed by such motor vehicle inspection as may lead the inspecting
officer to reasonably believe that such motor vehicle is being operated in
violation of the statutes of Nebraska, the rules and regulations of the
Director of Motor Vehicles, or any city ordinance or regulation;
      (5)   To inspect any vehicle of a type required to be registered
according to law in any public garage or repair shop or in any place where such
a vehicle is held for sale or wrecking;
      (6)   To serve warrants relating to the enforcement of the laws
regulating the operation of vehicles or the use of the highways; and
      (7)   To investigate traffic accidents for the purpose of carrying on a
study of traffic accidents and enforcing motor vehicle and highway safety laws.
(Neb. RS 60-683)
Statutory reference:
   Motor Vehicle Operator's License Act, see Neb. RS 60-462
§ 5-108 FAILURE OR REFUSAL TO OBEY ORDER.
   (A)   Any person who knowingly fails or refuses to obey any lawful order of
any peace officer who is controlling or directing traffic shall be guilty of a
traffic infraction.
   (B)   Any person who knowingly fails to obey any lawful order of a peace
officer shall be guilty of an offense whenever such order is given in
furtherance of the apprehension of a person who has violated the Nebraska Rules
of the Road or this chapter or of a person whom such officer reasonably
believes has violated the Rules or this chapter.
(Neb. RS 60-6,110)
§ 5-109 OBEDIENCE TO TRAFFIC CONTROL DEVICES; EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   The driver of any vehicle shall obey the instructions of any traffic
control device applicable thereto placed in accordance with the Nebraska Rules
of the Road or this chapter, unless otherwise directed by a peace officer,
subject to the exceptions granted the driver of an authorized emergency vehicle
in the Rules and this chapter.
   (B)   No provision of the Rules or this chapter for which traffic control
devices are required shall be enforced against an alleged violator if at the
time and place of the alleged violation an official device is not in proper
position and sufficiently legible to be seen by a reasonably observant person.
Whenever any provision of the Rules or this chapter does not state that traffic
control devices are required, such provision shall be effective even though no
devices are erected or in place.
   (C)   Whenever traffic control devices are placed in position approximately
conforming to the requirements of the Rules or this chapter, such devices shall
be presumed to have been so placed by the official act or direction of lawful
authority unless the contrary is established by competent evidence.
   (D)   Any traffic control device placed pursuant to the Rules or this
chapter and purporting to conform with the lawful requirements pertaining to
such devices shall be presumed to comply with the requirements of the Rules or
this chapter unless the contrary is established by competent evidence.
(Neb. RS 60-6,119)
§ 5-110 AUTHORIZED EMERGENCY VEHICLES; PRIVILEGES.
   (A)   Subject to the conditions stated in the Nebraska Rules of the Road and
this chapter, the driver of an authorized emergency vehicle, when responding to
an emergency call, when pursuing an actual or suspected violator of the law, or
when responding to but not when returning from a fire alarm, may:
      (1)   Stop, park, or stand, irrespective of the provisions of the Rules
and this chapter, and disregard regulations governing direction of movement or
turning in specified directions; and
      (2)   Except for wreckers towing disabled vehicles and highway
maintenance vehicles and equipment:
         (a)   Proceed past a steady red indication, a flashing red indication,
or a stop sign but only after slowing down as may be necessary for safe
operation; and
         (b)   Exceed the maximum speed limits so long as he or she does not
endanger life, limb, or property.
   (B)   Except when operated as a police vehicle, the exemptions granted in
division (A) shall apply only when the driver of such vehicle, while in motion,
sounds an audible signal by bell, siren, or exhaust whistle as may be
reasonably necessary and when such vehicle is equipped with at least one
lighted light displaying a red light visible under normal atmospheric
conditions from a distance of 500 feet to the front of such vehicle.
   (C)   The exemptions granted in division (A) shall not relieve the driver
from the duty to drive with due regard for the safety of all persons, nor shall
such provisions protect such driver from the consequences of his or her
reckless disregard for the safety of others.
   (D)   Authorized emergency vehicles operated by police and fire departments
shall not be subject to the size and weight limitations of sections Neb. RS 60-
6,288 to 60-6,290 and 60-6,294.
(Neb. RS 60-6,114)
§ 5-111 TRAFFIC OFFICERS.
   The City Council or the city police may at any time detail officers, to be
known as "traffic officers," at street intersections. All traffic officers
shall be vested with the authority to regulate and control traffic at the
intersections to which they are assigned. It shall be their duty to direct the
movement of traffic and prevent congestion and accidents. It shall be unlawful
for any person to violate any order or signal of any such traffic officer
notwithstanding the directive of a stop sign or signal device that may have
been placed at any such intersection.
§ 5-112 TRAFFIC INFRACTIONS; PENALTY.
   (A)   Unless otherwise declared in this title with respect to particular
offenses, a violation of any provision of this chapter shall constitute a
traffic infraction.
(Neb. RS 60-682)
   (B)   Any person who is found guilty of a traffic infraction in violation of
this chapter for which a penalty has not been specifically provided shall be
fined:
      (1)   Not more than $100 for the first offense;
      (2)   Not more than $200 for a second offense within a one-year period;
and
      (3)   Not more than $300 for a third and subsequent offense within a one-
year period.
(Neb. RS 60-689)
Statutory reference:
   Other provisions on traffic infractions, see Neb. RS 60-684 through 60-
694.01
§ 5-113 RESTRICTIONS ON DIRECTION OF TRAVEL.
   (A)   The City Council with respect to highways under its jurisdiction may
designate any highway, roadway, part of a roadway, or specific lanes upon which
vehicular traffic shall proceed in one direction at all times or at such times
as shall be indicated by traffic control devices.
   (B)   Except for emergency vehicles, no vehicle shall be operated, backed,
pushed, or otherwise caused to move in a direction which is opposite to the
direction designated by competent authority on any deceleration lane,
acceleration lane, access ramp, shoulder, or roadway.
   (C)   A vehicle which passes around a rotary traffic island shall be driven
only to the right of such island.
(Neb. RS 60-6,138)
§ 5-114 RIGHT-OF-WAY; STOP AND YIELD SIGNS.
   (A)   The City Council may provide for preferential right-of-way at an
intersection and indicate such by stop signs or yield signs erected by such
authorities.
   (B)   Except when directed to proceed by a peace officer or traffic control
signal, every driver of a vehicle approaching an intersection where a stop is
indicated by a stop sign shall stop at a clearly marked stop line or shall
stop, if there is no such line, before entering the crosswalk on the near side
of the intersection or, if no crosswalk is indicated, at the point nearest the
intersecting roadway where the driver has a view of approaching traffic on the
intersecting roadway before entering the intersection. After having stopped,
such driver shall yield the right-of-way to any vehicle which has entered the
intersection from another highway or which is approaching so closely on such
highway as to constitute an immediate hazard if such driver moved across or
into such intersection.
   (C)   The driver of a vehicle approaching a yield sign shall slow to a speed
reasonable under the existing conditions and, if required for safety to stop,
shall stop at a clearly marked stop line or shall stop, if there is no such
line, before entering the crosswalk on the near side of the intersection or, if
no crosswalk is indicated, at the point nearest the intersecting roadway where
the driver has a view of approaching traffic on the intersecting roadway. After
slowing or stopping, such driver shall yield the right-of-way to any vehicle in
the intersection or approaching on another highway so closely as to constitute
an immediate hazard if such driver moved across or into such intersection.
(Neb. RS 60-6,148)
§ 5-115 INTERFERENCE WITH TRAFFIC CONTROL DEVICES OR RAILROAD SIGNS OR SIGNALS.
   No person shall, without lawful authority, attempt to or in fact alter,
deface, injure, knock down, or remove any traffic control device, any railroad
sign or signal, or any part of such a device, sign, or signal.
(Neb. RS 60-6,129)
§ 5-116 SIGNS, MARKERS, DEVICES, OR NOTICES; PROHIBITED ACTS.
   (A)   Any person who willfully or maliciously shoots upon the public highway
and injures, defaces, damages, or destroys any signs, monuments, road markers,
traffic control devices, traffic surveillance devices, or other public notices
lawfully placed upon such highways shall be guilty of an offense.
   (B)   No person shall willfully or maliciously injure, deface, alter, or
knock down any sign, traffic control device, or traffic surveillance device.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person, other than a duly authorized
representative of the Department of Roads, the county, or the city, to remove
any sign, traffic control device, or traffic surveillance device placed along a
highway for traffic control, warning, or informational purposes by official
action of the department, county, or city. It shall be unlawful for any person
to possess a sign or device which has been removed in violation of this
division.
   (D)   Any person violating division (B) or (C) of this section shall be
guilty of an offense and shall be assessed liquidated damages in the amount of
the value of the sign, traffic control device, or traffic surveillance device
and the cost of replacing it.
(Neb. RS 60-6,130)
§ 5-117 TIRE REQUIREMENTS AND PROHIBITIONS; PERMISSIVE USES.
   (A)   Every solid rubber tire on a vehicle moved on any highway shall have
rubber on its entire traction surface at least one inch thick above the edge of
the flange of the entire periphery.
   (B)   No tire on a vehicle moved on a highway shall have on its periphery
any clock, stud, flange, cleat, or spike or any other protuberance of any
material other than rubber which projects beyond the tread of the traction
surface of the tire, except that:
      (1)   This prohibition shall not apply to pneumatic tires with metal or
metal-type studs not exceeding five-sixteenths of an inch in diameter inclusive
of the stud-casing with an average protrusion beyond the tread surface of not
more than seven-sixtyfourths of an inch between November 1 and April 1, except
that school buses, mail carrier vehicles, and emergency vehicles shall be
permitted to use metal or metal-type studs at any time during the year;
      (2)   It shall be permissible to use farm machinery with tires having
protuberances which will not injure the highway; and
      (3)   It shall be permissible to use tire chains of reasonable
proportions upon any vehicle when required for safety because of snow, ice, or
other condition tending to cause a vehicle to slide or skid.
   (C)   (1)   No person shall operate or move on any highway any motor
vehicle, trailer, or semitrailer:
         (a)   Having any metal tire in contact with the roadway; or
         (b)   Equipped with solid rubber tires.
      (2)   Division (C)(1) shall not apply to farm vehicles having a gross
weight of 10,000 pounds or less or to implements of husbandry.
   (D)   The city may, in its discretion, issue special permits authorizing the
operation upon a highway of traction engines or tractors having movable tracks
with transverse corrugations upon the periphery of such movable tracks or farm
tractors or other farm machinery.
(Neb. RS 60-6,250)
Statutory reference:
   Rubber tired cranes, see Neb. RS 60-6,288
§ 5-118 SPEED LIMITS; BASIC RULE.
   No person shall drive a vehicle on a highway at a speed greater than is
reasonable and prudent under the conditions and having regard to the actual and
potential hazards then existing. A person shall drive at a safe and appropriate
speed when approaching and crossing an intersection or railroad grade crossing,
when approaching and going around a curve, when approaching a hillcrest, when
traveling upon any narrow or winding roadway, and when special hazards exist
with respect to pedestrians or other traffic or by reason of weather or highway
conditions.
(Neb. RS 60-6,185)
§ 5-119 SPEED LIMITS; MAXIMUM LIMITS.
   (A)   Except when a special hazard exists that requires lower speed for
compliance with §
5-118, the limits set forth in this section and Neb. RS 60-6,187, 60-6,188, 60-
6,305, and 60-6,313 shall be the maximum lawful speeds unless reduced pursuant
to division (B), and no person shall drive a vehicle on a highway at a speed in
excess of such maximum limits:
      (1)   Twenty-five miles per hour in any residential district;
      (2)   Twenty miles per hour in any business district;
      (3)   Fifty miles per hour upon any highway that is not dustless surfaced
and not part of the state highway system;
      (4)   Fifty-five miles per hour upon any dustless-surfaced highway not a
part of the state highway system; and
      (5)   Sixty miles per hour upon any part of the state highway system
other than an expressway or a freeway, except that the Department of Roads may,
where existing design and traffic conditions allow, according to an engineering
study, authorize a speed limit FIVE miles per hour greater.
   (B)   The maximum speed limits established in division (A) may be reduced by
the Department of Roads or the City Council pursuant to §
5-121 or Neb. RS 60-6,188.
   (C)   The City Council may erect and maintain suitable signs along highways
under its jurisdiction in such number and at such locations as it deems
necessary to give adequate notice of the speed limits established pursuant to
division (A) or (B) upon such highways.
(Neb. RS 60-6,186)
§ 5-120 SPEED LIMITS; BRIDGES AND OTHER ELEVATED STRUCTURES.
   (A)   No person shall drive a vehicle over any public bridge, causeway,
viaduct, or other elevated structure at a speed which is greater than the
maximum speed which can be maintained with safety thereon when such structure
is posted with signs as provided in division (B).
   (B)   The Department of Roads or the City Council may conduct an
investigation of any bridge or other elevated structure constituting a part of
a highway under its jurisdiction, and if it finds that the structure cannot
safely withstand vehicles traveling at the speed otherwise permissible, the
Department or the City Council shall determine and declare the maximum speed of
vehicles which the structure can safely withstand and shall cause suitable
signs stating the maximum speed to be erected and maintained before each end of
the structure.
   (C)   Upon the trial of any person charged with a violation of division (A),
proof of the determination of the maximum speed by the Department or the City
Council and the existence of such signs shall constitute conclusive evidence of
the maximum speed which can be maintained with safety on the bridge or
structure.
(Neb. RS 60-6,189)
§ 5-121 ALTERNATIVE MAXIMUM LIMITS.
   (A)   Whenever the Department of Roads determines, upon the basis of an
engineering and traffic investigation, that any maximum speed limit is greater
or less than is reasonable or safe under the conditions found to exist at any
intersection, place, or part of the state highway system outside of the
corporate limits of cities and villages as well as inside the corporate limits
of cities and villages on freeways which are part of the state highway system,
it may determine and set a reasonable and safe maximum speed limit for such
intersection, place, or part of such highway which shall be the lawful speed
limit when appropriate signs giving notice thereof are erected at such
intersection, place, or part of the highway, except that the maximum rural and
freeway limits shall not be exceeded. Such a maximum speed limit may be set to
be effective at all times or at such times as are indicated upon such signs.
   (B)   On all highways within its corporate limits, except on state-
maintained freeways which are part of the state highway system, the City
Council shall have the same power and duty to alter the maximum speed limits as
the Department if the change is based on engineering and traffic investigation,
except that no imposition of speed limits on highways which are part of the
state highway system in the city shall be effective without the approval of the
Department.
   (C)   Not more than six such speed limits shall be set per mile along a
highway, except in the case of reduced limits at intersections, and the
difference between adjacent limits shall not be more than 20 miles per hour.
   (D)   When the Department or the City Council determines by an investigation
that certain vehicles in addition to those specified in Neb. RS 60-6,187, 60-
6,305, and 60-6,313 cannot with safety travel at the speeds provided in §§
5-119 and
5-120 and Neb. RS 60-6,187, 60-6,305, and 60-6,313 or set pursuant to this
section, or Neb. RS 60-6,188, the Department or the City Council may restrict
the speed limit for such vehicles on highways under its respective jurisdiction
and post proper and adequate signs.
(Neb. RS 60-6,190)
§ 5-122 SPEED LIMITS; NEAR SCHOOLS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the driver of any vehicle, when passing
premises on which school buildings are located and which are used for school
purposes, during school recess or while children are going to or leaving school
during the opening or closing hours, to drive the vehicle at a rate of speed in
excess of 15 miles per hour past the premises.
   (B)   The driver shall stop at all stop signs located at or near such school
premises, and it shall be unlawful for the driver to make a U-turn at any
intersection where such stop signs are located at or near such school premises.
§ 5-123 SPEED LIMITS; VIOLATIONS; FINES.
   (A)   Any person who operates a vehicle in violation of any maximum speed
limit established for any highway or freeway is guilty of a traffic infraction
and upon conviction shall be fined:
      (1)   $10 for traveling one through five miles per hour over the
authorized speed limit;
      (2)   $25 for traveling over five miles per hour but not over 10 miles
per hour over the authorized speed limit;
      (3)   $75 for traveling over 10 miles per hour but not over 15 miles per
hour over the authorized speed limit;
      (4)   $125 for traveling over 15 miles per hour but not over 20 miles per
hour over the authorized speed limit;
      (5)   $200 for traveling over 20 miles per hour but not over 35 miles per
hour over the authorized speed limit; and
      (6)   $300 for traveling over 35 miles per hour over the authorized speed
limit.
   (B)   (1)   The fines prescribed in division (A) shall be doubled if the
violation occurs within a maintenance, repair, or construction zone established
pursuant to Neb. RS 60-6,188.
      (2)   For the purpose of this division (B), the following definition
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
         MAINTENANCE, REPAIR, OR CONSTRUCTION ZONE.
            1.   a.   The portion of a highway identified by posted or moving
signs as being under maintenance, repair, or construction; or
               b.   The portion of a highway identified by maintenance, repair,
or construction zone speed limit signs displayed pursuant to Neb. RS 60-6,188;
and
               c.   Within such portion of a highway where road construction
workers are present.
            2.   The maintenance, repair, or construction zone starts at the
location of the first sign identifying the maintenance, repair, or construction
zone and continues until a posted or moving sign indicates that the
maintenance, repair, or construction zone has ended.
   (C)   The fines prescribed in division (A) shall be doubled if the violation
occurs within a school crossing zone.
(Neb. RS 60-682.01)
§ 5-124 TRUCK TRAFFIC.
   (A)   Truck defined. For the purposes of this section, the term TRUCK shall
mean any motor vehicle designed, used or maintained primarily for the purpose
of the transportation of property except vehicles commonly known as “pickup
trucks.”
   (B)   Truck traffic prohibited in residential areas. Except as otherwise
provided herein, truck traffic is prohibited on the public streets and alleys
within all areas within the city which are zoned as residential areas;
provided, however, that this prohibition shall not apply to trucks which are
licensed as farm trucks, trucks entering or leaving a residential area to pick
up or deliver goods, wares or merchandise, trucks which are owned by
governmental agencies or public utility companies, or trucks which are
traveling upon streets which are part of the Nebraska highway system.
(Neb. RS 39-697, 39-6,189) (Ord. 441, passed 10-11-1983; Ord. 526, passed 6-13-
1988; Ord. 798, passed 5-8-2006)
§ 5-125 SCHOOL CROSSING ZONES; DESIGNATION.
   (A)   Neb. RS 60-682.01 provides fines for operating a motor vehicle in
violation of authorized speed limits and states that the fines are doubled if
the violation occurs within a school crossing zone.
   (B)   Neb. RS 60-6,134.01 makes it unlawful for a person operating a motor
vehicle to overtake and pass another vehicle in a school crossing zone in which
the roadway has only one lane of traffic in each direction and provides fines
for violation of that prohibition.
   (C)   The governing body may, by resolution, designate to the public any
area of a roadway, other than a freeway, as a school crossing zone through the
use of a sign or traffic control device as specified by the governing body in
conformity with the Manual on Uniform Traffic Control Devices. Any school
crossing zone so designated starts at the location of the first sign or traffic
control device identifying the school crossing zone and continues until a sign
or traffic control device indicates that the school crossing zone has ended.
(Neb. RS 60-658.01) (Ord. 679, passed 10-12-1998)
§ 5-126 SCHOOL CROSSING ZONES; OVERTAKING AND PASSING.
   A person operating a motor vehicle may not overtake and pass another vehicle
in any school crossing zone designated by the governing body in which the
roadway has only one lane of traffic in each direction.
(Neb. RS 60-6,134.01) (Ord. 680, passed 10-12-1998)
ARTICLE 2: OPERATOR AND VEHICLE QUALIFICATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
5-201   Registration; operator and vehicle license
   
5-202   Registration; trailers
   
5-203   Vehicles; equipment and maintenance
   
5-204   Vehicles; unobstructed view
   
5-205   Vehicle; muffler
   
5-206   Loads; projecting
   
5-207   Loads; spilling
   
5-208   Vehicle; emissions
   
5-209   Vehicle; width, height, length
   
5-210   Vehicle; load limitation
   
5-211   Vehicles; engine braking prohibited
All-terrain Vehicles (ATV) , Utility-type Vehicles (UTV) and Golf Car Vehicles
   
5-220   Definitions
   
5-221   Operation limits and vehicle requirements
   
5-222   Operator/owner requirements
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 5-201 REGISTRATION; OPERATOR AND VEHICLE LICENSE.
   (A)   No person shall operate or park a motor vehicle upon any street, alley
or public highway within the municipality without having first registered the
same in accordance with Neb. RS Chapter 60, Article 3, and Neb. RS 60-321,
except as provided in this division (A). A person may operate a motor vehicle
without registration for a period not to exceed 30 days from the date of
purchase. Upon registration, such vehicle shall have the required number plates
displayed upon said vehicle in the manner and places provided for by Neb. RS
60-323. If a citation is issued to an owner or operator of vehicle for a
violation of this division (A) and the owner properly registers and licenses
the vehicle not in compliance and pays all taxes and fees due and the owner or
operator provides proof of such registration to the prosecuting attorney within
ten days after the issuance of the citation, no prosecution for the offense
cited shall occur.
   (B)   No person shall operate a motor vehicle upon any street, alley or
public highway without having obtained a motor vehicle operator’s license in
accordance with Neb. RS Chapter 60, Article 4. It shall be unlawful for any
person to operate a motor vehicle upon any street, alley or public highway
during the period that his or her operator’s license has been revoked or
canceled.
(Neb. RS 60-302, 60-320, 60-320.01, 60-321, 60-323, 60-4,186) (Ord. 570, passed
4-13-1992; Ord. 624, passed 1-8-1996)
§ 5-202 REGISTRATION; TRAILERS.
   No trailer, semitrailer or cabin trailer shall be operated or parked on any
street, alley or public highway within the municipality without having first
registered the same in accordance with Neb. RS Chapter 60, Article 3, and Neb.
RS 60-321, except as provided in this section. A person may pull such trailer,
semitrailer or cabin trailer without registration for a period not to exceed 30
days from the date of purchase. Upon registration, such trailer, semitrailer or
cabin trailer shall have the required number plate displayed upon said trailer
as provided for by Neb. RS 60-311. If a citation is issued to an owner or
operator of a vehicle for a violation of this section and the owner properly
registers and licenses the vehicle not in compliance and pays all taxes and
fees due and the owner or operator provides proof of such registration to the
prosecuting attorney within ten days after the issuance of the citation, no
prosecution for the offense cited shall occur.
(Neb. RS 60-302, 60-320, 60-321) (Ord. 625, passed 1-8-1996)
§ 5-203 VEHICLES; EQUIPMENT AND MAINTENANCE.
   Every motor vehicle, while in use on the streets, alleys or highways of the
municipality shall be equipped with efficient brakes adequate to control the
movement of, to stop and to hold such vehicle, including two separate means of
applying the brakes, and shall be further equipped with a good and sufficient
horn in good working order, or other efficient signal devices. From sunset to
sunrise, and any other time when there is not sufficient light to render
clearly discernible persons or vehicles upon the street, alley or highway at a
distance of 500 feet, every motor vehicle shall be equipped with lighted
headlights, and every motor vehicle and trailer shall be equipped with one or
more taillights, at the rear of the motor vehicle or trailer, exhibiting a red
light visible from a distance of at least 500 feet to the rear of such vehicle.
No person shall operate any vehicle which is equipped with an electric light or
lights that confuse travelers or pedestrians on streets or crosswalks within
the municipality. Every motor vehicle having a width of 80 inches or more shall
display clearance lights as required by state law. All vehicle brakes shall be
maintained in good working order; provided, motorcycles need only be equipped
with one brake. All horns on motor vehicles shall be capable of emitting sound
audible under normal conditions from a distance of not less than 200 feet;
provided, no vehicle except as herein provided, shall be equipped with, nor
shall any person use upon a vehicle, any siren, or horn otherwise than as
reasonable warning; nor shall any person use any horn or warning device upon a
vehicle to make any unnecessary, loud or harsh sound; and provided further
that, every Police and Fire Department vehicle, ambulance or other authorized
emergency vehicle used for emergency calls shall be equipped with a bell, siren
or whistle of the type approved by the governing body.
(Neb. RS 60-6,219, 60-6,220, 60-6,224, 60-6,235, 60-6,244, 60-6,285) (Ord. 626,
passed 1-8-1996)
§ 5-204 VEHICLES; UNOBSTRUCTED VIEW.
   No person shall drive on a street any motor vehicle constructed or loaded in
such a way as to prevent the driver from obtaining a view of the street to the
rear unless such vehicle is equipped with a mirror so located as to reflect to
the driver a view of the street for a distance of at least 200 feet to the rear
of such vehicle. It shall be unlawful for any person to drive upon a street,
any vehicle with a sign, poster or other non-transparent material upon the
front windshield, side windows or rear windows of such motor vehicle other than
a certificate, or paper required to be so displayed by law. Every windshield on
a motor vehicle shall be equipped with a device for removing rain, snow or
other moisture from the windshield, which device shall be so constructed as to
be operated by the driver within the vehicle.
(Neb. RS 60-6,254, 60-6,255, 60-6,256)
§ 5-205 VEHICLE; MUFFLER.
   Every motor vehicle operated within this municipality shall be provided with
a muffler in good working order to prevent excessive or unusual noise. It shall
be unlawful to use a “muffler cut-out” on any motor vehicle upon any streets;
provided, the provisions of this section shall not apply to authorized
emergency vehicles.
(Neb. RS 60-6,286)
§ 5-206 LOADS; PROJECTING.
   When any vehicle shall be loaded in such a manner that any portion of the
load extends more than four feet beyond the rear of the bed or the body of such
vehicle, a red flag shall be carried by day, and red light after sunset at the
extreme rear end of such load.
(Neb. RS 60-6,243)
§ 5-207 LOADS; SPILLING.
   All vehicles used for carrying coal, earth, cinders, sand, gravel, rock,
asphalt, tar or any similar substance shall be so constructed as to prevent the
sifting or spilling of any of the contents.
(Neb. RS 60-6,304)
§ 5-208 VEHICLE; EMISSIONS.
   No person shall operate upon any street or alley any motor vehicle in such
manner as to permit to escape any unnecessary smoke, gas, steam or offensive
odor or in such manner as to discharge any embers, oils or residue from the
fuel used in the operation thereof.
 
§ 5-209 VEHICLE; WIDTH, HEIGHT, LENGTH.
   No vehicle shall exceed the total outside limitations on width, height or
length which are established under the laws of Nebraska. All such measurements
shall include the load of the vehicle.
§ 5-210 VEHICLE; LOAD LIMITATION.
   No vehicle shall be permitted to operate upon any street or alley of this
municipality when any such vehicle is overloaded according to the laws of the
state. Whenever any police officer has reason to believe any vehicle is so
overloaded, it shall be his or her duty to require the prompt weighing of the
same by the driver, owner or operator thereof. If such vehicle is found to be
overloaded, the same shall be impounded by said police officer and shall not be
removed from the yard of the weighing station until the load has been reduced
to the lawful limit. The municipality shall not be liable for any expense,
inconvenience or loss in connection with the enforcement of this section. The
owner and operator of any vehicle found to be overloaded under this section
shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.
§ 5-211 VEHICLES; ENGINE BRAKING PROHIBITED.
   (A)   Definition. ENGINE BRAKING is defined as the use of any means by which
the engine, transmission or exhaust of any vehicle is employed as a braking
mechanism.
   (B)   Use unlawful. It shall be unlawful for anyone to use engine braking
within the city limits.
(Ord. 688, passed 2-8-1999; Ord. 701, passed 2-14-2000)
ALL-TERRAIN VEHICLES (ATV), UTILITY-TYPE VEHICLES (UTV) AND GOLF CAR VEHICLES
§ 5-220 DEFINITIONS.
   For definitions of ALL-TERRAIN VEHICLES (ATV), UTILITY-TYPE VEHICLES (UTV)
and GOLF CAR VEHICLES, see §
5-101.
§ 5-221 OPERATION LIMITS AND VEHICLE REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Golf car vehicles, ATVs and UTVs may be operated on the streets within
the corporate limits of the city if:
      (1)   The operation is between sunrise and sunset;
      (2)   The operation is on streets with a posted speed limit of 35 miles
per hour or less;
      (3)   The vehicle is equipped with a safety orange whip flag, measuring
no less than six feet in height;
      (4)   Any and all occupants or riders of the vehicle are properly seated
in their own seat;
      (5)   The vehicle is equipped with a clearly-displayed and valid City of
Franklin permit which the owner of the vehicle has obtained from the City Clerk
by January 30 of each year;
      (6)   The vehicle shall be equipped with:
         (a)   A brake system maintained in good operating condition;
         (b)   An adequate muffler system in good working condition; and
         (c)   A United States Forrest Service qualified spark arrestor;
      (7)   The vehicle shall not have an exhaust system with a cut out, bypass
or similar device;
      (8)   No ATV nor UTV shall have the spark arrestor removed or modified;
      (9)   ATVs and UTVs shall be equipped with working brake lights.
   (B)   When operating a golf car vehicle, ATV or UTV as authorized under this
division, the operator shall not at any times operate such vehicle at a speed
in excess of 20 miles per hour.
   (C)   When operating a golf car vehicle, ATV or UTV as authorized under this
division, the vehicle shall not be operated at any time on any state or federal
highway unless to cross a portion of the highway system which intersects a
street in only the following manner:
      (1)   The crossing is made at an angle of approximately 90 degrees to the
direction of the highway and at a place where no obstruction prevents a quick
and safe crossing;
      (2)   The vehicle is brought to a complete stop before crossing the
shoulder or roadway of the highway;
      (3)   The operator yields the right-of-way to all oncoming traffic that
constitutes an immediate potential hazard; and
      (4)   In crossing a divided highway, the crossing is made only at an
intersection of such highway with a street or road, as applicable.
(Ord. 904, passed 11-9-2015; Ord. 911, passed 5-9-2016; Ord. 920, passed 11-14-
2017)
§ 5-222 OPERATOR/OWNER REQUIREMENTS.
   Any person operating a golf car vehicle, ATV or UTV as authorized under this
subchapter shall have a valid Class O operator's license and the owner of the
vehicle shall have liability insurance coverage for the vehicle. The person
operating the vehicle shall provide proof of such insurance coverage to any
peace officer requesting such proof within five days after such a request and
shall present such proof at the time of obtaining the vehicle's annual City of
Franklin permit from the City Clerk. The liability insurance coverage shall be
subject to limits, exclusive of interest and costs, as follows: $25,000 because
of bodily injury to or death of one person in any one accident and, subject to
such limit for one person, $50,000 because of bodily injury to or death of two
or more persons in any one accident, and $25,000 because of injury to or
destruction of property of others in any one accident.
(Ord. 904, passed 11-9-2015; Ord. 911, passed 5-9-2016; Ord. 920, passed 11-14-
2017)
ARTICLE 3: PARKING
Section
   
5-301   Regulation or prohibition authorized
   
5-302   Roadway outside business or residential district
   
5-303   General prohibitions; exceptions
   
5-304   Obstructing street, intersection, or entrance
   
5-305   Intersections
   
5-306   Alleys
   
5-307   Truck parking, loading, and unloading
   
5-308   Display or repair of vehicle
   
5-309   Current registration
   
5-310   Time limits
   
5-311   Snow; weather emergencies; highway maintenance
   
5-312   Parallel, angle, and center parking
   
5-313   Backing freight vehicle to curb
   
5-314   Unattended motor vehicle
   
5-315   Painting of curbs
   
5-316   Tickets
   
5-317   Removal of illegally stopped vehicles; liability for costs
   
5-318   Parking fines
§ 5-301 REGULATION OR PROHIBITION AUTHORIZED.
   (A)   The City Council with respect to highways under its jurisdiction and
within the reasonable exercise of the police power may regulate or prohibit
stopping, standing, or parking.
(Neb. RS 60-680)
   (B)   If the City Council regulates or prohibits stopping, standing, or
parking all vehicles or a particular kind or class of vehicles on a highway or
a portion of a highway, no person shall stop, stand, or park a vehicle subject
to such regulation or prohibition on the highway or portion thereof longer than
a period of time necessary to load and unload freight or passengers.
§ 5-302 ROADWAY OUTSIDE BUSINESS OR RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT.
   (A)   No person shall stop, park, or leave standing any vehicle, whether
attended or unattended, upon a roadway outside of a business or residential
district when it is practicable to stop, park, or leave such vehicle off such
part of a highway, but in any event an unobstructed width of the roadway
opposite a standing vehicle shall be left for the free passage of other
vehicles and a clear view of such stopped vehicle shall be available from a
distance of 200 feet in each direction upon such highway. Such parking,
stopping, or standing shall in no event exceed 24 hours.
   (B)   No person shall stop, park, or leave standing any vehicle on a freeway
except in areas designated or unless so directed by a peace officer, except
that when a vehicle is disabled or inoperable or the driver of the vehicle is
ill or incapacitated, such vehicle shall be permitted to park, stop, or stand
on the shoulder facing in the direction of travel with all wheels and
projecting parts of such vehicle completely clear of the traveled lanes, but in
no event shall such parking, standing, or stopping upon the shoulder of a
freeway exceed 12 hours.
   (C)   No person, except law enforcement, fire department, emergency
management, public or private ambulance, or authorized Department of Roads or
local authority personnel, shall loiter or stand or park any vehicle upon any
bridge, highway, or structure which is located above or below or crosses over
or under the roadway of any highway or approach or exit road thereto.
   (D)   Whenever a vehicle is disabled or inoperable in a roadway or for any
reason obstructs the regular flow of traffic for reasons other than an
accident, the driver shall move or cause the vehicle to be moved as soon as
practical so as to not obstruct the regular flow of traffic.
   (E)   This section does not apply to the driver of any vehicle which is
disabled while on the roadway in such manner and to such extent that it is
impossible to avoid stopping and temporarily leaving such disabled vehicle in
such position until such time as it can be removed pursuant to division (D) of
this section.
(Neb. RS 60-6,164)
§ 5-303 GENERAL PROHIBITIONS; EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   Except when necessary to avoid conflict with other traffic or when in
compliance with law or the directions of a peace officer or traffic control
device, no person shall:
      (1)   Stop, stand, or park any vehicle:
         (a)   On the roadway side of any vehicle stopped or parked at the edge
or curb of a street;
         (b)   On a sidewalk;
         (c)   Within an intersection;
         (d)   On a crosswalk;
         (e)   Between a safety zone and the adjacent curb or within 30 feet of
points on the curb immediately opposite the ends of a safety zone unless the
City Council indicates a different length by signs or markings;
         (f)   Alongside or opposite any street excavation or obstruction when
stopping, standing, or parking would obstruct traffic;
         (g)   Upon any bridge or other elevated structure over a highway or
within a highway tunnel;
         (h)   On any railroad track; or
         (i)   At any place where official signs prohibit stopping.
      (2)   Stand or park a vehicle, whether occupied or not, except
momentarily to pick up or discharge a passenger or passengers:
         (a)   In front of a public or private driveway;
         (b)   Within 15 feet of a fire hydrant;
         (c)   Within 20 feet of a crosswalk at an intersection;
         (d)   Within 30 feet of any flashing signal, stop sign, yield sign, or
other traffic control device located at the side of a roadway;
         (e)   Within 20 feet of the driveway entrance to any fire station and
on the side of a street opposite the entrance to any fire station within 75
feet of such entrance when properly signposted;
         (f)   At any place where official signs prohibit standing; or
      (3)   Park a vehicle, whether occupied or not, except temporarily for the
purpose of and while actually engaged in loading or unloading merchandise or
passengers:
         (a)   Within 50 feet of the nearest rail of a railroad crossing; or
         (b)   At any place where official signs prohibit parking.
   (B)   No person shall move a vehicle not lawfully under his or her control
into any such prohibited area or away from a curb such a distance as shall be
unlawful.
(Neb. RS 60-6,166)
§ 5-304 OBSTRUCTING STREET, INTERSECTION, OR ENTRANCE.
   No person shall, except in case of an accident or emergency, stop any
vehicle in any location where stopping will obstruct any street, intersection,
or entrance to an alley or public or private drive.
§ 5-305 INTERSECTIONS.
   Except when necessary to avoid conflict with other traffic or when in
compliance with law or the directions of a peace officer or traffic control
device, no person shall park a vehicle or leave a vehicle standing for any
purpose, except momentarily to load or discharge passengers, within 25 feet of
the intersection of curb lines, or if none, then within 15 feet of the
intersection of property lines, or where the curb lines are painted red or
another color specified by the City Council to indicate such prohibition.
§ 5-306 ALLEYS.  
   (A)   No person shall park a vehicle with any portion thereof projecting
into any alley entrance.
   (B)   No person shall park a vehicle in any alley, except for the purpose of
loading or unloading during the time necessary to load or unload, which shall
not exceed the maximum limit of one-half hour. Every vehicle while loading or
unloading in an alley shall be parked in such manner as will cause the least
obstruction possible to traffic in the alley.
§ 5-307 TRUCK PARKING, LOADING, AND UNLOADING.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the operator of any truck with an overall
length of more than 20 feet to park or stop such vehicle on a street within the
business district except to load or unload when loading or unloading in an
alley is impossible and then only for the period of time reasonably necessary
to load or unload.
   (B)   If the City Council provides truck parking areas adjoining or adjacent
to the business district, all truck operators shall use such parking areas for
all parking purposes.
   (C)   Except in an area provided for by the City Council by resolution, it
shall be unlawful for the operator of any truck, including an oil tanker, to
park or stop for any period of time within the limits of any street outside the
business district except for the purpose of loading or unloading the cargo
thereof in the ordinary course of business.
§ 5-308 DISPLAY OR REPAIR OF VEHICLE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to park upon any highway or public place
within the city any vehicle displayed for sale. Except when necessary due to a
breakdown or other emergency, no person shall adjust or repair, or race the
motor of, any motor vehicle or motorcycle while standing on the highways of the
city. No person or employee connected with a garage or repair shop shall use
sidewalks or highways in the vicinity of the garage or shop for the purpose of
working on vehicles of any description.
§ 5-309 CURRENT REGISTRATION.
   It shall be unlawful to park or place on the highways or other public
property any vehicle required to be registered by the Motor Vehicle
Registration Act that is not registered in accordance with the Act.
Statutory reference:
   Motor Vehicle Registration Act, see Neb. RS 60-301
§ 5-310 TIME LIMITS.
   (A)   The governing body may, by resolution, entirely prohibit, or fix a
time limit for, the parking and stopping of vehicles on any street, streets or
district designated by such resolution, and the parking or stopping of any
vehicle on any such street, streets or district for a period of time longer
than fixed in such resolution shall constitute a violation of this article.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for recreational trailers, motor homes, campers,
flat-bed trailers, stock trailers, equipment trailers, car trailers, boat
trailers or any type of trailer or combination thereof, to be parked on
residential streets within the corporate limits of the city, except while
loading or unloading, for a period in excess of 24 hours.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any truck, or truck tractor and trailer
combination, commonly known as semi-trucks, in excess of 35 feet in length to
be parked upon any street within the city for a time in excess of 30 minutes,
except such trucks when parked for repairs on “K” Street between Fourteenth
Avenue and Sixteenth Avenue.
(Ord. 853, passed 7-28-2011; Ord. 861, passed 3-12-2012)
§ 5-311 SNOW; WEATHER EMERGENCIES; HIGHWAY MAINTENANCE.
   (A)   Unless the City Council provides otherwise, it is unlawful to park or
stand any vehicle on any highway in the city at any time within 12 hours after
a snowfall of three inches or more has occurred within a 24-hour period if the
snow has not been removed within that time.
   (B)   The Police Chief, the city police, or any other designated person may
order any highway or portion thereof vacated for weather emergencies or highway
maintenance. Notice shall be given by personally notifying the owner or
operator of a vehicle parked on such highway or by posting appropriate signs
along the highway not less than four hours prior to the time that the vacation
order is to be effective. It is unlawful to park a vehicle on a highway or
portion thereof vacated in accordance with this division (B).
   (C)   A vehicle parked in violation of this section may be removed and
parked, under the supervision of the city police, to a suitable nearby location
without further notice to the owner or operator of such vehicle.
§ 5-312 PARALLEL, ANGLE, AND CENTER PARKING.
   (A)   Except as otherwise provided in this section, any vehicle stopped or
parked upon a two-way roadway where parking is permitted shall be so stopped or
parked with the right-hand wheels parallel to and within 12 inches of the
right-hand curb or edge of such roadway. No vehicle shall be parked upon a
roadway when there is a shoulder adjacent to the roadway which is available for
parking.
   (B)   Except when otherwise provided by the City Council, every vehicle
stopped or parked upon a one-way roadway shall be so stopped or parked parallel
to the curb or edge of such roadway, in the direction of authorized traffic
movement, with its right-hand wheels within 12 inches of the right-hand curb or
edge of the roadway or its left-hand wheels within 12 inches of the left-hand
curb or edge of such roadway.
   (C)   The City Council may permit angle or center parking on any roadway,
except that angle or center parking shall not be permitted on any federal-aid
highway or on any part of the state highway system unless the Director-State
Engineer has determined that such roadway is of sufficient width to permit
angle or center parking without interfering with the free movement of traffic.
   (D)   The City Council may prohibit or restrict stopping, standing, or
parking on highways under its jurisdiction and erect and maintain proper and
adequate signs thereon. No person shall stop, stand, or park any vehicle in
violation of the restrictions stated on such signs.
(Neb. RS 60-6,167)
   (E)   Where stalls are designated either on the curb or pavement, vehicles
shall be parked within those stalls.
   (F)   Vehicles must not be parked at any curb in such a position as to
prevent another vehicle already parked at the curb from moving away.
§ 5-313 BACKING FREIGHT VEHICLE TO CURB.
   The operator of a vehicle of an over-all length of less than 20 feet,
including load, while loading or unloading freight may back the vehicle to the
curb but shall occupy as little of the street as possible.
§ 5-314 UNATTENDED MOTOR VEHICLE.
   No person having control or charge of a motor vehicle shall allow such
vehicle to stand unattended on a highway without first doing the following:
   (A)   Stopping the motor of such vehicle;
   (B)   Except for vehicles equipped with motor starters that may be actuated
without a key, locking the ignition, removing the key from the ignition;
   (C)   Effectively setting the brakes thereon; and
   (D)   When standing upon any roadway, turning the front wheels of such
vehicle to the curb or side of such roadway.
(Neb. RS 60-6,168) (Ord. 933, passed 2-13-2018)
Cross reference:
   Misdemeanors; abandoned vehicles, see §
6-326
   Misdemeanors; Unlicensed or inoperable vehicles, see §
6-327
§ 5-315 PAINTING OF CURBS.
   (A)   The curb space within 15 feet in either direction of a fire hydrant
shall be painted red, or another color specified by the City Council, to
indicate that parking is prohibited in such area.
   (B)   If the City Council adopts a resolution regulating or prohibiting the
parking or stopping of vehicles at the curb on highways in front of certain
facilities or at certain locations, the curbs adjacent to any such facility or
location shall be painted in such manner as directed by the City Council to
indicate such regulation or prohibition.
   (C)   It shall be the duty of the City Council or its agent to cause the
curb space to be painted and to keep the same painted as provided in this
chapter or as specified by the City Council. The marking or designating of
portions of highways where the parking of vehicles is prohibited or limited
shall be done only by the city through its proper officers, at the direction of
the City Council. No person shall paint the curb of any highway or in any
manner set aside, or attempt to prevent the parking of vehicles in, any highway
or part thereof, except at such places where the parking of vehicles is
prohibited by the provisions of this chapter or by a resolution adopted by the
City Council.
§ 5-316 TICKETS.
   All tickets issued for violations of nonmoving traffic regulations contained
in this chapter shall, in addition to information normally stated on such
tickets, carry the following information:
   (A)   The amount of the fine if paid within 30 days;
   (B)   The amount of the fine if not paid within 30 days;
   (C)   The location where payment may be made; and
   (D)   The fact that a complaint will be filed after 30 days if the fine is
not paid in that time.
§ 5-317 REMOVAL OF ILLEGALLY STOPPED VEHICLES; LIABILITY FOR COSTS.
   (A)   Whenever any peace officer, or any authorized employee of a law
enforcement agency who is employed by the city and specifically empowered by
ordinance to act, finds a vehicle standing upon a highway in violation of any
of the provisions of this chapter, the individual may remove the vehicle, have
such vehicle removed, or require the driver or other person in charge of the
vehicle to move such vehicle to a position off the roadway of the highway or
from the highway.
   (B)   The owner or other person lawfully entitled to the possession of any
vehicle towed or stored shall be charged with the reasonable cost of towing and
storage fees. Any towing or storage fee shall be a lien upon the vehicle prior
to all other claims. Any person towing or storing a vehicle shall be entitled
to retain possession of the vehicle until the charges are paid. The lien
provided for in this section shall not apply to the contents of any vehicle.
(Neb. RS 60-6,165) (Ord. 465, passed 8-14-1984; Ord. 530, passed 12-12-1988)
§ 5-318 PARKING FINES.
   (A)   Any person, or person’s agent or servant, who violates any of the
provisions of this chapter, unless otherwise specifically provided herein,
shall be deemed guilty of an offense and upon conviction there of shall be
fined in an amount not exceeding $500. A new violation shall be deemed to have
been committed every 24 hours of failure to comply with the provision of this
chapter.
   (B)   A schedule of waiver fine amounts may be set by the City Council by
resolution. A copy of the waiver schedule shall be maintained in the city
office and the county court. No waiver fine shall exceed $500.
(Ord. 943, passed 4-12-2022)
CHAPTER 6: POLICE REGULATIONS
   Article
      
1.   DOGS AND CATS
      
2.   ANIMALS GENERALLY
      
3.   MISCELLANEOUS MISDEMEANORS
      
4.   PENAL PROVISION
ARTICLE 1: DOGS AND CATS
Section
   
6-101   Dogs and cats; dog license
   
6-101.01   Dogs and cats; dog guides, hearing aid dogs, and service dogs;
exempt from license tax
   
6-102   Dogs and cats; dog license tags
   
6-103   Dogs and cats; wrongful licensing of dog
   
6-104   Dogs and cats; owner defined
   
6-105   Dogs and cats; proclamation
   
6-106   Dogs and cats; running at large
   
6-107   Dogs and cats; dogs or cats damaging property of others
   
6-108   Dogs and cats; capture impossible
   
6-109   Dogs and cats; dangerous, potentially dangerous, and vicious animals
generally
   
6-110   Dogs and cats; determination of potentially dangerous or dangerous
animal
   
6-111   Dogs and cats; judicially excluded animals
   
6-112   Dogs and cats; impoundment of certain animals during enforcement
proceedings
   
6-113   Dogs and cats; dangerous or potentially dangerous animals - spaying or
neutering: microchip identification and license required
   
6-114   Dogs and cats; requirements for vicious dogs, potentially dangerous
dogs and dangerous dogs
   
6-115   Dogs and cats; interference with police
   
6-116   Dogs and cats; killing and poisoning
   
6-117   Dogs; barking and offensive
   
6-118   Dogs and cats; liability of owner
   
6-119   Dogs and cats; removal of tags
   
6-120   Dogs and cats; impounding
   
6-121   Dogs and cats; animal shelter
   
6-122   Dogs and cats; rabies suspected
   
6-123   Dogs and cats; nuisance feeding prohibited
   
6-124   Dogs and cats; sanitation requirements
   
6-125   Dogs and cats; violation; penalty
§ 6-101 DOGS AND CATS; DOG LICENSE.
   Any person who shall own, keep, or harbor a dog over the age of six months
within the municipality shall within 14 days after acquisition of said dog
acquire a license for each such dog. Dog licenses shall be renewable annually
on January 1 of each year commencing in the year. Any license which has not
been renewed by January 31 shall be delinquent and of no further force and
effect. The possessor of any dog brought into or harbored within the corporate
limits subsequent to January 1 of any year, shall be liable for the payment of
the dog tax levied herein. Licenses shall be issued by the Municipal Clerk upon
the payment of a license fee of $10 for each dog male or female for which the
tax shall become delinquent for lack of payment by January 31 of each year.
Said license shall not be transferable and no refund will be allowed in case of
death, sale, or other disposition of the licensed dog. The owner shall state at
the time the application is made and upon printed forms provided for such
purpose, his or her name and address and the name, breed, color, and sex of
each dog owned and kept by him or her. A certificate that the dog has had a
rabies shot, effective for the ensuing year of the license, shall be presented
when the license is applied for and no license or tag shall be issued until the
certificate is shown. If the dog is a vicious dog, potentially dangerous dog,
or a dangerous dog as defined in §
6-109 of this code, the owner shall also submit a certificate of insurance,
upon both the initial dog license application as well as each successive
renewal, from his or her insurance company showing each dog covered and the
breed of dog covered by public liability insurance in a single incident amount
of not less than $500,000 for bodily injury to or death of any person or
persons or for damage to property owned by any persons which may result from
the ownership, keeping, or maintenance of such dogs. The insurance may be in
the form of a special liability policy or a standard homeowners or renters
insurance policy from a Nebraska licensed insurer which does not have a policy
of limiting or excluding such breeds or types of dogs.
(Ord. 872, passed 12-8-2020)
§ 6-101.01 DOGS AND CATS; DOG GUIDES, HEARING AID DOGS, AND SERVICE DOGS;
EXEMPT FROM LICENSE TAX.
   Every dog guide for a blind or visually impaired person, hearing aid dog for
a deaf or hearing-impaired person, and service dog for a physically limited
person shall be licensed as required by the municipal code, but no license tax
shall be charged upon a showing by the owner that the dog is a graduate of a
recognized training school for dog guides, hearing aid dogs, or service dogs.
Upon the retirement or discontinuance of the dog as a dog guide, hearing aid
dog, or service dog, the owner of the dog shall be liable for the payment of
the required license tax.
(Ord. 872, passed 12-8-2020)
§ 6-102 DOGS AND CATS; DOG LICENSE TAGS.
   Upon the payment of the license fee, the Municipal Clerk shall issue to the
owner of a dog a license certificate and a metallic tag for each dog so
licensed. The metallic tags shall be properly attached to the collar or harness
of all dogs so licensed and shall entitle the owner to keep or harbor the said
dog until the thirty-first day of December following such licensing. In the
event that a license tag is lost and upon satisfactory evidence that the
original plate or tag was issued in accordance with the provisions herein, the
Municipal Clerk shall issue a duplicate or new tag for the balance of the year
for which the license tax has been paid and may charge and collect a fee set by
resolution of the governing body for each duplicate or new tag so issued. All
license fees and collections shall be immediately credited to the General Fund.
It shall be the duty of the Municipal Clerk to issue tags of a suitable design
that are different in appearance each year.
(Ord. 872, passed 12-8-2020)
§ 6-103 DOGS AND CATS; WRONGFUL LICENSING OF DOG.
   It shall be unlawful for the owner, keeper, or harborer of any dog to permit
or allow such dog to wear any license, metallic tag, or other municipal
identification than that issued by the Municipal Clerk for dogs, nor shall the
owner, keeper, or harborer wrongfully and knowingly license an unspayed female
dog with a license prescribed for a male or spayed female dog.
(Ord. 872, passed 12-8-2020)
§ 6-104 DOGS AND CATS; OWNER DEFINED.
   Any person who shall harbor or permit any dog or cat to be for ten days or
more in or about his or her house, store, or enclosure, or to remain to be fed,
shall be deemed the owner and possessor of such dog or cat and shall be deemed
to be liable for all penalties herein prescribed.
(Ord. 872, passed 12-8-2020)
§ 6-105 DOGS AND CATS; PROCLAMATION.
   It shall be the duty of the governing body whenever in its opinion the
danger to the public safety from rabid dogs or cats is great or imminent, to
issue a proclamation ordering all persons owning, keeping, or harboring any dog
or cat to confine it for a period of not less than 30 days or more than 90 days
from the date of such proclamation, or until such danger is passed. The dogs or
cats may be harbored by any good and sufficient means in a house, garage, or
yard on the premises wherein the said owner may reside. Upon issuing the
proclamation it shall be the duty of all persons owning, keeping, or harboring
any dog or cat to confine the same as herein provided.
(Ord. 872, passed 12-8-2020)
§ 6-106 DOGS AND CATS; RUNNING AT LARGE.
   No person shall permit any dog or cat owned, kept, or harbored by him or her
to run at large. All dogs and cats found running at large upon the streets,
alleys, public grounds, or property of another are hereby declared a public
nuisance. Dogs and cats found running at large and unable to be returned to
their owner shall be impounded by the municipal police in the municipal animal
shelter and disposed of as the municipal police deem appropriate if, after ten
days, no owner can be located. The term RUNNING AT LARGE means permitting any
animal to go on or about the public streets or alleys, the property of another
person, or other places in the municipality, except when such animal is upon
the premises of the owner, when on a leash not to exceed ten feet in length, or
when confined to an automobile or similar confinement, and at all times under
the control of a person. The penalty for violation of this section is $25 for
each offense.
(Ord. 872, passed 12-8-2020)
§ 6-107 DOGS AND CATS; DOGS OR CATS DAMAGING PROPERTY OF OTHERS.
   It shall be unlawful for the owner of a dog or cat to allow or permit his or
her dog or cat to damage the property of others or to cause bodily injury. If
the owner is adjudged guilty of a violation of this section, the court may, in
addition to the penalty provided for the violation of this code, order such
disposition or destruction of the offending dog or cat as may seem reasonable
and proper.
(Ord. 872, passed 12-8-2020)
§ 6-108 DOGS AND CATS; CAPTURE IMPOSSIBLE.
   The municipal police shall have the authority to kill any animals showing
vicious tendencies, or characteristics of rabies which make capture impossible
because of the danger involved.
(Ord. 872, passed 12-8-2020)
§ 6-109 DOGS AND CATS; DANGEROUS, POTENTIALLY DANGEROUS, AND VICIOUS ANIMALS
GENERALLY.
   (A)   No person shall own, keep or harbor, or allow to be in or upon any
premises occupied by him or her, or under his or her charge or control, any
dangerous animal, potentially dangerous animal, or vicious animal without
complying with the requirements of this chapter regarding dangerous,
potentially dangerous, or vicious animals.
   (B)   A DANGEROUS ANIMAL is defined as one who, according to the records of
the municipal police and/or the city, meets one or more of the following
conditions:
      (1)   Has killed a human being.
      (2)   Has inflicted injury on a human being that requires medical
treatment.
      (3)   Has killed a domestic animal without provocation.
      (4)   Has been previously determined to be a potentially dangerous dog by
the city, the owner has received notice from the city or the municipal police
of such determination, and the dog inflicts an injury on a human being that
does not require medical treatment, injures a domestic animal, or threatens the
safety of humans or domestic animals.
   (C)   A POTENTIALLY DANGEROUS ANIMAL is defined as one who meets one or more
of the following conditions:
      (1)   Any animal that when unprovoked: (i) inflicts an injury on a human
being that does not require medical treatment, (ii) injures a domestic animal,
or (iii) chases or approaches a person upon streets, sidewalks, or any public
grounds in a menacing fashion or apparent attitude of attack; or
      (2)   Any specific animal with a known propensity, tendency, or
disposition to attack when unprovoked, to cause injury, or to threaten the
safety of humans or domestic animals.
   (D)   A VICIOUS ANIMAL is defined as any member of the following breeds of
dogs or any dog having the following described characteristics or disposition:
      (1)   Any dog of the bull terrier breed;
      (2)   Any dog of the Staffordshire bull terrier breed;
      (3)   Any dog of the American pit bull terrier breed;
      (4)   Any dog of the American Staffordshire terrier breed;
      (5)   Any dog of mixed breed or of other breeds than those specific
breeds listed herein which is commonly known as a pit bull, pit bull dog, or
pit bull terrier;
      (6)   Any dog which has the appearance and characteristics of being
predominantly of the breed of bull terrier, Staffordshire bull terrier,
American pit bull terrier, American Staffordshire bull terrier, or any other
breed commonly known as pit bulls, pit bull dogs, or pit bull terriers, or any
combination of said breeds; or
      (7)   Any other dog which is of a dangerous or ferocious disposition
which habitually snaps or manifests a disposition to bite persons or other
animals.
   (E)   No animal may be declared dangerous or potentially dangerous that
inflicts injury or damage on a person committing a willful trespass or other
tort upon premises occupied by the owner or lessee of the animal, or committing
or attempting to commit a crime. No animal may be declared dangerous or
potentially dangerous for taking any action to defend or protect a human being
within the immediate vicinity of the animal from an unjustified attack or
assault. No animal used in connection with lawful activities of law enforcement
officials shall be declared a dangerous or potentially dangerous animal.
   (F)   No animal may be declared potentially dangerous or dangerous without
an administrative determination as provided in §
6-110.
   (G)   The court may, in addition to any other fine or judgment, order the
municipal police to forthwith put the animal to death by removing the same to
the municipal animal shelter for such purpose. Any person found guilty of
violating this section shall pay all expenses, including shelter, food,
veterinary expenses for identification or certification of the animal, boarding
and veterinary expenses necessitated by the seizure of any animal for the
protection of the public and such other expenses as may be required for the
destruction of any such animal.
(Ord. 872, passed 12-8-2020)
§ 6-110 DOGS AND CATS; DETERMINATION OF POTENTIALLY DANGEROUS OR DANGEROUS
ANIMAL.
   The city shall initiate administrative proceedings to determine an animal to
be a potentially dangerous animal or dangerous animal if it meets the
definition of potentially dangerous animal or dangerous animal under §
6-109, by service of a notice, in writing, upon such animal's owner either by
certified or regular mail to the owner's last known address or by personal
service. The notice shall contain:
   (A)   The name and address of the owner whose animal is subject to such
determination;
   (B)   The name, description, and license number of the animal who is subject
to such determination;
   (C)   A description of the facts which form the basis of such determination;
   (D)   A summary of the effects of such determination, including the
requirements for §§
6-113 and
6-114 and a statement that noncompliance will result in an owner being cited
with a violation of this article and in the case of the animal being declared a
potentially dangerous animal, the animal subject to such determination
potentially being declared a dangerous animal for a violation of §
6-109(2)(D);
   (E)   The date of proposed entry of the determination which shall be not
less than ten days after the date of mailing or personal service of the notice;
and
   (F)   Notification of the availability of an appeal if the owner objects to
such determination, within ten days of the date of mailing or personal service
of the notice. An owner whose animal is determined to be a potentially
dangerous or dangerous animal shall be required to comply with §
6-114 immediately, §
6-113 within 30 days of the date of entry of the determination order, unless a
notice of appeal of the order is filed with the Municipal Clerk, provided,
noncompliance with any of the sections set forth above in this paragraph, shall
result in a violation of this section.
      (1)   An appeal of such determination order shall be heard by a hearing
officer designated by the city within ten days of the date of the filing of the
notice of appeal, and shall provide an opportunity for the owner to appear and
offer evidence to dispute the determination order. The filing fee for each
notice of appeal shall be $25. A decision to affirm or reverse such order shall
be entered by the hearing officer within ten days of the date of the hearing.
The decision of the hearing officer shall be the final decision of the city but
may be appealed in accordance with the provisions of Nebraska law. If such an
appeal is undertaken, and the animal is being held in the custody of the city
or the municipal animal shelter, then an appeal bond in an appropriate amount
shall be paid to and held by the city or municipal animal shelter pending the
outcome of the appeal.
      (2)   The city will notify the owner of any potentially dangerous animal
that has been involved in no incidents of the type specified in section §
6-109(3) for a two-year period following the date of the determination order,
that his or her dog is no longer declared a potentially dangerous animal.
(Ord. 872, passed 12-8-2020)
§ 6-111 DOGS AND CATS; JUDICIALLY EXCLUDED ANIMALS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to bring any animal into the city, which
has, in another jurisdiction been judicially determined to be a dangerous,
potentially dangerous, vicious, a nuisance, or a threat to the health or safety
of human beings.
(Ord. 872, passed 12-8-2020)
§ 6-112 DOGS AND CATS; IMPOUNDMENT OF CERTAIN ANIMALS DURING ENFORCEMENT
PROCEEDINGS.
   (A)   If there is reasonable cause shown that the offending animal under §§
6-107 or
6-109 may constitute a hazard to the safety of the public at large during the
pendency of any action commenced thereunder, the court may order such animal or
animals impounded pending the outcome of such proceedings. Any person who owns,
keeps, harbors, maintains, or controls any animal involved in such impoundment
shall pay all expenses, including shelter, food, veterinary expenses, boarding,
or other expenses, necessitated by the impoundment of the animal for the
protection of the public and other expenses as may be required. The city may
require such person to pay, prior to expiration of ten days after the date of
impoundment, an amount sufficient to pay all reasonable expenses incurred in
caring and providing for the animal, including estimated medical care, for 30
days, inclusive of ten days after the date of impoundment, an amount sufficient
to pay all reasonable expenses incurred in caring and providing for the animal,
including estimated medical care, for 30 days, inclusive of the date on which
the animal was impounded. If such payment is not made prior to expiration of
this ten-day period, the animal shall become the property of the city to be
disposed of as the municipal police deem appropriate. Such payment shall be
required for each succeeding 30-day period. If any such payment is not made
prior to the end of each succeeding 30-day period, the animal shall become the
property of the city to be disposed of as the municipal police deem
appropriate. The amount of the payment shall be determined by the authority
based on the current rate for board at the animal shelter and the condition of
the animal after examination of the animal by a veterinarian acting for the
city. Any such payment received by the Municipal Clerk in excess of the amount
determined by the Municipal Clerk to be due for the board and care of the
animal shall be refunded by the authority upon expiration of the order of
impoundment. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if the owner or custodian is found
not guilty of animal neglect or cruelty, the owner or custodian shall only be
required to pay the veterinary expenses and one-half of the board and care fees
determined by the Municipal Clerk to be due.
   (B)   Notwithstanding the foregoing, if it is determined by a veterinarian
acting for the city that such animal is diseased or disabled beyond any useful
purpose, the animal shall immediately become the property of the city to be
humanely disposed of as the municipal police deem appropriate.
(Ord. 872, passed 12-8-2020)
§ 6-113 DOGS AND CATS; DANGEROUS OR POTENTIALLY DANGEROUS ANIMALS - SPAYING OR
NEUTERING: MICROCHIP IDENTIFICATION AND LICENSE REQUIRED.
   Any animal judicially determined to be dangerous or administratively
determined to be potentially dangerous shall be spayed or neutered and
implanted with microchip identification by a licensed veterinarian at the
owner's expense no less than 30 days after such determination is entered with
written proof of spaying or neutering and the microchip identification number
being provided to the Municipal Clerk within 72 hours of the procedure being
completed. In addition, such dangerous or potentially dangerous animal shall be
required to be licensed as a dangerous or potentially dangerous dog within 30
days of the determination.
(Ord. 872, passed 12-8-2020)
§ 6-114 DOGS AND CATS; REQUIREMENTS FOR VICIOUS DOGS, POTENTIALLY DANGEROUS
DOGS AND DANGEROUS DOGS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to own, keep, or harbor a vicious
dog, potentially dangerous dog, or dangerous dog unless such dog is kept
securely confined as provided in this section.
   (B)   No person shall permit a vicious dog, potentially dangerous dog, or
dangerous dog to go outside its kennel or pen unless such dog is securely
leashed with a leash no longer than four feet in length. No person shall permit
a vicious dog, potentially dangerous dog, or dangerous dog to be kept on a
chain, rope, or other type of leash outside its kennel or pen unless a person
is in physical control of the leash. Such dogs may not be leashed to inanimate
objects such as trees, posts, buildings, and the like. In addition, any vicious
dog, potentially dangerous dog or dangerous dog on a leash outside the animal's
kennel must be muzzled by a muzzling device sufficient to prevent such dog from
biting persons or other animals.
   (C)   All vicious dogs, potentially dangerous dogs and dangerous dogs shall
be securely confined indoors or in a securely enclosed and locked pen or
kennel, except when leashed and muzzled as above provided. Such pen, kennel, or
structure must have secure sides and a secure top attached to the sides. All
structures used to confine vicious dogs, potentially dangerous dogs or
dangerous dogs must be locked with a key or combination lock when such animals
are within the structure. Such structure must have a secure bottom or floor
attached to the sides of the pen or the sides of the pen must be embedded in
the ground no less than two feet. All structures erected to house vicious dogs,
potentially dangerous dogs or dangerous dogs must comply with all zoning and
building regulations of the city. All such structures must be adequately
lighted and ventilated and kept in a clean and sanitary condition. The pen,
kennel, or structure shall be at least ten feet from any property line of the
owner and shall also protect the dog from the elements.
   (D)   No vicious dogs, potentially dangerous dogs or dangerous dogs may be
kept on a porch, patio, or in any part of a house or structure that would allow
the dog to exit such building on its own volition. In addition, no such animal
may be kept in a house or structure when the windows are open or when screen
windows or screen doors are the only obstacle preventing the dog from exiting
the structure.
   (E)   All owners, keepers, or harborers of vicious dogs, potentially
dangerous dogs, or dangerous dogs within the city shall, within ten days of the
effective date of this section, display in a prominent place on their premises
a sign easily readable by the public using the words "Beware of Dog". In
addition, a similar sign is required to be posted on the kennel or pen of such
animal.
   (F)   All owners, keepers, or harborers of vicious dogs, potentially
dangerous dogs, or dangerous dogs within the city shall carry public liability
insurance covering each dog in a single incident amount of not less than
$500,000 for bodily injury to or death of any person or persons or for damage
to property owned by any persons which may result from the ownership, keeping
or maintenance of such dogs.
   (G)   All owners, keepers, or harborers of vicious dogs, potentially
dangerous dogs or dangerous dogs within the city shall submit proof of said
liability insurance to the Municipal Clerk upon both the initial application
for a dog license and each successive renewal. The insurance may be in the form
of a special liability policy or a standard homeowners or renters insurance
policy from a Nebraska licensed insurer which does not have a policy of
limiting or excluding such breeds or types of dogs. Proof of insurance must be
in the form of a certificate of insurance from said insurer showing coverage
for the specific dog sought to be licensed as well as the breed of said dog.
   (H)   If any vicious dog, potentially dangerous dog or dangerous dog is kept
in any manner other than as required in this section or allowed to run at
large, the owner shall be in violation of this section and as part of its
judgment the court may order the municipal police to put the dog to death.
(Ord. 872, passed 12-8-2020)
§ 6-115 DOGS AND CATS; INTERFERENCE WITH POLICE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to hinder, delay, or interfere with any
municipal policeman who is performing any duty enjoined upon him by the
provisions of this article, or to break open, or in any manner directly or
indirectly aid, counsel, or advise the breaking open of the animal shelter, any
ambulance wagon, or other vehicle used for the collecting or conveying of
animals to the shelter.
(Ord. 872, passed 12-8-2020)
§ 6-116 DOGS AND CATS; KILLING AND POISONING.
   It shall be unlawful to kill, or to administer, or cause to be administered,
poison of any sort to a dog or cat, or in any manner to injure, maim, or
destroy, or in any manner attempt to injure, maim, or destroy any dog or cat
that is the property of another person, or to place any poison or poisoned food
where the same is accessible to a dog or cat.
(Ord. 872, passed 12-8-2020)
§ 6-117 DOGS; BARKING AND OFFENSIVE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to own, keep, or harbor any dog which by
loud, continued, or frequent barking, howling, or yelping shall annoy or
disturb any neighborhood or person or which habitually barks at or chases
pedestrians, drivers, or owners of horses or vehicles while they are on any
public sidewalks, streets, or alleys in the municipality; provided, that the
provisions of this section shall not be construed to apply to the municipal
animal shelter.
(Ord. 872, passed 12-8-2020)
§ 6-118 DOGS AND CATS; LIABILITY OF OWNER.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to allow a dog or cat owned, kept, or
harbored by him or her, or under his or her charge or control, to injure or
destroy any real or personal property of any description belonging to another
person. The owner or possessor of any such dog or cat, in addition to the usual
judgment upon conviction, may be made to be liable to the persons so injured in
an amount equal to the value of the damage so sustained.
(Ord. 872, passed 12-8-2020)
§ 6-119 DOGS AND CATS; REMOVAL OF TAGS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to remove or cause to be removed, the
collar, harness, or metallic tag from any licensed dog without the consent of
the owner, keeper, or possessor thereof.
(Ord. 872, passed 12-8-2020)
§ 6-120 DOGS AND CATS; IMPOUNDING.
   It shall be the duty of the municipal police to capture, secure, and remove
in a humane manner to the municipal animal shelter any animal violating any of
the provisions of this article. The animals so impounded shall be treated in a
humane manner and shall be provided with a sufficient supply of food and fresh
water each day. Each impounded animal shall be kept and maintained at the pound
for a period of not less than five days unless reclaimed earlier by the owner.
Notice of impoundment of all animals, including any significant marks or
identifications, shall be posted at the pound as public notification of such
impoundage. Any animal may be reclaimed by its owner during the period of
impoundage by payment of $5 general impoundment fee for the first impoundment
and $10 for all subsequent impoundments in the same calendar year. The owner of
a dog being reclaimed shall then be required to comply with the licensing and
rabies vaccination requirements within 72 hours after release. If the animal is
not claimed at the end of the required waiting period after public notice has
been given, the municipal police may dispose of the animal in accordance with
the applicable rules and regulations pertaining to the same; provided, that if,
in the judgment of the municipal police, a suitable home can be found for any
such animal, the animal shall be turned over to that person and the new owner
shall then be required to pay all fees and meet all licensing and vaccinating
requirements provided in this article. The municipality shall acquire legal
title to any cat and any unlicensed dog impounded in the animal shelter for a
period longer than the required waiting period after giving notice. All animals
shall be destroyed and buried in the summary and humane manner as prescribed by
the Board of Health unless a suitable home can be found for such animal.
(Ord. 872, passed 12-8-2020)
§ 6-121 DOGS AND CATS; ANIMAL SHELTER.
   The animal shelter shall be safe, suitable, and conveniently located for the
impounding, keeping, and destruction of animals. The shelter shall be sanitary,
ventilated and lighted.
(Ord. 872, passed 12-8-2020)
§ 6-122 DOGS AND CATS; RABIES SUSPECTED.
   Any animal suspected of being afflicted with rabies, or any animal not
vaccinated in accordance with the provisions of this article which has bitten
any person and caused an abrasion of the skin, shall be seized and impounded
under the supervision of the Board of Health for a period of not less than ten
days. If, upon examination by a veterinarian, the animal has no clinical signs
of rabies at the end of such impoundment, it may be released to the owner. If
the owner of the said animal has proof of vaccination, it shall be confined by
the owner or some other responsible person for a period of at least ten days,
at which time the animal shall be examined by a licensed veterinarian. If no
signs of rabies are observed, the animal may be released from confinement.
(Ord. 872, passed 12-8-2020)
§ 6-123 DOGS AND CATS; NUISANCE FEEDING PROHIBITED.
   The feeding of dogs, cats, or any wild animals except birds and squirrels,
by setting out food to be left attended or unattended which attracts or is
intended to attract dogs, cats, or wild animals is hereby declared to be a
public nuisance and to be unlawful.
(Ord. 872, passed 12-8-2020)
§ 6-124 DOGS AND CATS; SANITATION REQUIREMENTS.
   The owner of any dog or cat shall keep any yard, enclosure, shelter
structure, or dwelling wherein such animal is kept in a clean and sanitary
condition so as not to give off offensive odors which are a source of
discomfort to persons residing in the vicinity thereof. The owner shall not
allow offal, manure, and waste material of such animal to accumulate or remain
in the yard, pen, enclosure, shelter structure, and/or dwelling, upon which
such animal resides or is confined in any manner which is conducive to the
breeding or attraction of flies, mosquitoes, or other noxious insects or in any
manner which endangers the public health or safety or which creates an
unhealthy environment. The maintenance or permitting of any of the foregoing
conditions on any premises is hereby declared to be a public nuisance. The
owner shall, in a sanitary manner, remove or dispose of all offal, manure, and
waste material accumulating from such animal at least once every seven days.
(Ord. 872, passed 12-8-2020)
§ 6-125 DOGS AND CATS; VIOLATION; PENALTY.
   Any person who violates any of the provisions of this article shall be
deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be fined as follows: For the first
offense, a fine of $50; for a second offense, a fine of $100; and for a third
or subsequent offense, a fine of $150 or imprisonment for not to exceed three
months, or both such fine and imprisonment.
(Ord. 872, passed 12-8-2020)
ARTICLE 2: ANIMALS GENERALLY
Section
   
6-201   Definitions
   
6-202   Running at large; tethering
   
6-203   Wild animals
   
6-204   Killing, poisoning, and injuring
   
6-205   Enclosures
   
6-206   Abandonment, neglect, and mistreatment
   
6-207   Equine; bovine; prohibited acts
   
6-208   Pitting
   
6-209   Impoundment
   
6-210   Officer's compensation
   
6-211   Interference with police
   
6-212   Unusual animals prohibited
   
6-213   Unusual animals; violation; penalty
§ 6-201 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this article, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ANIMAL. Any vertebrate member of the animal kingdom other than an uncaptured
wild creature.
   ANIMAL CONTROL OFFICER.  Any person authorized by law or employed or
appointed for the purpose of aiding in the enforcement of this article or any
other law or ordinance relating to the licensing, control, seizure, or
impoundment of animals.
   OWNER. Any person who owns, possesses, keeps, harbors, or has charge,
custody, or control of an animal or permits an animal to habitually remain or
be lodged or fed within his or her house, store, building, enclosure, yard,
lot, grounds, or premises. OWNER does not include any veterinarian or kennel
operator temporarily maintaining on his or her premises an animal owned by
another person for not more than 30 days.
   RUN AT LARGE.  Not being under the actual control of the owner by means of:
      (a)   A leash, cord, chain, or other suitable means of physical restraint
which is securely fastened or tethered in a manner sufficient to keep the
animal on the premises where tethered;
      (b)   A leash, cord, chain, or other suitable means of physical restraint
of six feet or less in length physically held by the owner;
      (c)   Being confined within a cage, receptacle, enclosed vehicle, fenced
enclosure, or shelter; or
      (d)   Being within the real property limits of the owner and in the
owner's presence and under direct and effective voice or other control.
§ 6-202 RUNNING AT LARGE; TETHERING.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the owner of any cow, hog, horse, mule,
sheep, goat, dog, chicken, turkey, goose, or other animal except a cat to
permit the animal to run at large at any time on any of the public ways and
property or the property of another in the city or to be tethered or staked out
in such a manner so as to allow the animal to reach or pass into any public way
or property or any property of another.
   (B)   The owner of a cat may permit the cat to run at large within the
corporate limits subject to any restrictions or prohibitions otherwise imposed
by the City Council.
   (C)   Any animal found running at large or tethered or staked out in
violation of this section is a public nuisance and may be impounded or
destroyed as provided in this article.
   (D)   Nothing in this section shall be construed to permit anyone to own an
animal in the corporate limits of the city that is prohibited by the City
Council.
Statutory reference:
   Authority to regulate, see Neb. RS 17-526 and 17-547
   Fine for permitting collarless dog to run at large, see Neb. RS 54-607
§ 6-203 WILD ANIMALS.
   No wild animals may be kept within the corporate limits except wild animals
kept for exhibition purposes by circuses and educational institutions.
§ 6-204 KILLING, POISONING, AND INJURING.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to kill, administer or cause to be
administered poison of any sort to, or in any manner injure, maim, or destroy
or attempt to injure, maim, or destroy any animal or to place any poison or
poisoned food where it is accessible to an animal, except that:
   (A)   This section shall not apply to any law enforcement officer or animal
control officer acting within his or her power and duty;
   (B)   This section shall not apply if the animal is vicious, dangerous, or
showing characteristics of rabies and cannot be captured without danger to the
persons attempting to effect a capture of the animal; and
   (C)   Any owner of a dog that he or she wishes to be destroyed may place the
dog in an animal pound or shelter or with a licensed veterinarian to be
humanely destroyed and disposed of according to the provisions in this article
or other provisions of law.
§ 6-205 ENCLOSURES.
   All pens, cages, sheds, yards, or any other area or enclosure for the
confinement or animals not specifically barred within the corporate limits
shall be kept in a clean and orderly manner so as not to become a menace or
nuisance to the neighborhood in which the enclosure is located.
§ 6-206 ABANDONMENT, NEGLECT, AND MISTREATMENT.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this article, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
   ABANDON.  To leave any animal in one’s care, whether as owner or custodian,
for any length of time without making effective provision for its food, water,
or other care as is reasonably necessary for the animal's health.
   ANIMAL. Any vertebrate member of the animal kingdom. ANIMAL does not include
an uncaptured wild creature or a livestock animal as defined in this section.
   BOVINE.  A cow, an ox, or a bison.
   CRUELLY MISTREAT.  To knowingly and intentionally kill, maim, disfigure,
torture, beat, mutilate, burn, scald, or otherwise inflict harm upon any
animal.
   CRUELLY NEGLECT.  To fail to provide any animal in one's care, whether as
owner or custodian, with food, water, or other care as is reasonably necessary
for the animal's health.
   HUMANE KILLING. The destruction of an animal by a method which causes the
animal a minimum of pain and suffering.
   LAW ENFORCEMENT OFFICER. Any member of the Nebraska State Patrol, any county
or deputy sheriff, any member of the police force of the city or any other city
or village, or any other public official authorized by the city or any other
city or village to enforce state or local animal control laws, rules,
regulations, or ordinances.
   LIVESTOCK ANIMAL. Any bovine, equine, swine, sheep, goats, domesticated
cervine animals, ratite birds, or poultry.
   POLICE ANIMAL.  A horse or dog owned or controlled by the state or any
county, city, or village for the purpose of assisting a law enforcement officer
in the performance of his or her official enforcement duties.
(Neb. RS 28-1008)
   (B)   Enforcement powers; immunity.
      (1)   Any law enforcement officer who has reason to believe that an
animal has been abandoned or is being cruelly neglected or cruelly mistreated
may seek a warrant authorizing entry upon private property to inspect, care
for, or impound the animal.
      (2)   Any law enforcement officer who has reason to believe that an
animal has been abandoned or is being cruelly neglected or cruelly mistreated
may issue a citation to the owner as prescribed in Neb. RS 29-422 through 29-
429.
      (3)   Any law enforcement officer acting under this section shall not be
liable for damage to property if such damage is not the result of the officer's
negligence.
(Neb. RS 28-1012)
   (C)   Violation.  
      (1)   A person who intentionally, knowingly, or recklessly abandons,
cruelly neglects, or cruelly mistreats an animal is guilty of an offense.
      (2)   A person commits harassment of a police animal if he or she
knowingly and intentionally teases or harasses a police animal in order to
distract, agitate, or harm the police animal for the purpose of preventing such
animal from performing its legitimate official duties.
(Neb. RS 28-1009) (Ord. 552, passed 12-10-1990)
Statutory reference:
   Authority to prohibit cruelty to animals, see Neb. RS 17-138
   Serious illness or injury to animal; death of animal; felony, see Neb. RS
28-1008 and 28-1009
   Exemptions, see Neb. RS 28-1013  
§ 6-207 EQUINE; BOVINE; PROHIBITED ACTS.
   (A)   (1)   No person shall intentionally trip or cause to fall, or lasso or
rope the legs of, any equine by any means for the purpose of entertainment,
sport, practice, or contest.
      (2)   The intentional tripping or causing to fall, or lassoing or roping
the legs of, any equine by any means for the purpose of entertainment, sport,
practice, or contest shall not be considered a commonly accepted practice
occurring in conjunction with sanctioned rodeos, animal racing, or pulling
contests.
(Neb. RS 54-911)
   (B)   (1)   No person shall intentionally trip, cause to fall, or drag any
bovine by its tail by any means for the purpose of entertainment, sport,
practice, or contest.
      (2)   The intentional tripping, causing to fall, or dragging of any
bovine by its tail by any means for the purpose of entertainment, sport,
practice, or contest shall not be considered a commonly accepted practice
occurring in conjunction with sanctioned rodeos, animal racing, or pulling
contests.
(Neb. RS 54-912)
Statutory reference:
   Livestock Animal Welfare Act, see Neb. RS 54-907 through 54-912
§ 6-208 PITTING.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BEARBAITING.  The pitting of any animal against a bear.
   COCKFIGHTING.  The pitting of a fowl against another fowl.
   DOGFIGHTING.  The pitting of a dog against another dog.
   PITTING.  Bringing animals together in combat.
(Neb. RS 28-1004)
   (B)   (1)   No person shall knowingly:
         (a)   Promote, engage in, or be employed at dogfighting, cockfighting,
bearbaiting, or pitting an animal against another;
         (b)   Receive money for the admission of another person to a place
kept for such purpose;
         (c)   Own, use, train, sell, or possess an animal for such purpose; or
         (d)   Permit any act as described in this division (B)(1) to occur on
any premises owned or controlled by him or her.
      (2)   No person shall knowingly and willingly be present at and witness
as a spectator dogfighting, cockfighting, bearbaiting, or the pitting of an
animal against another as prohibited in division (B)(1) of this section.
(Neb. RS 28-1005)
   (C)   (1)   No person shall knowingly or intentionally own or possess animal
fighting paraphernalia with the intent to commit a violation of this section.
      (2)   (a)   For purposes of this section, except as provided in
subdivision (C)(2)(b) of this subsection, ANIMAL FIGHTING PARAPHERNALIA means
equipment, products, and materials of any kind that are used, intended for use,
or designed for use in the training, preparation, conditioning, or furtherance
of the pitting of an animal against another as defined in division (A) of this
section. ANIMAL FIGHTING PARAPHERNALIA includes, but is not limited to, the
following:
            1.   A breaking stick, which means a device designed for insertion
behind the molars of a dog for the purpose of breaking the dog’s grip on
another animal or object;
            2.   A cat mill, which means a device that rotates around a central
support with one arm designed to secure a dog and one arm designed to secure a
cat, rabbit, or other small animal beyond the grasp of the dog;
            3.   A treadmill, which means an exercise device consisting of an
endless belt on which the animal walks or runs without changing place;
            4.   A fighting pit, which means a walled area designed to contain
an animal fight;
            5.   A springpole, which means a biting surface attached to a
stretchable device, suspended at a height sufficient to prevent a dog from
reaching the biting surface while touching the ground;
            6.   A heel, which means any edged or pointed instrument designed
to be attached to the leg of a fowl;
            7.   A boxing glove or muff, which means a fitted protective
covering for the spurs of a fowl; and
            8.   Any other instrument commonly used in the furtherance of
pitting an animal against another.
      (b)   ANIMAL FIGHTING PARAPHERNALIA does not include equipment, products,
or materials of any kind used by a veterinarian licensed to practice veterinary
medicine and surgery in this state.
   (3)   Any person violating division (C)(1) of this section is guilty of a
Class I misdemeanor.
(Neb. RS 28-1005.04)
(Ord. 535, passed 12-12-1988)
§ 6-209 IMPOUNDMENT.
   (A)   This section shall apply to the impoundment of animals to which §
6-112 does not apply.
   (B)   Any animal found in violation of the provisions of this article shall
be impounded. All impounded domestic animals shall be given proper care,
treatment, and maintenance.
   (C)   Notice of impoundment of all animals, including any significant marks
of identification, shall be posted at the pound and at the office of the City
Clerk within 24 hours after impoundment as public notification of impoundment.
Notice of the impoundment of any licensed dog shall also be mailed to the owner
listed on the license application by regular U.S. mail to the address listed on
the application.
   (D)   Each impounded domestic animal shall be kept and maintained at the
pound for a period of not less than five days after public notice has been
given unless reclaimed earlier by the owner. The owner may reclaim the animal
during the period of impoundment by payment of any general impoundment and
daily board fees set by resolution of the City Council and on file in the
office of the City Clerk, except that in addition, an unusual or other non-
domesticated or wild animal shall only be released upon condition that the
owner shall immediately remove the animal from the city or destroy it. A
diseased animal may be released upon a determination that the health and safely
of the public is no longer threatened. The owner of any released animal shall
be required to comply with any licensing and rabies vaccination requirements
applicable to such animal within 72 hours after release.
   (E)   If the animal is unclaimed at the end of required waiting period after
public notice has been given, the animal control officer may destroy and
dispose of the animal in a humane manner in accordance with applicable rules
and regulations, except that if in the judgment of the officer a suitable home
can be found for the animal, the animal shall be turned over to the person who
can provide such home and the new owner shall be required to pay all fees and
meet all applicable licensing and vaccinating requirements. The city shall
acquire legal title to any unlicensed dog or any other animal impounded in the
animal shelter for a period longer than the required waiting period after
giving notice. The owner of the animal shall remain liable for payment of the
fees established by the City Council.
Statutory reference:
   Authority to establish pens and pounds, see Neb. RS 17-548 and 71-4408
   Authority to impound and sell animals, see Neb. RS 17-526 and 17-547
§ 6-210 OFFICER'S COMPENSATION.
   If the City Council so provides, any official appointed or designated to
destroy and dispose of animals under the provisions of this chapter shall be
paid, in addition to his or her regular salary or other compensation, the sum
set by the Council for each animal so destroyed and disposed of.
Statutory reference:
   Authority to compensate keeper of pound, see Neb. RS 17-548
§ 6-211 INTERFERENCE WITH POLICE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to hinder, delay, or interfere with any
police officer or animal control officer who is performing any duty enjoined
upon that person by the provisions of this chapter or to break open, or in any
manner directly or indirectly aid, counsel, or advise the breaking open, of the
animal shelter, any ambulance wagon, or any other vehicle used for the
collecting or conveying of animals to the shelter.
Cross reference:
   Obstructing a peace officer prohibited, see §
6-315
§ 6-212 UNUSUAL ANIMALS PROHIBITED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to own, harbor, or have under such
person's control, care or custody any unusual animal within the city.
   (B)   The term UNUSUAL ANIMAL means any poisonous or potentially dangerous
animal not normally considered domesticated and includes animals prohibited by
the city or federal requirements, and also:
      (1)   Class Mammalia, Order Carnivora, Family Felidae (such as lions,
tigers, jaguars, leopards and cougars) except commonly accepted domesticated
cats and hybrids involving same; Family Canidae (such as wolves, coyotes and
fox) except domesticated dogs and hybrids involving same; Family Mustelidae
(such as weasels, martins, fishers, skunks, wolverines, opossums, mink, badgers
and ferrets); Family Procyonidae (such as raccoon); Family Ursidae (such as
bears); Order Primata (such as monkeys and chimpanzees); and Order Chiroptera
(such as bats).
      (2)   Poisonous reptiles, cobras and their allies (Elapidae,
Hydrophiidae); vipers and their allies (Crotiladae, Viperidae); Boosnslang and
Kirtland's tree snake; and gila monster (Heleodermatidae).
   (C)   Exceptions. This article shall not apply to such animals which are
naturally present in outdoor public spaces or be prohibitive of a circus or
other entertainment organization, an educational, scientific or medical
institution, or the Department of Parks and Recreation, from keeping such
animals where the same is securely and humanely confined.
(Ord. 900, passed 6-8-2015)
§ 6-213 UNUSUAL ANIMALS; VIOLATION. PENALTY.
   Any person who violates any of the provisions of §
6-212 shall be subject to a $100 fine per day of the offense. Further, any
officer employed and authorized by the Health Department or any police or
humane officer of the city shall have the authority to enforce the provisions
of this article including, but not limited to, taking possession of any animal
which the officer reasonably believes is in violation of this article. If the
person in possession of such animal refuses to relinquish possession of the
animal, the police officer or humane officer shall obtain an appropriate court
order, with the assistance of the City Attorney, to obtain possession. This
article shall not be interpreted to authorize or attempt to authorize entry
into places not open to the public, without either the consent of the owner or
person in possession, or search warrant, or other court order.
(Ord. 900, passed 6-8-2015)
ARTICLE 3: MISCELLANEOUS MISDEMEANORS
Section
   
6-301   Misdemeanors; criminal mischief
   
6-302   Misdemeanors; criminal trespass
   
6-303   Misdemeanors; electrical interference
   
6-304   Misdemeanors; injury to trees
   
6-305   Misdemeanors; posting
   
6-306   Misdemeanors; disorderly conduct
   
6-307   Misdemeanors; street games
   
6-308   Misdemeanors; obstruction of public ways
   
6-309   Misdemeanors; obstructing water flow
   
6-310   Misdemeanors; disturbing the peace
   
6-311   Misdemeanors; impersonating a public servant
   
6-312   Misdemeanors; impersonating a peace officer
   
6-313   Misdemeanors; refusing to aid a peace officer
   
6-314   Misdemeanors; resisting arrest without the use of a deadly or dangerous
weapon
   
6-315   Misdemeanors; obstructing a peace officer
   
6-316   Misdemeanors; interfering with firefighter
   
6-317   Misdemeanors; false reporting
   
6-318   Misdemeanors; maintaining a nuisance
   
6-319   Misdemeanors; appliances in yard
   
6-320   Misdemeanors; putting carcass or filthy substance into well, spring,
brook, or stream
   
6-321   Misdemeanors; prohibited fences
   
6-322   Misdemeanors; littering
   
6-323   Misdemeanors; raising or producing stagnant water
   
6-324   Misdemeanors; minors; misrepresentation to obtain alcohol
   
6-325   Misdemeanors; minors; prohibited acts involving alcoholic liquor
   
6-326   Misdemeanors; abandoned automobiles
   
6-327   Misdemeanors; unlicensed or inoperable vehicles
   
6-328   Misdemeanors; discharge of firearms
   
6-329   Misdemeanors; slingshots, air guns, BB guns, archery equipment,
including crossbows and any other projectile weapons or devices
   
6-330   Misdemeanors; sexual predators residency restrictions
   
6-331   Misdemeanors; curfew
   
6-332   Misdemeanors; prostitution
   
6-333   Misdemeanors; public indecency
   
6-334   Misdemeanors; gambling
§ 6-301 MISDEMEANORS; CRIMINAL MISCHIEF.
   (A)   A person commits criminal mischief if he or she:
      (1)   Damages property of another intentionally or recklessly; or
      (2)   Intentionally tampers with property of another so as to endanger
person or property; or
      (3)   Intentionally or maliciously causes another to suffer pecuniary
loss by deception or threat.
   (B)   Criminal mischief is an offense:
      (1)   If the actor intentionally or maliciously causes pecuniary loss of
$200 or more but less than $1,500; or
      (2)   If the actor intentionally, maliciously, or recklessly causes
pecuniary loss in an amount of less than $200 or if his or her action results
in no pecuniary loss.
(Neb. RS 28-519)
§ 6-302 MISDEMEANORS; CRIMINAL TRESPASS.
   (A)   A person commits first degree criminal trespass if:
      (1)   He or she enters or secretly remains in any building or occupied
structure, or any separately secured or occupied portion thereof, knowing that
he or she is not licensed or privileged to do so; or
      (2)   He or she enters or remains in or on a public power infrastructure
facility knowing that he or she does not have the consent of a person who has
the right to give consent to be in or on the facility.
   (B)   First degree criminal trespass is a Class I misdemeanor.
   (C)   For purposes of this section, PUBLIC POWER INFRASTRUCTURE FACILITY
means a power plant, an electrical station or substation, or any other facility
which is used by a public power supplier as defined in Neb. RS 70-2103 to
support the generation, transmission, or distribution of electricity and which
is surrounded by a fence or is otherwise enclosed.
(Neb. RS 28-520)
   (B)   (1)   A person commits second degree criminal trespass if, knowing
that he or she is not licensed or privileged to do so, to enter or remain in
any place as to which notice against trespass is given by:
         (a)   Actual communication to the actor; or
         (b)   Posting in a manner prescribed by law or reasonably likely to
come to the attention of intruders; or
         (c)   Fencing or other enclosure manifestly designed to exclude
intruders, except as otherwise provided in division (A) of this section.
      (2)   Second degree criminal trespass is a Class III misdemeanor, except
as provided for in division (B)(3) of this section.
      (3)   Second degree criminal trespass is a Class II misdemeanor if the
offender defies an order to leave personally communicated to him or her by the
owner of the premises or other authorized person.
(Neb. RS 28-521)
§ 6-303 MISDEMEANORS; ELECTRICAL INTERFERENCE.
   Any person operating, or causing to be operated, any motor, sign, or other
electrical apparatus that is connected with the light and power system shall
equip the apparatus with proper filtering attachments to eliminate
interference, provided that the provisions herein shall not apply to the use of
necessary medical equipment or apparatus where electrical interference cannot
be reasonably and safely eliminated. Any person who so operates or causes to be
operated any such electrical apparatus that interferes habitually with radio
and television reception shall be deemed to be guilty of an offense.
Statutory reference:
   Provisions on nuisances, see Neb. RS 18-1720 and 28-1321
§ 6-304 MISDEMEANORS; INJURY TO TREES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person purposely or carelessly and without
lawful authority to cut down, carry away, injure, break down, or destroy any
fruit, ornamental, shade, or other tree or trees standing or growing on any
land belonging to another person or persons or on any public land in the
corporate limits. Any public service company desiring to trim or cut down any
tree, except on property owned and controlled by it, shall make an application
to the City Council to do so, and the written permit of the City Council in
accordance with their decision to allow such an action shall constitute the
only lawful authority on the part of the company to do so.
§ 6-305 MISDEMEANORS; POSTING.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to use the streets, sidewalks, or public
grounds of the city for signs, signposts, or the posting of handbills or
advertisements without written permission of the City Council.
§ 6-306 MISDEMEANORS; DISORDERLY CONDUCT.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to engage in conduct or behavior which
disturbs the peace and good order of the city by clamor or noise, intoxication,
drunkenness, fighting, or using obscene or profane language in the streets or
other public places or otherwise violating the public peace by indecent or
disorderly conduct or lewd or lascivious behavior.
Statutory reference:
   Authority to prevent disorderly conduct, see Neb. RS 17-129
   Authority to regulate noise, riots, and routs, see Neb. RS 17-556
§ 6-307  MISDEMEANORS; STREET GAMES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to play catch, bat a ball, or kick or
throw a football, or to engage in any exercise or sport, upon the city streets
and sidewalks. Nothing herein shall be construed to prohibit or prevent the
City Council from ordering from time to time certain streets and public places
blocked off for the purpose of providing a safe area to engage in such exercise
and sport.
Statutory reference:
   Additional authority, see Neb. RS 17-555 and 17-557
   Authority to regulate excavation and obstruction of streets, see Neb. RS 17-
142
§ 6-308 MISDEMEANORS; OBSTRUCTION OF PUBLIC WAYS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to erect, maintain, or suffer to remain
on any street or public sidewalk a stand, wagon, display, or other obstruction
inconvenient to or inconsistent with the public use of the same.
Statutory reference:
   Additional authority, see Neb. RS 17-555 and 17-557
   Authority to regulate excavation and obstruction of streets, see Neb. RS 17-
142
   Penalties for injuring or obstructing roads, see Neb. RS 39-301 and 39-302
§ 6-309  MISDEMEANORS; OBSTRUCTING WATER FLOW.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to stop or obstruct the passage of water
in a street gutter, culvert, water pipe, or hydrant.
Statutory reference:
   Authority to abate nuisances, see Neb. RS 17-555
   Authority to prevent water obstruction, see Neb. RS 17-920
§ 6-310  MISDEMEANORS; DISTURBING THE PEACE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person intentionally to disturb the peace and
quiet of any person, family, or neighborhood.
(Neb. RS 28-1322)
§ 6-311 MISDEMEANORS; IMPERSONATING A PUBLIC SERVANT.
   It shall be unlawful for any person falsely to pretend to be a public
servant other than a peace officer and perform any act in that pretended
capacity. It is no defense that the office the actor pretended to hold did not
in fact exist.
(Neb. RS 28-609)
§ 6-312 MISDEMEANORS; IMPERSONATING A PEACE OFFICER.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to falsely pretend to be a peace officer
and perform any act in that pretended capacity.
(Neb. RS 28-610)
§ 6-313 MISDEMEANORS; REFUSING TO AID A PEACE OFFICER.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, upon a request by a person known to him
or her to be a peace officer, unreasonably to refuse or fail to aid the peace
officer in:
   (A)   Apprehending any person charged with or convicted of any offense
against any of the laws of this state or city; or
   (B)   Securing the offender when apprehended; or
   (C)   Conveying the offender to the jail of the county or this city.
(Neb. RS 28-903)
§ 6-314 MISDEMEANORS; RESISTING ARREST WITHOUT THE USE OF A DEADLY OR DANGEROUS
WEAPON.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person, without the use of a deadly or
dangerous weapon, while intentionally preventing or attempting to prevent a
peace officer, acting under color of his or her official authority, from
effecting an arrest of the actor or another, to:
      (1)   Use or threaten to use physical force or violence against the peace
officer or another;
      (2)   Use any other means which creates a substantial risk of causing
physical injury to the peace officer or another; or
      (3)   Employ means requiring substantial force to overcome resistance to
effecting the arrest.
   (B)   It is an affirmative defense to prosecution under this section if the
peace officer involved was out of uniform and did not identify himself or
herself as a peace officer by showing his or her credentials to the person
whose arrest is attempted.
(Neb. RS 28-904)
§ 6-315 MISDEMEANORS; OBSTRUCTING A PEACE OFFICER.
   (A)   A person commits the offense of obstructing a peace officer when, by
using or threatening to use violence, force, physical interference, or
obstacle, he or she intentionally obstructs, impairs, or hinders:
      (1)   The enforcement of the penal law or the preservation of the peace
by a peace officer or judge acting under color of his or her official
authority; or
      (2)   A police animal assisting a peace officer acting pursuant to the
peace officer's official authority.
   (B)   For purposes of this section, POLICE ANIMAL means a horse or dog owned
or controlled by the state or any county, city, or village for the purpose of
assisting a peace officer acting pursuant to his or her official authority.
(Neb. RS 28-906)
§ 6-316 MISDEMEANORS; INTERFERING WITH FIREFIGHTER.
   A person commits the offense of interfering with a firefighter if at any
time and place where any firefighter is discharging or attempting to discharge
any official duties, the person willfully:
   (A)   Resists or interferes with the lawful efforts of any firefighter in
the discharge or attempt to discharge an official duty;
   (B)   Disobeys the lawful orders given by any firefighter while performing
his or her duties;
   (C)   Engages in any disorderly conduct which delays or prevents a fire from
being extinguished within a reasonable time; or
   (D)   Forbids or prevents others from assisting or extinguishing a fire, or
exhorts another person, as to whom he or she has no legal right or obligation
to protect or control, not to assist in extinguishing a fire.
(Neb. RS 28-908)
§ 6-317 MISDEMEANORS; FALSE REPORTING.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to:
      (1)   Furnish material information he or she knows to be false to any
peace officer or other official with the intent to instigate an investigation
of an alleged criminal matter or impede the investigation of an actual criminal
matter;
      (2)   Furnish information he or she knows to be false alleging the
existence of the need for the assistance of an emergency medical service or
out-of-hospital emergency care provider or an emergency in which human life or
property are in jeopardy to any hospital, emergency medical service, or other
person or governmental agency;
      (3)   Furnish any information, or cause information to be furnished or
conveyed by electric, electronic, telephonic, or mechanical means, knowing the
same to be false concerning the need for assistance of a fire department or any
personnel or equipment of such a department;
      (4)   Furnish any information he or she knows to be false concerning the
location of any explosive in any building or other property to any person; or
      (5)   Furnish material information he or she knows to be false to any
governmental department or agency with the intent to instigate an investigation
or to impede an ongoing investigation and which actually results in causing or
impeding the investigation.
   (B)   A person who violates this section commits the offense of false
reporting.
(Neb. RS 28-907)
§ 6-318 MISDEMEANORS; MAINTAINING A NUISANCE.
   (A)   A person commits the offense of maintaining a nuisance if he or she
erects, keeps up or continues, and maintains any nuisance to the injury of any
part of the citizens of this city.
   (B)   The erecting, continuing, using, or maintaining of any building,
structure, or other place for the exercise of any trade, employment,
manufacture, or other business which, by occasioning noxious exhalations,
noisome or offensive smells, becomes injurious and dangerous to the health,
comfort, or property of individuals or the public; the obstructing or impeding,
without legal authority, of the passage of any navigable river, harbor, or
collection of water; or the corrupting or rendering unwholesome or impure of
any watercourse, stream, or water; or unlawfully diverting any such watercourse
from its natural course or state to the injury or prejudice of others; and the
obstructing or encumbering by fences, building, structures or otherwise of any
of the public highways or streets or alleys of the city, shall be deemed
nuisances.
   (C)   A person guilty of erecting, continuing, using, maintaining, or
causing any such nuisance shall be guilty of a violation of this section and in
every such case the offense shall be construed and held to have been committed
in any county whose inhabitants are or have been injured or aggrieved thereby.
   (D)   The court, in case of conviction of such offense, shall order every
such nuisance to be abated or removed.
(Neb. RS 28-1321)
§ 6-319 MISDEMEANORS; APPLIANCES IN YARD.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to permit a refrigerator, icebox,
freezer, or any other dangerous appliance to be in the open and accessible to
children whether on private or public property unless the person first removes
all doors and makes the same reasonably safe.
Statutory reference:
   Authority to prohibit nuisances within zoning jurisdiction, see Neb. RS 18-
1720
§ 6-320 MISDEMEANORS; PUTTING CARCASS OR FILTHY SUBSTANCE INTO WELL, SPRING,
BROOK, OR STREAM.
   Whoever shall put any dead animal, carcass or part thereof, or other filthy
substance into any well, or into any spring, brook, or branch of running water,
of which use is made for domestic purposes, shall be guilty of an offense.
(Neb. RS 28-1304)
§ 6-321 MISDEMEANORS; PROHIBITED FENCES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to erect, or cause to be erected, and
maintain any barbed wire or electric fence within the corporate limits, where
the fence abuts a public sidewalk, street, or alley.
Statutory reference:
   Restrictions on barbed wire fences, see Neb. RS 39-307
§ 6-322 MISDEMEANORS; LITTERING.
   (A)   Any person who deposits, throws, discards, or otherwise disposes of
any litter on any public or private property or in any waters commits the
offense of littering unless:
      (1)   The property is an area designated by law for the disposal of that
type of material and the person is authorized by the proper public authority to
so use the property; or
      (2)   The litter is placed in a receptacle or container installed on the
property for that purpose.
   (B)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      LITTER. Includes all waste material susceptible of being dropped,
deposited, discarded, or otherwise disposed of by any person upon any property
in the state, but does not include wastes of primary processes of farming or
manufacturing.
      WASTE MATERIAL. Any material appearing in a place or in a context not
associated with that material’s function or origin.
   (C)   Whenever litter is thrown, deposited, dropped, or dumped from any
motor vehicle or watercraft in violation of this section, the operator of the
motor vehicle or watercraft commits the offense of littering.
(Neb. RS 28-523)
Cross reference:
   Weeds, litter and stagnant water, see §
4-309
§ 6-323 MISDEMEANORS; RAISING OR PRODUCING STAGNANT WATER.
   Whoever shall build, erect, continue, or keep up any dam or other
obstruction in any river or stream of water in the city and thereby raise an
artificial pond, or produce stagnant waters, which shall be manifestly
injurious to the public health and safety shall be guilty of an offense and the
court shall, moreover, order every such nuisance to be abated or removed.
(Neb. RS 28-1303)
Cross reference:
   Weeds, litter and stagnant water, see §
4-309
§ 6-324 MISDEMEANORS; MINORS; MISREPRESENTATION TO OBTAIN ALCOHOL.
   No minor, as defined by Neb. RS 53-103.23, shall obtain, or attempt to
obtain, alcoholic liquor by misrepresentation of age, or by any other method,
in any tavern or other place where alcoholic liquor is sold.
(Neb. RS 53-180.01)
Statutory reference:
   Penalty for manufacturing false identification intended for minors, see Neb.
RS 53-180.05
Cross reference:
   Sale or gift to minor or mentally incompetent person, see §
10-102
§ 6-325 MISDEMEANORS; MINORS; PROHIBITED ACTS INVOLVING ALCOHOLIC LIQUOR.
   (A)   For purposes of this section, the definitions found in Neb. RS 53-
103.01 through 53-103.42 shall apply, including, but not limited to, the
definitions of the terms “alcoholic liquor,” “consume,” “minor,” “sale,” and
“to sell.”
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in §
10-105, no minor may sell, dispense, consume, or have in his or her possession
or physical control any alcoholic liquor in any tavern or in any other place,
including public streets, alleys, roads, or highways, upon property owned by
the state or any subdivision thereof, or inside any vehicle while in or on any
other place, including, but not limited to, the public streets, alleys, roads,
or highways, or upon property owned by the state or any subdivision thereof,
except that a minor may consume, possess, or have physical control of alcoholic
liquor as a part of a bona fide religious rite, ritual, or ceremony or in his
or her permanent place of residence.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person under 21 years of age to
transport, consume, or knowingly possess or have under his or her control beer
or other alcoholic liquor in or transported by any motor vehicle.
(Neb. RS 53-180.02) Penalty, see § 10.99
Statutory reference:
   Minor Alcoholic Liquor Liability Act, see Neb. RS 53-401 through 53-409
§ 6-326 MISDEMEANORS; ABANDONED AUTOMOBILES.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      ABANDONED VEHICLE.
         (a)   A motor vehicle is an  ABANDONED VEHICLE:
            1.   If left unattended, with no license plates or valid In Transit
stickers issued pursuant to the Motor Vehicle Registration Act affixed thereto,
for more than six hours on any public property;
            2.   If left unattended for more than 24 hours on any public
property, except a portion thereof on which parking is legally permitted;
            3.   If left unattended for more than 48 hours, after the parking
of such vehicle has become illegal, if left on a portion of any public property
on which parking is legally permitted;
            4.   If left unattended for more than seven days on private
property if left initially without permission of the owner, or after permission
of the owner is terminated;
            5.   If left for more than 30 days in the custody of a city law
enforcement agency after the agency has sent a letter to the last-registered
owner under division (D) of this section; or
            6.   If removed from private property by the city pursuant to a
city ordinance or this code.
         (b)   An all-terrain vehicle or minibike is an ABANDONED VEHICLE:
            1.   If left unattended for more than 24 hours on any public
property, except a portion thereof on which parking is legally permitted;
            2.   If left unattended for more than 48 hours, after the parking
of such vehicle has become illegal, if left on a portion of any public property
on which parking is legally permitted;
            3.   If left unattended for more than seven days on private
property if left initially without permission of the owner, or after permission
of the owner is terminated;
            4.   If left for more than 30 days in the custody of a city law
enforcement agency after the agency has sent a letter to the last-registered
owner under division (D) of this section; or
            5.   If removed from private property by the city pursuant to a
city ordinance or this code.
         (c)   A MOBILE HOME is an abandoned vehicle if left in place on
private property for more than 30 days after a local governmental unit,
pursuant to an ordinance or resolution, has sent a certified letter to each of
the last-registered owners and posted a notice on the mobile home, stating that
the mobile home is subject to sale or auction or vesting of title as set forth
in Neb. RS 60-1903.
         (d)   No motor vehicle subject to forfeiture under Neb. RS 28-431
shall be an ABANDONED VEHICLE under this section.
      MOBILE HOME. A movable or portable dwelling constructed to be towed on
its own chassis, connected to utilities, and designed with or without a
permanent foundation for year-round living. It may consist of one or more units
that can be telescoped when towed and expanded later for additional capacity,
or of two or more units, separately towable but designed to be joined into one
integral unit, and shall include a manufactured home as defined in Neb. RS 71-
4603. MOBILE HOME does not include a mobile home or manufactured home for which
an affidavit of affixture has been recorded pursuant to Neb. RS 60-169.
      PRIVATE PROPERTY. Any privately owned property which is not included
within the definition of public property.
      PUBLIC PROPERTY. Any public right-of-way, street, highway, alley, or park
or other state, county, or city-owned property.
(Neb. RS 60-1901)
   (B)   If an abandoned vehicle, at the time of abandonment, has no license
plates of the current year or valid In Transit stickers issued pursuant to Neb.
RS 60-376 affixed and is of a wholesale value, taking into consideration the
condition of the vehicle, of $250 or less, title shall immediately vest in the
city. Any certificate of title issued under this division to the city shall be
issued at no cost to the city.
(Neb. RS 60-1902)
   (C)   (1)   Except for vehicles governed by division (B) of this section,
the city shall make an inquiry concerning the last-registered owner of such
vehicle as follows:
         (a) Abandoned vehicle with license plates affixed, to the jurisdiction
which issued such license plates; or
         (b) Abandoned vehicle with no license plates affixed, to the
Department of Motor Vehicles.
      (2)   The city shall notify the last-registered owner, if any, that the
vehicle in question has been determined to be an abandoned vehicle and that, if
unclaimed, either:
         (a)   It will be sold or will be offered at public auction after five
days from the date such notice was mailed; or
         (b)   Title will vest in the city 30 days after the date such notice
was mailed.
      (3)   If the agency described in division (C)(1)(a) or (b) of this
section also notifies the city that a lien or mortgage exists, such notice
shall also be sent to the lienholder or mortgagee. Any person claiming such
vehicle shall be required to pay the cost of removal and storage of such
vehicle.
      (4)   Title to an abandoned vehicle, if unclaimed, shall vest in the
city:
         (a)   Five days after the date the notice is mailed if the vehicle
will be sold or offered at public auction under division (C)(2)(a) of this
section;
         (b)   Thirty days after the date the notice is mailed if the city will
retain the vehicle; or
         (c)   If the last-registered owner cannot be ascertained, when notice
of such fact is received.
      (5)   After title to the abandoned vehicle vests pursuant to division (C)
(4) of this section, the city may retain for use, sell, or auction the
abandoned vehicle. If the city has determined that the vehicle should be
retained for use, the city shall, at the same time that the notice, if any, is
mailed, publish in a newspaper of general circulation in the jurisdiction an
announcement that the city intends to retain the abandoned vehicle for its use
and that title will vest in the city 30 days after the publication.
(Neb. RS 60-1903)
   (D)   (1)   If a city law enforcement agency has custody of a motor vehicle
for investigatory purposes and has no further need to keep it in custody, it
shall send a certified letter to each of the last-registered owners stating
that the vehicle is in the custody of the law enforcement agency, that the
vehicle is no longer needed for law enforcement purposes, and that after 30
days the agency will dispose of the vehicle.
      (2)   This division shall not apply to motor vehicles subject to
forfeiture under Neb. RS 28-431.
      (3)   No storage fees shall be assessed against the registered owner of a
motor vehicle held in custody for investigatory purposes under this division
(D) unless the registered owner or the person in possession of the vehicle when
it is taken into custody is charged with a felony or misdemeanor related to the
offense for which the law enforcement agency took the vehicle into custody. If
a registered owner or the person in possession of the vehicle when it is taken
into custody is charged with a felony or misdemeanor but is not convicted, the
registered owner shall be entitled to a refund of the storage fees.
(Neb. RS 60-1903.01)
   (E)   If a state agency caused an abandoned vehicle described in division
(A)(a)(5) or (A)(b)(4) of this section to be removed from public property in
this city, the state agency shall be entitled to custody of the vehicle. If a
state agency caused an abandoned vehicle described in division (A)(a)(1), (2),
(3), or (4) or (A)(b)(1), (2), or (3) of this section to be removed from public
property in this city, the state agency shall deliver the vehicle to the city
which shall have custody.
(Neb. RS 60-1904)
   (F)   Any proceeds from the sale of an abandoned vehicle in the city's
custody less any expenses incurred by the city shall be held by the city
without interest, for the benefit of the owner or lienholders of such vehicle
for a period of two years. If not claimed within such two-year period, the
proceeds shall be paid into the general fund of the city.
(Neb. RS 60-1905)
   (G)   Neither the owner, lessee, nor occupant of the premises from which any
abandoned vehicle is removed, nor the city, shall be liable for any loss or
damage to such vehicle which occurs during its removal or while in the
possession of the city or its contractual agent or as a result of any
subsequent disposition.
(Neb. RS 60-1906)
   (H)   No person shall cause any vehicle to be an abandoned vehicle as
described in division (A)(a)(1), (2), (3), or (4) or (A)(b)(1), (2), or (3) of
this section.
(Neb. RS 60-1907)
   (I)   No person other than one authorized by the city or appropriate state
agency shall destroy, deface, or remove any part of a vehicle which is left
unattended on a highway or other public place without license plates affixed or
which is abandoned. Anyone violating this division shall be guilty of an
offense.
(Neb. RS 60-1908)
   (J)   The last-registered owner of an abandoned vehicle shall be liable to
the city for the costs of removal and storage of such vehicle.
(Neb. RS 60-1909)
   (K)   Any person violating the provisions of this section shall be guilty of
an offense.
(Neb. RS 60-1911)
(Ord. 334, passed 3-14-1997; Ord. 719, passed 10-9-2000; Ord. 828, passed 12-
14-2009)
Statutory reference:
   Motor Vehicle Registration Act, see Neb. RS 60-301
Cross reference:
   Unattended motor vehicle, see §
5-314
§ 6-327 MISDEMEANORS; UNLICENSED OR INOPERABLE VEHICLES.
   (A)   No person in charge or control of any property within the city, other
than city property, whether as owner, tenant, occupant, lessee, or otherwise,
shall allow any partially dismantled, inoperable, wrecked, junked, or discarded
vehicle to remain on that property longer than 30 days.
   (B)   No unlicensed vehicle shall be permitted to remain on any private or
public property for any length of time, provided that this section shall not
apply to the following:
      (1)   A vehicle bearing a valid “In Transit” sticker;
      (2)   A vehicle in an enclosed building;
      (3)   A vehicle on the premises of a business enterprise operated in a
lawful place and manner when the vehicle is necessary to the lawful operation
of the business; or
      (4)   A vehicle in an appropriate storage place or depository maintained
in a lawful place and manner by the city.
   (C)   Any vehicle allowed to remain on property in violation of this section
shall constitute a nuisance and shall be abated, and any person violating this
section shall be guilty of an offense.
(Ord. 811, passed 6-11-2007; Ord. 818, passed 10-8-2007)
Statutory reference:
   “In Transit” stickers, see Neb. RS 60-376
Cross reference:
   Unattended motor vehicle, see §
5-314
§ 6-328 MISDEMEANORS; DISCHARGE OF FIREARMS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, except an officer of the law in the
discharge of official duty, to fire or discharge any gun, pistol, or other
fowling piece within the city, except that nothing in this section shall be
construed to apply to officially sanctioned public celebrations if the persons
so discharging firearms have written permission from the City Council.
Statutory reference:
   Authority to regulate, see Neb. RS 17-556
§ 6-329 MISDEMEANORS; SLINGSHOTS, AIR GUNS, BB GUNS, ARCHERY EQUIPMENT,
INCLUDING CROSSBOWS AND ANY OTHER PROJECTILE WEAPONS OR DEVICES.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to discharge a slingshot, air gun,
BB gun, paint ball gun or the like loaded with rock or other dangerous missiles
at any time or under any circumstances within the municipality.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person using archery equipment including
crossbows, within the corporate limits, without having at least a six-foot by
eight-foot plywood backstop, three-quarters inch thick or of a comparable
material, such as archery backstop netting of at least the same dimensions and
depth to provide the necessary stopping power for the equipment being used.
(Ord. 906, passed 11-9-2015; Ord. 911, passed 5-9-2016)
§ 6-330 MISDEMEANORS: SEXUAL PREDATOR RESIDENCY RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   Findings and intent.
      (1)   The Nebraska Legislature has found that certain sex offenders
present a high risk to commit repeat offenses and has enabled municipalities to
restrict such persons’ place of residency as provided in the Sexual Predator
Residency Restriction Act.
      (2)   Sex offenders who prey on children and who are high risks to repeat
such acts present an extreme threat to public safety. The cost of sex offender
victimization to these children and to society at large, while incalculable, is
exorbitant.
      (3)   It is the intent of this section to serve the city’s compelling
interest to promote, protect and improve the health, safety and welfare of the
citizens of the city by creating certain areas around locations where children
regularly congregate in concentrated numbers where certain sexual predators
cannot reside.
   (B)   Definitions. For purposes of this section:
         CHILD CARE FACILITY means a facility licensed pursuant to the Child
Care Licensing Act.
         RESIDE means to sleep, live or dwell at a place, which may include
more than one location, and may be mobile or transitory.
         RESIDENCE means a place where an individual sleeps, lives or dwells,
which may include more than one location, and may be mobile or transitory.
         SCHOOL means a public, private, denominational or parochial school
which meets the requirements for state accreditation or approval.
         SEX OFFENDER means an individual who has been convicted of a crime
listed in Neb. RS 29-4003 and who is required to register as a sex offender
pursuant to the Sex Offender Registration Act.
         SEXUAL PREDATOR means an individual who is required to register under
the Sex Offender Registration Act, who has been classified as Level 3 because
of a high risk of recidivism as determined by the Nebraska State Patrol under
Neb. RS 29-4013, and who has victimized a person 18 years of age or younger.
   (C)   Penalties; exceptions.
      (1)   Prohibited location of residence. It is unlawful for any sexual
predator to reside within 500 feet from a school or child care facility.
      (2)   Measure of distance. For purposes of determining the minimum
distance separation, the distance shall be measured by following a straight
line from the outer property line of the residence to the nearest outer
boundary line of the school or child care facility.
      (3)   Penalties. A person who violates this section shall be punished as
provided generally in the code.
      (4)   Exceptions. This section shall not apply to a sexual predator who:
         (a)   Resides within a prison or correctional or treatment facility
operated by the state or a political subdivision;
         (b)   Established a residence before July 1, 2006, and has not moved
from that residence; or
         (c)   Established a residence after July 1, 2006, and the school or
child care facility triggering the restriction was established after the
initial date of the sexual predator’s residence at that location.
(Ord. 801, passed 6-12-2006)
§ 6-331 MISDEMEANORS; CURFEW.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      CURFEW HOURS. 11:00 p.m. on any day until 6:00 a.m. of the following day.
      DIRECT ROUTE. The shortest path of travel through a public place to reach
a final destination without any detour or stop along the way.
      EMERGENCY. Means, but is not limited to, a fire, a natural disaster, an
automobile accident or any situation requiring immediate action to prevent
serious bodily injury or loss of life.
      JUVENILE. A person under 18 years of age whose disabilities have not been
removed by marriage or by a court of competent jurisdiction or otherwise.
      LAW ENFORCEMENT OFFICER. A certified law enforcement officer of any rank
who is a duly sworn officer of the Franklin Police Department, Franklin County
Sheriff’s Office, the Nebraska State Patrol or an officer of any other state or
federal law enforcement agency.
      PARENT.
         (a)   A natural, adoptive or step-parent of a juvenile; or
         (b)   A court appointed person or agency acting in the role of the
parent of the juvenile;
      PUBLIC PLACE. Any property owned or controlled by the city, Franklin
Public Schools, Franklin County, the State of Nebraska, any municipality or
other government entity to which the general public is invited or has the legal
right of access and right to resort for business, recreation, entertainment, or
other lawful purpose such as, but not limited to, any park, ball field, school,
municipal or city parking lot or common area, and streets, alleyways, highways
and sidewalks.
      REMAIN.
         (a)   Linger or stay unnecessarily; or
         (b)   Fail to leave premises when requested to do so by a police
officer or the owner, operator or other person in control of the premises.
      SEMI-PUBLIC PLACE. Any privately-owned or privately operated real
property (including any structure thereon) to which the general public is
invited or has the legal right of access and right to resort for business,
recreation, entertainment or other lawful purpose such as, but not limited to,
any store, shop, restaurant, tavern, theater, parking lot, alley, road, pool
hall, any vacant lot or abandoned building.
      SWALE. The low tract of land in front of or between houses often used for
drainage.
   (B)   Juvenile curfew. It shall be unlawful and a violation of this section
for any person under the age of 18 years to remain, linger, stay, congregate,
move about, wander or stroll in any public or semi-public place in the city,
either on foot or in or upon any conveyance or vehicle driven or parked
thereon, during the curfew hours.
   (C)   Exceptions. The provisions of the juvenile curfew ordinance shall not
apply if the juvenile is:
      (1)   Accompanied by a parent or guardian;
      (2)   Engaged in a lawful employment activity or traveling to or
returning home from a lawful employment activity without any detour and using
the most direct route;
      (3)   In a motor vehicle engaged in interstate travel;
      (4)   On an errand at the written approval and direction of the
juvenile’s parent, without any detour and using the most direct route;
      (5)   Involved in or attempting to remedy, alleviate or respond to an
emergency;
      (6)   Attending an official school, religious or organized recreational
activity sanctioned by Franklin County, the Franklin Public School Board, the
city, a municipality, a charitable or religious organization or other similar
entity, which organizations take responsibility for the juvenile as an invitee,
or going to or returning home from any such activity without any detour and
using the most direct route;
      (7)   On the swale or sidewalk abutting the juvenile’s residence or the
residence of a next door neighbor if the neighbor has not complained to the
Police Department about the juvenile’s presence;
      (8)   Exercising First Amendment rights protected by the United States
Constitution such as freedom of speech, or free exercise of religion;
      (9)   Married in accordance with law or had disability of nonage removed
by a court of competent jurisdiction; or
      (10)   When City Council pursuant to application by a sponsor or an event
not provided for in these exceptions, authorizes juvenile(s) to be in a public
or semi-public place during curfew hours.
   (D)   Enforcement procedures.
      (1)   Unless flight by the person or other circumstances make it
impractical, a law enforcement officer, upon finding a suspected juvenile in
violation of the curfew ordinance shall:
         (a)   Have the suspected juvenile identify himself or herself with
name, age and address;
         (b)   Make every reasonable effort to immediately verify the
statements or other information provided by the suspected juvenile, through
written documentation, contact with the parents or others;
         (c)   If the person is identified as a juvenile, the officer shall
ascertain the juvenile’s reason for being in a public or semi-public place
during the curfew hours;
         (d)   Make every reasonable effort to contact the juvenile’s parent(s)
and advise them of the curfew violation, document the warning or citation and
make arrangements for the juvenile to return home; or
         (e)   If no parent or other parental authority can be located, take
the juvenile into custody on a charge of violation of this section and
transport to the Franklin County Sheriff’s Office for possible involvement of
the Nebraska Department of Health and Human Services depending on the age and
maturity of the juvenile.
      (2)   Officers shall not cite or take into custody any person pursuant to
this section unless the officer reasonably believes that an offense has
occurred and that, based on any response given or circumstance, none of the
exceptions to this section are present.
   (E)   Penalties. A juvenile found to be in violation of division (B) of this
section and without a valid exception from division (C) of this section shall
be guilty of a misdemeanor and subject to a $50 fine for the first offense, a
$100 fine for the second offense, and a $150 fine for a third or subsequent
offense. Said fines may be paid by waiver pursuant to Neb. RS 29-422 to 29-429.
(Ord. 867, passed 10-8-2012)
§ 6-332 MISDEMEANORS; PROSTITUTION.
   (A)   Except as provided in division (C) of this section, any person who
performs, offers, or agrees to perform any act of sexual contact or sexual
penetration, as those terms are defined in Neb. RS 28-318, with any person not
his or her spouse, in exchange for money or other thing of value, commits the
offense of prostitution.
   (B)   It is an affirmative defense to prosecution under this section that
such person was a trafficking victim as defined in Neb. RS 28-830.
   (C)   If the law enforcement officer determines, after a reasonable
detention for investigative purposes, that a person suspected of or charged
with a violation of division (A) of this section is a person under 18 years of
age, such person shall be immune from prosecution for a prostitution offense
under this section and shall be subject to temporary custody under Neb. RS 43-
248 and further disposition under the Nebraska Juvenile Code. A law enforcement
officer who takes a person under 18 years of age into custody under this
section shall immediately report an allegation of a violation of Neb. RS 28-831
to the Department of Health and Human Services which shall commence an
investigation within 24 hours under the Child Protection and Family Safety Act.
(Neb. RS 28-801)
§ 6-333 MISDEMEANORS; PUBLIC INDECENCY.
   A person, 18 years of age or over, commits the offense of public indecency
if such person performs or procures, or assists any other person to perform, in
a public place and where the conduct may reasonably be expected to be viewed by
members of the public:
   (A)   An act of sexual penetration as defined in Neb. RS 28-318;
   (B)   An exposure of the genitals of the body done with intent to affront or
alarm any person; or
   (C)   A lewd fondling or caressing of the body of another person of the same
or opposite sex.
(Neb. RS 28-806)
§ 6-334 MISDEMEANORS; GAMBLING.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the definitions found in Neb. RS 28-
1101 shall be used.
   (B)   A person commits the offense of promoting gambling if he or she
knowingly:
      (1)   Advances or profits from any unlawful gambling activity by:
         (a)   Engaging in bookmaking;
         (b)   Receiving, in connection with any unlawful gambling scheme or
enterprise, any amount of money played in the scheme or enterprise in any 1
day; or
         (c)   Betting something of value in an amount of $300 or more with one
or more persons in one day; or
(Neb. RS 28-1102 and 28-1103)
      (2)   Participates in unlawful gambling as a player by betting less than
$300 in any one day.
(Neb. RS 28-1104)
   (C)   (1)   A person commits the offense of possession of a gambling device
if he or she manufactures, sells, transports, places, possesses, or conducts or
negotiates any transaction affecting or designed to affect ownership, custody,
or use of any gambling device, knowing that it shall be used in the advancement
of unlawful gambling activity.
      (2)   This division shall not apply to any coin-operated mechanical
gaming device, computer gaming device, electronic gaming device, or video
gaming device which has the capability of awarding free games, which is
intended to be played and is in fact played for amusement only, and which may
allow the player the right to replay such gaming device at no additional cost,
which right to replay shall not be considered money or property, except that
such mechanical game:
         (a)   Can be discharged of accumulated free replays only by
reactivating the game for one additional play for each accumulated free replay;
and
         (b)   Makes no permanent record directly or indirectly of free replays
so awarded.
      (3)   Notwithstanding any other provisions of this division, any
mechanical game or device classified by the federal government as an illegal
gambling device and requiring a federal Gambling Device Tax Stamp as required
by the Internal Revenue Service in its administration of 26 U.S.C. 4461 and
4462, amended July 1, 1965, by Public Law 89-44, are hereby declared to be
illegal and excluded from the exemption granted in this division.
(Neb. RS 28-1107)
   (D)   In any prosecution under this section, it shall be an affirmative
defense that the writing, paper, instrument, or article possessed by the
defendant was neither used nor intended to be used in the advancement of an
unlawful gambling activity.
(Neb. RS 28-1108)
   (E)   Proof of possession of any gambling device shall be prima facie
evidence of possession thereof with knowledge of its contents and character.
(Neb. RS 28-1109)
   (F)   It shall be no defense to a prosecution under any provision of this
section relating to gambling that the gambling is conducted outside this city
and is not in violation of the laws of the jurisdiction in which it is
conducted.
(Neb. RS 28-1110)
   (G)   Any gambling device or gambling record possessed in violation of any
provision of this section, or any money used as a bet or stake in gambling
activity in violation of any provision of this section, shall be forfeited to
the state.
(Neb. RS 28-1111)
   (H)   In any prosecution for an offense defined in this section, when the
defendant's status as a player constitutes an excusing condition, the fact that
the defendant was a player shall constitute an affirmative defense.
(Neb. RS 28-1112)
   (I)   Nothing in this section shall be construed to:
      (1)   Apply to or prohibit wagering on the results of horseraces by the
parimutuel or certificate method when conducted by licensees within the
racetrack enclosure at licensed horserace meetings; or
      (2)   Prohibit or punish the conducting or participating in any bingo,
lottery by the sale of pickle cards, lottery, raffle, or gift enterprise when
conducted in accordance with the Nebraska Bingo Act, the Nebraska County and
City Lottery Act, the Nebraska Lottery and Raffle Act, the Nebraska Pickle Card
Lottery Act, the Nebraska Small Lottery and Raffle Act, the State Lottery Act,
or Neb. RS 9-701.
(Neb. RS 28-1113)
   (J)   In any prosecution under this section in which it is necessary to
prove the occurrence of a sporting event, a published report of its occurrence
in any daily newspaper, magazine, or other periodically printed publication of
general circulation shall be admissible in evidence and shall constitute prima
facie evidence of the occurrence of the event.
(Neb. RS 28-1117)
ARTICLE 4: PENAL PROVISION
Section
   
6-401   Violation; penalty
§ 6-401 VIOLATION; PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person, or any person’s agent or servant, who violates any of the
provisions of this chapter, unless otherwise specifically provided herein,
shall be deemed guilty of an offense and upon conviction thereof shall be fined
in any sum not exceeding $500. A new violation shall be deemed to have been
committed every 24 hours of failure to comply with the provisions of this
chapter.
   (B)   (1)   Whenever a nuisance exists as defined in this code of
ordinances, the municipality may proceed by a suit in equity to enjoin, abate
and remove the same in the manner provided by law.
      (2)   Whenever, in any action, it is established that a nuisance exists,
the court may, together with the fine or penalty imposed, enter an order of
abatement as a part of the judgment in the case.
(Neb. RS 17-505, 18-1720, 18-1722) (Ord. 352, passed 6-21-1979; Ord. 710,
passed 10-9-2000)
CHAPTER 7: FIRE REGULATIONS
   Article
      
1.   FIRES
      
2.   FIRE PREVENTION
      
3.   GASOLINE STORAGE
      
4.   PENAL PROVISION
ARTICLE 1: FIRES
Section
   
7-101   Fires; preservation of property
   
7-102   Fires; disorderly spectator
   
7-103   Fires; equipment
   
7-104   Fires; interference
   
7-105   Fires; obstruction
   
7-106   Fires; assistance
   
7-107   Fires; driving over hose
   
7-108   Fires; traffic
   
7-109   Fires; false alarm
   
7-110   Fires; pedestrians
§ 7-101 FIRES; PRESERVATION OF PROPERTY.
   The Fire Chief, or any officer in charge of the Fire Department, shall have
the authority and power to cause the removal of property whenever it shall
become necessary for the preservation of more valuable property, the protection
of human life or to prevent the spreading of fire to adjoining property. The
Fire Chief may direct the municipal firefighters to remove any building,
structure or fence for the purpose of checking the progress of any fire. The
Fire Chief shall have the authority to blow up, or cause to be blown up, with
explosives any building or structure during the progress of a fire for the
purpose of checking the progress of the same.
§ 7-102 FIRES; DISORDERLY SPECTATOR.
   It shall be unlawful for any person during the time of a fire and for a
period of 36 hours after its extinguishment to hinder, resist or refuse to obey
the Municipal Fire Chief, or to act in a noisy or disorderly manner. The Fire
Chief and Assistant Fire Chief shall have the power and authority during such
time to arrest or command any such person to assist them in the performance of
their official duties.
(Neb. RS 28-730.01)
§ 7-103 FIRES; EQUIPMENT.
   It shall be unlawful for any person except the Fire Chief and the members of
the Municipal Fire Department to molest, destroy, handle or in any other way to
interfere with the use and storage of any of the fire trucks and other
apparatus belonging to the municipality.
§ 7-104 FIRES; INTERFERENCE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person or persons to hinder or obstruct the
Municipal Fire Chief, or the members of the Fire Department in the performance
of their duty.
(Neb. RS 18-730.01)
§ 7-105 FIRES; OBSTRUCTION.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to obstruct the use of a fire hydrant,
or have or place any material within 15 feet of the said hydrant. Any vehicle
or material found as an obstruction may be immediately removed by the Fire
Chief, or any member, or members, of the Fire Department, at the risk, cost and
expense of the owner or claimant.
(Neb. RS 39-758)
§ 7-106 FIRES; ASSISTANCE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to refuse, after the command of the Fire
Chief or Assistant Fire Chief, to aid in extinguishing a fire or to assist in
the removal and protection of property.
(Neb. RS 28-730.01)
§ 7-107 FIRES; DRIVING OVER HOSE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, without the consent of the Fire Chief,
or Assistant Fire Chief, to drive any vehicle over unprotected hose of the Fire
Department.
§ 7-108 FIRES; TRAFFIC.
   Every vehicle already stationary when the fire alarm shall have been sounded
must remain so for a period of five minutes after the sounding of the fire
alarm. No vehicle, except by the specific direction of the Fire Chief or
Assistant Fire Chief, shall follow, approach or park closer than 500 feet to
any fire vehicle, or to any fire hydrant to which a hose is connected. Nothing
herein shall be construed to apply to vehicles carrying doctors, members of the
Fire Department or emergency vehicles.
(Neb. RS 39-753)
§ 7-109 FIRES; FALSE ALARM.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to intentionally, and without good and
reasonable cause, raise any false alarm of fire.
§ 7-110 FIRES; PEDESTRIANS.
   It shall be unlawful for any pedestrian to enter or remain in any street
after a fire alarm shall have sounded until the fire trucks shall have
completely passed.
ARTICLE 2: FIRE PREVENTION
Section
   
7-201   Fire prevention; Life Safety Code
   
7-202   Fire prevention; Fire Prevention Code
   
7-203   Fire prevention; Fire Code enforcement
   
7-204   Fire prevention; lawful entry
   
7-205   Fire prevention; violation notice
   
7-206   Fire prevention; fire limits defined
   
7-207   Fire prevention; fire limits building permit
   
7-208   Fire prevention; fire limits materials
   
7-209   Fire prevention; ironclads prohibited
   
7-210   Fire prevention; removal required
   
7-211   Fire prevention; fires in residential districts
   
7-212   Fire prevention; fire prohibited
   
7-213   Fire prevention; fires regulated
   
7-214   Fire prevention; open burning ban, waiver
   
7-215   Fire prevention; throwing fireworks
§ 7-201 FIRE PREVENTION; LIFE SAFETY CODE.
   Incorporated by reference into this code are the standards recommended by
the National Fire Protection Association, known as the Life Safety Code, 1967
Edition. This Code shall have the same force and effect as if set out verbatim
herein. Three copies of the Life Safety Code are on file with the Municipal
Clerk and shall be available for public inspection at any reasonable time.
(Neb. RS 18-132, 81-502)
§ 7-202 FIRE PREVENTION; FIRE PREVENTION CODE.
   The rules and regulations promulgated by the office of the State Fire
Marshal of the State of Nebraska relating to fire prevention are incorporated
by reference into this Code and made a part of this article as though spread at
large herein together with all subsequent amendments thereto. Three copies of
the Fire Prevention Code shall be on file with the Municipal Clerk and shall be
available for public inspection at any reasonable time.
(Neb. RS 18-132)
§ 7-203 FIRE PREVENTION; FIRE CODE ENFORCEMENT.
   It shall be the duty of all municipal officials to enforce the incorporated
Fire Code provisions and all infractions shall be immediately brought to the
attention of the Fire Chief.
§ 7-204 FIRE PREVENTION; LAWFUL ENTRY.
   It shall be the duty of the owner, lessee or occupant of any building or
structure, except the interiors of private dwellings, to allow the Fire Chief
to inspect, or cause to be inspected, as often as necessary the said structure
for the purpose of ascertaining and enumerating all conditions therein that are
likely to cause fire, or any other violations of the provisions of the
municipal ordinances affecting the hazard of fire.
§ 7-205 FIRE PREVENTION; VIOLATION NOTICE.
   It shall be the duty of the owner, lessee or occupant of any building or
structure that was lawfully inspected as hereinbefore prescribed, and who
receives written or verbal notice of a violation of any of the provisions of
the municipal ordinances to correct the condition that violates the said
ordinance or ordinances within five days from the date of receipt of such
notice.
§ 7-206 FIRE PREVENTION; FIRE LIMITS DEFINED.
   The following described territory in the municipality shall be and
constitute the fire limits: all of Blocks 3, 4, 7, 8, 12 and the east half (E
1/2) of Block 11 of the Original Town, and the southeast one quarter (SE 1/4)
of Block 11 and the southwest one quarter (SW 1/4) of Block 12 of the Peoples
Addition to the Original Town, now City of Franklin, Franklin County, Nebraska.
(Neb. RS 17-550)
§ 7-207 FIRE PREVENTION; FIRE LIMITS BUILDING PERMIT.
   Prior to the moving or construction of any building in the fire limits,
application must be made to the governing body. Construction shall include the
enlarging or alteration of any building in the fire limits. Such application
shall be furnished by the Municipal Clerk and shall require such information as
the governing body deems necessary to determine whether or not to grant a
building permit. All such applications for a building permit must be
accompanied by plans of the construction to take place and a listing of the
materials to be used.
(Neb. RS 17-550)
§ 7-208 FIRE PREVENTION; FIRE LIMITS MATERIALS.
   Within the aforesaid fire limits, no structure shall be built, altered,
moved or enlarged unless such structure will be enclosed with such
incombustible materials as will satisfy the Fire Chief that the said structure
will be reasonably fire proof. However, the provisions of this section may be
waived with reference to any improvement or addition to a now existing frame
building if the cost of such new construction does not exceed one-fourth of the
present valuation of the original structure. Application for such waiver shall
be made to the governing body. Such application shall be granted upon two-
thirds of the governing body determining that such construction will not
increase the fire hazard.
(Neb. RS 17-550)
§ 7-209 FIRE PREVENTION; IRONCLADS PROHIBITED.
Editor’s note:
   This section was repealed by Ord. 849, passed 3-14-2011.
§ 7-210 FIRE PREVENTION; REMOVAL REQUIRED.
   In the event that any wooden or combustible building or structure which
stands within the fire limit is damaged to the extent of 50% more of its value,
exclusive of the foundation, shall not be repaired or rebuilt, but shall be
taken down and removed within 30 days from the date of such fire or other
casualty.
(Neb. RS 17-5)
§ 7-211 FIRE PREVENTION; FIRES IN RESIDENTIAL DISTRICTS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to build, cause to be built or to
set any fire of any type except cooking fires in the outdoor areas or the open
air in the residential sections of the municipality. Such prohibition shall
apply to all fires except cooking fires, including, but not limited to, fires
in enclosed containers, trash barrels and containers, and open fires, whether
or not such fires are attended by the person setting the same.
   (B)   The Fire Chief or his or her Assistant Chief may waive the prohibition
of fires or burning in outdoor open-air areas in the residential areas by
issuance of a written burning permit to a person requesting permission upon
forms to be furnished to the Fire Chief by the City Clerk’s office. Such permit
shall be valid for one day only to be designated by the Fire Chief or his or
her Deputy, and shall specify the type of burning to conducted and the date
upon which the same may be done. The holder of such permit shall exhibit the
same to any official of the Municipal Police Department or to the Fire Chief or
his or her Assistant Chief upon demand.
   (C)   The Mayor may issue a general public waiver of the prohibition of
fires or burning in outdoor or open-air areas in the residential areas of the
municipality by the issuance of a general proclamation. Such proclamation may
be issued for the purpose of permitting the burning of leaves, accumulations of
tree branches blown down by wind storms, and for such other purposes as the
Mayor shall deem to be in the public interest. Such proclamation shall specify
the dates or time intervals during which burning may be conducted.
(Ord. 452, passed 6-10-1984)
§ 7-212 FIRE PREVENTION; FIRE PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to set out a fire on the pavement, or
near any curb, now built or hereafter to be built, within the municipality.
(Neb. RS 17-556)
§ 7-213 FIRE PREVENTION; FIRES REGULATED.
   It shall be lawful to build or set out certain fires; provided, that the
person building such fires shall have the substance to be burned in a fireproof
trash burner or incinerator with a metal fireproof screen of not more than one-
inch mesh, and located at least 20 feet from any building. The incinerator
shall be built in such a way as to not permit the escape of burning paper or
other substance. If any person shall require a fire in the course of his or her
trade as a blacksmith or mechanic, such fire shall be built and maintained in
the manner prescribed by the Fire Chief. All fires shall be built after 7:00
a.m. and completely extinguished by 8:00 p.m., except the aforesaid fires used
in the course of a trade which shall be allowed during such hours as the Fire
Chief shall prescribe. It shall be unlawful for any person to set fire to, burn
or cause to be burned any garbage, animal matter or vegetable matter. The
burning of straw, hay, leaves or brush in the open air is hereby permitted and
allowed; provided, that the person setting out the same request permission and
receive an open burning permit in writing, signed by the local Fire Chief, on a
form provided by the State Fire Marshal; and provided further, that any such
burning shall be done while the said fire is attended by the person setting out
the same at all times, and further provided that the said fire shall be located
at least 20 feet from any building.
(Neb. RS 17-549, 17-556, 81-520.01) (Ord. 420, passed 8-24-1982)
§ 7-214 FIRE PREVENTION; OPEN BURNING BAN, WAIVER.
   (A)   There shall be a statewide open burning ban on a bonfires, outdoor
rubbish fires and fires for the purpose of clearing land.
   (B)   The Fire Chief of the Municipal Fire Department or his or her designee
may waive an open burning ban under division (A) of this section for an area
under his or her jurisdiction by issuing an open burning permit to a person
requesting permission to conduct open burning. The permit issued by the Fire
Chief or his or her designee to a person desiring to conduct open burning shall
be in writing, signed by the Fire Chief or his or her designee, and on a form
provided by the State Fire Marshal.
   (C)   The Municipal Fire Chief or his or her designee may waive the open
burning ban in his or her jurisdiction when conditions are acceptable to the
Chief or his or her designee. Anyone burning in such jurisdiction when the open
burning ban has been waived shall notify the Fire Department of his or her
intention to burn.
   (D)   The Municipal Fire Chief may adopt and promulgate rules and
regulations listing the conditions acceptable for issuing a permit to conduct
open burning under division (B) of this section.
   (E)   The Municipal Fire Department may charge a fee, not to exceed $10, for
each such permit issued. The fee shall be remitted to the governing body for
inclusion in the general funds allocated to the Fire Department. Such fund
shall not reduce the tax requirements for the Fire Department. No such fee
shall be collected from any state or political subdivision to which such a
permit is issued to conduct open burning under division (B) of this section in
the course of such state or political subdivision’s official duties.
(Neb. RS 81-520.01) (Ord. 377, passed 10-13-1980; Ord. 419, passed 8-24-1982;
Ord. 609, passed 8-14-1995)
§ 7-215 FIRE PREVENTION; THROWING FIREWORKS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to throw any firecracker, or any object
which explodes upon contact with another object; from or into a motor vehicle;
onto any highway; at or near any person; into any building; or into or at any
group of persons. It shall be unlawful for any person to explode any fireworks
after the hour 10:00 p.m. and before the hour of 8:00 a.m. June 24 through July
2 and after the hour of 12:00 a.m. and before the hour of 8:00 a.m. July 3
through July 5.
(Ord. 940, passed 6-11-2019)
ARTICLE 3: GASOLINE STORAGE
Section
   
7-301   Gasoline storage; containers
   
7-302   Gasoline storage; delivery
§ 7-301 GASOLINE STORAGE; CONTAINERS.
   No person shall keep or store gasoline in containers, tanks or other vessels
of a capacity greater than two gallons within the municipality except in
subsurface tanks or storage containers buried beneath ground level, or in tanks
or other storage containers located and kept not less than 40 feet from the
nearest building.
§ 7-302 GASOLINE STORAGE; DELIVERY.
   No person shall sell, deliver or dispense gasoline from any bulk fuel
delivery truck within the municipality into any vehicle or container other than
a subsurface tank or storage container buried beneath ground level or a tank or
container located and kept not less than 40 feet from the nearest building,
except at a bona fide retail gasoline service station.
ARTICLE 4: PENAL PROVISION
Section
   
7-401   Violation; penalty
§ 7-401 VIOLATION; PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person, or any person’s agent or servant, who violates any of the
provisions of this chapter, unless otherwise specifically provided herein,
shall be deemed guilty of an offense and upon conviction thereof shall be fined
in any sum not exceeding $500. A new violation shall be deemed to have been
committed every 24 hours of failure to comply with the provisions of this
chapter.
   (B)   (1)   Whenever a nuisance exists as defined in this code of
ordinances, the municipality may proceed by a suit in equity to enjoin, abate
and remove the same in the manner provided by law.
      (2)   Whenever, in any action, it is established that a nuisance exists,
the court may, together with the fine or penalty imposed, enter an order of
abatement as a part of the judgment in the case.
(Neb. RS 17-505, 18-1720, 18-1722) (Ord. 710, passed 10-9-2000)
CHAPTER 8: PUBLIC WAYS AND PROPERTY
   Article
      
1.   MUNICIPAL PROPERTY
      
2.   SIDEWALKS
      
3.   STREETS
      
4.   CURB AND GUTTER
      
5.   PENAL PROVISION
ARTICLE 1: MUNICIPAL PROPERTY
Section
   
8-101   Municipal property; maintenance and control
   
8-102   Municipal property; obstructions
   
8-103   Municipal property; permitted obstructions
   
8-104   Municipal property; weeds
   
8-105   Municipal property; signs and canopies
   
8-106   Municipal property; unlawful entry
   8-107   Municipal property; sale and conveyance of real property
   
8-107.01   Municipal property; sale and conveyance of personal property
   
8-108   Municipal property; acquisition of property; construction; elections,
when required
   
8-109   Municipal property; special improvement district; assessment and
creation procedure
   
8-110   Municipal property; improvement district; land adjacent
   
8-111   Municipal property; acquisition of real property
   
8-112   Municipal property; acquisition of property; appraisal
   
8-113   Municipal property; public works involving architecture or engineering;
requirements
§ 8-101 MUNICIPAL PROPERTY; MAINTENANCE AND CONTROL.
   The governing body shall have the care, supervision and control of all
public highways, bridges, streets, alleys, public squares and commons within
the municipality, and shall cause the same to be kept open and in repair, and
free from nuisances.
(Neb. RS 17-567)
§ 8-102 MUNICIPAL PROPERTY; OBSTRUCTIONS.
   Trees and shrubs, growing upon or near, the lot line, or upon public ground
and interfering with the use, or construction of any public improvements shall
be deemed an obstruction under this article. Said roots may be removed by the
Street Commissioner at the expense of the owner of the property upon which the
tree is located should the owner fail, or neglect, after notice, to do so. It
shall be unlawful for any person, persons, firm or corporation to obstruct, or
encumber, by fences, gates, buildings, structures or otherwise, any of the
streets, alleys or sidewalks. The public ways and property shall be considered
to be obstructed when the owner or occupant of the adjacent property shall
permit or suffer to remain on any premises owned or controlled by him or her
any hedge, shrubbery, bush or similar growth within two feet adjacent to the
lot line whether there is a sidewalk abutting or adjoining such premises or
not. It shall be the duty of owners and occupants to at all times keep trimmed
and pruned all such similar growth. Whenever any such growth is allowed to grow
within two feet of the lot line contrary to the provisions of this article, the
governing body may pass a resolution ordering the owner or occupant to remove
such obstructions within three days after having been served with a copy of
said resolution by the Street Commissioner stating that the municipality will
do so and will charge the costs thereof to the owner or occupant as a special
assessment for improvements as herein provided, or shall collect the same by
civil suit brought in the name of the municipality against the said owner or
occupant. It shall be the duty of an owner or occupant engaged in construction
of any building or improvement upon or near the public ways and property to
have all excavations or exposures of any kind protected and guarded by suitable
guards or barricades by day and by warning lights at night. In the event of
failure, neglect or refusal to comply with the provisions of this article, it
shall be the duty of the Street Commissioner or any police officer to stop all
work upon said buildings and improvements until suitable guards are erected and
kept in the manner aforesaid. Trees and shrubs growing upon the lot line
partially on public ground and partially upon the abutting property, or wholly
upon the abutting property, but so close to the lot line as to interfere with
the making of any public improvement or so that the roots thereof interfere
with any utility wires or pipe shall be deemed an obstruction and such trees,
shrubs and roots may be removed by the Street Commissioner pursuant to the
procedure prescribed above.
(Neb. RS 17-557.01)
§ 8-103 MUNICIPAL PROPERTY; PERMITTED OBSTRUCTIONS.
   Persons engaged in the erection, construction, reconstruction, wrecking or
repairing of any building, or the construction, or repair, of a sidewalk along
any street, may occupy the public street space with such building material and
equipment as long as is necessary if such persons shall make application to and
receive a permit in writing from the municipal police to do so; provided, no
permit for the occupancy of the sidewalk space, and more than one-third of the
roadway of the public space adjacent to the real estate on which said building
is to be constructed, erected, reconstructed, wrecked or repaired shall be
granted; and provided further, a suitable passageway for pedestrians shall be
maintained within the public space included in the permit which shall be
protected and lighted in the manner required by the municipal police.
§ 8-104 MUNICIPAL PROPERTY; WEEDS.
Editor's note:
   For provisions on weeds, see §
4-309
§ 8-105 MUNICIPAL PROPERTY; SIGNS AND CANOPIES.
   No person, firm or corporation shall erect, or maintain, any sign,
signboard, poster or rigid canopy over any street, sidewalk, alley or on other
public property without having first obtained a permit therefor. Permits for
signs, canopies, posters and signboards shall be issued by the Municipal Clerk,
subject to the approval of the governing body, upon the payment of a fee set by
resolution of the governing body. All signs and canopies extending over any
public sidewalk, street, alley or other public place must be securely fastened
and constructed so that there will be no danger of the same being dislodged by
ordinary winds, or falling from other causes. No sign or canopy shall be
erected or maintained which extends over any public sidewalk, street, alley or
other public place in such a location as to obstruct the view of any traffic
light, sign or signal. Upon the written order of the governing body, any person
owning or occupying the premises where such a sign, canopy, poster or signboard
is located, shall cause the same to be removed within the time limit specified
on such notice.
§ 8-106 MUNICIPAL PROPERTY; UNLAWFUL ENTRY.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to enter in to or be upon any
utility pole, tower or other structure under the control of the Municipal
Utility Department unless such person is under the employ of the municipality
or is authorized by the person in charge of the Municipal Utility Department.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to enter into or be upon any
building or any portion of any building or other structure owned by or
controlled by the city, except in common areas, parks and other facilities or
areas, or portions of building, commonly utilized or designated for use by the
general public or for the transaction of business unless such person is under
the employ of the municipality or is authorized by the person in charge of such
building, structure or area or by the Mayor or any member of the City Council.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person to enter into or be in or on the
enclosed grounds, buildings or waters of the municipal swimming pool of the
city, during any times when at least one lifeguard or other swimming pool
attendant employed by the city, or some other adult person specifically
authorized by the Municipal Park Committee or by the Mayor, is not in
attendance upon the enclosed premises of such municipal swimming pool.
(Ord. 306, passed 8-11-1975; Ord. 453, passed 6-10-1984)
§ 8-107 MUNICIPAL PROPERTY; SALE AND CONVEYANCE OF REAL PROPERTY.
   (A)   Except as provided in division (G) of this section, the power of the
municipality to convey any real property owned by it, including land used for
park purposes and public squares, except real property used in the operation of
public utilities, shall be exercised by resolution, directing the sale at
public auction or by sealed bid of that property and the manner and terms of
such sales, except that the property shall not be sold at public auction or by
sealed bid when:
      (1)   The property is being sold in compliance with the requirements of
federal or state grants or programs;
      (2)   The property is being conveyed to another public agency; or
      (3)   The property consists of streets and alleys.
   (B)   The governing body may establish a minimum price for real property at
which bidding shall begin or shall serve as a minimum for a sealed bid.
   (C)   After the passage of the resolution directing the sale, notice of all
proposed sales of property described in division (A) of this section and the
terms of such sales shall be published once each week for three consecutive
weeks in a legal newspaper published in or of general circulation in the
municipality.
   (D)   (1)   If within 30 days after the third publication of the notice a
remonstrance petition against the sale is signed by registered voters of the
municipality equal in number to 30% of the registered voters of the
municipality voting at the last regular municipality election held therein and
is filed with the governing body, that property shall not then, nor within one
year thereafter, be sold. If the date for filing the petition falls upon a
Saturday, Sunday, or legal holiday, the signatures shall be collected within
the 30-day period, but the filing shall be considered timely if filed or
postmarked on or before the next business day.
      (2)   Upon the receipt of the remonstrance, the governing body, with the
aid and assistance of the Election Commissioner or County Clerk, shall
determine the validity and sufficiency of signatures on the petition. The
governing body shall deliver the petition to the Election Commissioner or
County Clerk by hand carrier, by use of law enforcement officials, or by
certified mail, return receipt requested.
      (3)   Upon receipt of the petition, the Election Commissioner or County
Clerk shall issue to the governing body a written receipt that the petition is
in the custody of the Election Commissioner or County Clerk. The Election
Commissioner or County Clerk shall compare the signature of each person signing
the petition with the voter registration records to determine if each signer
was a registered voter on or before the date on which the petition was filed
with the governing body. The Election Commissioner or County Clerk shall also
compare the signer's printed name, street and number or voting precinct, and
municipality or post office address with the voter registration records to
determine whether the signer was a registered voter. The signature and address
shall be presumed to be valid only if the Election Commissioner or County Clerk
determines that the printed name, street and number or voting precinct, and
municipality or post office address match the registration records and that the
registration was received on or before the date on which the petition was filed
with the governing body. The determinations of the Election Commissioner or
County Clerk may be rebutted by any credible evidence which the governing body
finds sufficient. The express purpose of the comparison of names and addresses
with the voter registration records, in addition to helping to determine the
validity of the petition, the sufficiency of the petition, and the
qualifications of the signer, shall be to prevent fraud, deception, and
misrepresentation in the petition process.
      (4)   Upon completion of the comparison of names and addresses with the
voter registration records, the Election Commissioner or County Clerk shall
prepare in writing a certification under seal setting forth the name and
address of each signer found not to be a registered voter and the signature
page number and line number where the name is found, and if the reason for the
invalidity of the signature or address is other than the nonregistration of the
signer, the Election Commissioner or County Clerk shall set forth the reason
for the invalidity of the signature. If the Election Commissioner or County
Clerk determines that a signer has affixed his or her signature more than once
to the remonstrance and that only one person is registered by that name, the
Election Commissioner or County Clerk shall prepare in writing a certification
under seal setting forth the name of the duplicate signature and shall count
only the earliest dated signature.
      (5)   The Election Commissioner or County Clerk shall certify to the
governing body the number of valid signatures necessary to constitute a valid
remonstrance. The Election Commissioner or County Clerk shall deliver the
remonstrance and the certifications to the governing body within 40 days after
the receipt of the remonstrance from the governing body. The delivery shall be
by hand carrier, by use of law enforcement officials, or by certified mail,
return receipt requested. Not more than 20 signatures on one signature page
shall be counted.
      (6)   The governing body shall, within 30 days after the receipt of the
remonstrance and certifications from the Election Commissioner or County Clerk,
hold a public hearing to review the remonstrance and certifications and receive
testimony regarding them. The governing body shall, following the hearing, vote
on whether or not the remonstrance is valid and shall uphold the remonstrance
if sufficient valid signatures have been received.
   (E)   Real estate now owned or hereafter owned by the municipality may be
conveyed without consideration to the state for state armory sites or, if
acquired for state armory sites, shall be conveyed strictly in accordance with
the conditions of Neb. RS 18-1001 through 18-1006.
   (F)   Following passage of the resolution directing a sale, publishing of
the notice of the proposed sale, and passing of the 30-day right-of-
remonstrance period, the property shall then be sold. The sale shall be
confirmed by passage of an ordinance stating the name of the purchaser and
terms of the sale.
(Neb. RS 17-503)
   (G)   Divisions (A) through (F) of this section shall not apply to the sale
of real property if the authorizing resolution directs the sale of real
property, the total fair market value of which is less than $5,000. Following
passage of the resolution directing the sale of the property, notice of the
sale shall be posted in three prominent places within the municipality for a
period of not less than seven days prior to the sale of the property. The
notice shall give a general description of the property offered for sale and
state the terms and conditions of sale. Confirmation of the sale by passage of
an ordinance may be required.
(Neb. RS 17-503.01) (Ord. 421, passed 8-24-1982; Ord. 627, passed 1-8-1996;
Ord. 684, passed 10-12-1998; Ord. 772, passed 1-12-2004; Ord. 930, passed 2-13-
2018)
§ 8-107.01 MUNICIPAL PROPERTY; SALE AND CONVEYANCE OF PERSONAL PROPERTY.
   (A)   The power of the city to convey any personal property owned by it
shall be exercised by resolution directing the sale and the manner and terms of
the sale. Following passage of the resolution directing the sale of the
property, notice of the sale shall be posted in three prominent places within
the city for a period of not less than seven days prior to the sale of the
property. If the fair market value of the property is greater than $5,000,
notice of the sale shall also be published once in a legal newspaper published
in or of general circulation in the city at least seven days prior to the sale
of the property. The notice shall give a general description of the property
offered for sale and state the terms and conditions of sale.
   (B)   Personal property may be conveyed notwithstanding the procedure in
division (A) of this section when:
      (1)   Such property is being sold in compliance with the requirements of
federal or state grants or programs; or
      (2)   Such property is being conveyed to another public agency.
(Neb. RS 17-503.02) (Ord. 772, passed 1-12-2004)
§ 8-108 MUNICIPAL PROPERTY; ACQUISITION OF PROPERTY; CONSTRUCTION; ELECTIONS,
WHEN REQUIRED.
   (A)   The city is authorized and empowered to purchase, accept by gift or
devise, purchase real estate upon which to erect, and erect a building or
buildings for an auditorium, fire station, city building, or community house
for housing city enterprises and social and recreation purposes, and other
public buildings, including the construction of buildings authorized to be
constructed by Neb. RS Chapter 72, Article 14, and including construction of
buildings to be leased in whole or in part by the city to any other political
or governmental subdivision of the state authorized by law to lease such
buildings, and maintain, manage, and operate the same for the benefit of the
inhabitants of the city.
   (B)   Except as provided in division (C) of this section, before any such
purchase can be made or building erected, the question shall be submitted to
the electors of the city at a general city election or at an election duly
called for that purpose, or as set forth in division (D) of this section, and
be adopted by a majority of the electors voting on such question.
(Neb. RS 17-953)
   (C)   If the funds to be used to finance the purchase or construction of a
building pursuant to this section are available other than through a bond
issue, then either:
      (1)   Notice of the proposed purchase or construction shall be published
in a newspaper of general circulation in the city and no election shall be
required to approve the purchase or construction unless within 30 days after
the publication of the notice, a remonstrance against the purchase or
construction is signed by registered voters of the city equal in number to 15%
of the registered voters of the city voting at the last regular city election
held therein and is filed with the City Council. If the date for filing the
remonstrance falls upon a Saturday, Sunday, or legal holiday, the signatures
shall be collected within the 30-day period, but the filing shall be considered
timely if filed or postmarked on or before the next business day. If a
remonstrance with the necessary number of qualified signatures is timely filed,
the question shall be submitted to the voters of the city at a general city
election or a special election duly called for that purpose. If the purchase or
construction is not approved, the property involved shall not then, nor within
one year following the election, be purchased or constructed; or
      (2)   The City Council may proceed without providing the notice and right
of remonstrance required in division (C)(1) of this section if the property can
be purchased below the fair market value as determined by an appraisal, there
is a willing seller, and the purchase price is less than $25,000. The purchase
shall be approved by the City Council after notice and public hearing as
provided in §
8-111.
(Neb. RS 17-953.01)
   (D)   (1)   The Mayor and City Council adopting the proposition to make such
purchase or erect such building or buildings for the purposes set forth in
division (A) of this section shall have the power to borrow money and pledge
the property and credit of the city upon its negotiable bonds. No such bonds
shall be issued until after the same have been authorized by a majority vote of
the electors voting on the proposition of their issuance, at a general city
election or at a special election called for the submission of such
proposition. The question of such purchase or erection of such a building or
buildings, as set forth in division (A) of this section, and the question of
the issuance of the negotiable bonds referred to in this division may be
submitted as one question at a general city or special election if so ordered
by resolution or ordinance.
      (2)   Notice of the time and place of the election shall be given by
publication in some legal newspaper printed in or of general circulation in the
city three successive weeks immediately prior thereto.
      (3)   No such election for the issuance of such bonds shall be called
until a petition therefor signed by at least 10% of the legal voters of the
city has been presented to the City Council. The number of voters voting at the
last regular city election prior to the presenting of the petition shall be
deemed the number of votes in the city for the purpose of determining the
sufficiency of the petition.
      (4)   The question of bond issues for such purpose in the city when
defeated shall not be resubmitted for six months from and after the date of
such election.
      (5)   When the building to be constructed is to be used by the state or
its agency or agencies under a lease authorized by Neb. RS Chapter 72, Article
14, or the building is to be leased by any other political or governmental
subdivision of the state, when the combined area of the building to be leased
by the state or its agency or agencies and the political or governmental
subdivision of the state is more than 50% of the area of the building, and when
such sum does not exceed $2,000,000, then no such vote of the electors will be
required.
(Neb. RS 17-954)
(Ord. 403, passed 9-8-1981; Ord. 628, passed 1-8-1996)
§ 8-109 MUNICIPAL PROPERTY; SPECIAL IMPROVEMENT DISTRICT; ASSESSMENT AND
CREATION PROCEDURE.
   (A)   The municipality’s governing body may, by ordinance, create a special
improvement district for the purpose of replacing, reconstructing or repairing
an existing water line, sewer line or any other such improvement.
   (B)   Except as provided in Neb. RS 19-2428 through 19-2431, the governing
body shall have power to assess, to the extent of such benefits, the costs of
such improvements upon the properties found especially benefited thereby,
whether or not such properties were previously assessed for the same general
purpose. In creating such special improvement district, the governing body
shall follow procedures applicable to the creation and assessment of the same
type of improvement district as otherwise provided by law.
(Neb. RS 18-1751) (Ord. 517, passed 9-14-1987)
§ 8-110 MUNICIPAL PROPERTY; IMPROVEMENT DISTRICT; LAND ADJACENT.
   Supplemental to any existing law on the subject, a municipality may include
land adjacent to such municipality when creating an improvement as a sewer,
water, water extension or sanitary sewer extension district. The governing body
shall have power to assess, to the extent of special benefits, the costs of
such improvements upon the properties found especially benefited thereby,
except as provided in §
8-313.
(Neb. RS 19-2427) (Ord. 516, passed 9-14-1987)
§ 8-111 MUNICIPAL PROPERTY; ACQUISITION OF REAL PROPERTY.
   (A)   The city shall acquire an interest in real property by purchase or
eminent domain only after the City Council has authorized the acquisition by
action taken in a public meeting after notice and public hearing.
   (B)   The city shall provide to the public a right of access for
recreational use to real property acquired for public recreational purposes.
Such access shall be at designated access points and shall be equal to the
right of access for recreational use held by adjacent landowners. The right of
access granted to the public for recreational use shall meet or exceed such
right held by a private landowner adjacent to the real property.
(Neb. RS 18-1755) (Ord. 610, passed 8-14-1995)
§ 8-112 MUNICIPAL PROPERTY; ACQUISITION OF PROPERTY; APPRAISAL.
   Notwithstanding any other provision of law, the city shall not purchase,
lease-purchase, or acquire for consideration real property having an estimated
value of $100,000 or more unless an appraisal of such property has been
performed by a certified real property appraiser.
(Neb. RS 13-403) (Ord. 611, passed 8-14-1995)
§ 8-113 MUNICIPAL PROPERTY; PUBLIC WORKS INVOLVING ARCHITECTURE OR ENGINEERING;
REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   (1)   Except as otherwise provided in this section and Neb. RS 81-3449
and 81-3453, the city shall not engage in the construction of any public works
involving architecture or engineering unless the plans, specifications, and
estimates have been prepared and the construction has been observed by an
architect, a professional engineer, or a person under the direct supervision of
an architect, professional engineer, or those under the direct supervision of
an architect or professional engineer.
      (2)   This division (A) shall not apply to any public work in which the
contemplated expenditure for the complete project does not exceed $100,000 or
the adjusted dollar amount set by the Board of Engineers and Architects.
(Neb. RS 81-3445)
   (B)   The provisions of division (A) of this section regulating the practice
of architecture do not apply to the following activities or the other
activities specified in Neb. RS 81-3449:
      (1)   Any alteration, renovation, or remodeling of a building if the
alteration, renovation, or remodeling does not affect architectural or
engineering safety features of the building;
      (2)   A public service provider who employs a design professional
performing professional services for itself;
      (3)   The practice of any other certified trade or legally recognized
profession;
      (4)   Earthmoving and related work associated with soil and water
conservation practices performed any land owned by the city that is not subject
to a permit from the Department of Natural Resources; and
      (5)   The work of employees and agents of the city performing, in
accordance with other requirements of law, their customary duties in the
administration and enforcement of codes, permit programs, and land-use
regulations and their customary duties in utility and public works
construction, operation, and maintenance.
(Neb. RS 81-3449)
   (C)   The provisions of division (A) of this section regulating the practice
of engineering do not apply to the following activities, the activities
specified in division (B) of this section, or the other activities specified in
Neb. RS 81-3453:
      (1)   Those services ordinarily performed by subordinates under direct
supervision of a professional engineer or those commonly designated as
locomotive, stationary, marine operating engineers, power plant operating
engineers, or manufacturers who supervise the operation of or operate machinery
or equipment or who supervise construction within their own plant; and
      (2)   The construction of water wells as defined in Neb. RS 46-1212, the
installation of pumps and pumping equipment into water wells, and the
decommissioning of water wells, unless such construction, installation, or
decommissioning is required by the city to be designed or supervised by an
engineer or unless legal requirements are imposed upon the city as a part of a
public water supply;
(Neb. RS 81-3453)
   (D)   For the purpose of this section, the city is considered a public
service provider if it appoints a City Engineer or employs a full-time person
licensed under the Engineers and Architects Regulation Act who is in
responsible charge of architectural or engineering work.
(Neb. RS 81-3423)
(Ord. 685, passed 10-12-1998; Ord. 708, passed 10-9-2000; Ord. 789, passed 11-
8-2004)
ARTICLE 2: SIDEWALKS
Section
   
8-201   Sidewalk space; defined
   
8-202   Sidewalks; overhanging branches
   
8-203   Sidewalks; kept clean
   
8-204   Sidewalks; maintenance
   
8-205   Sidewalks; construction by owner
   
8-206   Sidewalks; repair
   
8-207   Sidewalks; municipal construction
   
8-208   Sidewalks; construction by petition
   
8-209   Sidewalks; construction bids
§ 8-201 SIDEWALK SPACE; DEFINED.
   The term SIDEWALK SPACE, as used herein, shall mean that portion of a street
between curb lines and adjacent property lines.
§ 8-202 SIDEWALKS; OVERHANGING BRANCHES.
   The owner or occupant of any lot, piece or parcel of ground abutting or
adjacent to any sidewalk over which there extends the branches of trees shall
at all times keep the branches or limbs thereof trimmed to the height of at
least eight feet above the surface of said walk. Whenever the limbs or branches
of any tree or trees extend over sidewalks contrary to the provisions herein so
as to interfere with the lighting of the street from street lights, or with the
convenience of the public using said sidewalk, the governing body at any
regular or special meeting may pass a resolution ordering the owner or occupant
to cut or remove said obstructions within five days after having received a
copy thereof from the Street Commissioner stating that the municipality will
remove said branches and charge the costs thereof to the owner or occupant as a
special assessment for improvements as herein provided, if said resolution is
not complied with.
(Neb. RS 17-557.01)
§ 8-203 SIDEWALKS; KEPT CLEAN.
   It shall be unlawful for the occupant of any lot or lots or the owner of any
vacant lot or lots within the corporate limits to allow snow, sleet, mud, ice
or other substance to accumulate on the sidewalks or to permit any snow, sleet,
ice, mud or other substance to remain upon said sidewalk. All sidewalks within
the business district shall be cleaned within five hours after the cessation of
a storm, unless the storm or fall of snow shall have taken place during the
night, in which case the sidewalk shall be cleaned before 8:30 a.m. the
following day; provided, sidewalks within the residential areas of the
municipality shall be cleaned within 24 hours after the cessation of the storm.
(Neb. RS 17-557)
§ 8-204 SIDEWALKS; MAINTENANCE.
   Every owner of any lot, or lots, or piece of land within the corporate
limits shall at all times keep and maintain the sidewalk along and contiguous
to said lot, lots or pieces of land, as the case may be, in good and proper
repair, and in a condition reasonably safe for travel for all travelers
thereon. In the event that the owner, or owners, of any lot, lots or lands,
abutting on any street, avenue or part thereof, shall fail to construct, or
repair, any sidewalk in front of his, her or their lot, lots or lands, within
the time and in the manner as directed and required herein after having
received due notice to do so, he, she or they shall be liable for all damages,
or injury, occasioned by reason of the defective, or dangerous, condition of
any sidewalk, and the governing body shall have power to cause any such
sidewalks to be constructed, or repaired and assess the costs thereof against
such property.
(Neb. RS 17-557.01)
§ 8-205 SIDEWALKS; CONSTRUCTION BY OWNER.
   (A)   Any person desiring to construct, or cause to be constructed, any
sidewalk shall do so only as herein provided. It shall be unlawful for any
person to construct any sidewalk without first having obtained a permit and
survey.
   (B)   Said owner shall make application in writing for a permit and file
such application in the office of the Municipal Clerk. The permit shall give a
description of the lot, or piece of land along which the sidewalk is to be
constructed. The official in charge of sidewalks shall issue the desired permit
unless good cause shall appear why said permit should be denied; provided, if
it is desired to construct the sidewalk at any other than the regularly
prescribed location, grade or elevation, the municipal official in charge of
sidewalks shall submit the application to the governing body who shall
determine whether the permit should be granted or denied. When a permit is
issued for the construction of a sidewalk, the municipal official in charge of
sidewalks shall make a survey and set stakes indicating the location, grade and
elevation of the sidewalk. It shall be unlawful for any person to construct, or
cause to be constructed said sidewalk at any other location, grade or elevation
than so designated. All sidewalks shall be built and constructed on the
established grade or elevation, and if there is no established grade, then on
the grade or elevation indicated by the municipal official in charge of
sidewalks. Such survey shall be made within ten days after said permit has been
issued.
§ 8-206 SIDEWALKS; REPAIR.
   (A)   The governing body may, by resolution, order the repair of a sidewalk
on any lot or piece of ground within the municipality and may assess the
expense thereof on the property in front of which such repairs are made, after
having given notice of its intention to do so:
      (1)   By publication in one issue of a legal newspaper of general
circulation in the municipality; and
      (2)   By either causing a written notice to be served upon the occupant
in possession of the property involved or to be posted upon such premises ten
days prior to the commencement of such repair.
(Neb. RS 17-522)
   (B)   The notice shall:
      (1)   State that the governing body has ordered repair of the sidewalk;
      (2)   Contain the municipality’s estimate of the cost of the repair;
      (3)   Notify the property owner that he or she may, within ten days after
the date of publication of the notice, notify the municipality that he or she
will repair the sidewalk within 30 days after such date of publication; and
      (4)   Notify the property owner that if he or she fails to so notify the
municipality within the ten days or, having so notified the municipality, fails
to repair the sidewalk within the 30 days, the municipality will cause the
sidewalk to be repaired and the expense thereof to be assessed against the
property.
   (C)   (1)   Before the municipality imposes any special assessments for
sidewalk repair, a copy of the notice that is required to be published shall be
mailed to the last-known address of all nonresident property owners as shown on
the current tax rolls at the time such notice is first published.
(Neb. RS 13-310)
      (2)   The Municipal Clerk shall mail the notice by certified mail with
return receipt requested.
(Neb. RS 13-312)
      (3)   For purposes of this division (C), NONRESIDENT PROPERTY OWNER means
any person or corporation whose residence and mailing address as shown on the
current tax rolls is outside the boundaries of the county in which the property
subject to assessment is located and who is a record owner of the property.
(Neb. RS 13-314)
   (D)   All sidewalks shall be repaired in conformity with such plans and
specifications as may be approved by the governing body.
   (E)   Assessments made under this section shall be made and assessed in the
manner provided in Neb. RS 17-524.
(Ord. 790, passed 11-8-2004)
§ 8-207 SIDEWALKS; MUNICIPAL CONSTRUCTION.
   (A)   The governing body may, by resolution, order the construction of a
sidewalk on any lot, or piece of ground, within the municipality. Notice of the
governing body’s intention to construct said sidewalk shall be given by the
Municipal Clerk by publication of notice one time in a legal newspaper of
general circulation in the municipality.
   (B)   A copy of said notice shall be personally served upon the occupant in
possession of such property, or, when personal service is not possible, said
notice shall be posted upon such premises ten days prior to the commencement of
construction. The notice required in this section shall be prepared by the
Municipal Attorney in accordance with the provisions of this section. Such
service shall include a form of return evidencing personal service, or posting,
as herein required.
   (C)   Said notice shall notify the owner of the premises of the passage of
the resolution ordering him or her to construct, or cause to be constructed a
sidewalk within 30 days after the date of publication and further that if he or
she fails to construct the sidewalk, or cause the same to be done within the
time allowed, the municipality will cause the sidewalk to be constructed and
the cost thereof shall be levied and assessed as a special tax against the
premises; provided, the notice shall contain the official estimate of the cost
of said construction and no special assessment in excess of this estimate shall
be assessed against the property.
(Neb. RS 17-522, 17-523)
§ 8-208 SIDEWALKS; CONSTRUCTION BY PETITION.
   If the owners of the record title representing more than 60% of the front
footage of the directly abutting property, subject to assessment for sidewalk
improvements, petition the governing body to make the same, the governing body
shall proceed in all things as though such construction had been ordered by it.
Upon the petition of any freeholder who is an abutting owner in fee simple of
property subject to assessment for sidewalk improvements, the governing body
may order permanent sidewalks built in accordance with this article upon the
freeholder making, executing and delivering to the municipality an agreement to
the effect that the petitioning freeholder will pay the engineering service fee
and all other incidental construction costs until paid shall be a perpetual
lien upon the real estate along which the freeholder desires such sidewalk to
be constructed and that the petitioner gives and grants to the municipality the
right to assess and levy the costs of such construction against the
freeholder’s real estate abutting the sidewalk improvement and promises to pay
such costs with interest. The total cost of such improvement shall be levied,
allocated, financed and specially assessed as provided by law. In the event the
property owner is a nonresident of the county in which the property lies, the
municipality shall, before levying any special assessment against that
property, send a copy of any notice required by law to be published by means of
certified mail, return receipt requested to the last known address of the
nonresident property owner. The last known address shall be that address listed
on the current tax rolls at the time such required notice was first published.
(Ord. 366, passed 9-10-1979)
§ 8-209 SIDEWALKS; CONSTRUCTION BIDS.
   Whenever the municipality shall construct, widen, replace or reconstruct any
sidewalk, notice prepared by the Municipal Attorney, specifying the work to be
done and calling for bids for doing such work and supplying the necessary
materials and labor shall be published in at least one issue of a legal
newspaper of general circulation in the municipality; provided, bids so invited
shall be filed in the office of the Municipal Clerk within ten days after the
date of publication. Bids shall be opened at the next regular or special
meeting of the governing body, and the governing body shall then award the work
to the lowest responsible bidder. Upon approval of the work, the governing body
may require the contractor to accept payment in certificates issued to him or
her by the Municipal Clerk entitling him or her to all assessments or special
taxes, against such real estate whenever such assessments or special taxes,
shall be collected together with the interest or penalty collected thereon.
Each certificate shall give the legal description of the lot, lots or parcel of
ground against which the assessments or special taxes are assessed. Such
certificate or certificates may be assigned and transferred, entitling the
holder to the same rights as if held by the original contractor. The County
Treasurer shall pay over to such contractor or other holder of the certificate
or certificates all assessments or special taxes against such real estate,
together with the interest and penalty thereon, at any time upon presentation
of such certificate or certificates after said assessments or special taxes
against such real estate together with interest or penalty thereon shall have
been collected.
ARTICLE 3: STREETS
Section
   
8-301   Streets; names and numbers
   
8-302   Streets; excavation
   
8-303   Streets; harmful liquids
   
8-304   Streets; eave and gutter spouts
   
8-305   Streets; heavy equipment
   
8-306   Streets and alleys; opening, widening, improving or vacating
   
8-307   Streets; construction notice
   
8-308   Streets; pipe lines and wires
   
8-309   Streets; construction assessments
   8-310   Streets; improvement of streets on corporate limits
   
8-310.1   Streets; Streets, alleys, walks, malls and other improvements
   
8-311   Streets; petition for improvements
   
8-312   Streets; improvement districts; objections
   
8-313   Streets; deferral from special assessments
   
8-314   Streets; driveway approaches
   
8-315   Streets; vacating public ways
   
8-316   Streets; vacating public ways; procedure
§ 8-301 STREETS; NAMES AND NUMBERS.
   The governing body may at any time, by ordinance, rename any street, or
provide a name for any new street. Buildings used for residence or business
purposes and located along such streets shall retain such numbers as the
governing body may require. It shall be the duty of the Street Commissioner,
upon the erection of any new building, or buildings, to assign the proper
numbers to said building, or buildings, and give notice to the owner, or
owners, and occupant, or occupants, of the same.
§ 8-302 STREETS; EXCAVATION.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to make an excavation in any street, or
streets, for any purpose whatsoever unless a written permit is issued by the
Municipal Street Commissioner authorizing such excavation.
§ 8-303 STREETS; HARMFUL LIQUIDS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to place, or permit to be leak, in the
gutter of any street, waste gasoline, kerosene or high lubricating oils, which
damage, or act as a solvent upon, said streets.
§ 8-304 STREETS; EAVE AND GUTTER SPOUTS.
    It is hereby declared unlawful for any person to erect, or maintain any
dwelling house, or business building, within the limits of the municipality
where the said dwelling, or building, abuts on any sidewalk, or street, without
providing proper guttering and eave spouts to receive the waste waters that
collect on the said sidewalks and streets. All eave spouts erected on any
dwelling house, or business building, shall be constructed to drain into the
alleys, or shall be buried beneath the sidewalks, and drain into the streets
where it is found to be impossible to drain said eave spouts into the alley.
§ 8-305 STREETS; HEAVY EQUIPMENT.
   It shall hereafter be unlawful for any person, or persons, to move, or
operate, heavy equipment across any curb, gutter, bridge, culvert, sidewalk,
crosswalk or crossing on any unpaved street without first having protected such
curb, gutter, bridge, culvert, sidewalks, crosswalk or crossing with heavy
plank sufficient in strength to warrant against the breaking or damaging, or
such curb, gutter, bridge, culvert, sidewalk, crosswalk or crossing. Hereafter,
it shall be unlawful to run, drive, move, operate or convey over, or across,
any paved street a vehicle, machine or implement, with sharp discs or sharp
wheels, that bear upon said pavement; with wheels having cutting edges; with
wheels having lugs, or any protruding parts, or bolts thereon that extend
beyond a plain tire so as to cut, mark, mar, indent or otherwise injure, or
damage any pavement, gutter or curb; provided, where heavy vehicles, structures
and machines move along paved or unpaved streets, the municipal police are
hereby authorized and empowered to choose the route over which the moving of
such vehicles, structures or machines will be permitted and allowed. Nothing in
this section shall be construed to apply to pneumatic tires with metal or
metal-type studs not exceeding five-sixteenths of an inch in diameter inclusive
of the stud-casting with an average protrusion beyond the tread surface of not
more than seven sixty-fourths of an inch between October 1 and April 15;
provided that school buses and emergency vehicles shall be permitted to use
metal or metal-type studs all year; it shall be permissible to use farm
machinery with tires having protuberances which will not injure the streets;
and it shall be permissible to use tire chains or reasonable proportions upon
any vehicle when required for safety because of snow, ice or other condition
tending to cause a vehicle to slide or skid.
(Neb. RS 39-771)
§ 8-306 STREETS AND ALLEYS; OPENING, WIDENING, IMPROVING OR VACATING.
   (A)   The municipality shall have power to open, widen or otherwise improve
or vacate any street, avenue, alley or lane within the limits of the
municipality and also to create, open and improve any new street, avenue, alley
or lane. All damages sustained by the citizens of the municipality, or by the
owners of the property therein, shall be ascertained in such manner as shall be
provided by ordinance. Whenever any street or alley is vacated, the same shall
revert to the owners of the abutting real estate, one-half on each side thereof
and become a part of such property. When a portion of a street, avenue, alley
or lane is vacated only on one side of the center thereof, the title to such
land shall vest in the owner of the abutting property and become a part of such
property. When the municipality vacates all or any portion of a street, avenue,
alley or lane, the municipality shall, within 30 days after the effective date
of the vacation, file a certified copy of the vacating ordinance with the
Register of Deeds for the county in which the vacated property is located to be
indexed against all affected lots.
(Neb. RS 17-558)
   (B)   The municipality shall have power to create, open, widen or extend any
street, avenue, alley, off-street parking area or other public way, or annul,
vacate or discontinue the same.
(Neb. RS 17-559)
(Ord. 736, passed 5-13-2002)
§ 8-307 STREETS; CONSTRUCTION NOTICE.
   The Street Commissioner shall notify the owners in fee simple of real estate
abutting a street, alley, or a part thereof which is to be put under contract
for paving, or repaving. Notice shall also be given to all gas, electric
service and telephone companies. Notice shall also be given to all consumers of
gas, water and sewer services which will be discontinued during such
construction. Said notice shall be published one time in a legal newspaper at
least 20 days prior to the beginning of such construction by the party
undertaking such construction and said notice shall state at what date
connections must be made and excavation completed. All gas, water, sewer and
underground connections must be made prior to the paving, or repaying of the
street under construction. After expiration of such time, permits for
excavation will not be issued, nor will excavation be allowed, until after the
completion of the pavement on said street, or alley, and the formal final
acceptance thereof by the proper officials of the municipality.
§ 8-308 STREETS; PIPE LINES AND WIRES.
   Poles, wires, gas mains, pipe lines and other appurtenances of public
service companies shall be located, or erected over, upon, or under the
streets, alleys and common grounds of the municipality Application for location
of the above shall be made to the governing body in writing. Approval by that
body shall issue in writing Any public service company granted a right-of-way
for the erection and maintenance of poles, conduits, gas mains, pipe lines and
wires shall at all times erect and locate their poles, wires, gas mains, pipe
lines and other appurtenances at such places and in such manner as shall be
designated by the governing body. Such poles, wires, gas mains, pipe lines and
other appurtenances, shall be removed, or relocated by said companies at their
own expense when requested to do so by the governing body. Any such relocation
shall be ordered by resolution of the governing body and the Municipal Clerk
shall notify any and all companies affected. Said companies shall, within 24
hours after receiving notice, at their own expense, cause the poles, wires, gas
mains, pipe lines or other appurtenances to be removed. The governing body
shall designate another location, as closely as possible, where said poles,
wires, gas mains, pipe lines or other appurtenances, may be reset, or placed.
All poles, wires, gas mains, pipe lines or other appurtenances, shall be reset,
placed or erected in such a manner that they will not interfere with the water
system; sewerage system; poles, wires and mains of any public utility; adjacent
buildings; or with travel on the public ways and property. Whenever possible,
all pole lines, wires, gas mains, pipe lines or appurtenances, shall be
confined to the alleys of the municipality.
§ 8-309 STREETS; CONSTRUCTION ASSESSMENTS.
   To defray the costs and expenses of street improvements, as may be
authorized by law, the governing body shall have power and authority to levy
and collect special taxes and assessments upon the lots and pieces of ground
adjacent to, abutting upon or especially benefitting from, the street, avenue,
alley or sidewalk in whole or in part opened, widened, curbed, curbed and
guttered, graded, paved, repaired, graveled, macadamized, parked, extended,
constructed or otherwise improved or repaired. The governing body sitting as
the Board of Equalization shall review all such improvements in accordance with
the procedure provided by law. All special assessments shall be made by the
governing body at a regular or special meeting by resolution, taking into
account the benefits derived or injuries sustained in consequence of such
improvements and the amount charged against same. The vote shall be recorded in
the minutes. Notice of the time of holding such meeting and the purpose for
which it is to be held shall be published in some legal newspaper published, or
of general circulation, in the municipality at least four weeks before the same
shall be held. In lieu of such aforementioned notice, personal service may be
had upon the persons owning or occupying the property to be assessed. Such
assessments shall be known as special assessments for improvements and with the
cost of notice shall be levied and collected as a special tax in addition to
the taxes for general revenue purposes, subject to the same penalties and
collected in like manner as other municipal taxes and shall be certified to the
County Clerk by the Municipal Clerk forthwith after the date of levy, for
collection by the Treasurer of said county unless otherwise specified. The said
assessment shall draw interest at 9% per annum.
(Neb. RS 17-511, 17-524)
§ 8-310 STREETS; IMPROVEMENT OF STREETS ON CORPORATE LIMITS.
   The Mayor and Council shall have the power to improve any street or part
thereof which divides the municipal corporate area and the area adjoining the
municipality. When creating an improvement district including land adjacent to
the municipality, the Council shall have power to assess, to the extent of
special benefits, the costs of such improvements upon the properties found
especially benefitted thereby.
(Neb. RS 17-509) (Ord. 367, passed 9-10-1979)
§ 8-310.1 STREETS; STREETS, ALLEYS, WALKS, MALLS AND OTHER IMPROVEMENTS.
   The governing body may grade, partially or to an established grade, change
grade, curb, recurb, gutter, regutter, pave, gravel, regravel, macadamize,
remacadamize, widen, or narrow streets or roadways, resurface or re-lay
existing pavement, or otherwise improve any streets, alleys, public grounds,
public ways, entirely or partially, and streets which divide the municipal
corporate area and the area adjoining the municipality; construct or
reconstruct pedestrian walks, plazas, malls, landscaping, outdoor sprinkler
systems, fountains, decorative water ponds, lighting systems, and permanent
facilities; and construct sidewalks and improve the sidewalk space. These
projects may be funded at public cost or by the levy of special assessments on
the property especially benefitted in proportion to such benefits, except as
provided in Neb. RS 19-2428 through 19-2431. The governing body may by
ordinance create improvement districts, to be consecutively numbered, which may
include two or more connecting or intersecting streets, alleys, or public ways,
and may include two or more types of the improvements authorized under this
section in a single district in one proceeding. All of the improvements which
are to be funded by a levy of special assessment on the property especially
benefitted shall be ordered as provided in Neb. RS 17-510 to 17-512, except as
otherwise provided in Neb. RS 17-509.
(Neb. RS 17-509) (Ord. 931, passed 2-13-2018)
§ 8-311 STREETS; PETITION FOR IMPROVEMENTS.
   Whenever a petition signed by the owners of record title representing more
than 60% of the front footage of the property directly abutting upon the
street, streets, alley, alleys, public way or the public grounds proposed to be
improved, shall be presented and filed with the Municipal Clerk, petitioning
therefor, the governing body shall by ordinance create a paving, graveling or
other improvement district or districts, and shall cause such work to be done
or such improvement to be made, and shall contract therefor, and shall levy
assessments on the lots and parcels of land abutting on or adjacent to such
street, streets, alley or alleys, especially benefitted thereby in such
district in proportion to such benefits, to pay the cost of such improvement.
The governing body shall have the discretion to deny the formation of the
proposed district when the area has not previously been improved with a water
system, sewer system and grading of streets. If the governing body should deny
a requested improvement district formation, it shall state the grounds for such
denial in a written letter to interested parties.
(Neb. RS 17-510) (Ord. 368, passed 9-10-1979; Ord. 443, passed 10-11-1983)
§ 8-312 STREETS; IMPROVEMENT DISTRICTS; OBJECTIONS.
   Whenever the governing body deems it necessary to make any improvements
allowed by statute which are to be funded by a levy of special assessment on
the property especially benefitted, the governing body shall by ordinance
create a paving, graveling or other improvement district and, after the
passage, approval and publication or posting of such ordinance, shall publish
notice of the creation of any such district for six days in a legal newspaper
of the municipality, if a daily newspaper, or for two consecutive weeks if it
is a weekly newspaper. If no legal newspaper is published in the municipality,
the publication shall be in a legal newspaper of general circulation in the
municipality. If the owners of the record title representing more than 50% of
the front footage of the property directly abutting on the street or alley to
be improved file with the Municipal Clerk within 20 days after the first
publication of such notice written objections to the creation of such district,
such improvement shall not be made as provided in such ordinance, but such
ordinance shall be repealed. If objections are not filed against the district
in the time and manner prescribed in this section, the governing body shall
immediately cause such work to be done or such improvement to be made, shall
construct for the work or improvement, and shall levy assessments on the lots
and parcels of land abutting on or adjacent to such street or alley especially
benefitted in such district in proportion to such benefits to pay the cost of
such improvement.
(Neb. RS 17-511) (Ord. 368, passed 9-10-1979; Ord. 629, passed 1-8-1996)
§ 8-313 STREETS; DEFERRAL FROM SPECIAL ASSESSMENTS.
   (A)   Whenever the governing body of a municipality creates an improvement
district as specified in this article which includes land adjacent to the
municipality which is within an agricultural use zone and is used exclusively
for agricultural use, the owners of record title of such adjacent land may
apply for a deferral from special assessments. For purposes of this section,
the terms agricultural use and agricultural use zone shall have the meaning
specified in Neb. RS 77-1343.
   (B)   (1)   Any owner of record title eligible for the deferral granted by
this section shall, to secure such assessment, make application to the
governing body of the municipality within 90 days after creation of an
improvement district as specified in this article. Any owner of record title
who makes application for the deferral provided by this section shall notify
the County Register of Deeds of such application in writing prior to approval
by the governing body.
      (2)   The governing body shall approve the application of any owner of
record title upon determination that the property:
         (a)   Is within an agricultural use zone and is used exclusively for
agricultural use; and
         (b)   The owner has met the requirements of this section.
   (C)   The deferral provided for in this section shall be terminated upon any
of the following events:
      (1)   Notification by the owner of record title to the governing body to
remove such deferral;
      (2)   Sale or transfer to a new owner who does not make a new application
within 60 days of the sale or transfer, except as provided in division (C)(3)
of this section;
      (3)   Transfer by reason of death of a former owner to a new owner who
does not make application within 125 days of the transfer;
      (4)   The land is no longer being used as agricultural land; or
      (5)   Change of zoning to other than an agricultural zone.
   (D)   Whenever property which has received a deferral pursuant to this
section becomes disqualified for such deferral, the owner of record title of
such property shall pay to the municipality an amount equal to:
      (1)   The total amount of special assessments which would have been
assessed against such property, to the extent of special benefits, had such
deferral not been granted; and
      (2)   Interest upon the special assessments not paid each year at the
rate of 6% from the dates at which such assessments would have been payable if
no deferral had been granted.
   (E)   In cases where the deferral provided by this section is terminated as
a result of a sale or transfer described in division (C)(2) or (C)(3) of this
section the lien for assessments and interest shall attach as of the day
preceding such sale or transfer.
(Neb. RS 19-2428 through 19-2431) (Ord. 444, passed 10-11-1983; Ord. 515,
passed 9-14-1987)
§ 8-314 STREETS; DRIVEWAY APPROACHES.
   (A)   The Street Commissioner may require the owner of property served by a
driveway approach constructed or maintained upon the street right-of-way to
repair or replace any such driveway approach which is cracked, broken or
otherwise deteriorated to the extent that it is causing or is likely to cause
damage to or interfere with any street structure including pavement or
sidewalks.
   (B)   The Municipal Clerk shall give the property owner notice by registered
letter or certified mail, directed to the last-known address of such owner or
the agent of such owner, directing the repair or replacement of such driveway
approach. If within 30 days of mailing such notice the property owner fails or
neglects to cause such repairs or replacements to be made, the Street
Commissioner may cause such work to be done and assess the cost upon the
property served by such approach.
(Neb. RS 18-1748) (Ord. 466, passed 8-14-1984)
§ 8-315 STREETS; VACATING PUBLIC WAYS.
   (A)   SPECIAL DAMAGES shall mean only those losses or damages or injuries
which a property owner suffers that are peculiar or special or unique to his or
her property and which result from the City Council vacating a street, avenue,
alley, lane or similar public way. Special damages shall not mean those losses
or damages or injuries that a property owner suffers that are in common with
the rest of the city or public at large, even though those losses or damages or
injuries suffered by the property owner are greater in degree than the rest of
the city or public at large.
   (B)   Whenever the City Council decides that it would be in the best
interests of the city to vacate a street, avenue, alley, lane or similar public
way, the City Council shall comply with the following procedure:
      (1)   Notice. Notice shall be given to all abutting property owners
either by first class mail to their last known address or if there is no known
address then by publishing the notice in a newspaper that is of general
circulation in the city. The content of the notice shall advise the abutting
property owners that the City Council will consider vacating such street,
avenue, alley, lane or similar public way at its next regular meeting or, if a
special meeting is scheduled for such discussion, then the date, time and place
of such meeting.
      (2)   Consent; waiver. The City Council may have all the abutting
property owners sign a form stating that they consent to the action being taken
by the City Council and waive their right of access. The signing of such form
shall have no effect on claims for special damages by the abutting property
owners but shall create the presumption that the City Council’s action was
proper. If the abutting property owners do not sign the consent/waiver form,
the City Council may still proceed with vacating the street, avenue, alley,
lane or similar public way under the authority granted by Neb. RS 17-558 and
Neb. RS 17-559.
      (3)   Ordinance. The City Council shall pass an ordinance that includes
essentially the following provisions:
         (a)   A declaration that the action is expedient for the public good
or in the best interests of the city;
         (b)   A statement that the city will have an easement for maintaining
all utilities; and
         (c)   A method or procedure for ascertaining special damages to
abutting property owners.
   (C)   The Mayor shall appoint three or five or seven disinterested residents
of the city to a special commission to ascertain the amount of special damages
that the abutting property owners are entitled to receive and which resulted
from the City Council vacating the street, avenue, alley, lane or similar
public way. The appointees of the special commission shall be approved by the
City Council. Only special damages shall be awarded to the abutting property
owners.
   (D)   In determining the amount of compensation to award the abutting
property owners as special damages, the commission shall use the following
rule.
      (1)   An abutting property owner is entitled to recover as compensation
the difference between the value of the property immediately before and
immediately after the vacating of such street, avenue, alley, lane or similar
public way.
      (2)   If no difference in value exists, the abutting property owner is
entitled to no compensation.
(Ord. 494, passed 11-11-1986; Ord. 737, passed 5-13-2002)
§ 8-316 STREETS; VACATING PUBLIC WAYS; PROCEDURE.
Editor’s note:
   This section was repealed by Ord. 737, passed 5-13-2002.
ARTICLE 4: CURB AND GUTTER
Section
   
8-401   Curb and gutter; cutting curb
§ 8-401 CURB AND GUTTER; CUTTING CURB.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to cut into any paving, curb or sidewalk
for the purpose of constructing a driveway or any other purpose whatsoever
without first having obtained a written permit from the governing body
therefor. Before any person shall obtain a permit, he or she shall inform the
Municipal Clerk of the place where such cutting is to be done, and it shall be
the chief street official’s duty to inspect the place of entry into the paving,
sidewalk or curb, before the same is cut. When cutting into any paving, it
shall be the duty of the party to cut the paving under such rules and
regulations as may be prescribed by the governing body or the Municipal
Engineer. When the applicant is ready to close the opening made, he or she
shall inform the chief street official, who shall supervise and inspect the
materials used and the work done in closing the opening. It shall be
discretionary with the governing body to order the chief street official, under
the supervision and inspection of the Municipal Engineer or the committee of
the governing body on the streets and alleys, to do the work of cutting and
closing the paving and charge the costs thereof to the party who obtained such
permit. The governing body may consent to the work of cutting and closing the
paving to be done by the party holding such permit. Before any permit is issued
by the governing body, the applicant for such permit shall deposit with the
Municipal Treasurer a sum set by resolution of the governing body for all
paving, curb or sidewalk to be cut. Such sum shall be set on a per square foot
cost of construction basis. The deposit shall be retained by the municipality
for the purpose of replacing the paving, curb or sidewalk, in the event the
work is done by the municipality. In the event the municipality elects to
require the applicant to replace the paving, curb or sidewalk, the deposit
shall be retained by the municipality until the work is completed to the
satisfaction of the chief street official or of the committee of the governing
body on streets and alleys. In addition to making the deposit above set forth,
the applicant shall, before any permit is issued, execute a bond to the
municipality with a good and sufficient surety or sureties to be approved by
the governing body in a sum set by resolution of the governing body.
ARTICLE 5: PENAL PROVISION
Section
   
8-501   Violations; penalty
§ 8-501 VIOLATIONS; PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person, or any person’s agent or servant, who violates any of the
provisions of this chapter, unless otherwise specifically provided herein,
shall be deemed guilty of an offense and upon conviction thereof shall be fined
in any sum not exceeding $500. A new violation shall be deemed to have been
committed every 24 hours of failure to comply with the provisions of this
chapter.
   (B)   (1)   Whenever a nuisance exists as defined in this code of
ordinances, the municipality may proceed by a suit in equity to enjoin, abate
and remove the same in the manner provided by law.
      (2)   Whenever, in any action, it is established that a nuisance exists,
the court may, together with the fine or penalty imposed, enter an order of
abatement as a part of the judgment in the case.
(Neb. RS 17-505, 18-1720, 18-1722) (Ord. 710, passed 10-9-2000)
CHAPTER 9: BUILDING REGULATIONS
   Article
      
1.   BUILDING CODE
      
2.   RESIDENTIAL CODE
      
3.   PLUMBING CODE
      
4.   ELECTRICAL CODE
      
5.   PENAL PROVISION
ARTICLE 1: BUILDING CODE
Section
   
9-101   Building Code; adopted by reference
   
9-102   Building permits; duplicate to County Assessor
   
9-103   Building Code; plans, specifications, plats and reports; municipal
officials; duty
   
9-104   Fence regulations
   
9-105   Fences; permit required
§ 9-101 BUILDING CODE; ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   The International Building Code, 2003 Edition, as published by the
International Code Council, Inc., is hereby adopted as the Building Code of
this municipality for establishing the minimum regulations governing the
conditions and maintenance of all property, buildings and structures, providing
the standards for supplied utilities and facilities and other physical things
and conditions essential to ensure that structures are safe, sanitary and fit
for occupation and use, and providing for the condemnation of buildings and
structures unfit for human occupancy and use and for the demolition of such
buildings and structures. Each and all of the regulations, provisions,
penalties, conditions and terms of the Building Code are hereby referred to,
adopted and made a part hereof, as if fully set out in this section. The
Building Code, printed in book or pamphlet form, is hereby incorporated by
reference in addition to all amended editions as though printed in full herein
insofar as such Code does not conflict with the statutes of the State of
Nebraska. One copy of the Building Code is on file at the office of the
Municipal Clerk and is available for public inspection at any reasonable time.
The provisions of the Building Code shall be controlling throughout the
municipality and throughout its zoning jurisdiction.
(Ord. 762, passed 1-12-2004)
§ 9-102 BUILDING PERMITS; DUPLICATE TO COUNTY ASSESSOR.
   Whenever a building permit is issued for the erection, alteration or repair,
of any building within the municipality’s jurisdiction, and the improvement is
$2,500 or more, a duplicate of such permit shall be issued to the County
Assessor.
(Neb. RS 18-1743) (Ord. 369, passed 9-10-1979; Ord. 773, passed 1-12-2004)
§ 9-103 BUILDING CODE; PLANS, SPECIFICATIONS, PLATS AND REPORTS; MUNICIPAL
OFFICIALS; DUTY.
   A municipal official charged with the duty or responsibility of accepting or
approving plans, specifications, plats and reports shall not accept or approve
plans, specifications, plats or reports which have not been prepared in
accordance with the Engineers and Architects Regulation Act.
(Neb. RS 81-3447) (Ord. 686, passed 10-12-1998)
§ 9-104 FENCE REGULATIONS.
   Notwithstanding other provisions of this section, fences, walls and hedges
may be permitted to be erected in any required yard, provided that no fence,
wall or hedge along the sides or front edge of any front yard stand over three
and one-half feet in height. Additionally, on a corner lot in a Residential
District, a sight triangle shall be provided such that nothing shall be
erected, placed, planted or allowed to grow in such a manner as to materially
impede vision between a height of two and one-half feet and ten feet above the
centerline grades of the intersecting streets in the area bounded by the street
lines of such corner lots and a line joining points along said street lines 90
feet from the point of the intersections. The following all apply to the
construction of fences.
   (A)   No solid fence shall be constructed closer to the street than the
property line. No fence shall be closer than two feet to the sidewalk.
   (B)   No fence erected in a required front yard shall materially obstruct
public view. Permitted types of fences shall include split rail, chain link, or
other similar material. No component of a front yard fence shall exceed three
and one-half feet in height, nor shall any structural member exceed 36 inches
in cross-sectional area.
   (C)   No fence shall be constructed which will constitute a traffic hazard
as identified in the site triangle of a corner lot aforementioned.
   (D)   No fence shall be constructed in such a manner to be of such design as
to be hazardous or dangerous to persons or animals by intent of its
construction or by inadequate maintenance.
   (E)   No component of a fence within Residential Districts, except fences
erected upon public or parochial school grounds or in public parks and in
public playgrounds, shall be constructed of a height greater than six feet.
Except for the provisions of division (I) below.
   (F)   All fences shall conform to the construction standards of the building
code and other applicable ordinances and resolutions.
   (G)   In commercial and industrial districts, maximum height of fences shall
be eight feet. When industry standards for certain types of businesses require
fences of greater heights, the Zoning Administrator at his/her direction, may
allow greater heights.
   (H)   The good side of the fence shall face to the outside of the property.
   (I)   All outdoor swimming pools within the municipal boundaries of the city
shall be enclosed by a fence or wall at least six feet, but not more than eight
feet in height with a gate or gates which can be securely locked.
(Ord. 901, passed 6-8-2015; Ord. 901, passed 11-12-2019)
§ 9-105 FENCES; PERMIT REQUIRED.
   All fences contemplated to be constructed within the municipal boundaries of
the city shall comply with the provisions of this section and must first obtain
a fence permit and pay any applicable fees at the office of the City Clerk.
(Ord. 901, passed 6-8-2015; Ord. 901, passed 11-12-2019)
ARTICLE 2: RESIDENTIAL CODE
Section
   
9-201   Residential Code; adopted by reference
§ 9-201 RESIDENTIAL CODE; ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   The International Residential Code, 2003 Edition, as published by the
International Code Council, Inc., is hereby adopted as the Residential Code of
this municipality for regulating and controlling the design, construction,
quality of materials, erection, installation, alteration, repair, location,
relocation, replacement, addition to, use or maintenance of one- and two-family
dwellings and townhouses not more than three stories in height in the
municipality and providing for the issuance of permits and collection of fees
therefor. Each and all of the regulations, provisions, penalties, conditions
and terms of the Residential Code are hereby referred to, adopted and made a
part hereof as if fully set out in this section. The Residential Code, printed
in book or pamphlet form, is hereby incorporated by reference in addition to
all amended editions as though printed in full herein insofar as such Code does
not conflict with the statutes of the State of Nebraska. One copy of the
Residential Code is on file at the office of the Municipal Clerk and is
available for public inspection at any reasonable time. The provisions of the
Residential Code shall be controlling throughout the municipality and
throughout its zoning jurisdiction.
(Ord. 762, passed 1-12-2004)
ARTICLE 3: PLUMBING CODE
Section
   
9-301   Plumbing Code; adopted by reference
   
9-302   Building regulations; prohibition of lead pipes, solder and flux
§ 9-301 PLUMBING CODE; ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   To provide certain minimum standards, provisions and requirements for safe
and stable installation, methods of connection and uses of materials in the
installation of plumbing and heating shall be as found in the National Standard
Plumbing Code, 2000 Edition, in addition to all amended editions as though
printed in full herein insofar as said Code does not conflict with the statutes
of the State of Nebraska. All prior ordinances in conflict herewith shall be
and are hereby repealed. One copy of the Plumbing Code is on file at the office
of the Municipal Clerk and is available for public inspection at any reasonable
time.
(Neb. RS 17-1001, 18-132, 19-902, 19-922) (Ord. 743, passed 7-15-2002)
§ 9-302 BUILDING REGULATIONS; PROHIBITION OF LEAD PIPES, SOLDER AND FLUX.
   (A)   Any pipe, solders or flux used in the installation or repair of any
residential or nonresidential facility which is connected to the public water
supply system shall be lead free.
   (B)   For purposes of this section, LEAD FREE shall mean:
      (1)   Solders and flux - not more than 0.2% lead; and
      (2)   Pipe and pipe fittings - not more than 8% lead.
(Neb. RS 71-5301) (Ord. 524, passed 5-9-1988)
ARTICLE 4: ELECTRICAL CODE
Section
   
9-401   Electrical Code; adopted by reference
§ 9-401 ELECTRICAL CODE; ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   To provide certain minimum standards, provisions and requirements for safe
and fire-proof installation, methods of connection and uses of materials in the
installation of electrical wiring and appliances, the National Electrical Code,
1971 Edition, as recommended and published by the National Fire Protection
Association, printed in book or pamphlet form, in addition to all amended
editions as though printed in full herein insofar as said Code does not
conflict with the statutes of the State of Nebraska. All prior ordinances in
conflict herewith shall be and are hereby repealed. One copy of the Electrical
Code is on file at the office of the Municipal Clerk and is available for
public inspection at any reasonable time.
(Neb. RS 17-1001, 18-132, 19-902, 19-922)
ARTICLE 5: PENAL PROVISION
Section
   
9-501   Violation; penalty
§ 9-501 VIOLATION; PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person, or any person’s agent or servant, who violates any of the
provisions of this chapter, unless otherwise specifically provided herein,
shall be deemed guilty of an offense and upon conviction thereof shall be fined
in any sum not exceeding $500. A new violation shall be deemed to have been
committed every 24 hours of failure to comply with the provisions of this
chapter.
   (B)   (1)   Whenever a nuisance exists as defined in this code of
ordinances, the municipality may proceed by a suit in equity to enjoin, abate
and remove the same in the manner provided by law.
      (2)   Whenever, in any action, it is established that a nuisance exists,
the court may, together with the fine or penalty imposed, enter an order of
abatement as a part of the judgment in the case.
(Neb. RS 17-505, 18-1720, 18-1722) (Ord. 710, passed 10-9-2000)
CHAPTER 10: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
   Article
      
1.   ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
      
2.   SALES AND ADVERTISING
      
3.   PUBLIC AMUSEMENTS
      
4.   BUSINESS ENTERPRISES
      
5.   OCCUPATION TAXES
      
6.   FRANCHISE AGREEMENTS
      
7.   TOBACCO SALES
      
8.   LOTTERY
      
9.   SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESSES
      
10.   SALES AND USE TAX
      
11.   PENAL PROVISION
ARTICLE 1: ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
Section
   
10-101   Alcoholic beverages; definitions
   
10-102   Alcoholic beverages; sale or gift to minor or mentally incompetent
person prohibited
   
10-103   Alcoholic beverages; consumption in public places or places open to
the public; restrictions
   
10-104   Alcoholic beverages; drinking on public property; open beverage
container
   
10-105   Alcoholic beverages; removal of intoxicated persons from public or
quasi-public property
   
10-106   Alcoholic beverages; manufacture, sale, delivery, and possession;
general prohibitions; exceptions
   
10-107   Alcoholic beverages; acquisition and possession; restrictions
   
10-108   Alcoholic beverages; licensee requirements
   
10-109   Alcoholic beverages; licenses; city powers and duties
   
10-110   Alcoholic beverages; licensed premises; inspections
   
10-111   Alcoholic beverages; license renewal; city powers and duties
   
10-112   Alcoholic beverages; catering licenses
   
10-113   Alcoholic beverages; display of license
   
10-114   Alcoholic beverages; owner of premises or agent; liability
   
10-115   Alcoholic beverages; licensee; liability for acts of officer, agent,
or employee
   
10-116   Alcoholic beverages; citizen complaints
   
10-117   Alcoholic beverages; retail establishments; location
   
10-118   Alcoholic beverages; retail establishments; access to dwellings
   
10-119   Alcoholic beverages; retail establishments; sanitary conditions
   
10-120   Alcoholic beverages; hours of sale
   
10-121   Alcoholic beverages; credit sales prohibited
   
10-122   Alcoholic beverages; original package required
   
10-123   Alcoholic beverages; minor’s presence restricted
   
10-124   Alcoholic beverages; keg sales; requirements; prohibited acts
§ 10-101 ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES; DEFINITIONS.
   For purposes of this article, the definitions found in Neb. RS 53-103.01
through 53-103.42 shall be used.
§ 10-102 ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES; SALE OR GIFT TO MINOR OR MENTALLY INCOMPETENT
PERSON PROHIBITED.
   No person shall sell, furnish, give away, dispose of, exchange, or deliver,
or permit the sale, gift, or procuring of any alcoholic liquors, to or for any
minor or to any person who is mentally incompetent.
(Neb. RS 53-180) (Ord. 380, passed 10-13-1980)
Statutory reference:
   Authority, see Neb. RS 17-135
Cross reference:
   Minors; misrepresentation to obtain alcohol, see §
6-327
   Minors; prohibited acts involving alcoholic liquor, see §
6-328
§ 10-103 ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES; CONSUMPTION IN PUBLIC PLACES OR PLACES OPEN TO
THE PUBLIC; RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   Except when the Nebraska Liquor Control Commission has issued a
license as provided in Neb. RS 53-186(2) or as provided in Neb. RS 60-6,211.08,
it is unlawful for any person to consume alcoholic liquor upon property owned
or controlled by the state or any governmental subdivision thereof unless
authorized by the governing bodies having jurisdiction over such property.
(Neb. RS 53-186)
   (B)   It is unlawful for any person owning, operating, managing, or
conducting any dance hall, restaurant, café, or club or any place open to the
general public to permit or allow any person to consume alcoholic liquor upon
the premises except as permitted by a license issued for such premises pursuant
to the Nebraska Liquor Control Act. It is unlawful for any person to consume
alcoholic liquor in any dance hall, restaurant, café, or club or any place open
to the general public except as permitted by a license issued for such premises
pursuant to the Act. This division does not apply to a retail licensee while
lawfully engaged in the catering of alcoholic beverages or to limousines or
buses operated under Neb. RS 60-6,211.08.
(Neb. RS 53-186.01)
(Ord. 717, passed 10-9-2000)
§ 10-104 MISDEMEANORS; DRINKING ON PUBLIC PROPERTY; OPEN BEVERAGE CONTAINER.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE.
         (a)   Beer, ale, porter, stout, and other similar fermented beverages,
including sake or similar products, of any name or description, containing 0.5%
or more of alcohol by volume, brewed or produced from malt, wholly or in part,
or from any substitute therefor;
         (b)   Wine of not less than 0.5% alcohol by volume; or
         (c)   Distilled spirits, which is that substance known as ethyl
alcohol, ethanol, or spirits of wine in any form, including all dilutions and
mixtures thereof from whatever source or by whatever process produced.
         (d)   ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE does not include trace amounts not readily
consumable as a beverage.
      HIGHWAY. A road or street including the entire area within the right-of-
way.
      LIMOUSINE. A luxury vehicle used to provide prearranged passenger
transportation on a dedicated basis at a premium fare that has a seating
capacity of at least five and no more than 14 persons behind the driver with a
physical partition separating the driver seat from the passenger compartment.
LIMOUSINE does not include taxicabs, hotel or airport buses or shuttles, or
buses.
      OPEN ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE CONTAINER. Except as provided in Neb. RS 53-
123.04(3) and 53-123.11(1)(c), any bottle, can, or other receptacle:
         (a)   That contains any amount of alcoholic beverage; and
         (b)   1.   That is open or has a broken seal; or
            2.   The contents of which are partially removed.
      PASSENGER AREA. The area designed to seat the driver and passengers while
the motor vehicle is in operation and any area that is readily accessible to
the driver or a passenger while in their seating positions, including any
compartments in the area. PASSENGER AREA does not include the area behind the
last upright seat of the motor vehicle if the area is not normally occupied by
the driver or a passenger and the motor vehicle is not equipped with a trunk.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this section, it is unlawful for any
person in the passenger area of a motor vehicle to possess an open alcoholic
beverage container while the motor vehicle is located in a public parking area
or on any highway in this city.
   (C)   Except as provided in §
10-103 or division (D) of this section, it is unlawful for any person to
consume an alcoholic beverage:
      (1)   In a public parking area or on any highway in this city; or
      (2)   Inside a motor vehicle while in a public parking area or on any
highway in this city.
   (D)   This section does not apply to persons who are passengers of, but not
drivers of, a limousine or bus being used in a charter or special party service
as defined by rules and regulations adopted and promulgated by the state Public
Service Commission and subject to Neb. Admin. Code, Chapter 75, Article 3. Such
passengers may possess open alcoholic beverage containers and may consume
alcoholic beverages while such limousine or bus is in a public parking area or
on any highway in this city if:
      (1)   The driver of the limousine or bus is prohibited from consuming
alcoholic liquor; and
      (2)   Alcoholic liquor is not present in any area that is readily
accessible to the driver while in the driver’s seat, including any compartments
in such area.
(Neb. RS 60-6,211.08)
§ 10-105 ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES; REMOVAL OF INTOXICATED PERSONS FROM PUBLIC OR
QUASI-PUBLIC PROPERTY.
   (A)   Any law enforcement officer with the power to arrest for traffic
violations may take a person who is intoxicated and in the judgment of the
officer dangerous to himself, herself, or others, or who is otherwise
incapacitated, from any public or quasi-public property. An officer removing an
intoxicated person from public or quasi-public property shall make a reasonable
effort to take the intoxicated person to his or her home or to place the person
in any hospital, clinic, alcoholism center, or with a medical doctor as may be
necessary to preserve life or to prevent injury. The effort at placement shall
be deemed reasonable if the officer contacts such facilities or doctor which
have previously represented a willingness to accept and treat such individuals
and which regularly do accept such individuals. If these efforts are
unsuccessful or are not feasible, the officer may then place the intoxicated
person in civil protective custody, except that civil protective custody shall
be used only as long as is necessary to preserve life or to prevent injury, and
under no circumstances longer than 24 hours.
   (B)   The placement of the person in civil protective custody shall be
recorded at the facility or jail at which he or she is delivered and
communicated to his or her family or next of kin, if they can be located, or to
the person designated by the person taken into civil protective custody.
   (C)   The law enforcement officer who acts in compliance with this section
shall be deemed to be acting in the course of his or her official duty and
shall not be criminally or civilly liable for these actions.
   (D)   The taking of an individual into civil protective custody under this
section shall not be considered an arrest. No entry or other record shall be
made to indicate that the person has been arrested or charged with a crime.
   (E)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      PUBLIC PROPERTY. Any public right-of-way, street, highway, alley, park,
or other state, county, or city-owned property.
      QUASI-PUBLIC PROPERTY. Private or publicly owned property utilized for
proprietary or business uses which invites patronage by the public or which
invites public ingress and egress.
(Neb. RS 53-1,121) (Ord. 370, passed 9-10-1979; Ord. 405, passed 9-8-1981)
§ 10-106 ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES; MANUFACTURE, SALE, DELIVERY, AND POSSESSION;
GENERAL PROHIBITIONS; EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   No person shall manufacture, bottle, blend, sell, barter, transport,
deliver, furnish, or possess any alcoholic liquor for beverage purposes except
as specifically provided in this article and the Nebraska Liquor Control Act.
   (B)   Nothing in this article shall prevent:
      (1)   The possession of alcoholic liquor legally obtained as provided in
this article or the Act for the personal use of the possessor and his or her
family or guests;
      (2)   The making of wine, cider, or other alcoholic liquor by a person
from fruits, vegetables, or grains, or the product thereof, by simple
fermentation and without distillation, if made solely for the use of the maker
and his or her family and guests;
      (3)   Any duly licensed practicing physician or dentist from possessing
or using alcoholic liquor in the strict practice of his or her profession, any
hospital or other institution caring for the sick and diseased persons from
possessing and using alcoholic liquor for the treatment of bona fide patients
of that hospital or other institution, or any drug store employing a licensed
pharmacist from possessing or using alcoholic liquor in the compounding of
prescriptions of licensed physicians;
      (4)   The possession and dispensation of alcoholic liquor by an
authorized representative of any religion on the premises of a place of
worship, for the purpose of conducting any bona fide religious rite, ritual, or
ceremony;
      (5)   Persons who are 16 years old or older from carrying alcoholic
liquor from licensed establishments when they are accompanied by a person not a
minor;
      (6)   Persons who are 16 years old or older from handling alcoholic
liquor containers and alcoholic liquor in the course of their employment;
      (7)   Persons who are 16 years old or older from removing and disposing
of alcoholic liquor containers for the convenience of the employer and
customers in the course of their employment; or
      (8)   Persons who are 19 years old or older from serving or selling
alcoholic liquor in the course of their employment.
(Neb. RS 53-168.06)
§ 10-107 ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES; ACQUISITION AND POSSESSION; RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to purchase, receive, acquire,
accept, or possess any alcoholic liquor acquired from any other person other
than one duly licensed to handle alcoholic liquor under this article and the
Nebraska Liquor Control Act unless within specific exemptions or exceptions
provided in this article or the Act.
(Neb. RS 53-175)
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to transport, import, bring, ship,
or cause to be transported, imported, brought, or shipped into this state for
the personal use of the possessor, his or her family, or guests a quantity of
alcoholic liquor in excess of nine liters in any one calendar month.
(Neb. RS 53-194.03)
(Ord. 381, passed 10-13-1980; Ord. 476, passed 10-8-1985; Ord. 630, passed 1-8-
1996)
§ 10-108 ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES; LICENSEE REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   No license shall be issued to:
      (1)   A person who is not a resident of this state, except in case of
railroad, airline, or boat licenses;
      (2)   A person who is not of good character and reputation in the
community in which he or she resides;
      (3)   A person who is not a citizen of the United States;
      (4)   A person who has been convicted of or has pleaded guilty to a
felony under the laws of this state, any other state, or the United States;
      (5)   A person who has been convicted of or has pleaded guilty to any
Class I misdemeanor pursuant Neb. RS Chapter 28, art. 3, 4, 7, 8, 10, 11, or
12, or any similar offense under a prior criminal statute or in another state,
except that any additional requirements imposed by this division on May 18,
1983, shall not prevent any person holding a license on that date from
retaining or renewing that license if the conviction or plea occurred prior to
May 18, 1983;
      (6)   A person whose license issued under the Nebraska Liquor Control Act
has been revoked for cause;
      (7)   A person who at the time of application for renewal of any license
issued under the Act would not be eligible for that license upon initial
application;
      (8)   A partnership, unless one of the partners is a resident of this
state and unless all the members of that partnership are otherwise qualified to
obtain a license;
      (9)   A limited liability company, unless one of the members is a
resident of this state and unless all the members of that company are otherwise
qualified to obtain a license;
      (10)   A corporation, if any officer or director of the corporation or
any stockholder owning in the aggregate more than 25% of the stock of that
corporation would be ineligible to receive a license under this section for any
reason other than the reasons stated in divisions (A)(1) and (A)(3) of this
section, or if a manager of a corporate licensee would be ineligible to receive
a license under this section for any reason. This division shall not apply to
railroad licenses;
      (11)   A person whose place of business is conducted by a manager or
agent, unless that manager or agent possesses the same qualifications required
of the licensee;
      (12)   A person who does not own the premises for which a license is
sought or does not have a lease or combination of leases on the premises for
the full period for which the license is to be issued;
      (13)   Except as provided in this division, an applicant whose spouse is
ineligible under this section to receive and hold a liquor license. Such an
applicant shall become eligible for a liquor license only if the Nebraska
Liquor Control Commission finds from the evidence that the public interest will
not be infringed upon if the license is granted. It shall be prima facie
evidence that when a spouse is ineligible to receive a liquor license, the
applicant is also ineligible to receive a liquor license. This prima facie
evidence shall be overcome if it is shown to the satisfaction of the
Commission:
         (a)   The licensed business will be the sole property of the
applicant; and
         (b) The licensed premises will be properly operated.
      (14)   A person seeking a license for premises which do not meet
standards for fire safety as established by the State Fire Marshal;
      (15)   A law enforcement officer, except that this division shall not
prohibit a law enforcement officer from holding membership in any nonprofit
organization holding a liquor license or from participating in any manner in
the management or administration of a nonprofit organization; or
      (16)   A person less than 21 years of age.
   (B)   When a trustee is the licensee, the beneficiary or beneficiaries of
the trust shall comply with the requirements of this section, but nothing in
this section shall prohibit any such beneficiary from being a minor or person
who is mentally incompetent.
(Neb. RS 53-125) (Ord. 378, passed 10-13-1980; Ord. 435, passed 9-13-1983; Ord.
445, passed 10-11-1983; Ord. 559, passed 5-13-1991; Ord. 581, passed 3-8-1993)
§ 10-109 ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES; LICENSES; CITY POWERS AND DUTIES.
   (A)   The City Council is authorized to regulate by ordinance, not
inconsistent with the Nebraska Liquor Control Act, the business of all retail,
craft brewery, and microdistillery licensees carried on within the corporate
limits of the city.
(Neb. RS 53-134.03)
   (B)   During the period of 45 days after the date of receipt by mail or
electronic delivery from the Nebraska Liquor Control Commission notice and a
copy of an application for a new license to sell alcoholic liquor at retail, a
craft brewery license, or a microdistillery license, the City Council may make
and submit to the Commission recommendations relative to the granting or
refusal to grant the license to the applicant.
(Neb. RS 53-131)
   (C)   The City Council, with respect to licenses within the corporate limits
of the city, has the following powers, functions, and duties with respect to
retail, craft brewery, and microdistillery licenses:
      (1)   To cancel or revoke for cause retail, craft brewery, or
microdistillery licenses to sell or dispense alcoholic liquor issued to persons
for premises within its jurisdiction, subject to the right of appeal to the
Nebraska Liquor Control Commission;
      (2)   To enter or to authorize any law enforcement officer to enter at
any time upon any premises licensed under the Nebraska Liquor Control Act to
determine whether any provision of the Act, any rule or regulation adopted and
promulgated pursuant to the Act, or any ordinance, resolution, rule, or
regulation adopted by the City Council has been or is being violated, and at
that time examine the premises of the licensee in connection with such
determination. Any law enforcement officer who determines that any provision of
the Act, any rule or regulation adopted and promulgated pursuant to the Act, or
any ordinance, resolution, rule, or regulation adopted by the local governing
body has been or is being violated shall report such violation in writing to
the Executive Director of the Commission:
         (a)   Within 30 days after determining that such violation has
occurred;
         (b)   Within 30 days after the conclusion of an ongoing police
investigation; or
         (c)   Within 30 days after the verdict in a prosecution related to
such an ongoing police investigation if the prosecuting attorney determines
that reporting such violation prior to the verdict would jeopardize such
prosecution, whichever is later;
      (3)   To receive a signed complaint from any citizen within its
jurisdiction that any provision of the Act, any rule or regulation adopted and
promulgated pursuant to the Act, or any ordinance, resolution, rule, or
regulation relating to alcoholic liquor has been or is being violated and to
act upon these complaints in the manner provided in the Act;
      (4)   To receive retail, craft brewery, and microdistillery license fees
as provided in Neb. RS 53-124 and 53-124.01 and pay the same, after the license
has been delivered to the applicant, to the City Treasurer;
      (5)   To examine or cause to be examined any applicant or any retail,
craft brewery, or microdistillery licensee upon whom notice of cancellation or
revocation has been served as provided in the Act, to examine or cause to be
examined the books and records of any applicant or licensee, and to hear
testimony and to take proof for its information in the performance of its
duties. For purposes of obtaining any of the information desired, the City
Council may authorize its agent or attorney to act on its behalf;
      (6)   To cancel or revoke on its own motion any license if, upon the same
notice and hearing as provided in Neb. RS 53-134.04, it determines that the
licensee has violated any of the provisions of the Nebraska Liquor Control Act
or any valid and subsisting ordinance, resolution, rule, or regulation duly
enacted, adopted, and promulgated relating to alcoholic liquor. The order of
cancellation or revocation may be appealed to the Commission within 30 days
after the date of the order by filing a notice of appeal with the Commission.
The Commission shall handle the appeal in the manner provided for hearing on an
application in Neb. RS 53-133; and
      (7)   Upon receipt from the Commission of the notice and copy of
application as provided in Neb. RS 53-131, to fix a time and place for a
hearing at which the City Council shall receive evidence, either orally or by
affidavit from the applicant and any other person, bearing upon the propriety
of the issuance of a license. Notice of the time and place of the hearing shall
be published in a legal newspaper in or of general circulation in the city, one
time not less than seven and not more than 14 days before the time of the
hearing. The notice shall include, but not be limited to, a statement that all
persons desiring to give evidence before the City Council in support of or in
protest against the issuance of the license may do so at the time of the
hearing. The hearing shall be held not more than 45 days after the date of
receipt of the notice from the Commission, and after the hearing the City
Council shall cause to be recorded in the minute record of its proceedings a
resolution recommending either issuance or refusal of the license. The City
Clerk shall mail to the Commission by first class mail, postage prepaid, a copy
of the resolution which shall state the cost of the published notice, except
that failure to comply with this provision shall not void any license issued by
the Commission. If the Commission refuses to issue such a license, the cost of
publication of notice shall be paid by the Commission from the security for
costs.
(Neb. RS 53-134)
   (D)   (1)   When the Nebraska Liquor Control Commission mails or delivers to
the City Clerk a retail, craft brewery, or microdistillery license issued or
renewed by the Commission, the Clerk shall deliver the license to the licensee
upon receipt from the licensee of proof of payment of:
         (a)   The license fee if by the terms of Neb. RS 53-124 the fee is
payable to the City Treasurer;
         (b)   Any fee for publication of notice of hearing before the City
Council upon the application for the license;
         (c)   The fee for publication of notice of renewal, if applicable, as
provided in Neb. RS 53-135.01; and
         (d)   Occupation taxes, if any, imposed by the city.
      (2)   Notwithstanding any ordinance or charter power to the contrary, the
city shall not impose an occupation tax on the business of any person, firm, or
corporation licensed under the Nebraska Liquor Control Act and doing business
within the corporate limits of the city in any sum which exceeds 2 times the
amount of the license fee required to be paid under the Act to obtain that
license.
(Neb. RS 53-132)
(Ord. 379, passed 10-13-1980; Ord. 445, passed 10-11-1983; Ord. 716, passed 10-
9-2000)
§ 10-110 ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES; LICENSED PREMISES; INSPECTIONS.
   The City Council shall cause frequent inspection to be made on the premises
of all retail licensees. If it is found that any such licensee is violating any
provision of this article, the Nebraska Liquor Control Act, or the rules and
regulations of the Nebraska Liquor Control Commission, or is failing to observe
in good faith the purposes of this article or the Act, the license may be
suspended, canceled, or revoked after the licensee is given an opportunity to
be heard in his or her defense.
(Neb. RS 53-116.01) (Ord. 382, passed 10-13-1980)
§ 10-111 LICENSE RENEWAL; CITY POWERS AND DUTIES.
   (A)   A retail license issued by the Nebraska Liquor Control Commission and
outstanding may be automatically renewed by the Commission in the absence of a
written request by the City Council to require the licensee to submit an
application for renewal. Any licensed retail premises located in an area which
is annexed to the city shall file a formal application for a license, and while
the application is pending, the licensee may continue all license privileges
until the original license expires or is canceled or revoked. If that license
expires within 60 days following the annexation date of the area, the license
may be renewed by order of the Commission for not more than one year.
(Neb. RS 53-135)
   (B)   The City Clerk shall cause to be published in a legal newspaper in or
of general circulation in the city, 1 time between January 10 and January 30 of
each year, individual notice in the form prescribed by law of the right of
automatic renewal of each retail liquor and beer license within the city,
except that notice of the right of automatic renewal of Class C licenses shall
be published between the dates of July 10 and July 30 of each year. If written
protests to the issuance of automatic renewal of a license are filed in the
office of the City Clerk by three or more residents of the city on or before
February 10, or August 10 for Class C licenses, the City Council shall hold a
hearing to determine whether continuation of the license should be allowed.
Upon the conclusion of any hearing required by this section, the City Council
may request a licensee to submit an application as provided in Neb. RS 53-135.
(Neb. RS 53-135.01) (Ord. 372, passed 12-10-1979; Ord. 445, passed 10-11-1983)
§ 10-112 ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES; CATERING LICENSES.
   (A)   The holder of a license to sell alcoholic liquor at retail issued
under Neb. RS 53-124, a craft brewery license, a microdistillery license, or a
farm winery license may obtain an annual catering license by filing an
application and license fee with the Nebraska Liquor Control Commission.
   (B)   Upon receipt from the Commission of the notice and a copy of the
application as provided in Neb. RS 53-124.12, the City Council shall process
the application in the same manner as provided in §
10-108.
   (C)   The City Council, with respect to catering licensees within its
corporate limits, may cancel a catering license for cause for the remainder of
the period for which that catering license is issued. Any person whose catering
license is canceled may appeal to the District Court.
   (D)   The City Council may impose an occupation tax on the business of a
catering licensee doing business within the liquor license jurisdiction of the
City Council. The tax may not exceed double the license fee for a catering
license.
(Neb. RS 53-124.12) (Ord. 533, passed 12-12-1988; Ord. 569, passed 4-13-1992;
Ord. 651, passed 6-9-1997; Ord. 718, passed 10-9-2000; Ord. 735, passed 5-13-
2002)
§ 10-113 ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES; DISPLAY OF LICENSE.
   Every licensee under the Nebraska Liquor Control Act shall cause his or her
license to be framed and hung in plain view in a conspicuous place on the
licensed premises.
(Neb. RS 53-148)
§ 10-114 ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES; OWNER OF PREMISES OR AGENT; LIABILITY.
   If the owner of the licensed premises or any person from whom the licensee
derives the right to possession of the premises, or the agent of that owner or
person, knowingly permits the licensee to use the licensed premises in
violation of the terms of the Nebraska Liquor Control Act or any city
ordinance, that owner, agent, or other person shall be deemed guilty of a
violation of the Act or ordinance to the same extent as the licensee and be
subject to the same punishment.
(Neb. RS 53-1,101)
§ 10-115 ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES; LICENSEE; LIABILITY FOR ACTS OF OFFICER, AGENT,
OR EMPLOYEE.
   Every act or omission of whatsoever nature constituting a violation of any
of the provisions of the Nebraska Liquor Control Act or any city ordinance by
any officer, director, manager, or other agent or employee of any licensee, if
the act is committed or omission is made with the authorization, knowledge, or
approval of the licensee, shall be deemed and held to be the act of the
employer or licensee, and the employer or licensee shall be punishable in the
same manner as if the act or omission had been done or omitted by the licensee
personally.
(Neb. RS 53-1,102)
§ 10-116 ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES; CITIZEN COMPLAINTS.
   Any five residents of the city shall have the right to file a complaint with
the City Council stating that any retail licensee subject to the jurisdiction
of the City Council has been or is violating any provision of the Nebraska
Liquor Control Act or the rules or regulations issued pursuant to the Act. The
complaint shall be in writing in the form prescribed by the City Council and
shall be signed and sworn to by the parties complaining. The complaint shall
state the particular provision, rule, or regulation believed to have been
violated and the facts in detail upon which belief is based. If the City
Council is satisfied that the complaint substantially charges a violation and
that from the facts alleged there is reasonable cause for that belief, it shall
set the matter for hearing within ten days from the date of the filing of the
complaint and shall serve notice upon the licensee of the time and place of the
hearing and of the particular charge in the complaint. The complaint shall in
all cases be disposed of by the City Council within 30 days from the date the
complaint was filed by resolution thereof, which resolution shall be deemed the
final order for purposes of appeal to the Nebraska Liquor Control Commission as
provided in Neb. RS 53-1,115.
(Neb. RS 53-134.04) (Ord. 383, passed 10-13-1980)
§ 10-117 ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES; RETAIL ESTABLISHMENTS; LOCATION.
   (A)   Except as otherwise provided in division (B) of this section, no
license shall be issued for the sale at retail of any alcoholic liquor within
150 feet of any church, school, hospital, or home for aged or indigent persons
or for veterans, their wives or children. This prohibition does not apply to
any location within such distance of 150 feet:
      (1)   For which a license to sell alcoholic liquor at retail has been
granted by the Nebraska Liquor Control Commission for two years continuously
prior to making of application for license;
      (2)   To hotels offering restaurant service, to regularly organized
clubs, or to restaurants, food shops, or other places where sale of alcoholic
liquor is not the principal business carried on, if such place of business so
exempted was established for such purposes prior to May 24, 1935; or
      (3)   To a college or university in the state which is subject to Neb. RS
53-177.01.
   (B)   If a proposed location for the sale at retail of any alcoholic liquor
is within 150 feet of any church, a license may be issued if the commission
gives notice to the affected church and holds a hearing as prescribed in Neb.
RS 53-133.
(Neb. RS 53-177)
   (C)   No alcoholic liquor, other than beer, shall be sold for consumption on
the premises within 300 feet from the campus of any college or university
within the city, except that this section:
      (1)   Does not prohibit a nonpublic college or university from
contracting with an individual or corporation holding a license to sell
alcoholic liquor at retail for the purpose of selling alcoholic liquor at
retail on the campus of such college or university at events sanctioned by such
college or university but does prohibit the sale of alcoholic liquor at retail
by such licensee on the campus of such nonpublic college or university at
student activities or events; and
      (2)   Does not prohibit sales of alcoholic liquor by a community college
culinary education program pursuant to Neb. RS 53-124.15.
(Neb. RS 53-177.01)
Statutory reference:
   State commission may waive 300-feet requirement, see Neb. RS 53-177.01
§ 10-118 ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES; RETAIL ESTABLISHMENTS; ACCESS TO DWELLINGS.
   Except in the case of hotels and clubs, no alcoholic liquor shall be sold at
retail upon any premises which have any access which leads from the premises to
any other portion of the same building or structure used for dwelling or
lodging purposes, and which is permitted to be used or kept accessible for use
by the public. This provision shall not prevent any connection between the
premises and such other portion of the building or structure which is used only
by the licensee, his or her family, or personal guests.
(Neb. RS 53-178)
§ 10-119 ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES; RETAIL ESTABLISHMENTS: SANITARY CONDITIONS.
   It shall be unlawful to open for public use any retail liquor establishment
that is not in a clean and sanitary condition. Toilet facilities shall be
adequate and convenient for customers and patrons. The licensed premises shall
be subject to any health inspections the City Council or the city police may
make or cause to be made. All applications for liquor licenses shall be viewed
in part from the standpoint of the sanitary conditions, and a report concerning
the sanitary conditions shall be made at all hearings concerning the
application for or renewal of a liquor license.
Statutory reference:
   Authority to regulate licensed premises, see Neb. RS 53-134.03
   State sanitary rules and regulations authorized, see Neb. RS 53-118
§ 10-120 ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES; HOURS OF SALE.
   (A)   No alcoholic liquor, including beer, shall be sold at retail or
dispensed on any day between the hours of 1:00 a.m. and 6:00 a.m. except that
the City Council with respect to area inside the corporate limits of the city
may by ordinance or resolution:
      (1)   Require closing prior to 1:00 a.m. on any day;
      (2)   If adopted by a vote of at least two-thirds of the members of the
City Council, permit retail sale or dispensing of alcoholic liquor for
consumption on the premises, excluding sales for consumption off the premises,
later than 1:00 a.m. and prior to 2:00 a.m. on any day;
      (3)   If adopted by a vote of at least two-thirds of the members of City
Council, permit retail sale of alcoholic liquor for consumption off the
premises later than 1:00 a.m. and prior to 2:00 a.m. on any day; or
      (4)   If adopted by a vote of at least two-thirds of the members of City
Council, permit retail sale or dispensing of alcoholic liquor for consumption
on the premises, excluding sales for consumption off
the premises, and permit retail sale of alcoholic liquor for consumption off
the premises later than 1:00 a.m. and prior to 2:00 a.m. on any day.
   (B)   Except as provided for and allowed by ordinance of the City Council,
no alcoholic liquor, including beer, shall be sold at retail or dispensed
inside the corporate limits of the city between the hours of 6 a.m. Sunday and
1:00 a.m. Monday. This division (B) shall not apply after 12:00 noon on Sunday
to a licensee which is a nonprofit corporation and the holder of a Class C
license or a Class I license.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful on property licensed to sell alcoholic liquor at
retail to allow alcoholic liquor in open containers to remain or be in
possession or control of any person for purposes of consumption between the
hours of 15 minutes after the closing hour applicable to the licensed premises
and 6:00 a.m. on any day.
   (D)   Nothing in this section shall prohibit licensed premises from being
open for other business on days and hours during which the sale or dispensing
of alcoholic liquor is prohibited by this section.
(Neb. RS 53-179) (Ord. 293, passed 10-8-1973; Ord. 348, passed 9-11-1978; Ord.
404, passed 9-8-1981; Ord. 446, passed 10-11-1983; Ord. 564, passed 9-9-1991)
§ 10-121 ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES; CREDIT SALES PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No person shall sell or furnish alcoholic liquor at retail to any
person on credit, on a passbook, on an order on a store, in exchange for any
goods, wares, or merchandise, or in payment for any services rendered, and if
any person extends credit for any such purpose, the debt thereby attempted to
be created shall not be recoverable at law.
   (B)   Nothing in this section shall prevent the following:
      (1)   Any club holding a Class C license from permitting checks or
statements for alcoholic liquor to be signed by members or bona fide guests of
members and charged to the account of such members or guests in accordance with
the bylaws of such club;
      (2)   Any hotel or restaurant holding a retail license from permitting
checks or statements for liquor to be signed by regular guests residing at such
hotel or eating at such restaurant and charged to the accounts of such guests;
or
      (3)   Any licensed retailer engaged in the sale of wine or distilled
spirits from issuing tasting cards to customers.
(Neb. RS 53-183) (Ord. 349, passed 9-11-1978)
§ 10-122 ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES; ORIGINAL PACKAGE REQUIRED.
   No person, except a manufacturer or wholesaler, shall fill or refill, in
whole or in part, any original package of alcoholic liquor with the same or any
other kind or quality of alcoholic liquor. It shall be unlawful for any person
to have in his or her possession for sale at retail any bottles, casks, or
other containers containing alcoholic liquor except in original packages.
Nothing in this section shall prohibit the refilling of original packages of
alcoholic liquor for strictly private use and not for resale.
(Neb. RS 53-184) (Ord. 567, passed 4-13-1991)
§ 10-123 ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES; MINOR’S PRESENCE RESTRICTED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person who owns, manages, or leases an
establishment selling alcoholic beverages at retail to allow any minor under
the age of 18 years of age to frequent or otherwise remain in the establishment
unless the minor is accompanied by his or her parent or legal guardian, and
unless the minor remains seated with and under the immediate control of the
parent or legal guardian.
Statutory reference:
   Authority to regulate, see Neb. RS 53-134.03
§ 10-124 ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES; KEG SALES; REQUIREMENTS; PROHIBITED ACTS.
   (A)   When any person licensed to sell alcoholic liquor at retail sells beer
for consumption off the premises in a container with a liquid capacity of five
or more gallons or 18.92 or more liters, the seller shall record the date of
the sale, the keg identification number, the purchaser’s name and address, and
the number of the purchaser’s motor vehicle operator’s license, state
identification card, or military identification, if the military identification
contains a picture of the purchaser, together with the purchaser’s signature.
This record shall be on a form prescribed by the Nebraska Liquor Control
Commission and shall be kept by the licensee at the retail establishment where
the purchase was made for not less than six months. The records kept pursuant
to this section shall be available for inspection by any law enforcement
officer during normal business hours or at any other reasonable time. Any
person violating this section shall be guilty of an offense.
(Neb. RS 53-167.02)
   (B)   Any person who unlawfully tampers with, alters, or removes the keg
identification number from a beer container or is in possession of a beer
container described in division (A) with an altered or removed keg
identification number after the container has been taken from the licensed
premises pursuant to a retail sale and before its return to the licensed
premises or other place where returned kegs are accepted shall be guilty of an
offense.
(Neb. RS 53-167.03)
ARTICLE 2: SALES AND ADVERTISING
Section
   
10-201   Peddlers and hawkers; regulation
   
10-202   Signs; permit required
§ 10-201 PEDDLERS AND HAWKERS; REGULATION.
   To prevent the sale of fraudulent, dangerous and unhealthful goods and
services, and to protect the public by maintaining records of the products sold
and the persons and companies responsible for such sales, all peddlers, and
hawkers shall, before doing business within the municipality, make application
for, and be issued a permit. Application for said permit shall be made to the
Municipal Clerk, and shall contain all the necessary information, and documents
required for the protection of the residents of the municipality. Any person or
persons granted a peddler and hawker permit shall be subject to any fees,
occupation taxes and other rules and regulations which the governing body deems
appropriate for the purposes stated herein. Any permit so granted shall be
subject to revocation for good and sufficient cause by the municipal police.
(Neb. RS 17-134, 17-525)
§ 10-202 SIGNS; PERMIT REQUIRED.
   Any person or persons wishing to erect or cause to be erected any
advertising display, sign or other construction for the purpose of advertising
on or over any municipal property shall make an application to the Municipal
Clerk. Such application shall contain all the necessary information, and
documents which the governing body deems appropriate. The governing body shall
then assign to a sign committee the duty to consider such application, to visit
the proposed location of the contemplated construction, and to recommend the
acceptance or rejection of the proposed application. If the governing body
accepts the application, they shall then direct the Municipal Clerk to issue
the said permit. Any person or person granted a sign permit shall be subject to
any fees, taxes or other rules and regulations which the governing body deems
appropriate. Any permit so granted shall be subject to revocation for good and
sufficient cause by the governing body.
ARTICLE 3: PUBLIC AMUSEMENTS
Section
   
10-301   Public dance; defined
   
10-302   Public dance; license required
   
10-303   Public dance; responsibility of sponsor
   
10-304   Public dance; patrons
   
10-305   Public dance; premises
   
10-306   Bingo; regulation
   
10-307   Bingo; tax
   
10-308   Bingo; quarterly report
   
10-309   Bingo; incorporated regulation
§ 10-301 PUBLIC DANCE; DEFINED.
   The term PUBLIC DANCE as used herein shall include any dance, masquerade or
ball given or conducted for which a fee, contribution or collection for
purposes of admission is charged; provided, the term public dance shall not be
construed to include dances, music festivals, masquerades or balls, to which
admission is limited strictly to persons expressly invited by the person,
organization or society giving or holding such dance, masquerade or ball, and
which is not given, or conducted designedly for profit or gain to such person,
organization or society giving or conducting the same; and provided further
that the provisions herein shall not apply to any dance conducted under the
supervision and direction of the governing body of any college or school
district within the municipality.
§ 10-302 PUBLIC DANCE; LICENSE REQUIRED.
   Any person desiring to sponsor or operate a public dance shall first obtain
a permit from the governing body. Application shall be made to the municipality
at the office of the Municipal Clerk. Any person granted a public dance license
shall comply with all rules and regulations which the governing body might
prescribe in each individual case; provided, that any occupation tax or other
fee shall be uniform as to each class of applicant. All fees shall be on file
at the office of the Municipal Clerk.
§ 10-303 PUBLIC DANCE; RESPONSIBILITY OF SPONSOR.
   Any person or persons who sponsor or manage a public dance are hereby
charged with the knowledge and notice of all the provisions herein as well as
the responsibility of enforcing all municipal and state laws. Any person or
persons who fail to manage and control a dance in a lawful and peaceful manner
shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.
§ 10-304 PUBLIC DANCE; PATRONS.
   It shall be unlawful for any sponsor or manager of a public dance to permit
any person or persons to enter and participate in the said public dance if the
sponsor or manager has reason to believe that the said patron is in an
intoxicated or disorderly state.
§ 10-305 PUBLIC DANCE; PREMISES.
   It shall be unlawful to conduct a public dance in any hall or place which is
not equipped with sufficient and adequate exits and rest room facilities, and
no hall or building which is not equipped with at least two such exits and rest
rooms shall be used for the purpose of conducting a public dance.
§ 10-306 BINGO; REGULATION.
   Games of bingo shall be conducted within the municipality in accordance with
all laws of the municipality and the State of Nebraska if the said game of
bingo is played for or involves profit or gain. Any association duly licensed
by the State of Nebraska to conduct the game of bingo shall obtain a written
permit from the governing body before commencing operation of said game.
Application shall be made to the Municipal Clerk for such permit. Said
application form shall contain such information and documents or copies thereof
as the governing body deems necessary to determine whether to grant or reject
the application. Upon the determination that granting the application would be
proper, the governing body shall immediately direct the Municipal Clerk to
issue the said license to the applicant upon the payment of an annual permit
fee of $10. Said license shall be subject to revocation at any time for good
cause. Any person or persons, so licensed, shall be subject to any other fees,
rules and regulations which the governing body may designate. All permits so
issued will automatically expire on the thirtieth of September, following its
issuance or renewal. The fee for each renewal unless otherwise prescribed shall
be in the sum of $10. Said fee shall be credited to the General Fund. The
permit shall be on display at any place where a game of bingo is conducted.
(Neb. RS 9-166) (Ord. 346, passed 9-11-1978; Ord. 468, passed 8-14-1984)
§ 10-307 BINGO; TAX.
Editor’s note:
   This section was repealed by Ord. 692, passed 5-10-1999.
§ 10-308 BINGO; QUARTERLY REPORT.
Editor’s note:
   This section was repealed by Ord. 692, passed 5-10-1999.
§ 10-309 BINGO; INCORPORATED REGULATION.
   All applicable state statutes as they now exist or may hereafter be amended
shall be, and will constitute, a part of this article as if repeated verbatim
herein, and violation of any state statute will be a distinct and separate
offense against the municipality as well as against the state. Violators
thereof shall be separately prosecuted by the municipality for each of such
offenses, and if convicted, shall be deemed to be guilty of a misdemeanor.
(Neb. RS 9-201 through 9-265)
ARTICLE 4: BUSINESS ENTERPRISES
Section
   
10-401   Plumbers; license required
   
10-402   Plumbers; examination
   
10-403   Plumbers; bond
   
10-404   Plumbers; registration of firm
   
10-405   Plumbers; expiration and renewal of registration
   
10-406   Plumbers; revocation of license
   
10-407   Plumbers; unlawful transfer of license
   
10-408   Plumbers; fees
   
10-409   Plumbers; exceptions
   
10-410   Plumbers; permit
   
10-411   Electricians; license required
   
10-412   Electricians; examination
   
10-413   Electricians; bond required
   
10-414   Electricians; registration of firm
   
10-415   Electricians; expiration and renewal of certificate of registration
   
10-416   Electricians; revocation of license
   
10-417   Electricians; unlawful use
   
10-418   Electricians; fees
   
10-419   Electricians; exceptions
   
10-420   Electricians; permit
   
10-421   Building moving; regulation
   
10-422   Building moving; deposit
   
10-423   Fireworks; sale
   
10-424   Slaughterhouses and stockyards; prohibitions and exceptions
   
10-425   Tobacco vendor; sale to minors
   
10-426   Garbage collector; rules and regulations
§ 10-401 PLUMBERS; LICENSE REQUIRED.
   No person shall hereafter engage in or work at the business of a master
plumber or journeyman plumber in the municipality until he or she shall have
registered as a master plumber or journeyman plumber. Application for
registration shall be made in writing to the Utilities Superintendent, showing
the name and residence of the applicant, the business location of the
applicant, and such other information as may be required.
(Neb. RS 18-1911)
§ 10-402 PLUMBERS; EXAMINATION.
   Before the applicant shall be registered as a master plumber or journeyman
plumber he or she shall submit to an examination to determine his or her
fitness and competency to engage in the business of a master plumber or
journeyman plumber, which examination shall be given by the Utilities
Superintendent as hereinafter provided. Upon the payment of the required
registration fee, such applicant after having by said examination shown himself
or herself to the satisfaction of the Utilities Superintendent to be fit,
competent and qualified to engage in the business of a master plumber or
journeyman plumber and having gained final approval from the Board, shall be
registered and given a plumbing license signed by the Utilities Superintendent.
(Neb. RS 18-1907, 18-1910)
§ 10-403 PLUMBERS; BOND.
   Before a license is issued by the Superintendent, the applicant shall file
with the Municipal Clerk a bond, in an amount set by resolution of the
governing body and on file at the office of the Clerk, signed by two or more
sufficient sureties to be approved by the governing body or a surety bond of
the same amount issued by an approved corporate surety company. Said bond shall
contain the condition that the applicant shall defend, save, keep harmless and
indemnify the municipality from all liabilities, claims, damages, judgments,
costs and expenses of every nature and description caused by the willful or
negligent conduct of the plumber while engaged in the business of plumbing.
(Neb. RS 17-505)
§ 10-404 PLUMBERS; REGISTRATION OF FIRM.
   Any firm may be registered hereunder as a master plumber in the name of such
firm provided that such firm shall have a master plumber who is duly registered
as provided in this article. Such master plumber must be a bona fide officer of
the firm or an employee who is regularly employed by the firm and is actually
engaged in the planning, superintending and practical installation of plumbing
and drainage. Said master plumber listed and registered by such firm shall be
in actual charge of and responsible for the installation, removal or repair of
any plumbing or drainage work done by such firm. One individual must also
qualify as master plumber to enable said firm to hold a master plumber’s
license and in case said individual withdraws from or ceases to be connected
with the firm, the Utilities Superintendent shall forthwith revoke the
registration of the firm.
(Neb. RS 18-1907)
§ 10-405 PLUMBERS; EXPIRATION AND RENEWAL OF REGISTRATION.
   All registrations shall expire on the thirty-first of May of the year in
which they are issued, and shall not be assignable. Licenses, at the time of
their expiration, may be renewed upon the recommendation of the Utilities
Superintendent, without an examination, upon payment of the required
registration fee.
(Neb. RS 18-1908)
§ 10-406 PLUMBERS; REVOCATION OF LICENSE.
   The governing body by a majority vote shall have power to revoke any master
plumber’s or journeyman plumber’s license, upon the recommendation of the
Utilities Superintendent, if the same was obtained through error or fraud, or
if the recipient thereof is shown to be grossly incompetent, or has a second
time willfully violated any of the provisions of the Municipal Plumbing Code.
If a license is revoked, the holder of the same shall not apply for
registration for one year after such revocation.
(Neb. RS 18-1909)
§ 10-407 PLUMBERS; UNLAWFUL TRANSFER OF LICENSE.
   No registered plumber shall allow his or her name to be used by another
person, directly or indirectly, to obtain a permit for the installation of any
work, and if any registered plumber violates this provision, the governing body
shall forthwith revoke the license issued to such plumber. In addition to
having his or her license revoked, such master plumber may be prosecuted under
the violation section of the Municipal Plumbing Code.
(Neb. RS 17-505)
§ 10-408 PLUMBERS; FEES.
   The Municipal Clerk shall collect all registration and renewal fees as
occupation taxes and shall credit the same to the Municipal Sewer and Water
Funds equally. The governing body shall have the right to classify plumbers for
the purpose of setting registration and renewal fees in such categories as it
may in its discretion set. Such categories are hereby declared to be reasonable
and non-discriminatory. The actual amounts of the registration and renewal fees
shall be found in Article 5 of this Chapter and shall also be on file at the
office of the Municipal Clerk.
(Neb. RS 18-1911)
§ 10-409 PLUMBERS; EXCEPTIONS.
   The provisions of this chapter relating to plumbers shall not apply to any
public utility company or companies serving the municipality and its
inhabitants under a franchise agreement with the municipality, or its agents
and employees, and shall not be construed as a limitation or restriction upon
any franchises heretofore granted by the municipality. Nor shall the provisions
of this chapter relating to plumbers apply to any duly authorized official or
employee of the municipality designated to work on the water and sewer systems
of the municipality.
(Neb. RS 18-1910)
§ 10-410 PLUMBERS; PERMIT.
   Before commencing the construction, modification or repair of any plumbing
connected with the Municipal Sewer of Water Departments of the municipality,
the licensed plumber shall first apply for and receive a written permit from
the Utilities Superintendent and such permit shall at all times during the
progress of the work be at the site of such work. In the discretion of the
Utilities Superintendent, the permit need not be issued or denied for a period
of 24 hours after application has been made. The licensed plumber shall in all
ways comply with the requirements of the Utilities Superintendent relating to
the methods and specifications of the work and also with the required
inspections for such type of work.
§ 10-411 ELECTRICIANS; LICENSE REQUIRED.
   No person shall install any electric apparatus within the corporate limits
without first having obtained a license to do so as hereinafter provided. In
addition, no licensed electrical contractor, master electrician or journeyman
electrician may lend his or her license to any person or knowingly permit the
use thereof by another. The Electrical Inspector shall recommend and the
Examining Board shall issue licenses to those persons who have been issued a
valid and unexpired electrician’s license by the State of Nebraska; provided,
said persons shall have complied with the other terms and conditions precedent
to the issuance of licenses as required in this article. In the event that the
applicant holds a license issued by the State of Nebraska, the license required
herein shall be in the form of an occupation tax certificate. Application for a
license shall be made to the Utilities Superintendent in writing showing the
name and residence of the applicant, the business location of the applicant,
and such other information as may be required.
(Neb. RS 81-566, 81-579) (Ord. 423, passed 8-24-1982)
§ 10-412 ELECTRICIANS; EXAMINATION.
   (A)   In the event that the applicant is not a holder of a valid and
unexpired license issued by the State of Nebraska, or holds a current license
which is of a classification less than the classification needed to do the work
proposed, the applicant shall submit to an examination to determine his or her
fitness and competency for executing the work covered by the license for which
application is made, which examination shall be given by the Examining Board
for electricians. Upon payment of the required fees, such applicant shall
receive such license, after having shown himself or herself to be fit,
competent and qualified to the satisfaction of the Examining Board by said
examination to receive such license. Any person who fails to pass the required
examination shall not be eligible to take the examination again until six
months have elapsed, but within six months he or she may take an examination
for a lesser grade of license.
   (B)   The examination shall consist of two parts:
      (1)   Written examination, which shall count as 50%; and
      (2)   Personal interview and past experience, which shall count as 50%.
   (C)   The examination shall be passed to the satisfaction of the Examining
Board. A grade of 75% shall be considered as passing. An examination fee set by
resolution of the governing body shall be paid to the Utilities Superintendent
upon application for a license.
(Neb. RS 81-592, 81-5,100) (Ord. 422, passed 8-24-1982)
§ 10-413 ELECTRICIANS; BOND REQUIRED.
   Before any electrician’s license shall be issued by the Board of Electrical
Examiners, the applicant shall execute and file with the Municipal Clerk, a
bond in a sum set by resolution of the governing body and on file at the office
of the Clerk to be approved by the governing body and conditioned that the
licensee shall indemnify and hold harmless the municipality from all liability,
caused by any negligent or intentional act arising from his or her electrical
work or violation of this code and shall pay all fines imposed upon him or her
for any violation thereof.
(Neb. RS 17-505)
§ 10-414 ELECTRICIANS; REGISTRATION OF FIRM.
   All firms shall have a master electrician who has met the requirements of
the Utilities Superintendent and has thereby shown himself or herself qualified
to engage in the business of a master electrician, as a bona fide officer or
member of such firm. If, after a license is issued to such firm, such master
electrician as an officer of such firm shall withdraw therefrom and cease to be
connected therewith, then the Utilities Superintendent shall forthwith revoke
the license of such firm.
(Neb. RS 17-505)
§ 10-415 ELECTRICIANS; EXPIRATION AND RENEWAL OF CERTIFICATE OF REGISTRATION.
   Registration certificates shall expire on the thirty-first of December of
the year in which they are issued, and shall not be assignable. Certificates of
registration, at the time of their expiration, may be renewed upon
recommendation of the Examining Board, without an examination, upon payment of
the required registration fee. Any person registered as a master electrician
who does not renew his or her certificate of registration by the first of July
after the expiration of same, shall pay any registration fee required by this
chapter for a master electrician, and shall again prove his or her
qualification to the Examining Board before such person can again be registered
hereunder.
(Neb. RS 81-586) (Ord. 424, passed 8-24-1982)
§ 10-416 ELECTRICIANS; REVOCATION OF LICENSE.
   The governing body by a majority vote shall have power to revoke any master
electrician’s license, if the same was obtained through error or fraud, or if
the recipient thereof is shown to be grossly incompetent, or has a second time
willfully violated any of the provisions of the Electrical Code. If a license
is revoked, the holder of the same shall not apply for registration for one
year after such revocation.
§ 10-417 ELECTRICIANS; UNLAWFUL USE.
   No registered electrician shall allow his or her name to be used by another
person, directly or indirectly, to obtain a permit for the installation of any
work, and if any registered electrician violates this provision, the Utilities
Superintendent shall forthwith revoke the license issued to such electrician.
In addition to having his or her license revoked, such master electrician may
be prosecuted under the penalty section of this chapter.
§ 10-418 ELECTRICIANS; FEES.
   The Municipal Clerk shall collect all registration and renewal fees as
occupation taxes and shall credit the same to the Municipal Electric Fund. The
governing body shall have the right to classify electricians for the purpose of
setting registration or renewal fees in such categories as they may in their
discretion set. Such categories are hereby declared to be reasonable and non-
discriminatory. The actual amounts of the registration and renewal fees shall
be found in Article 5 of this chapter and shall also be on file at the office
of the Municipal Clerk.
§ 10-419 ELECTRICIANS; EXCEPTIONS.
   The provisions of this chapter relating to electricians shall not apply to
any public utility company or companies serving the municipality and its
inhabitants under a franchise agreement with the municipality, or its agents
and employees, and shall not be construed as a limitation or restriction upon
any franchises heretofore granted by the municipality. Nor shall any of the
provisions of this article be construed to relate to any duly authorized
municipal official or employee.
(Neb. RS 81-592)
§ 10-420 ELECTRICIANS; PERMIT.
   Before commencing the construction, modification or repair of any electrical
work, the licensed electrician shall first apply for and receive a written
permit from the Utilities Superintendent and such permit shall at all times
during the progress of the work be at the site of such work. In the discretion
of the Utilities Superintendent, the permit need not be issued or denied for a
period of 24 hours after application has been made. The licensed electrician
shall in all ways comply with the requirements of the Utilities Superintendent
relating to the methods and specifications of the work and also with the
required inspections for such type of work.
§ 10-421 BUILDING MOVING; REGULATION.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation to move any
building or structure within the city without a written permit to do so.
Application may be made to the City Clerk and shall include the present and
future location of the building to be moved, the proposed route, the equipment
to be used, and such other information as the City Council may require. The
application shall be accompanied by a certificate issued by the County
Treasurer to the effect that all the provisions regulating the moving of
buildings have been complied with on the part of the owner of the real estate
upon which the building is presently located.
   (B)   The City Clerk shall refer the application to the City Council or its
designee for approval of the proposed route over which the building is to be
moved. Upon approval, the City Clerk shall issue the permit, provided that a
good and sufficient corporate surety bond, check, or cash in an amount set by
motion of the City Council and conditioned upon moving the building without
doing damage to any private or city property is filed with the City Clerk prior
to the granting of any permit.
   (C)   No moving permit shall be required to move a building that is 10 feet
wide or less, and 20 feet long or less, and when in a position to move, 15 feet
high or less.
   (D)   In the event it will be necessary for any licensed building mover to
interfere with the telephone or telegraph poles and wires, or a gas line, the
company or companies owning, using, or operating the poles, wires, or line
shall, upon proper notice of at least 24 hours, be present and assist by
disconnecting the poles, wires, or line relative to the building moving
operation. All expense of the disconnection, removal, or related work shall be
paid in advance by the licensee unless the disconnection or work is furnished
on different terms as provided in the company’s franchise.
   (E)   Whenever the moving of any building necessitates interference with a
water main, sewer main, pipes, or wire belonging to the city, notice in writing
of the time and route of the building moving operation shall be given to the
various officials in charge of the city utility departments, who shall proceed
in behalf of the city and at the expense of the mover to make such
disconnections and do such work as is necessary.
(Neb. RS 17-142)
§ 10-422 BUILDING MOVING; DEPOSIT.
   At such time as the building moving has been completed, the Building
Inspector or other designated official shall inspect the premises and report to
the City Clerk as to the extent of damages, if any, resulting from the
relocation and whether any city laws have been violated during the operation.
Upon a satisfactory report from the Building Inspector or other designated
official, the City Clerk shall return the corporate surety bond, cash, or check
deposited by the applicant. In the event the basement, foundation, or portion
thereof is not properly filled, covered, or in a clean and sanitary condition,
the City Council may apply the money deposited for the purpose of defraying the
expense of correcting the conditions. If the expense of correcting the
hazardous condition is greater than the amount of the deposit set by the City
Council, the City Council may recover the excess expense by civil suit or
otherwise as prescribed by law.
(Neb. RS 17-142)
§ 10-423 FIREWORKS; SALE.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to sell, hold for sale or offer
for sale as distributor, jobber or retailer any fireworks without first
obtaining a license from the State Fire Marshal for that calendar year.
(Neb. RS 28-1246)
   (B)   Licensees shall only sell fireworks that have been approved by the
State Fire Marshal.
(Neb. RS 28-1247)
   (C)   Permissible fireworks may be sold at retail only between the twenty-
fourth of June and the fifth of July of each year.
(Neb. RS 28-1249)
(Ord. 700, passed 12-13-1999; Ord. 791, passed 11-8-2004)
§ 10-424 SLAUGHTERHOUSES AND STOCKYARDS; PROHIBITIONS AND EXCEPTIONS.
   It is hereby declared to be unlawful for any person to construct or cause to
be constructed within the corporate limits any building or fenced in area to be
used as a slaughterhouse, rendering establishment or yard for the keeping of
cattle and other animals, except that slaughterhouses and veterinary facilities
at which animals are kept on a temporary basis may be constructed in areas
which are zoned for industrial moderate uses under the Municipal Zoning Code.
(Ord. 696, passed 9-1-1999)
§ 10-425 TOBACCO VENDOR; SALE TO MINORS.
Editor's note:
   For provisions on tobacco sales to minors, see §
10-707
§ 10-426 GARBAGE COLLECTOR; RULES AND REGULATIONS.
Editor’s note:
   This section was repealed by Ord. 574, passed 10-12-1992.
ARTICLE 5: OCCUPATION TAXES
Section
   
10-501   Occupation tax; amounts
   
10-502   Occupation tax; levies authorized
   
10-503   Occupation tax; collection date
   
10-504   Occupation tax; certificates
   
10-505   Occupation tax; failure to pay
§ 10-501 OCCUPATION TAX; AMOUNTS.
   For the purpose of raising revenue, an occupation tax is hereby levied on
the following businesses:
Alcoholic beverages:
   Beer and liquor retailer, off-sale only, per year$150
   Beer and liquor retailer, on and off-sale, per ye$200
   Beer retailer, off-sale, per year                $25
   Beer retailer, on-sale, per year                 $25
   Bottle clubs, per year                           $100
Fire insurance companies, per year                     $5
Non-profit clubs, per year                             $100
Peddlers and hawkers, per day                          $25
 
(Neb. RS 17-525) (Ord. 850, passed 5-9-2011)
§ 10-502 OCCUPATION TAX; LEVIES AUTHORIZED.
   (A)   The city shall have power to raise revenue by levying and collecting a
license tax on any occupation or business within the limits of the city and
regulate the same by ordinance. Any occupation tax imposed pursuant to this
section shall make a reasonable classification of businesses, users of space,
or kinds of transactions for purposes of imposing such tax, except that no
occupation tax shall be imposed on any transaction which is subject to tax
under Neb. RS 53-160, 66-489, 66-489.02, 66-4,140, 66-4,145, 66-4,146, 77-2602,
or 77-4008 or which is exempt from tax under Neb. RS 77-2704.24. The occupation
tax shall be imposed in the manner provided in Neb. RS 18-1208, except that
Neb. RS 18-1208 does not apply to an occupation tax subject to Neb. RS 86-704.
All such taxes shall be uniform in respect to the classes upon which they are
imposed. All scientific and literary lectures and entertainments shall be
exempt from such taxation, as well as concerts and other musical entertainments
given exclusively by the citizens of the city.
(Neb. RS 17-525)
   (B)   The City Council shall have authority, by ordinance, to impose an
occupation tax of not more than $5 per annum on each fire insurance
corporation, company, or association, doing business in the city, for the use,
support, and benefit of volunteer fire departments, regularly organized under
the laws of the state regulating the same. The City Clerk shall collect with
diligence the occupation tax so imposed. Upon the receipt of the tax the Clerk
shall pay over the proceeds thereof to the City Treasurer who shall credit the
same to a fund to be known as special occupation tax fund for benefit of the
volunteer fire department.
(Neb. RS 35-106)
   (C)   Notwithstanding any ordinance or charter power to the contrary, the
city shall not impose an occupation tax on the business of any person, firm, or
corporation licensed under the Nebraska Liquor Control Act and doing business
within the corporate limits of the city in any sum which exceeds two times the
amount of the license fee required to be paid under the Act to obtain such
license.
(Neb. RS 53-132)
§ 10-503 OCCUPATION TAX; COLLECTION DATE.
   Unless provided otherwise or levied daily, any occupation taxes imposed by
the City Council shall be due and payable on May 1 of each year, except that
any occupation taxes collected from Class C liquor licensees shall be due and
payable on November 1 of each year. Upon payment of an occupation tax by any
person to the City Clerk, the Clerk shall give a receipt, properly dated,
specifying the person paying the tax and the amount paid. Any revenue collected
shall be deposited into the general fund by the City Treasurer except as
otherwise specifically provided. The Treasurer shall keep an accurate account
of all revenue turned over to him or her. All forms and receipts herein
mentioned shall be issued in duplicate. One copy shall then be kept by each
party in the transaction.
(Neb. RS 17-525) (Ord. 322, passed 6-14-1976)
§ 10-504 OCCUPATION TAX; CERTIFICATES.
   The receipt issued after the payment of any occupation tax shall be the
occupation tax certificate. The certificate shall specify the amount of the tax
and the name of the person and business that paid the tax. The occupation tax
certificate shall then be displayed in a prominent place or carried in such a
way as to be easily accessible while business is being conducted.
(Neb. RS 17-525)
§ 10-505 OCCUPATION TAX; FAILURE TO PAY.
   If any person, company, or corporation fails or neglects to pay the
occupation taxes as provided in this chapter on the day they become due and
payable, the city shall then proceed by civil suit to collect the amount due.
All delinquent taxes shall bear interest at the rate of 1% per month until
paid.
(Neb. RS 17-525)
ARTICLE 6: FRANCHISE AGREEMENTS
Section
   
10-601   Cable television
   
10-602   Natural gas regulations
§ 10-601 CABLE TELEVISION.
Editor’s note:
   Actual details of the cable television materials are available at the
Municipal Clerk’s office.
§ 10-602 NATURAL GAS REGULATIONS.
Editor’s note:
Natural Gas Regulations (formerly Chapter 13, Article 1) was adopted in its
entirety by Ord. 509, passed on 8-17-1987. Ord. 509 amended the prior natural
gas regulations of Ord. 475, passed - -. Article 1 was repealed by Ord. 774,
passed 1-12-2004.
ARTICLE 7: TOBACCO SALES
Section
   
10-701   Tobacco; license for sale
   
10-702   Tobacco; license application
   
10-703   Tobacco; license term; fees
   
10-704   Tobacco; rights of licensee
   
10-705   Tobacco; license; transfer; reissuance
   
10-706   Tobacco; minors; use of
   
10-707   Tobacco; minors, sales to
   
10-708   Tobacco; minors; misrepresentation to obtain
§ 10-701 TOBACCO; LICENSE FOR SALE.
   Licenses for the sale of cigars, tobacco, cigarettes, cigarette material,
vapor products, or alternative nicotine products to persons over the age of 18
years shall be issued to individuals, partnerships, limited liability
companies, and corporations by the City Clerk upon application duly made as
provided in §
10-702.
(Neb. RS 28-1421)
§ 10-702 TOBACCO; LICENSE APPLICATION.
   Every person, partnership, limited liability company, or corporation
desiring a license under Neb. RS 28-1420 through 28-1429 shall file with the
City Clerk a written application stating the name of the person, partnership,
limited liability company, or corporation for whom the license is desired and
the exact location of the place of business and shall deposit with the
application the amount of the license fee provided in §
10-703. If the applicant is an individual, the application shall include the
applicant's social security number.
(Neb. RS 28-1422) (Ord. 676, passed 10-12-1998; Ord. 874, passed 1-14-2013)
§ 10-703 TOBACCO; LICENSE TERM; FEE.
   (A)   The term for which a license shall run shall be from the date of
filing the application and paying the license fee to and including December 31
of the calendar year in which application for the license is made.
   (B)   The license fee for any person, partnership, limited liability
company, or corporation selling at retail shall be $10.
   (C)   Any person, partnership, limited liability company, or corporation
selling annually in the aggregate more than 150,000 cigars, packages of
cigarettes, and packages of tobacco in any form, at wholesale, shall pay a
license fee of $100, and if such combined annual sales amount to less than
150,000 cigars, packages of cigarettes, and packages of tobacco, the annual
license fee shall be $15. No wholesaler's license shall be issued in any year
on a less basis than $100 per annum unless the applicant shall file with the
application a statement duly sworn to by himself or herself, or if applicant is
a partnership, by a member of the firm, or if a limited liability company, by a
member or manager of the company, or if a corporation, by an officer or manager
thereof, that in the past such wholesaler's combined sales of cigars, packages
of cigarettes, and packages of tobacco in every form have not exceeded in the
aggregate 150,000 annually and that such sales will not exceed such aggregate
amount for the current year for which the license is to issue. Any person
swearing falsely in such affidavit shall be guilty of an offense, and such
wholesaler's license shall be revoked until the full license fee of $100 is
paid.
   (D)   If application for license is made after July 1 of any calendar year,
the fee shall be one-half of the fee provided in this section.
(Neb. RS 28-1423)
   (E)   All money collected as license fees under the provisions of this
chapter shall be paid over by the City Clerk to the treasurer of the school
fund for the city.
(Neb. RS 28-1426)
§ 10-704 TOBACCO; RIGHTS OF LICENSEE.
   (A)   The license, provided for in §§
10-701 and
10-702 when issued, shall authorize the sale of cigars, tobacco, cigarettes,
cigarette material, vapor products, or alternative nicotine products by the
licensee and employees, to persons over the age of 18 years, at the place of
business described in the license for the term therein authorized, unless the
license is forfeited as a result of court action as provided in Neb. RS 28-
1425.
(Neb. RS 28-1424)
   (B)   If the license is revoked and forfeited pursuant to Neb. RS 28-1425,
all rights under the license shall at once cease and terminate.
(Neb. RS 28-1425)
§ 10-705 TOBACCO; LICENSE; TRANSFER; REISSUANCE.
   (A)   In case of the sale of a business where the owner has a license
hereunder, the City Clerk may authorize such license to be transferred to the
purchaser. In case of a change of location by any licensee hereunder, the City
Clerk may transfer such license to the new location.
(Neb. RS 28-1428)
   (B)   In the event that the license of a licensee hereunder shall be revoked
and forfeited as provided in Neb. RS 28-1425, no new license shall be issued to
such licensee until the expiration of 1 year from the date of such revocation
and forfeiture.
(Neb. RS 28-1429)
§ 10-706 TOBACCO; MINORS; USE OF.
   Whoever, being a minor under the age of 18, years shall smoke cigarettes or
cigars, use vapor products or alternative nicotine products, or use tobacco in
any form whatever in this city, shall be guilty of an offense. Any minor
charged with a violation of this section may be free from prosecution if he or
she furnishes evidence for the conviction of the person or persons selling or
giving him or her the cigarettes, cigars, vapor products, alternative nicotine
products, or tobacco.
(Neb. RS 28-1418)
§ 10-707 TOBACCO; MINORS; SALES TO.
   Whoever shall sell, give, or furnish in any way any tobacco in any form
whatever, or any cigarettes or cigarette paper, vapor products, or alternative
nicotine products, to any minor under 18 years of age is guilty of an offense.
(Neb. RS 28-1419)
§ 10-708 TOBACCO; MINORS; MISREPRESENTATION TO OBTAIN.
   Any person under the age of 18 years who shall obtain cigars, tobacco,
cigarettes, or cigarette material, vapor products, or alternative nicotine
products from a licensee hereunder by representing that he or she is of the age
of 18 years or over, is guilty of an offense.
(Neb. RS 28-1427)
ARTICLE 8: LOTTERY
Section
   
10-801   Municipal lottery; adopted
   
10-802   Municipal lottery; purposes
   
10-803   Municipal lottery; conducting
   
10-804   Municipal lottery; sales outlets
   
10-805   Municipal lottery; operator qualifications
   
10-806   Municipal lottery; restrictions
   
10-807   Municipal lottery; exemptions
   
10-808   Municipal lottery; penalties
§ 10-801 MUNICIPAL LOTTERY; ADOPTED.
   Pursuant to the Nebraska County and City Lottery Act, as provided in Neb. RS
9-601 through 9-653, hereby created a municipal lottery, which shall be
organized, maintained and governed by the terms and conditions which are from
time to time established by the laws of the State of Nebraska.
(Ord. 590, passed 6-13-1994)
§ 10-802 MUNICIPAL LOTTERY; PURPOSES.
   The proceeds of the municipal lottery shall be used solely for community
betterment purposes, the awarding of prizes, taxes and expenses as provided by
law.
(Ord. 590, passed 6-13-1994)
§ 10-803 MUNICIPAL LOTTERY; CONDUCTING.
   The municipality may conduct its lottery through an appointed contracting
party who has been duly licensed by the Nebraska Department of Revenue as
provided in the Nebraska County and City Lottery Act, being Neb. RS 9-601
through 9-653, or it may by resolution elect to enter into an interlocal
cooperation agreement to join with other Nebraska municipalities and political
subdivisions to operate a cooperative lottery under common management. If the
municipality elects to join in a cooperative lottery then it shall not conduct
its lottery through an appointed contracting party.
(Ord. 590, passed 6-13-1994; Ord. 594, passed 8-22-1994)
§ 10-804 MUNICIPAL LOTTERY; SALES OUTLETS.
   The lottery operator whom the governing body contracts to conduct its
lottery shall not operate the lottery at a sales outlet location other than the
location of the lottery operator without prior approval of the sale outlet
location by the governing body. The governing body shall approve or disapprove
each sales outlet location and individual, sole proprietorship, partnership or
corporation which desires to conduct the lottery at its sales outlet location
solely on the basis of the qualification standards prescribed in §
10-805.
(Ord. 590, passed 6-13-1994)
§ 10-805 MUNICIPAL LOTTERY; OPERATOR QUALIFICATIONS.
   (A)   Any individual, sole proprietorship, partnership or corporation which
seeks to have its location approved as an authorized sales outlet location
shall:
      (1)   First obtain a retail liquor license for consumption on the
premises pursuant to Neb. RS Chapter 53, Article 1;
      (2)   Not have been convicted of, forfeited bond upon a charge of, or
pleaded guilty to forgery, larceny, extortion, conspiracy to defraud, willful
failure to make required payments or reports to a governmental agency at any
level, filing false offenses or any crime, whether felony or misdemeanor,
involving gambling activity or moral turpitude;
      (3)   Not have had a gaming license revoked or canceled under the
Nebraska Bingo Act, the Nebraska Pickle Card Lottery Act, the Nebraska Lottery
and Raffle Act or the Nebraska County and City Lottery Act; and
      (4)   Be fit, willing and able to properly provide and service proposed
in conformance with all provisions and requirements of the Nebraska County and
City Lottery Act and the rules and regulations adopted and promulgated pursuant
to the act.
   (B)   If the person seeking to have its location approved as an authorized
sales outlet location is a partnership or corporation, the qualification
standards shall apply to every partner of such partnership, every officer of
such corporation, and stockholder owning more than 10% of the stock of such
corporation.
   (C)   The governing body shall notify the Department of Revenue of all
approved lottery locations within 30 days of approval.
(Neb. RS 9-642.01) (Ord. 590, passed 6-13-1994)
§ 10-806 MUNICIPAL LOTTERY; RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   No person under 19 years of age shall play or participate in any way
in the lottery established and conducted by the municipality.
   (B)   No owner or officer of a lottery operator with whom the municipality
contracts to conduct its lottery shall play any lottery conducted by the
municipality. No employee or agent of the municipality, lottery operator or
authorized sales outlet location shall play the lottery of the municipality for
which he or she performs work during such time as he or she is actually working
at such lottery or while on duty.
   (C)   Nothing shall prohibit:
      (1)   Any member of the governing body, a municipal official or the
immediate family of such member or official; or
      (2)   An owner or officer of any authorized sales outlet location for the
municipality, from playing any lottery conducted by the municipality; provided
that such person is 19 years of age or older.
   (D)   For purposes of this section, IMMEDIATE FAMILY shall mean:
      (1)   A person who is related to the member or official by blood,
marriage or adoption and resides in the same household; or
      (2)   A person who is claimed by the member or official, or spouse of the
member or official, as a dependent for federal income tax purposes.
(Neb. RS 9-646) (Ord. 590, passed 6-13-1994)
§ 10-807 MUNICIPAL LOTTERY; EXEMPTIONS.
   Participation in the municipal lottery shall not be construed to be a
violation of §
6-334 of this municipal code.
(Ord. 590, passed 6-13-1994)
§ 10-808 MUNICIPAL LOTTERY; PENALTIES.
   Any person who shall violate the provisions of §§
10-801 through
10-807 of this municipal code shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be
fined any amount not less than $25 nor more than $100, or imprisoned for any
length of time not to exceed three months, or both such fine and imprisonment
in the discretion of the court.
(Ord. 590, passed 6-13-1994)
ARTICLE 9: SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESSES
Section
   
10-901   Sexually oriented businesses; purpose and findings
   
10-902   Sexually oriented businesses; definitions
   
10-903   Sexually oriented businesses; classifications
   
10-904   Sexually oriented businesses; license required
   
10-905   Sexually oriented businesses; issuance of license
   
10-906   Sexually oriented businesses; fees
   
10-907   Sexually oriented businesses; inspection
   
10-908   Sexually oriented businesses; expiration of license
   
10-909   Sexually oriented businesses; suspension of license
   
10-910   Sexually oriented businesses; revocation of license
   
10-911   Sexually oriented businesses; transfer of license
   
10-912   Sexually oriented businesses; location of sexually oriented businesses
   
10-913   Sexually oriented businesses; additional regulations for adult motels
   
10-914   Sexually oriented businesses; regulations pertaining to exhibition of
sexually explicit films, videos or live entertainment in viewing rooms
   
10-915   Sexually oriented businesses; additional regulations for escort
agencies
   
10-916   Sexually oriented businesses; additional regulations for nude model
studios
   
10-917   Sexually oriented businesses; additional regulations concerning public
nudity
   
10-918   Sexually oriented businesses; prohibition against children in a
sexually oriented business
   
10-919   Sexually oriented businesses; hours of operation
   
10-920   Sexually oriented businesses; penalty
   
10-921   Sexually oriented businesses; severability
   
10-922   Sexually oriented businesses; conflicting ordinances repealed
§ 10-901 SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESSES; PURPOSE AND FINDINGS.
   (A)   Purpose. It is the purpose of this article to regulate sexually
oriented businesses in order to promote the health, safety, morals and general
welfare of the citizens of the city, and to establish reasonable and uniform
regulations to prevent the inappropriate location and concentration of sexually
oriented businesses within the city. The provisions of this article have
neither the purpose nor effect of imposing a limitation or restriction on the
content of any communicative materials, including sexually oriented materials.
Similarly, it is not the intent nor effect of this article to restrict or deny
access by adults to sexually oriented materials protected by the First
Amendment, or to deny access by the distributors and exhibitors of sexually
oriented entertainment to their intended market. Neither is it the intent nor
effect of this article to condone or legitimize the distribution of obscene
material.
   (B)   Findings. Based on evidence concerning the adverse secondary effects
of adult uses on the community presented in hearings and in reports made
available to the Council, and on findings incorporated in the cases of City of
Renton v. Playtime Theatres, Inc., 475 U.S. 41 (1986); Young v. American Mini
Theatres, 426 U.S. 50 (1976); Barnes v. Glen Theatre, Inc., 501 U.S. 560
(1991); City of Erie v. Pap’s A.M., TDA “Kandyland,” 529 U.S. 277 (2000); City
of Los Angeles v. Alameda Books, Inc., 121 S. Ct. 1223 (2001); California v.
LaRue, 409 U.S. 109 (1972); 44 Liquormart, Inc. v. Rhode Island, 517 U.S. 484
(1996); Jake’s Ltd., Inc. v. City of Coates, 284 F.3d 884 (8th Cir. 2002);
Bzaps, Inc. v. City of Mankato, 268 F.3d 603 (8th Cir. 2001); DLH, Inc. v.
Nebraska Liquor Control Commission, 266 Neb. 361, 665 N.W.2d 629 (2003);
Village of Winslow v. Sheets, 261 Neb. 203, 622 N.W.2d 595 (2001); Major
Liquors, Inc., v. City of Omaha, 188 Neb. 628, 198 N.W.2d 483 (1972); and on
studies in other communities including, but not limited to, Phoenix, Arizona;
Tucson, Arizona; Garden Grove, California; Los Angeles, California; Whittier,
California; Adams County, Colorado; Denver, Colorado; Manatee County, Florida;
Indianapolis, Indiana; Kansas City, Kansas; Minneapolis, Minnesota; St. Paul,
Minnesota; Las Vegas, Nevada; Ellicottville, New York; Islip, New York; New
York City, New York; Syracuse, New York; Times Square, New York; New Hanover,
North Carolina; Cleveland, Ohio; Oklahoma City, Oklahoma; Amarillo, Texas;
Austin, Texas; Beaumont, Texas; Cleburne, Texas; Dallas, Texas; El Paso, Texas;
Ft. Worth, Texas; Houston, Texas; Newport, Virginia; Bellevue, Washington; Des
Moines, Washington; Seattle, Washington; St. Croix County, Wisconsin; a report
on Secondary Effects of Sexually-Oriented Businesses made by Richard McCleary,
Ph.D. to the Detroit, Michigan City Council on November 10, 2009; and also on
findings from the Environmental Research Group to the American Center for Law &
Justice (March 31, 1996), the Council finds:
      (1)   Sexually oriented businesses lend themselves to ancillary unlawful
and unhealthy activities that are presently uncontrolled by the operators of
the establishments. Further, there is presently no mechanism to make the owners
of these establishments responsible for the activities that occur on their
premises;
      (2)   Certain employees of sexually oriented businesses defined in this
article as adult theaters and cabarets engage in higher incidence of certain
types of illicit sexual behavior than employees of other establishments;
      (3)   Sexual acts, including masturbation, and oral and anal sex, occur
at sexually oriented businesses, especially those which provide private or
semi-private booths or cubicles for viewing films, videos or live sex shows;
      (4)   Offering and providing such space encourages such activities, which
creates unhealthy conditions;
      (5)   Persons frequent certain adult theaters, adult arcades and other
sexually oriented businesses for the purpose of engaging in sex within the
premises of such sexually oriented businesses;
      (6)   At least 50 communicable diseases may be spread by activities
occurring in sexually oriented businesses, including, but not limited to,
syphilis, gonorrhea, human immunodeficiency virus infection (HIV-AIDS), genital
herpes, hepatitis B, Non A, Non B amebiasis, salmonella infections and shigella
infections;
      (7)   Since 1981 and to the present, there have been numerous reported
cases of AIDS caused by the human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) in the United
States: 600 in 1982, 2,200 in 1983, 4,600 in 1984, 8,555 in 1985, and more
recently, 39,835 in 2000, 36,561 in 2005, 32,992 in 2010, and 1,163,575
cumulative through December 31, 2010;
      (8)   As of December 31, 2010, there have been 1,844 reported cases of
AIDS in the State of Nebraska;
      (9)   Since 1981 to the present, there have been numerous persons testing
positive for the HIV antibody test in Nebraska;
      (10)   There are approximately 80 to 100 new AIDS cases in the State of
Nebraska every year;
      (11)   There are approximately 32,000 new AIDS cases in the United States
every year;
      (12)   There are approximately five to ten cases of primary and secondary
syphilis (the stages when syphilis is most infectious) in Nebraska a year;
      (13)   The number of annual chlamydia cases in Nebraska has increased
from approximately 3,500 in 1999 to approximately 5,500 in 2008;
      (14)   The number of annual gonorrhea cases in Nebraska is approximately
1,000 to 1,500;
      (15)   The surgeon general of the United States in his report of October
22, 1986, has advised the American public that AIDS and HIV infection may be
transmitted through sexual contact, intravenous drug abuse, exposure to
infected blood and blood components, and from an infected mother to her
newborn;
      (16)   According to the best scientific evidence, AIDS and HIV infection,
as well as syphilis, gonorrhea and chlamydia, are principally transmitted by
sexual acts;
      (17)   Sanitary conditions in some sexually oriented businesses are
unhealthy, in part, because the activities conducted there are unhealthy, and,
in part, because of the unregulated nature of the activities and the failure of
the owners and the operators of the facilities to self-regulate those
activities and maintain those facilities;
      (18)   Numerous studies and reports have determined that semen is found
in the areas of sexually oriented businesses where persons view “adult”
oriented films;
      (19)   The findings noted in divisions (B)(1) through (B)(18) of this
section raise substantial governmental concerns;
      (20)   Sexually oriented businesses have operational characteristics
which should be reasonably regulated in order to protect those substantial
governmental concerns;
      (21)   A reasonable licensing procedure is an appropriate mechanism to
place the burden of that reasonable regulation on the owners and the operators
of the sexually oriented businesses. Further, such a licensing procedure will
place an incentive on the operators to see that the sexually oriented business
is run in a manner consistent with the health, safety and welfare of its
patrons and employees, as well as the citizens of the city. It is appropriate
to require reasonable assurances that the licensee is the actual operator of
the sexually oriented business, fully in possession and control of the premises
and activities occurring therein;
      (22)   Removal of doors on adult booths and requiring sufficient lighting
on premises with adult booths advances a substantial governmental interest in
curbing the illegal and unsanitary sexual activity occurring in adult theaters;
      (23)   Requiring licensees of sexually oriented businesses to keep
information regarding current employees and certain past employees will help
reduce the incidence of certain types of criminal behavior by facilitating the
identification of potential witnesses or suspects and by preventing minors from
working in such establishments;
      (24)   The disclosure of certain information by those persons ultimately
responsible for the day-to-day operation and maintenance of the sexually
oriented business, where such information is substantially related to the
significant governmental interest in the operation of such uses, will aid in
preventing the spread of sexually transmitted diseases;
      (25)   The fact that an applicant for an adult use license has been
convicted of a sexually related crime leads to the rational assumption that the
applicant may engage in that conduct in contravention of this article;
      (26)   The barring of such individuals from the management of adult uses
for a period of years serves as a deterrent to and prevents conduct which leads
to the transmission of sexually transmitted diseases; and
      (27)   The general welfare, health, morals and safety of the citizens of
the city will be promoted by the enactment of this article.
(Ord. 869, passed 11-12-2012)
§ 10-902 SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESSES; DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this article, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ADULT ARCADE. Any place to which the public is permitted or invited wherein
coin-operated, slug-operated or for any form of consideration, or
electronically, electrically or mechanically controlled still or motion picture
machines, projectors, video or laser disc players, or other image-producing
devices are maintained to show images to five or fewer persons per machine at
any one time, and where  the images so displayed are distinguished or
characterized by the depicting or describing of “specified sexual activities”
or “specified anatomical areas.”
   ADULT BOOKSTORE, ADULT NOVELTY STORE or ADULT VIDEO STORE.
      (1)   A commercial establishment which, as one of its principal purposes,
offers for sale or rental for any form of consideration any one or more of the
following:
         (a)   Books, magazines, periodicals or other printed matter, or
photographs, films, motion pictures, video cassettes or video reproductions,
compact discs, digital video discs, slides or other visual representations
which are characterized by the depiction or description of “specified sexual
activities” or “specified anatomical areas;” or
         (b)   Instruments, devices or paraphernalia which are designed for use
in connection with “specified sexual activities.”
      (2)   A commercial establishment may have other principal business
purposes that do not involve the offering for sale or rental of material
depicting or describing “specified sexual activities” or “specified anatomical
areas” and still be categorized as ADULT BOOKSTORE, ADULT NOVELTY STORE or
ADULT VIDEO STORE. Such other business purposes will not serve to exempt such
commercial establishments from being categorized as an ADULT BOOKSTORE, ADULT
NOVELTY STORE or ADULT VIDEO STORE so long as one of its principal business
purposes is the offering for sale or rental for consideration the specified
materials which are characterized by the depiction or description of “specified
sexual activities” or “specified anatomical areas.”
   ADULT CABARET. A nightclub, bar, restaurant or other commercial
establishment which regularly features:
      (1)   Persons who appear in a state of nudity or semi-nude;
      (2)   Live performances which are characterized by the exposure of
“specified anatomical areas” or by “specified sexual activities;” or
      (3)   Films, motion pictures, video cassettes, slides or other
photographic reproductions which are characterized by the depiction or
description of “specified sexual activities” or “specified anatomical areas.”
   ADULT MOTEL. A hotel, motel or similar commercial establishment which:
      (1)   Offers accommodations to the public for any form of consideration;
provides patrons with closed-circuit television transmissions, films, motion
pictures, video cassettes, slides or other photographic reproductions which are
characterized by the depiction or description of “specified sexual activities”
or “specified anatomical areas;” and has a sign visible from the public right-
of-way which advertises the availability of this adult type of photographic
reproductions;
      (2)   Offers a sleeping room for rent for a period of time that is less
than ten hours; or
      (3)   Allows a tenant or occupant of a sleeping room to subrent the room
for a period of time that is less than ten hours.
   ADULT MOTION PICTURE THEATER. A commercial establishment where, for any form
of consideration, films, motion pictures, video cassettes, compact discs,
digital video discs, slides or similar photographic reproductions are regularly
shown which are characterized by the depiction or description of “specified
sexual activities” or “specified anatomical areas.” This shall not include
hotels or motels which offer adult movies for viewing as part of a selection of
available movies that includes non-adult movies, on a pay-per-view basis.
   ADULT THEATER. A theater, concert hall, auditorium or similar commercial
establishment which regularly features persons who appear in a state of nudity
or semi-nude, or live performances which are characterized by the exposure of
“specified anatomical areas” or by “specified sexual activities.”
   EMPLOYEE. A person who performs any service on the premises of a sexually
oriented business on a full-time, part-time or contract basis, whether or not
the person is denominated an employee, independent contractor, agent or
otherwise and whether or not said person is paid a salary, wage or other
compensation by the operator of said business. EMPLOYEE does not include a
person exclusively on the premises for repair or maintenance of the premises or
equipment on the premises, or for the delivery of goods to the premises.
   ESCORT. A person who, for consideration, agrees or offers to act as a
companion, guide or date for another person, or who agrees or offers to
privately model lingerie or to privately perform a striptease for another
person.
   ESCORT AGENCY. A person or business association who furnishes, offers to
furnish or advertises to furnish escorts as one of its primary business
purposes for a fee, tip or other consideration.
   ESTABLISHMENT. Includes any of the following:
      (1)   The opening or commencement of any sexually oriented business as a
new business;
      (2)   The conversion of an existing business, whether or not a sexually
oriented business, to any sexually oriented business;
      (3)   The addition of any sexually oriented business to any other
existing sexually oriented business; or
      (4)   The relocation of any sexually oriented business.
   LICENSEE. A person in whose name a license to operate a sexually oriented
business has been issued, as well as the individual listed as an applicant on
the application for a license; and in the case of  an employee, a person in
whose name a license has been issued authorizing employment in a sexually
oriented business.
   NUDE MODEL STUDIO. Any place where a person who appears semi-nude, in a
state of nudity, or who displays “specified anatomical areas” and is provided
to be observed, sketched, drawn, painted, sculptured, photographed or similarly
depicted by other persons who pay money or any form of consideration. NUDE
MODEL STUDIO shall not include a proprietary school licensed by the State of
Nebraska or a college or junior college.
   NUDITY or A STATE OF NUDITY. The showing of the human male or female
genitals, pubic area, vulva, anus, anal cleft or cleavage with less than a
fully opaque covering, the showing of the female breast with less than a fully
opaque covering of any part of the nipple, or the showing of the covered male
genitals in a discernibly turgid state.
   PERSON. An individual, proprietorship, partnership, corporation, association
or other legal entity.
   SEMI-NUDE or IN A SEMI-NUDE CONDITION. The showing of the female breast
below a horizontal line across the top of the areola at its highest point or
the showing of the male or female buttocks. This definition shall include the
entire lower portion of the human female breast, but shall not include any
portion of the cleavage of the human female breast, exhibited by a dress,
blouse, skirt, leotard, bathing suit or other wearing apparel provided the
areola is not exposed in whole or in part.
   SEXUAL ENCOUNTER CENTER. A business or commercial enterprise that, as one of
its principal business purposes, offers for any form of consideration:
      (1)   Physical contact in the form of wrestling or tumbling between
persons of the opposite sex; or
      (2)   Activities between male and female persons and/or persons of the
same sex when one or more of the persons is in a state of nudity or semi-nude.
   SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESS. An adult arcade, adult bookstore, adult novelty
store, adult video store, adult cabaret, adult motel, adult motion picture
theater, adult theater, escort agency, nude model studio or sexual encounter
center.
   SPECIFIED ANATOMICAL AREAS.
      (1)   The human male genitals in a discernibly turgid state, even if
completely and opaquely covered; or
      (2)   Less than completely and opaquely covered human genitals, pubic
region, buttocks or a female breast below a point immediately above the top of
the areola.
   SPECIFIED CRIMINAL ACTIVITY. Any of the following offenses:
      (1)   Prostitution or promotion of prostitution; dissemination of
obscenity; sale, distribution or display of harmful material to a minor; sexual
performance by a child; possession or distribution of child pornography; public
lewdness or public indecency; indecent exposure; indecency with a child;
engaging in organized criminal activity; sexual assault; molestation of a
child; gambling; or distribution of a controlled substance; or any similar
offenses to those described above under the criminal or penal code of other
states or countries;
      (2)   For which:
         (a)   Less than two years have elapsed since the date of conviction or
the date of release from confinement imposed for the conviction, whichever is
the later date, if the conviction is of a misdemeanor offense;
         (b)   Less than five years have elapsed since the date of conviction
or the date of release from confinement for the conviction, whichever is the
later date, if the conviction is of a felony offense; or
         (c)   Less than five years have elapsed since the date of the last
conviction or the date of release from confinement for the last conviction,
whichever is the later date, if the convictions are of two or more misdemeanor
offenses or combination of misdemeanor offenses occurring within any 24-month
period.
      (3)   The fact that a conviction is being appealed shall have no effect
on the disqualification of the applicant or a person residing with the
applicant.
   SPECIFIED SEXUAL ACTIVITIES. Any of the following:
      (1)   The actual or simulated fondling or other erotic touching of human
genitals, pubic region, buttocks, anus or female breasts;
      (2)   Sex acts, normal or perverted, actual or simulated, including
intercourse, oral copulation, masturbation or sodomy; or
      (3)   Excretory functions as part of or in connection with any of the
activities set forth in divisions (1) through (2) above.
   SUBSTANTIAL ENLARGEMENT OF A SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESS. The increase in
floor areas occupied by the business by more than 25%, as the floor areas exist
on the date this article takes effect.
   TRANSFER OF OWNERSHIP OR CONTROL OF A SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESS. Includes
any of the following:
      (1)   The sale, lease or sublease of the business;
      (2)   The transfer of securities which constitute a controlling interest
in the business, whether by sale, exchange or similar means; or
      (3)   The establishment of a trust, gift or other similar legal device
which transfers the ownership or control of the business, except for transfer
by bequest or other operation of law upon the death of the person possessing
the ownership or control.
(Ord. 869, passed 11-12-2012)
§ 10-903 SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESSES; CLASSIFICATIONS.
   Sexually oriented businesses are classified as follows:
   (A)   Adult arcades;
   (B)   Adult bookstores, adult novelty stores or adult video stores;
   (C)   Adult cabarets;
   (D)   Adult motels;
   (E)   Adult motion picture theaters;
   (F)   Adult theaters;
   (G)   Escort agencies;
   (H)   Nude model studios; and
   (I)   Sexual encounter centers.
(Ord. 869, passed 11-12-2012)
§ 10-904 SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESSES; LICENSE REQUIRED.
   (A)   It is unlawful:
      (1)   For any person to operate a sexually oriented business without a
valid sexually oriented business license issued by the city pursuant to this
article;
      (2)   For any person who operates a sexually oriented business to employ,
contract with, arrange or allow or permit a person to work for the sexually
oriented business who is not licensed as a sexually oriented business employee
by the city pursuant to this article; and
      (3)   For any person to obtain employment with a sexually oriented
business without having secured a sexually oriented business employee license
pursuant to this article.
   (B)   An application for a license must be made on a form provided by the
city.
   (C)   All applicants must be qualified according to the provisions of this
article. The application may request and the applicant shall provide such
information (including fingerprints) as to enable the city to determine whether
the applicant meets the qualifications established in this article.
   (D)   A person, who wishes to operate a sexually oriented business, must
sign the application for a license as an applicant. If a person other than an
individual wishes to operate a sexually oriented business, all persons legally
responsible for the operations of the sexually oriented business or who have
power to control or direct its operations must sign the application for a
license as applicant. Such persons include, but are not limited to, general
partners, corporate officers, corporate directors and controlling shareholder
(s). Each application must be qualified under the following section and each
applicant shall be considered a licensee if a license is granted.
   (E)   The completed application for a sexually oriented business license
shall contain the following information and shall be accompanied by the
following documents:
      (1)   If the applicant is:
         (a)   An individual, the individual shall state his or her legal name
and any aliases and submit proof that he or she is 19 years of age;
         (b)   A partnership, the partnership shall state its complete name,
and the names of all partners, whether the partnership is general or limited,
and a copy of the partnership agreement, if any; and
         (c)   A corporation, the corporation shall state its complete name,
the date of its incorporation, evidence that the corporation is in good
standing under the laws of its state of incorporation, the names and capacity
of all officers, directors and controlling stockholders, and the name of the
registered corporate agent and the address of the registered office for service
of process.
      (2)   If the applicant intends to operate the sexually oriented business
under a name other than that of the applicant, he or she must state the
sexually oriented business’s fictitious name and submit the required
registration documents;
      (3)   Whether the applicant, or a person residing with the applicant, has
been convicted of a specified criminal activity as defined in this article,
and, if so, the specified criminal activity involved, the date, place and
jurisdiction of each;
      (4)   Whether the applicant, or a person residing with the applicant, has
had a previous license under this article or other sexually oriented business
ordinance from another city or county denied, suspended or revoked, including
the name and location of the sexually oriented business for which the permit
was denied, suspended or revoked, as well as the date of the denial, suspension
or revocation, and whether the applicant or a person residing with the
applicant has been a partner in a partnership or an officer, director or
principal stockholder of a corporation that is licensed under this article
whose license has previously been denied, suspended or revoked, including the
name and location of the sexually oriented business for which the permit was
denied, suspended or revoked as well as the date of denial, suspension or
revocation;
      (5)   Whether the applicant or a person residing with the applicant holds
any other licenses under this article or other sexually oriented business
ordinance from another city or county and, if so, the names and locations of
such other licensed businesses;
      (6)   A description of each classification of sexually oriented business
for which the applicant submits an application for a license;
      (7)   The location of the proposed sexually oriented business, including
a legal description of the property, street address and telephone number(s), if
any;
      (8)   The applicant’s mailing address and residential address;
      (9)   A recent photograph of the applicant(s);
      (10)   The date, issuing state and number of driver’s permit or other
identification card information for the applicant;
      (11)   A sketch or diagram showing the configuration of the premises,
including a statement of total floor space occupied by the business. The sketch
or diagram need not be professionally prepared, but it must be drawn to a
designated scale or drawn with marked dimensions of the interior of the
premises to an accuracy of plus or minus six inches;
      (12)   A current certificate and straight-line drawing prepared within 30
days prior to application by a registered land surveyor depicting the property
lines and the structures containing any existing sexually oriented businesses
within 400 feet of the property to be certified; the property lines of any
established religious institution/ synagogue, school or public park or
recreation area within 400 feet of the property to be certified. For purposes
of this section, a use shall be considered existing or established if it is in
existence at the time an application is submitted;
      (13)   If an applicant wishes to operate a sexually oriented business,
other than an adult motel, which shall exhibit on the premises, in a viewing
room or booth of less than 150 square feet of floor space, films, video
cassettes, compact discs, digital video discs or other video reproductions, or
live entertainment which depict specified sexual activities or specified
anatomical areas, then the applicant shall comply with the application
requirements set forth in §
10-914 of this article;
      (14)   Before any applicant may be issued a sexually oriented business
employee license, the applicant shall submit on a form to be provided by the
city the following information:
         (a)   The applicant’s name or any other name (including “stage” names)
or aliases used by the individual;
         (b)   Age, date and place of birth;
         (c)   Height, weight, hair and eye color;
         (d)   Present residence address and telephone number;
         (e)   Present business address and telephone number;
         (f)   Date, issuing state and number of driver’s permit or other
identification card information; and
         (g)   Proof that the individual is at least 19 years of age.
      (15)   Attached to the application form for a sexually oriented business
employee license as provided above, shall be the following:
         (a)   A color photograph of the applicant clearly showing the
applicant’s face, and the applicant’s fingerprints on a form provided by the
Police Department. Any fees for the photographs and fingerprints shall be paid
by the applicant;
         (b)   A statement detailing the license history of the applicant for
the five years immediately preceding the date of the filing of the application,
including whether such applicant previously operated or is seeking to operate,
in this or any other county, city, state or country has ever had a license,
permit or authorization to do business denied, revoked or suspended, or had any
professional or vocational license or permit denied, revoked or suspended. In
the event of any such denial, revocation or suspension, state the name, the
name of the issuing or denying jurisdiction, and describe in full the reason
for the denial, revocation or suspension. A copy of any order of denial,
revocation or suspension shall be attached to the application; and
         (c)   A statement whether the applicant has been convicted of a
specified criminal activity as defined in this article and, if so, the
specified criminal activity involved, the date, place and jurisdiction of each.
(Ord. 869, passed 11-12-2012)
§ 10-905 SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESSES; ISSUANCE OF LICENSE.
   (A)   Upon the filing of said application for a sexually oriented business
employee license, the city shall issue a temporary license to said applicant.
The application shall then be referred to the appropriate city departments for
an investigation to be made on such information as is contained on the
application. The application process shall be completed within 30 days from the
date the completed application is filed. After the investigation, the city
shall issue a license, unless it is determined by a preponderance of the
evidence that one or more of the following findings is true:
      (1)   The applicant has failed to provide information reasonable
necessary for issuance of the license or has falsely answered a question or
request for information on the application form;
      (2)   The applicant is under the age of 19 years;
      (3)   The applicant has been convicted of a “specified criminal activity”
as defined in this article;
      (4)   The sexually oriented business employee license is to be used for
employment in a business prohibited by local or state law, statute, rule or
regulation, or prohibited by a particular provision of this article; or
      (5)   The applicant has had a sexually oriented business employee license
revoked in this city or in any other jurisdiction within five years of the date
of the current application. If the sexually oriented business employee license
is denied, the temporary license previously issued is immediately deemed null
and void. Denial, suspension or revocation of a license issued pursuant to this
division (A)(1) shall be subject to appeal as set forth in §
10-910 of this article.
   (B)   A license granted pursuant to this section shall be subject to annual
renewal upon the written application of the applicant and a finding by the city
that the applicant has not been convicted of any specified criminal activity as
defined in this article or committed any act during the existence of the
previous license, which would be grounds to deny the initial license
application. The renewal of the license shall be subject to the payment of the
fee as set forth in §
10-906 of this article.
   (C)   Within 30 days after receipt of a completed sexually oriented business
application, the city shall approve or deny the issuance of a license to an
applicant. The city shall approve the issuance of a license to an applicant
unless it is determined by a preponderance of the evidence that one or more of
the following findings is true:
      (1)   An applicant is under 19 years of age;
      (2)   An applicant or a person with whom applicant is residing is overdue
in payment to the city of taxes, fees, fines, utility services or penalties
assessed against or imposed upon him or her in relation to any business;
      (3)   An applicant has failed to provide information reasonably necessary
for issuance of the license or has falsely answered a question or request for
information on the application form;
      (4)   The applicant, or a person residing with the applicant has been
denied a license by the city to operate a sexually oriented business within the
preceding 12 months or whose license to operate a sexually oriented business
has been revoked within the preceding 12 months in the city, or in any other
city or county;
      (5)   An applicant or a person with whom the applicant is residing has
been convicted of a specified criminal activity defined in this article;
      (6)   The premises to be used for the sexually oriented business have not
been approved by the Health Department, Fire Department and the Building
Official as being in compliance with applicable laws and ordinances;
      (7)   The license fee required by this article has not been paid; and/or
      (8)   An applicant of the proposed establishment is in violation of or is
not in compliance with any of the provisions of this article.
   (D)   The license, if granted shall state on its face the name of the person
or persons to whom it is granted, the expiration date, the address of the
sexually oriented business and the classification for which the license is
issued pursuant to §
10-903 of this article. All licenses shall be posted in a conspicuous place at
or near the entrance to the sexually oriented business so that they may be
easily read at any time.
   (E)   The Health Department, Fire Department and the Building Official shall
complete their certification that the premises is in compliance or not in
compliance within 20 days of receipt of the completed application by the city.
   (F)   A single sexually oriented business license shall issue for the
premises although there may be more than one classification of sexually
oriented business for such premises as described pursuant to §
10-904(E)(6) of this article. In the event that the applicant wishes to add an
additional category of sexually oriented business that is not described in the
application for the premises, then a new application describing such additional
classification of sexually oriented business must be submitted and a new
license obtained for the premises before the additional sexually oriented
business so described may be operated on the premises.
(Ord. 869, passed 11-12-2012)
§ 10-906 SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESSES; FEES.
   (A)   Every application for a sexually oriented business license (whether
for a new license or for renewal of an existing license) shall be accompanied
by a $500 non-refundable application and investigation fee.
   (B)   In addition to the application and investigation fee required above,
every sexually oriented business that is granted a license (new or renewal)
shall pay to the city an annual non-refundable license fee of $2,500 within 30
days of license issuance or renewal.
   (C)   Every application for a sexually oriented business employee license
(whether for a new license or for renewal of an existing license) shall be
accompanied by an annual $50 non-refundable application, investigation and
license fee.
   (D)   All license applications and fees shall be submitted to the City Clerk
and Treasurer prior to the issuance or renewal of any license.
(Ord. 869, passed 11-12-2012)
§ 10-907 SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESSES; INSPECTION.
   (A)   An applicant or licensee shall permit representatives of the Police
Department, Health Department, Fire Department, Zoning Department or other city
departments or agencies to inspect the premises of a sexually oriented business
for the purpose of insuring compliance with the law, at any time it is occupied
or open for business.
   (B)   A person who operates a sexually oriented business or his or her agent
or employee commits a misdemeanor if he or she refuses to permit such lawful
inspection of the premises at any time it is open for business.
(Ord. 869, passed 11-12-2012)
§ 10-908 SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESSES; EXPIRATION OF LICENSE.
   (A)   Each license shall expire one year from the date of issuance and may
be renewed only by making application as provided in §
10-904 of this article. Application for renewal shall be made at least 30 days
before the expiration date, and when made less than 30 days before the
expiration date, the expiration of the license will not be affected.
   (B)   When the city denies renewal of a license, the applicant shall not be
issued a license for one year from the date of denial. If, subsequent to
denial, the city finds that the basis for denial of the renewal license has
been corrected or abated, the applicant may be granted a license if at least 90
days have elapsed since the date denial became final.
(Ord. 869, passed 11-12-2012)
§ 10-909 SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESSES; SUSPENSION OF LICENSE.
   The city shall suspend a license for a period not to exceed 30 days if it
determines that a licensee or an employee of a licensee has:
   (A)   Violated or is not in compliance with any section of this article; and
   (B)   Refused to allow an inspection of the sexually oriented business
premises as authorized by this article.
(Ord. 869, passed 11-12-2012)
§ 10-910 SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESSES; REVOCATION OF LICENSE.
   (A)   The city shall revoke a license if a cause of suspension in §
10-909 of this article occurs and the license has been suspended within the
preceding 12 months.
   (B)   The city shall revoke a license if it determines that:
      (1)   A licensee gave false or misleading information in the material
submitted during the application process;
      (2)   A licensee has knowingly allowed possession, use or sale of
controlled substances on the premises;
      (3)   A licensee has knowingly allowed prostitution on the premises;
      (4)   A licensee knowingly operated the sexually oriented business during
a period of time when the licensee’s license was suspended;
      (5)   Except in the case of an adult motel, a licensee has knowingly
allowed any act of sexual intercourse, sodomy, oral copulation, masturbation or
other sex act to occur in or on the licensed premises; or
      (6)   A licensee is delinquent in payment to the city, county or state
for any taxes or fees past due, or payment for utility services.
   (C)   When the city revokes a license, the revocation shall continue for one
year, and the licensee shall not be issued a sexually oriented business license
for one year from the date the revocation became effective. If, subsequent to
revocation, the city finds that the basis for the revocation has been corrected
or abated, the applicant may be granted a license if at least 90 days have
elapsed since the date the revocation became effective.
   (D)   After denial of an application, or denial of a renewal of an
application, or suspension or revocation of any license, the applicant or
licensee may seek prompt judicial review of such administrative action in any
court of competent jurisdiction. The administrative action shall be promptly
reviewed by the court.
(Ord. 869, passed 11-12-2012)
§ 10-911 SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESSES; TRANSFER OF LICENSE.
   A licensee shall not transfer his or her license to another, nor shall a
licensee operate a sexually oriented business under the authority of a license
at any place other than the address designated in the application.
(Ord. 869, passed 11-12-2012)
§ 10-912 SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESSES; LOCATION OF SEXUALLY ORIENTED
BUSINESSES.
   (A)   A sexually oriented business may only be located in the Industrial
Park (IP) District as defined and described in the City Zoning Code. A person
violates this article and is subject to the penalty as provided herein if that
person locates or operates or causes to be located or operated a sexually
oriented business in any zoning district other than the Industrial Park (IP)
District.
   (B)   A person commits an offense if the person operates or causes to be
operated a sexually oriented business within 400 feet of:
      (1)   A church, synagogue, mosque, temple or building which is used
primarily for religious worship and related religious activities;
      (2)   A public or private educational facility including, but not limited
to, child day care facilities, nursery schools, preschools, kindergartens,
elementary schools, private schools, intermediate schools, junior high schools,
middle schools, high schools, vocational schools, secondary schools,
continuation schools, special education schools, colleges and universities;
school includes the school grounds, but does not include facilities used
primarily for another purpose and only incidentally as a school;
      (3)   A boundary of a residential district as defined in the City Zoning
Code;
      (4)   A public park or recreational area which has been designated for
park or recreational activities including, but not limited to, a park,
playground, nature trails, swimming pool, reservoir, athletic field, basketball
or tennis courts, pedestrian/bicycle paths, wilderness areas or other similar
public land within the city which is under the control, operation or management
of the city park and recreation authorities;
      (5)   The property line of a lot devoted to a residential use as defined
in the City Zoning Code;
      (6)   An entertainment business which is oriented primarily towards
children or family entertainment;
      (7)   A facility primarily used for activities for senior citizens, or
for the housing and/or care of senior citizens;
      (8)   A youth or adult correctional facility;
      (9)   A library;
      (10)   A mortuary/funeral home;
      (11)   A medical clinic, hospital, nursing home, mental health facility,
mental health agency, developmental disability facility or developmental
disability home; or
      (12)   A licensed premises, licensed to serve and/or sell alcoholic
beverages by the Nebraska Liquor Control Commission.
   (C)   A person commits a misdemeanor if that person causes or permits the
operation, establishment, substantial enlargement or transfer of ownership or
control of a sexually oriented business within 400 feet of another sexually
oriented business.
   (D)   A person commits a misdemeanor if that person causes or permits the
operation, establishment or maintenance of more than one sexually oriented
business in the same building, structure or portion thereof, or the increase of
floor area of any sexually oriented business in any building, structure or
portion thereof containing another sexually oriented business without first
obtaining a license for such additional business or floor area.
   (E)   For the purpose of division (B) of this section, measurement shall be
made in a straight line, without regard to the intervening structures or
objects, from the nearest portion of the building or structure used as the part
of the premises where a sexually oriented business is conducted, to the nearest
property line of the premises of a use listed in division (B) of this section.
Presence of a city, county or other political subdivision boundary shall be
irrelevant for purposes of calculating and applying the distance requirements
of this section.
   (F)   For purposes of division (C) of this section, the distance between any
two sexually oriented businesses shall be measured in a straight line, without
regard to the intervening structures or objects or political boundaries, from
the closest exterior wall of the structure in which each business is located.
   (G)   Any sexually oriented business lawfully operating on November 21,
2012, that is in violation of divisions (A) through (F) of this section shall
be deemed a nonconforming use. The nonconforming use will be permitted to
continue for a period not to exceed one year, unless sooner terminated for any
reason or voluntarily discontinued for a period of 30 days or more. Such
nonconforming uses shall not be increased, enlarged, extended or altered except
that the use may be changed to a conforming use. If two or more sexually
oriented businesses are within 400 feet of one another and otherwise in a
permissible location, the sexually oriented business which was first
established and continually operating at a particular location is the
conforming use and the later established business (es) is/are nonconforming.
   (H)   A sexually oriented business lawfully operating as a conforming use is
not rendered a nonconforming use by the location, subsequent to the grant or
renewal of the sexually oriented business license, of a use listed in division
(B) of this section within 400 feet of the sexually oriented business. This
provision applies only to the renewal of a valid license, and does not apply
when an application for a license is submitted after a license has expired or
been revoked.
(Ord. 869, passed 11-12-2012)
§ 10-913 SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESSES; ADDITIONAL REGULATIONS FOR ADULT MOTELS.
   (A)   Evidence that a sleeping room in a hotel, motel or a similar
commercial establishments has been rented and vacated two or more times in a
period of time that is less than ten hours creates a rebuttable presumption
that the establishment is an adult motel as that term is defined in this
article.
   (B)   A person commits a misdemeanor if, as the person in control of a
sleeping room in a hotel, motel or similar commercial establishment that does
not have a sexually oriented business license, he or she rents or subrents a
sleeping room to a person and, within ten hours from the time the room is
rented, he or she rents or subrents the same sleeping room again.
   (C)   For purposes of division (B) of this section, the terms RENT or
SUBRENT mean the act of permitting a room to be occupied for any form of
consideration.
(Ord. 869, passed 11-12-2012)
§ 10-914 SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESSES; REGULATIONS PERTAINING TO EXHIBITION OF
SEXUALLY EXPLICIT FILMS, VIDEOS OR LIVE ENTERTAINMENT IN VIEWING ROOMS.
   (A)   A person who operates or causes to be operated a sexually oriented
business, other than an adult motel or a motel or hotel which features pay per
view adult movies, which exhibits on the premises in a viewing room of less
than 150 square feet of floor space, a film, video cassette, compact disc,
digital video disc, live entertainment or other video reproduction which
depicts specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas, shall comply
with the following requirements.
      (1)   Upon application for a sexually oriented business license, the
application shall be accompanied by a diagram of the premises showing a plan
thereof specifying the location of one or more manager’s stations and the
location of all overhead lighting fixtures and designating any portion of the
premises in which patrons will not be permitted. A manager’s station may not
exceed 32 square feet of floor area. The diagram shall also designate the place
at which the permit will be conspicuously posted, if granted. A professionally
prepared diagram in the nature of an engineer’s or architect’s blueprint shall
not be required; however, each diagram should be oriented to the north or to
some designated street or object and should be drawn to a designated scale or
with marked dimensions sufficient to show the various internal dimensions of
all areas of the interior of the premises to an accuracy of plus or minus six
inches. The city may waive the foregoing diagram for renewal applications if
the applicant adopts a diagram that was previously submitted and certifies that
the configuration of the premises has not been altered since it was prepared.
      (2)   The application shall be sworn to be true and correct by the
applicant.
      (3)   No alteration in the configuration or location of a manager’s
station may be made without the prior approval of the city.
      (4)   It is the duty of the licensee of the premises to ensure that at
least one licensed employee is on duty and situated in each manager’s station
at all times that any patron is present inside the premises.
      (5)   The interior of the premises shall be configured in such a manner
that there is an unobstructed view from a manager’s station of every area of
the premises to which any patron is permitted access for any purpose, excluding
restrooms. Restrooms may not contain video reproduction equipment. If the
premises has two or more manager’s stations designated, then the interior of
the premises shall be configured in such a manner that there is an unobstructed
view of each area of the premises to which any patron is permitted access for
any purpose from at least one of the manager’s stations. The view required in
this division (A)(5) must be by direct line of sight from the manager’s
station.
      (6)   It shall be the duty of the licensee to ensure that the view area
specified in division (A)(5) of this section remains unobstructed by any doors,
curtains, partitions, walls, merchandise, display racks or other materials and,
at all times, to ensure that no patron is permitted access to any area of the
premises which has been designated as an area in which patrons will not be
permitted in the application filed pursuant to division (A)(1) of this section.
      (7)   No viewing room may be occupied by more than one person at any
time.
      (8)   The premises shall be equipped with overhead lighting fixtures of
sufficient intensity to illuminate every place to which patrons are permitted
access at an illumination of not less than five foot- candles as measured at
the floor level.
      (9)   It shall be the duty of the licensee to ensure that the
illumination described above is maintained at all times that any patron is
present in the premises.
      (10)   No licensee shall allow openings of any kind to exist between
viewing rooms or booths.
      (11)   No person shall make or attempt to make an opening of any kind
between viewing booths or rooms.
      (12)   The licensee shall, during each business day, regularly inspect
the walls between the viewing booths to determine if any openings or holes
exist.
      (13)   The licensee shall cause all floor coverings in viewing booths to
be nonporous, easily cleanable surfaces, with no rugs or carpeting.
      (14)   The licensee shall cause all wall surfaces and ceiling surfaces in
viewing booths to be constructed of, or permanently covered by, nonporous,
easily cleanable material. No wood, plywood, composition board or other porous
material shall be used within 48 inches of the floor.
   (B)   A person having a duty under divisions (A)(1) through (A)(14) of this
section commits a misdemeanor if he or she knowingly fails to fulfill that
duty.
(Ord. 869, passed 11-12-2012)
§ 10-915 SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESSES; ADDITIONAL REGULATIONS FOR ESCORT
AGENCIES.
   (A)   An escort agency shall not employ any person under the age of 19
years.
   (B)   A person commits an offense if the person acts as an escort or agrees
to act as an escort for any person under the age of 19 years.
(Ord. 869, passed 11-12-2012)
§ 10-916 SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESSES; ADDITIONAL REGULATIONS FOR NUDE MODEL
STUDIOS.
   (A)   A nude model studio shall not employ any person under the age of 19
years.
   (B)   A person under the age of 19 years commits an offense if the person
appears semi-nude or in a state of nudity in or on the premises of a nude model
studio. It is a defense to prosecution under this division (B) if the person
under 19 years was in a restroom not open to public view or visible to any
other person.
   (C)   A person commits an offense if the person appears in a state of
nudity, or knowingly allows another to appear in a state of nudity in an area
of a nude model studio premises which can be viewed from the public right-of-
way.
   (D)   A nude model studio shall not place or permit a bed, sofa or mattress
in any room on the premises, except that a sofa may be placed in a reception
room open to the public.
(Ord. 869, passed 11-12-2012)
§ 10-917 SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESSES; ADDITIONAL REGULATIONS CONCERNING PUBLIC
NUDITY.
   (A)   It shall be a misdemeanor for a person to knowingly and intentionally,
in a sexually oriented business, appear in a state of nudity or depict
specified sexual activities.
   (B)   It shall be a misdemeanor for a person to knowingly or intentionally,
in a sexually oriented business appear in a semi-nude condition unless the
person is an employee who, while semi-nude, shall be at least ten feet from any
patron or customer and on a stage at least two feet above the floor.
   (C)   It shall be a misdemeanor for an employee, while semi-nude in a
sexually oriented business, to solicit any pay or gratuity from any patron or
customer or for any patron or customer to pay or give any gratuity to any
employee, while said employee is semi-nude in a sexually oriented business.
   (D)   It shall be a misdemeanor for an employee, while semi-nude, to touch a
customer or the clothing of a customer, and it shall be a misdemeanor for a
customer to touch an employee or the clothing of the employee, while the
employee is semi-nude.
   (E)   No person may appear in a state of nudity or semi-nudity in any
premises licensed to sell alcoholic beverages by the Nebraska Liquor Control
Commission. It shall be a misdemeanor for any person to appear in a state of
nudity or semi-nudity in a licensed premises, and it shall be a misdemeanor for
any license holder, manager or employer of a licensed premises to cause,
encourage, permit or allow any person to appear in such licensed premises in a
state of nudity or semi-nudity.
(Ord. 869, passed 11-12-2012)
§ 10-918 SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESSES; PROHIBITION AGAINST CHILDREN IN A
SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESS.
   A person commits a misdemeanor if the person knowingly allows a person under
the age of 19 years on the premises of a sexually oriented business.
(Ord. 869, passed 11-12-2012)
§ 10-919 SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESSES; HOURS OF OPERATION.
   No sexually oriented business, except for an adult motel, may remain open at
any time between the hours of 11:00 p.m. and 9:00 a.m. on weekdays and
Saturdays, and 11:00 p.m. and 12:00 p.m. on Sundays.
(Ord. 869, passed 11-12-2012)
§ 10-920 SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESSES; PENALTY.
   Violations of this article shall be subject to an action for an injunction
and shall also be punishable by a fine of not to exceed $1,000 and/or 30 days
imprisonment. Each day a violation occurs is a separate offense. Violations of
this article shall further be subject to any remedies available by law.
(Ord. 869, passed 11-12-2012)
§ 10-921 SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESSES; SEVERABILITY.
   If any section, division or clause of this article shall be deemed to be
unconstitutional or otherwise invalid, the validity of the remaining sections,
divisions and clauses shall not be affected.
(Ord. 869, passed 11-12-2012)
§ 10-922 SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESSES; CONFLICTING ORDINANCES REPEALED.
   All ordinances or parts of ordinances in conflict with the provisions of
this article are hereby repealed.
(Ord. 869, passed 11-12-2012)
ARTICLE 10: SALES AND USE TAX
Section
   
10-1001   Sales and use tax; 1% imposed
   
10-1002   Sales and use tax; administration to be as provided by state law
   
10-1003   Sales and use tax; use of proceeds
   
10-1004   Sales and use tax; certification
   
10-1005   Sales and use tax; term of tax
§ 10-1001 SALES AND USE TAX; 1% IMPOSED.
   Pursuant to the approval of the electors of the city, at the general
election held on November 6, 2012, pursuant to the Nebraska Local Option
Revenue Act, being Neb. RS 77-27,142 through 77-27,148, the city does hereby
impose a sales and use tax of 1% upon the same transactions within the city on
which the State of Nebraska is authorized to impose a tax pursuant to the
Nebraska Revenue Act of 1967, being RS 77-2701 to 77-27,135.01 and 77-27, 228
to 77-27,236, as amended from time to time.
(Ord. 870, passed 11-27-2012)
§ 10-1002 SALES AND USE TAX; ADMINISTRATION TO BE AS PROVIDED BY STATE LAW.
   The administration of the sales and use tax imposed by this article
including the ascertainment, assessment, collection, distribution and making of
returns for said tax, shall be by the Nebraska Tax Commissioner pursuant to
Neb. RS 77-27,143.
(Ord. 870, passed 11-27-2012)
§ 10-1003 SALES AND USE TAX; USE OF PROCEEDS.
   The proceeds of the sales and use taxes imposed by §
10-1001 of this article of the municipal code of the city shall be used for any
lawful purpose which may include, but not be limited to, funding of non-
revenue producing municipal activities.
(Ord. 870, passed 11-27-2012)
§ 10-1004 SALES AND USE TAX; CERTIFICATION.
   A certified copy of the election results showing approval by the voters of
the local option revenue tax and a certified map of the city clearly showing
the boundaries of said city, incorporated by reference herein, was filed with
the Tax Commissioner on or before November 30, 2012.
(Ord. 870, passed 11-27-2012)
§ 10-1005 SALES AND USE TAX; TERM OF TAX.
   The sales and use tax imposed by §
10-1001 of this article of the municipal code of the city shall become
effective April 1, 2013, and shall continue in perpetuity unless repealed by
the Mayor and Council or by the voters of the city.
(Ord. 870, passed 11-27-2012)
ARTICLE 11: PENAL PROVISION
Section
   
10-1101   Violation; penalty
§ 10-1101 VIOLATION; PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person, or any person’s agent or servant, who violates any of the
provisions of this chapter, unless otherwise specifically provided herein,
shall be deemed guilty of an offense and upon conviction thereof shall be fined
in any sum not exceeding $500. A new violation shall be deemed to have been
committed every 24 hours of failure to comply with the provisions of this
chapter.
   (B)   (1)   Whenever a nuisance exists as defined in this code of
ordinances, the municipality may proceed by a suit in equity to enjoin, abate
and remove the same in the manner provided by law.
      (2)   Whenever, in any action, it is established that a nuisance exists,
the court may, together with the fine or penalty imposed, enter an order of
abatement as a part of the judgment in the case.
(Neb. RS 17-505, 18-1720, 18-1722) (Ord. 710, passed 10-9-2000)
CHAPTER 11: MUNICIPAL PLANNING
   Article
      
1.   COMPREHENSIVE PLAN
      
2.   ZONING REGULATIONS
      
3.   SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS
      
4.   CONFLICTS
      
5.   GROUP HOMES
      
6.   FLOOD PLAIN REGULATIONS
      
7.   PENAL PROVISION
ARTICLE 1: COMPREHENSIVE PLAN
Section
   
11-101   Comprehensive Plan; adopted
§ 11-101 COMPREHENSIVE PLAN; ADOPTED.
   In order to accommodate anticipated long-range future growth, the
Comprehensive Development Plan for the City of Franklin, Nebraska, as prepared
by Clark & Enersen, Hamersky, Schlaebitz, Burroughs & Thomsen, in two volumes,
is hereby incorporated by reference in addition to all amendments which may now
or in the future be made, as though printed in full herein. Such Plan shall
consist of maps, graphs and text. Three copies of the herein adopted Plan shall
be kept on file with the Municipal Clerk and available for inspection by any
member of the public during office hours.
ARTICLE 2: ZONING REGULATIONS
Section
   
11-201   Zoning regulations; adopted
   
11-202   Zoning regulations; manufactured homes; standard
   
11-203   Erection and placement of signs
   
11-204   Temporary or seasonal zoning waiver permits
§ 11-201 ZONING REGULATIONS; ADOPTED.
   For the purpose of setting minimum standards to promote the public health,
safety, morals, convenience, order, prosperity and general welfare of the
community, and to lessen congestion in the streets; to secure safety from fire,
panic and other dangers; to provide adequate light and air; to prevent the
overcrowding of land, to avoid undue concentration of population; and to
facilitate the adequate provision of transportation, water, sewerage, schools,
parks and other public requirements, the Zoning Regulations for the City of
Franklin, Nebraska, Ord. 285, adopted July 13, 1972, as prepared by Clark &
Enersen, Hamersky, Schlaebitz, Burroughs & Thomsen, and published in pamphlet
form is hereby incorporated by reference in addition to all amendments which
may now or in the future be made, as though printed in full herein. Three
copies of the herein adopted Zoning Regulations shall be kept on file with the
Municipal Clerk and available for inspection by any member of the public during
office hours.
§ 11-202 ZONING REGULATIONS; MANUFACTURED HOMES; STANDARD.
   (A)   A manufactured home may be used as a residential structure in any zone
in which residential uses are permitted if such manufactured home bears an
appropriate seal which indicates that it was constructed in accordance with the
standards of the Uniform Standard Code for Manufactured Homes and Recreational
Vehicles, the Nebraska Uniform Standards for Modular Housing Units Act or the
United States Department of Housing and Urban Development.
   (B)   Manufactured homes permitted pursuant to this section shall be located
and installed according to the following standards which are applicable to
site-built, single-family dwellings:
      (1)   The home shall be located and installed on a permanent perimeter
foundation;
      (2)   The home shall be installed with permanent utility connections;
      (3)   The home shall comply with all setback and lot requirements of the
residential zone in which it is located; and
      (4)   The home shall comply with the minimum square footage requirements
of the residential zone in which it is located.
   (C)   Manufactured homes shall also meet the following standards:
      (1)   The home shall have no less than 900 square feet of floor area;
      (2)   The home shall have no less than an 18-foot exterior width;
      (3)   The roof shall be pitched with a minimum vertical rise of two and
one-half inches for each 12 inches of horizontal run;
      (4)   The exterior material shall be of a color, material and scale
comparable with those existing in residential site-built, single-family
construction;
      (5)   The home shall have a nonreflective roof material which is or
simulates asphalt or wood shingles, tile or rock; and
      (6)   The home shall have wheels, axles, transporting lights and
removable towing apparatus removed.
   (D)   Nothing in this section shall be deemed to supersede any valid
restrictive covenants of record.
   (E)   For purposes of this section, MANUFACTURED HOME shall mean:
      (1)   A factory-built structure which is to be used as a place for human
habitation, which is not constructed or equipped with a permanent hitch or
other device allowing it to be moved other than to a permanent site, which does
not have permanently attached to its body or frame any wheels or axles, and
which bears a label certifying that it was built in compliance with National
Manufactured Home Construction and Safety Standards, 24 C.F.R. part 3280 et
seq. promulgated by the United States Department of Housing and Urban
Development; or
      (2)   A modular housing unit as defined in Neb. RS 71-1557, bearing a
seal in accordance with the Nebraska Uniform Standards for Modular Housing
Units Act.
(Neb. RS 19-902) (Ord. 302, passed 10-14-1974; Ord. 693, passed 5-10-1999)
§ 11-203 ERECTION AND PLACEMENT OF SIGNS.
   (A)   The city has the authority to regulate municipal planning and zoning
within the corporate limits of the city or within its zoning jurisdiction, as
provided in the municipal code and the statutes of the State of Nebraska.
   (B)   The city is desirous of placing signs within its territorial
jurisdiction which will be erected pursuant to and in accordance with direction
or authorization contained in federal, state and local law for the purpose of
carrying out its official duties and responsibilities.
   (C)   The city will own said signs and shall be responsible for the erection
and maintenance of said signs.
   (D)   The signs will be erected for the betterment of the community and to
enhance the operation of government within the city, and said signs will
further provide for community pride and support, which in turn will enhance
city services, health welfare, parks, culture, recreation and safety. The signs
shall be erected for the purpose of carrying out these official duties and
responsibilities.
   (E)   The location of said signs shall not endanger the health, safety and
welfare of the traveling public nor shall they obstruct the view of oncoming
traffic or any control devices.
   (F)   Said signs shall conform to the lighting criteria of federal and state
law and the applicable regulations thereto.
(Ord. 733, passed 10-8-2001)
§ 11-204 TEMPORARY OR SEASONAL ZONING WAIVER PERMITS.
   Any person, firm or corporation which owns or occupies property which is
situated in an area which is zoned for residential urban or residential
suburban use and who desires to conduct retail sales of seasonal goods or
produce, including, but not limited to, fresh fruits and vegetables, fireworks
or other consumer items, or who desires to offer other goods for sale for a
limited period of time, shall make application to the Municipal Clerk for a
seasonal or temporary permit to conduct such sales. The application shall be
made on forms to be furnished by the Municipal Clerk and shall state the goods
to be offered for sale, the location at which they will be offered, and the
period of time for which the permit is requested; provided, that such period of
time shall not exceed three months in length, and no applicant shall receive
more than two permits in any one calendar year. The applicant shall pay a fee
of $25 for each such permit and upon issuance of the permit by the Municipal
Clerk, the provisions of the Municipal Zoning Regulations regarding the conduct
of retail sales on such property and the use of accessory buildings associated
with such sales shall be suspended during the term of the permit.
(Ord. 854, passed 7-28-2011)
ARTICLE 3: SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS
Section
   
11-301   Subdivision regulations; adopted
§ 11-301 SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS; ADOPTED.
   To provide for harmonious development of the municipality and its environs;
for the integration of new subdivision streets with other existing or planned
streets or with other features of the Comprehensive Plan; for adequate open
spaces for traffic, recreation, light and air; for the distribution of
population and traffic in a manner which will tend to create conditions
favorable to health, safety, convenience or prosperity; to ensure conformance
of subdivision plans with the capital improvement program of the municipality;
and, to secure equitable handling of all subdivision plats by providing uniform
procedures and standards for observance by subdividers and the Planning
Commission and governing body, the Subdivision Regulations for the City of
Franklin, Nebraska, Ord. 285, adopted July 13, 1972, as prepared by Clark &
Enersen, Hamersky, Schlaebitz, Burroughts & Thomsen, and published in pamphlet
form is hereby incorporated by reference in addition to all amendments which
may now or in the future be made, as though printed in full herein. One copy of
the herein adopted Subdivision Regulations shall be kept on file with the
Municipal Clerk and available for inspection by any member of the public during
office hours.
ARTICLE 4: CONFLICTS
Section
   
11-401   Conflicts
§ 11-401 CONFLICTS.
   Where the provisions adopted by this chapter conflict with one another or
with the provisions of Chapter 9 of this municipal code, the most restrictive
or stringent provisions shall govern.
ARTICLE 5: GROUP HOMES
Section
   
11-501   Group homes; defined
   
11-502   Group homes; establishment
   
11-503   Group homes; establishment, exceptions
§ 11-501 GROUP HOMES; DEFINED.
   For the purposes of this section, unless the context otherwise requires, the
term GROUP HOME shall mean a facility licensed by the State of Nebraska in
which at least four but not more than eight persons not including resident
managers or house parents, who are unrelated by blood, marriage or adoption
reside while receiving therapy, training or counseling for the purposes of
adaptation to living with, or rehabilitation from mental or physical
disabilities.
(Neb. RS 18-1744) (Ord. 384, passed 9-13-1980; Ord. 545, passed 11-13-1989)
§ 11-502 GROUP HOMES; ESTABLISHMENT.
   A group home, as defined in §
11-501, may be established and operated in any residential zone within the
exercised zoning jurisdiction of the municipality, except as limited in §
11-503.
(Neb. RS 18-1745) (Ord. 384, passed 9-13-1980)
§ 11-503 GROUP HOMES; ESTABLISHMENT, EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   Departments and agencies of the state are prohibited from licensing a
new group home if it will be within 1,200 feet of an existing group home,
unless the governing body grants the proposed facility a conditional or special
use permit. For purposes of this section, EXISTING GROUP HOME shall include, in
addition to group homes defined in §
11-501, a home of any size which serves other populations, including, but not
limited to, correctional homes and homes which serve people recuperating from
the effects of drugs or alcohol, mental illness or physical disability.
   (B)   The number of group homes established in the municipality shall be
limited according to the population of the municipality, except that the
governing body may issue a variance to allow additional group homes. For the
municipality with a population of 1,000 residents or less, one group home may
be established, for a municipality with of population of more than 1,000 and
less than 10,000 residents, one group home may be established for every 2,000
residents, for a municipality with a population of at least 10,000 residents
but less than 50,000 residents, one group home may be established for every
3,000 residents.
(Neb. RS 18-1746, 18-1747) (Ord. 384, passed 9-13-1980)
ARTICLE 6: FLOOD PLAIN REGULATIONS
Section
   
11-601   Flood plain management; statutory authorization, finding of fact and
purposes
   
11-602   Flood plain management; local administrator responsibilities
   
11-603   Flood plain management; local administrator additional
responsibilities
   
11-604   Flood plain management; designation of current FHBM/FIRM
   
11-605   Flood plain management; permits required
   
11-606   Flood plain management; development permit applications review
   
11-607   Flood plain management; all application review
   
11-608   Flood plain management; subdivision applications
   
11-609   Flood plain management; water and sewerage systems
   
11-610   Flood plain management; storage of material and equipment
   
11-611   Flood plain management; flood carrying capacity within any watercourse
   
11-612   Flood plain management; variance procedures
   
11-613   Flood plain management; non-conforming use
   
11-614   Flood plain management; penalties for violation
   
11-615   Flood plain management; abrogation and restrictions
   
11-616   Flood plain management; interpretation
   
11-617   Flood plain management; warning and disclaimer of liability
   
11-618   Flood plain management; severability
   
11-619   Flood plain management; appeal
   
11-620   Flood plain management; conflicting ordinances
   
11-621   Flood plain management; definitions
   
11-622   Flood plain management; effective date
§ 11-601 FLOOD PLAIN MANAGEMENT; STATUTORY AUTHORIZATION, FINDING OF FACT AND
PURPOSES.
   (A)   Statutory authorization. The Legislature of the State of Nebraska has
in Neb. RS 31-1001 to 31-1022, assigned the responsibility to local
governmental units to adopt flood plain management regulations designed to
protect the public health, safety and general welfare. Therefore, the Mayor and
Council of the city ordains as follows.
   (B)   Findings of fact.
      (1)   Flood losses resulting from periodic inundation. The flood hazard
areas of the city are subject to inundation which results in loss of life and
property, health and safety hazards, disruption of commerce and governmental
services, extraordinary public expenditures for flood protection and relief,
and impairment of the tax base, all of which adversely affect the public
health, safety and general welfare.
      (2)   General causes of the flood losses. These flood losses are caused
by:
         (a)   The cumulative effect of obstructions in flood plains causing
increases in flood heights and velocities; and
         (b)   The occupancy of flood hazard areas by uses vulnerable to floods
or hazardous to others, which are inadequately elevated or otherwise
unprotected from flood damages.
   (C)   Statement of purpose. It is the purpose of this article to promote the
public health, safety and general welfare and to minimize those losses
described in division (B) of this section by applying the provisions of this
chapter to:
      (1)   Restrict or prohibit uses which are dangerous to health, safety or
property in times of flooding or cause undue increases in flood heights or
velocities;
      (2)   Require that uses vulnerable to floods, including public facilities
which serve such uses, be provided with flood protection at the time of initial
construction;
      (3)   Protect individuals from buying lands which are unsuited for
intended purposes because of flood hazard; and
      (4)   Assure that eligibility is maintained for property owners in the
community to purchase flood insurance in the National Flood Insurance Program.
(Ord. 502, passed 6-8-1987; Ord. 795, passed 9-12-2005)
§ 11-602 FLOOD PLAIN MANAGEMENT; LOCAL ADMINISTRATOR RESPONSIBILITIES.
   The Municipal Utility Superintendent hereby has these added responsibilities
and is authorized and directed to enforce all of the provisions of this article
and all other ordinances of the city now in force or hereafter adopted, related
to Zoning, Subdivision or Building Codes.
(Ord. 502, passed 6-8-1987; Ord. 795, passed 9-12-2005)
§ 11-603 FLOOD PLAIN MANAGEMENT; LOCAL ADMINISTRATOR ADDITIONAL
RESPONSIBILITIES.
   The Municipal Utility Superintendent shall be appointed to these additional
responsibilities by resolution of the Mayor and Council and his or her
appointment shall continue during good behavior and satisfactory service.
During temporary absence or disability of the Utility Superintendent, the Mayor
and Council shall designate an Acting Administrator.
(Ord. 502, passed 6-8-1987; Ord. 795, passed 9-12-2005)
§ 11-604 FLOOD PLAIN MANAGEMENT; DESIGNATION OF CURRENT FHBM/FIRM.
   The Mayor and Council of the city hereby designates the current Flood Hazard
Boundary Map/Flood Insurance Rate Map dated September 30, 2005, and any
revisions thereto, as the official map to be used in determining those areas of
special flood hazard.
(Ord. 502, passed 6-8-1987; Ord. 795, passed 9-12-2005)
§ 11-605 FLOOD PLAIN MANAGEMENT; PERMITS REQUIRED.
   No person, firm or corporation shall initiate any flood plain development or
substantial improvement or cause the same to be done without first obtaining a
separate permit for development as defined in this article.
   (A)   Within special flood hazard areas on the official map, separate flood
plain development permits are required for all new construction, substantial
improvements and other developments, including the placement of manufactured
homes.
   (B)   To obtain a flood plain development permit, the applicant shall first
file an application therefore in writing on a form furnished for that purpose.
Every such application shall:
      (1)   Identify and describe the development to be covered by the flood
plain development permit for which application is made;
      (2)   Describe the land on which the proposed development is to be done
by lot, block, tract and house and street address, or similar description that
will readily identify and definitely locate the proposed building or
development;
      (3)   Indicate the use or occupancy for which the proposed development is
intended;
      (4)   Be accompanied by plans and specifications for proposed
construction;
      (5)   Be signed by the permittee or his or her authorized agent who may
be required to submit evidence to indicate such authority;
      (6)   Within designated flood plain areas, be accompanied by elevations
of the lowest floor, including basement, or in the case of flood proofed
nonresidential structures, the elevation to which it shall be floodproofed.
Documentation or certification of such elevations will be maintained by the
Utility Superintendent; and
      (7)   Give such other information as reasonably may be required by the
Utility Superintendent (i.e., require a statement from the applicant that they
are aware that elevating or floodproofing structures above the minimum levels
will result in premium reduction, especially in the case of nonresidential
floodproofing when a minus one foot penalty is assessed at the time of rating
the structure for the policy premium).
(Ord. 502, passed 6-8-1987; Ord. 795, passed 9-12-2005)
§ 11-606 FLOOD PLAIN MANAGEMENT; DEVELOPMENT PERMIT APPLICATIONS REVIEW.
   The Utility Superintendent shall review all development permit applications
to determine if the site of the proposed development is reasonably safe from
flooding and that all necessary permits have been received as required by
federal or state law.
(Ord. 502, passed 6-8-1987; Ord. 795, passed 9-12-2005)
§ 11-607 FLOOD PLAIN MANAGEMENT; ALL APPLICATION REVIEW.
   The Utility Superintendent, in reviewing all applications for new
construction, substantial improvements, prefabricated buildings, placement of
manufactured homes and other development(s) (as defined in §
11-621 of this article) will:
   (A)   Obtain, review and reasonably utilize, if available, any regulatory
flood elevation data and floodway data available from federal, state or other
sources until such other data is provided by the Federal Insurance
Administration in a Flood Insurance Study, and require within special flood
hazard areas on the official map that the following performance standards be
met.
      (1)   That until a floodway has been designated. No development or
substantial improvement may be permitted within the identified flood plain
unless the applicant has demonstrated that the proposed development or
substantial improvement, when combined with all other existing and reasonably
anticipated developments or substantial improvements, will not increase the
water surface elevation of the 100-year flood more than one foot at any
location.
      (2)   Residential construction. New construction or substantial
improvement of any residential structure shall have the lowest floor, including
basement, elevated at least one foot above the base flood elevation.
      (3)   Nonresidential construction. New construction or substantial
improvement of any commercial, industrial or other nonresidential structure
shall either have the lowest floor, including basement, elevated at least one
foot above the base flood elevation or, together with attendant utility and
sanitary facilities, be floodproofed so that below such a level the structure
is watertight with walls substantially impermeable to the passage of water and
with structural components having the capability of resisting hydrostatic and
hydrodynamic loads and effects of buoyancy. A registered professional engineer
or architect shall certify that the standards of this division (A)(3) are
satisfied. Such certification shall be provided to the Utility Superintendent.
      (4)   Require for all new construction and substantial improvements. That
fully enclosed areas below the lowest floor that are usable solely for parking
of vehicles, building access or storage in an area other than a basement and
which are subject to flooding shall be designed to automatically equalize
hydrostatic flood forces on exterior walls by allowing for the entry and exit
of floodwaters. Designs for meeting this requirement must either be certified
by a registered professional engineer or architect or meet or exceed the
following minimum criteria: a minimum of two openings having a total net area
of not less than one square inch for every square foot of enclosed area subject
to flooding shall be provided. The bottom of all openings shall be no higher
than one foot above grade. Openings may be equipped with screens, louvers,
valves or other coverings or devices provided that they permit the automatic
entry and exit of floodwaters.
   (B)   Require the use of construction materials that are resistant to flood
damage;
   (C)   Require the use of construction methods and practices that will
minimize flood damage;
   (D)   Require that new structures be designed (or modified) and adequately
anchored to prevent flotation, collapse or lateral movement of the structure
resulting from hydrodynamic and hydrostatic loads, including the effects of
buoyancy;
   (E)   New structures be constructed with electrical, heating, ventilation,
plumbing and air conditioning equipment and other service facilities that are
designed and/or located so as to prevent water from entering or accumulating
within the components during conditions of flooding;
   (F)   Assure that all manufactured homes shall be anchored to resist
flotation, collapse or lateral movement. Manufactured homes must be anchored in
accordance with state laws, local building codes and FEMA guidelines. In the
event that over-the-top frame ties to ground anchors are used, the following
specific requirements (or their equivalent) shall be met:
      (1)   Over-the-top ties be provided at each of the four corners of the
manufactured home with two additional ties per side at the intermediate
locations and manufactured homes less than 50 feet long requiring one
additional tie per side;
      (2)   Frame ties be provided at each corner of the home with five
additional ties per side at intermediate points and manufactured homes less
than 50 feet long requiring four additional ties per side;
      (3)   All components of the anchoring system be capable of carrying a
force of 4,800 pounds; and
      (4)   Any additions to manufactured homes be similarly anchored.
   (G)   Assure that all manufactured homes that are placed or substantially
improved within special flood hazard areas on the community’s official map on
sites:
      (1)   Outside of a manufactured home park or subdivision;
      (2)   In a new manufactured home park or subdivision;
      (3)   In an expansion to an existing manufactured home park or
subdivision; or
      (4)   In an existing manufactured home park or subdivision on which a
manufactured home has incurred “substantial damage” as the result of a flood,
be elevated on a permanent foundation such that the lowest floor of the
manufactured home is elevated at least one foot above the base flood elevation
and be securely anchored to an adequately anchored foundation system in
accordance with the provisions of division (F) of this section.
   (H)   Assure that manufactured homes to be placed or substantially improved
on sites in an existing manufactured home park or subdivision within special
flood hazard areas on the community’s official map that are not subject to the
provisions of division (G) of this section elevated so that either:
      (1)   The lowest floor of the manufactured home is at least one foot
above the base flood elevation; or
      (2)   The manufactured home chassis is supported by reinforced piers or
other foundation elements of at least equivalent strength that are no less than
36 inches in height above grade and be securely anchored to an adequately
anchored foundation system in accordance with the provisions of division (F) of
this section.
   (J)   (1)   Require that recreational vehicles placed on sites within the
identified special flood hazard areas on the community’s official map either:
         (a)   Be on the site for fewer than 180 consecutive days;
         (b)   Be fully licensed and ready for highway use; or
         (c)   Meet the permit requirements and the elevation and anchoring
requirements for “manufactured homes” of this article.
      (2)   A recreational vehicle is ready for highway use if it is on its
wheels or jacking system, is attached to the site only by quick disconnect type
utilities and security devices, and has no permanently attached additions.
(Ord. 502, passed 6-8-1987; Ord. 795, passed 9-12-2005)
§ 11-608 FLOOD PLAIN MANAGEMENT; SUBDIVISION APPLICATIONS.
   The Mayor and Council of the city shall review all subdivision applications
and other proposed new developments (including manufactured home parks or
subdivisions) and shall make findings of fact and assure that:
   (A)   All such proposed developments are consistent with the need to
minimize flood damage;
   (B)   Subdivision proposals and other proposed new developments (including
proposals for manufactured home parks and subdivisions), greater than five
acres or 50 lots, whichever is lesser, include within such proposals regulatory
flood elevation data in special flood hazard areas;
   (C)   Adequate drainage is provided so as to reduce exposure to flood
hazards; and
   (D)   All public utilities and facilities are located so as to minimize or
eliminate flood damage.
(Ord. 502, passed 6-8-1987; Ord. 795, passed 9-12-2005)
§ 11-609 FLOOD PLAIN MANAGEMENT; WATER AND SEWERAGE SYSTEMS.
   New and replacement water and sewage systems shall be constructed to
eliminate or minimize infiltration by, or discharge into, floodwaters.
Moreover, on-site waste disposal systems will be designed to avoid impairment
or contamination during flooding.
(Ord. 502, passed 6-8-1987; Ord. 795, passed 9-12-2005)
§ 11-610 FLOOD PLAIN MANAGEMENT; STORAGE OF MATERIAL AND EQUIPMENT.
   The storage or processing of materials that are in time of flooding buoyant,
flammable, explosive or could be injurious to human, animal or plant life is
prohibited. Storage of other material or equipment may be allowed if not
subject to major damage by floods and firmly anchored to prevent flotation or
if readily removable from the area within the time available after flood
warning.
(Ord. 502, passed 6-8-1987; Ord. 795, passed 9-12-2005)
§ 11-611 FLOOD PLAIN MANAGEMENT; FLOOD CARRYING CAPACITY WITHIN ANY
WATERCOURSE.
   The Mayor and Council of the city will ensure that the flood-carrying
capacity within the altered or relocated portion of any watercourse is
maintained. The city will notify, in riverine situations, adjacent communities
and the State Coordinating Office (Nebraska Natural Resources Commission) prior
to any alteration or relocation of a watercourse, and submit copies of such
notifications to the Federal Emergency Management Agency. Moreover, the city
will work with appropriate state and federal agencies in everyway possible in
complying with the National Flood Insurance Program in accordance with the
National Disaster Protection Act of 1973.
(Ord. 502, passed 6-8-1987; Ord. 795, passed 9-12-2005)
§ 11-612 FLOOD PLAIN MANAGEMENT; VARIANCE PROCEDURES.
   (A)   Variance procedures.
      (1)   The Mayor and Council shall hear and decide appeals and requests
for variances from the requirements of this article.
      (2)   The Mayor and Council shall hear and decide appeals when it is
alleged that there is an error in any requirement, decision or determination
made by the Utility Superintendent in the enforcement or administration of this
article.
      (3)   Any person aggrieved by the decision of the Mayor and Council or
any taxpayer may appeal such decision to the District Court as provided in Neb.
RS 19-912.
      (4)   In passing upon such applications, the Mayor and Council shall
consider all technical evaluation, all relevant factors, standards specified in
other sections of this article, and:
         (a)   The danger that materials may be swept onto other lands to the
injury of others;
         (b)   The danger to life and property due to flooding or erosion
damage;
         (c)   The susceptibility of proposed facility and its contents to
flood damage and the effect of such damage on the individual owner;
         (d)   The importance of the services provided by the proposed facility
to the community;
         (e)   The necessity to the facility of a waterfront location, where
applicable;
         (f)   The availability of alternative locations, not subject to
flooding or erosion damage, for the proposed use;
         (g)   The compatibility of the proposed use with existing and
anticipated development;
         (h)   The relationship of the proposed use to the Comprehensive Plan
and flood plain management program for that area;
         (i)   The safety of access to the property in times of flood for
ordinary and emergency vehicles;
         (j)   The expected heights, velocity, duration, rate of rise and
sediment transport of the flood waters and the effects of wave action, if
applicable, expected at the site; and
         (k)   The costs of providing governmental services during and after
flood conditions including maintenance and repair of public utilities and
facilities such as sewer, gas, electrical and water systems, and streets and
bridges.
   (B)   Conditions for variances.
      (1)   Generally variances may be issued for new construction and
substantial improvements to be erected on a lot of one-half acre or less in
size contiguous to and surrounded by lots with existing structures constructed
below the base flood level, providing divisions (C)(2) through (C)(5) of this
section have been fully considered. As the lot size increases beyond the one-
half acre, the technical justification required for issuing the variance
increases.
      (2)   Variances may be issued for the repair or rehabilitation of
historic structures upon a determination that the proposed repair or
rehabilitation will not preclude the structure’s continued designation as a
historic structure and the variance is the minimum necessary to preserve the
historic character and design of the structure.
      (3)   Variances shall only be issued upon a determination that the
variance is the minimum necessary, considering the flood hazard, to afford
relief.
      (4)   Variances shall only be issued upon:
         (a)   A showing of good and sufficient cause;
         (b)   A determination that failure to grant the variance would result
in exceptional hardship to the applicant; and
         (c)   A determination that the granting of a variance will not result
in increased flood heights, additional threats to public safety, extraordinary
public expense, create nuisances, cause fraud on or victimization of the
public, or conflict with existing local laws or ordinances.
      (5)   (a)   The applicant shall be given a written notice over the
signature of a community official that:
            1.   The issuance of a variance to construct a structure below base
flood level will result in increased premium rates for flood insurance up to
amounts as high as $25 for $100 of insurance coverage; and
            2.   Such construction below the base flood level increases risks
to life and property.
          (b)   Such notification shall be maintained with the record of all
variance actions as required by this article.
(Ord. 502, passed 6-8-1987; Ord. 795, passed 9-12-2005)
§ 11-613 FLOOD PLAIN MANAGEMENT; NON-CONFORMING USE.
   (A)   A structure or the use of a structure or premises which was lawful
before the passage or amendment of this article, but which is not in conformity
with the provisions of this article may be continued subject to the following
conditions.
      (1)   If such use is discontinued for 12 consecutive months, any future
use of the building premises shall conform to this article. The Utility
Department shall notify the City Clerk in writing of instances of nonconforming
uses where utility services have been discontinued for a period of 12 months.
      (2)   Uses or adjuncts thereof which are or become nuisances shall not be
entitled to continue as nonconforming uses.
   (B)   If any nonconforming use or structure is destroyed by any means,
including flood, it shall not be reconstructed if the cost is more than 50% of
the market value of the structure before the damage occurred except that if it
is reconstructed in conformity with the provisions of this article. This
limitation does not include the cost of any alteration to comply with existing
state or local health, sanitary, building or safety codes or regulations or the
cost of any alteration of a structure listed on the National Register of
Historic Places or a State Inventory of Historic Places.
(Ord. 502, passed 6-8-1987; Ord. 795, passed 9-12-2005)
§ 11-614 FLOOD PLAIN MANAGEMENT; PENALTIES FOR VIOLATION.
   (A)   Violation of the provisions of this article or failure to comply with
any of its requirements (including violations of conditions and safeguards
established in connection with grants of variances or special exceptions) shall
constitute a misdemeanor. Any person who violates this article or fails to
comply with any of its requirements shall upon conviction thereof be fined not
more than $100, and in addition, shall pay all costs and expenses involved in
the case. Each day such violation continues shall be considered a separate
offense.
   (B)   Nothing herein contained shall prevent the Mayor and Council or other
appropriate authority from taking such other lawful action as is necessary to
prevent or remedy any violation.
(Ord. 502, passed 6-8-1987; Ord. 795, passed 9-12-2005)
§ 11-615 FLOOD PLAIN MANAGEMENT; ABROGATION AND RESTRICTIONS.
   It is not intended by this article to repeal, abrogate or impair any
existent easements, covenants or deed restrictions. However, where this article
imposes greater restrictions, the provisions of this article shall prevail. All
other ordinances inconsistent with this article are hereby repealed to the
extent of the inconsistency only.
(Ord. 502, passed 6-8-1987; Ord. 795, passed 9-12-2005)
§ 11-616 FLOOD PLAIN MANAGEMENT; INTERPRETATION.
   In their interpretation and application, the provisions of this article
shall be held to be minimum requirements and shall be liberally construed in
favor of the Mayor and Council and shall not be deemed a limitation or repeal,
of any other powers granted by state statutes.
(Ord. 502, passed 6-8-1987; Ord. 795, passed 9-12-2005)
§ 11-617 FLOOD PLAIN MANAGEMENT; WARNING AND DISCLAIMER OF LIABILITY.
   The degree of flood protection required by this article is considered
reasonable for regulatory purposes and is based on engineering and scientific
methods of study. Larger floods may occur on rare occasions or the flood height
may be increased by human-made or natural causes, such as ice jams and bridge
openings restricted by debris. This article does not imply that areas outside
flood plain district boundaries or land uses permitted within such districts
will be free from flooding or flood damage. This article shall not create
liability on the part of the Mayor and Council or any officer or employee
thereof for any flood damages that may result from reliance on this article or
any administrative decision lawfully made thereunder.
(Ord. 502, passed 6-8-1987; Ord. 795, passed 9-12-2005)
§ 11-618 FLOOD PLAIN MANAGEMENT; SEVERABILITY.
   If any section, clause, provision or portion of this article is adjudged
unconstitutional or invalid by a court of competent jurisdiction, the remainder
of this article shall not be affected thereby.
(Ord. 502, passed 6-8-1987; Ord. 795, passed 9-12-2005)
§ 11-619 FLOOD PLAIN MANAGEMENT; APPEAL.
   Where a request for a permit to develop or a variance is denied by the
Utility Superintendent, the applicant may apply for such permit or variance
directly to the Mayor and Council.
(Ord. 502, passed 6-8-1987; Ord. 795, passed 9-12-2005)
§ 11-620 FLOOD PLAIN MANAGEMENT; CONFLICTING ORDINANCES.
   This article shall take precedence over conflicting ordinances or parts of
ordinances. The Mayor and Council of the City of Franklin, Nebraska may, from
time to time, amend this article to reflect any and all changes in the National
Flood Disaster Protection Act of 1973. The regulations of this article are in
compliance with the National Flood Insurance Program Regulations as published
in Title 44 of the C.F.R. and the 1983 Nebraska Flood Plain Management Act.
(Ord. 502, passed 6-8-1987; Ord. 795, passed 9-12-2005)
§ 11-621 FLOOD PLAIN MANAGEMENT; DEFINITIONS.
   Unless specifically defined below, words or phrases used in this article
shall be interpreted so as to give them the same meaning as they have in common
usage and so as to give this article its most reasonable application.
   BASE FLOOD. The flood having 1% chance of being equaled or exceeded in any
given year.
   BASEMENT. Any area of the building having its floor subgrade (below ground
level) on all sides.
   DEVELOPMENT. Any human-made change to improved or unimproved real estate,
including, but not limited to, buildings or other structures, mining, dredging,
filling, grading, paving, excavation or drilling operations or storage of
equipment or materials.
   EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A manufactured home park or
subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including, at a minimum, the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is complete before the effective date
of the flood plain management regulations adopted by a community.
    EXPANSION OF EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. The
preparation of additional sites by the construction of facilities for servicing
the lots on which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads).
   FLOOD. A general and temporary condition of partial or complete inundation
of normally dry land areas from:
      (1)   The overflow of inland or tidal waters; or
      (2)   The unusual and rapid accumulation of runoff of surface waters from
any source.
   FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAP (FIRM). An official map of a community, on which
the Administrator has delineated both the special flood hazard areas and the
risk premium applicable to the community.
   FLOOD PLAIN. Any land area susceptible to being inundated by water from any
source (see definition of “flood”).
   FLOODPROOFING. Any combination of structural and nonstructural additions,
changes or adjustments to structures which reduce or eliminate flood damage to
real estate or improved real property, water and sanitary facilities,
structures and their contents.
   FLOODWAY. The channel of the river or other watercourse and the adjacent
land areas that must be reserved in order to discharge the base flood without
cumulatively increasing the water surface elevation more than a designated
height.
   HISTORIC STRUCTURE. Any structure that is:
      (1)   Listed individually in the National Register of Historic Places (a
listing maintained by the Department of Interior) or preliminarily determined
by the Secretary of the Interior as meeting the requirements for individual
listing on the National Register;
      (2)   Certified or preliminarily determined by the Secretary of the
Interior as contributing to the historical significance of a registered
historic district or a district preliminarily determined by the Secretary to
qualify as a registered historic district;
      (3)   Individually listed on a state inventory of historic places in
states with historic preservation programs which have been approved by the
Secretary of the Interior; or
      (4)   Individually listed on a local inventory of historic places in
communities with historic preservation programs that have been certified
either:
         (a)   By an approved state program as determined by the Secretary of
the Interior; or
         (b)   Directly by the Secretary of the Interior in states without
approved programs.
   LOWEST FLOOR. The lowest floor of the lowest enclosed area (including
basement). An unfinished or flood-resistant enclosure, usable solely for
parking of vehicles, building access or storage, in an area other than a
basement area, is not considered a building’s LOWEST FLOOR, provided that such
enclosure is not built so as to render the structure in violation of the
applicable non-elevation design requirements of this article.
   MANUFACTURED HOME. A structure, transportable in one or more sections, which
is built on a permanent chassis and is designed for use with or without a
permanent foundation when attached to the required utilities. The term
MANUFACTURED HOME does not include a “recreational vehicle.”
   MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A parcel (or contiguous parcels) of
land divided into two or more manufactured home lots for rent or sale.
   NEW CONSTRUCTION. For flood plain management purposes, NEW CONSTRUCTION
means structures for which the “start of construction” commenced on or after
the effective date of the flood plain management regulation adopted by a
community and includes any subsequent improvements to such structures.
   NEW MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A manufactured home park or
subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including at a minimum the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is completed on or after the effective
date of flood plain management regulations adopted by a community.
   ONE-HUNDRED YEAR FLOOD (100-YEAR FLOOD). The condition of flooding having a
1% chance of annual occurrence.
   PRINCIPALLY ABOVE GROUND. That at least 51% of the actual cash value of the
structure is above ground.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE. A vehicle which is:
      (1)   Built on a single chassis;
      (2)   Four hundred square feet or less when measured at the largest
horizontal projection;
      (3)   Designed to be self-propelled or permanently towable by a light
duty truck; and
      (4)   Designed primarily not for use as a permanent dwelling but as
temporary living quarters for recreational, camping, travel or seasonal use.
   REGULATORY FLOOD ELEVATION. The water surface elevation of the 100-year
flood.
   SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREA. The land in the flood plain within a community
subject to 1% or greater chance of flooding in any given year.
   START OF CONSTRUCTION. For other than new construction or substantial
improvements under the Coastal Barrier Resources Act (16 USC 3501), includes
substantial improvement, and means the date the building permit was issued,
provided the actual start of construction, repair, reconstruction,
rehabilitation, addition, placement or other improvements was within 180 days
of the permit date. The ACTUAL START means the first placement of permanent
construction of a structure on a site, such as the pouring of slab or footings,
the installation of piles, the construction of columns or any work beyond the
stage of excavation; or the placement of a manufactured home on a foundation.
Permanent construction does not include land preparation, such as clearing,
grading and filling; nor does it include the installation of streets and/or
walkways; nor does it include excavation for a basement, footings, piers or
foundations or the erection of temporary forms; nor does it include the
installation on the property of accessory buildings, such as garages or sheds
not occupied as dwelling units or not part of the main structure. For a
substantial improvement, the ACTUAL START OF CONSTRUCTION means the first
alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor or other structural part of a building,
whether or not the alteration affects the external dimensions of the building.
   STRUCTURE. A walled and roofed building that is principally above ground, as
well as a manufactured home, and a gas or liquid storage tank that is
principally above ground.
   SUBSTANTIAL DAMAGE. Damage of any origin sustained by a structure whereby
the cost of restoring the structure to its before-damaged condition would equal
or exceed 50% of the market value of the structure before the damage occurred.
   SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT.
      (1)   Any reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition or other improvement
of a structure, the cost of which equals or exceeds 50% of the market value of
the structure before “start of construction” of the improvement. This includes
structures which have incurred “substantial damage,” regardless of the actual
repair work performed.
      (2)   The term does not, however, include either:
         (a)   Any project for improvement of a structure to correct existing
violations of state or local health, sanitary or safety code specifications
which have been identified by the local code enforcement official and which are
the minimum necessary to assure safe living conditions; or
         (b)   Any alteration of a “historic structure,” provided that the
alteration will not preclude the structure’s continued designation as a
“historic structure.”
   VARIANCE. A grant of relief to a person from the terms of a flood plain
management ordinance.
   VIOLATION. The failure of a structure or other development to be fully
compliant with the community’s flood plain management regulations.
(Ord. 502, passed 6-8-1987; Ord. 795, passed 9-12-2005)
§ 11-622 FLOOD PLAIN MANAGEMENT; EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This article shall be in full force and effect from and after its passage,
approval and publication as provided by law.
(Ord. 502, passed 6-8-1987; Ord. 795, passed 9-12-2005)
ARTICLE 7: PENAL PROVISION
Section
   
11-701   Violation; penalty
§ 11-701 VIOLATION; PENALTY.
   Any person, whether as owner, proprietor or as the agent, attorney or
representative of any owner or proprietor of land who shall plat, or subdivide
any tract of land within the corporate limits of the municipality, or
adjoining, and contiguous to the same, except as herein authorized, or who
shall sell, transfer, deed or convey, contract or agree to sell, transfer or
offer for sale any lot, or piece of ground in any addition, or subdivision of
three or more parts within said corporate limits, or adjoining, and contiguous
thereto, without having first obtained the acceptance, and approval of the
plat, or map thereof by the governing body, and any person who shall violate,
or who shall fail, neglect or refuse to comply with any of the provisions
hereinbefore, as now existing, or as hereafter amended, shall, upon conviction,
be fined in any sum not exceeding $500.
(Ord. 710, passed 10-9-2000)
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to Nebraska Revised Statutes
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO NEBRASKA REVISED STATUTES
Neb. RS Code Section
Neb. RS                     Code Section
8-412.02                    1-1015
9-166                       10-306
9-201 through 9-265         10-309
9-601 through 9-653         10-801,
                            10-803
9-642.01                    10-805
9-646                       10-806
9-701                       6-334
10-101 through 10-143       1-812
10-606 through 10-612       1-812
Chapter 11, Article 1       3-302
11-101                      1-302
11-104                      1-301
11-105                      1-301
11-109                      1-301
11-110                      1-301
11-111                      1-301
11-112                      1-301
11-113                      1-301
11-114                      1-301
11-115                      1-301
11-116                      1-301
11-117                      1-301
11-118                      1-301
12-301 through 12-403       3-601
12-401 through 12-403       2-205
13-310                      8-206
13-312                      8-206
13-314                      8-206
13-403                      8-112
13-503                      1-801
13-504                      1-818
13-505                      1-818
13-506                      1-819
13-507                      1-819
13-508                      1-820
13-509                      1-820
13-509.01                   1-817
13-509.02                   1-817
13-510                      1-823
13-511                      1-824
13-606                      1-802
13-609                      1-814
13-903                      1-805
13-1802                     3-303
13-2013.02                  4-511
13-2016.01                  4-511
13-2020                     4-515
13-2039                     4-511
                            1-819,
13-518 through 13-522       1-820,
                            1-824
16-318(3)                   1-205
16-691.01                   1-811
16-714 through 16-716       1-810
17-5                        7-210
17-102                      1-104
17-103                      1-104
17-104                      1-104
17-106                      1-504
                            1-101,
17-107                      1-103,
                            1-108,
                            1-208
17-108                      1-901
                            1-102,
17-108.02                   1-104,
                            1-203
17-110                      1-102;
                            1-504
17-111                      1-102
17-112                      1-102
17-113                      1-102
17-114                      1-102
17-117                      1-102
17-118                      3-303
17-119                      1-211
                            2-104,
17-121                      3-205,
                            4-101
17-129                      6-306
17-134                      10-201
17-135                      10-102
17-138                      6-206
                            6-307,
17-142                      6-308,
                            10-421,
                            10-422
17-145                      3-215
17-148                      1-105
17-149                      3-202,
                            3-204
17-149.01                   3-204
17-150                      1-212
17-401 through 17-426       1-209
17-405                      1-212
17-501 through 17-560       1-209
17-502                      1-401
17-503                      8-107
17-503.01                   8-107
17-503.02                   8-107.01
                            1-601,
                            2-201,
                            1-1201,
                            3-1001,
                            4-601 
                            6-401,
17-505                      7-401,
                            8-501,
                            9-501,
                            10-403,
                            10-407,
                            10-413,
                            10-414,
                            10-1101
17-506                      1-826
17-507                      1-827
17-509                      8-310, 8-301.1
17-510 through 17-512       8-310.1
17-510                      8-311
17-511                      8-309,
                            8-312
17-522                      8-206,
                            8-207
17-523                      8-207
17-524                      8-206,
                            8-309
                            10-201,
17-525                      10-501 -
                            10-505
17-526                      6-202,
                            6-208
17-531                      3-101
17-534                      3-101
17-536                      3-113
                            3-103,
                            3-105,
                            3-107,
17-537                      3-109,
                            3-111,
                            3-115,
                            3-116
17-538                      3-109
17-539                      3-114
17-540                      1-811,
                            3-119
17-541                      1-209
17-542                      3-106
17-543                      1-209
17-547                      6-202,
                            6-208
17-548                      6-210
17-548                      6-208
17-549                      7-213
17-550                      7-206
17-550                      7-207
                            4-301,
17-555                      6-307,
                            6-308,
                            6-309
                            6-306,
17-556                      6-328,
                            7-212,
                            7-213
                            6-307,
17-557                      6-308,
                            8-203
                            8-102,
17-557.01                   8-202,
                            8-204
17-558                      8-306,
                            8-315
17-559                      8-306,
                            8-315
17-563                      4-309
17-567                      8-101
17-568                      1-212
17-568.01                   1-212,
                            1-803
17-568.02                   1-803
17-602                      1-703
                            1-108,
17-604                      1-301,
                            1-901
17-605                      1-204
17-606                      1-205
17-606(2)                   1-205
17-607                      1-809
17-608                      1-811
17-609                      1-811
17-610                      1-206
17-611                      1-901
17-612                      1-901
                            1-604,
17-613                      1-607,
                            1-608,
                            1-803
                            1-604,
17-614                      1-605,
                            1-609
17-615                      1-607
17-616                      1-605
17-701                      1-815
17-702                      1-808,
                            1-830
17-703                      1-806
17-706                      1-821
17-708                      1-804
17-709                      1-804
17-710                      1-807
17-711                      1-804
17-714                      1-805
17-715                      1-805
17-720                      1-810
17-803                      1-811
17-804                      1-209
17-901                      3-203
17-902 through 17-904       3-701
                            3-203,
                            3-703 -
17-902                      3-706,
                            3-708,
                            3-710,
                            3-715
17-906                      3-701
17-909                      3-701
17-919                      1-212
17-920                      6-309  
17-925.01                   3-201,
                            3-220
17-925.02                   3-211
17-941                      3-602
17-948 through 17-952       3-501
17-948                      3-501
17-949                      3-501
17-951                      3-501
17-952                      3-501
17-953                      8-108
17-953.01                   8-108
17-954                      8-108
17-1001                     9-301,
                            9-401
18-131                      1-106
                            1-601,
                            7-201,
18-132                      7-202,
                            9-301,
                            9-401
18-305 through 18-312       1-902
18-412                      1-1015
18-412.01                   1-803
18-503                      3-206 -
                            3-208
18-730.01                   7-104
18-1001 through 18-1006     8-107
18-1208                     10-502
18-1214                     1-832
18-1216                     1-806
18-1701                     1-204
                            1-1201,
                            2-201,
                            3-1001,
                            4-301,
                            4-601,
18-1720                     6-303,
                            6-319,
                            6-401,
                            7-401,
                            8-501,
                            9-501,
                            10-1101
                            1-1201,
                            2-201,
                            3-1001,
                            4-601,
18-1722                     7-401,
                            6-401,
                            8-501,
                            9-501,
                            10-1101
18-1743                     9-102
18-1744                     11-501
18-1745                     11-502
18-1746                     11-503
18-1747                     11-503
18-1748                     3-210,
                            8-314
18-1751                     8-109
18-1755                     8-111
18-1756                     1-803
18-1801 through 18-1805     1-812
18-1907                     10-402,
                            10-404
18-1908                     10-405
18-1909                     10-406
18-1910                     10-402,
                            10-409
18-1911                     10-401,
                            10-408
18-2101 et seq.             2-113
18-2102.01                  2-102,
                            2-113
18-2501 through 18-2511     1-1001
18-2501 through 18-2531     1-1014
18-2512                     1-1002
18-2513                     1-1002
18-2514                     1-1003
18-2515                     1-1003
18-2516                     1-1004
18-2517                     1-1005
18-2518                     1-1006
18-2519                     1-1007
18-2520                     1-1008
18-2521                     1-1009
18-2522                     1-1010
18-2523 through 18-2526     1-1011
18-2527                     1-1012
18-2528(1)                  1-1012
18-2528(2)                  1-1012
18-2528(3)                  1-1012
18-2528(4)                  1-1012
18-2528(5)                  1-1012
18-2529 through 18-2531     1-1013
18-2532 through 18-2535     1-1014
18-2536                     1-1015
18-2537                     1-1015
18-2538                     1-1003.01
18-2803                     1-825
18-2804                     1-802,
                            1-825
18-2805                     1-825
18-2806                     1-825
18-2807                     1-825
18-2808                     1-825
19-613                      1-104
19-710                      4-303
19-901 et seq.              2-202
                            9-301,
19-902                      9-401,
                            11-202
19-903                      2-202
19-905                      1-1012
19-908                      2-103
19-909                      2-103
19-910                      2-103
19-912                      2-103,
                            11-612
19-915                      1-609
19-916                      2-102
                            1-601,
19-922                      9-301,
                            9-401
19-926                      2-102
19-927                      2-102
19-928                      2-102
19-929                      2-102
19-901 through 19-914       2-103
19-901 through 19-915       2-103
19-907 through 19-910       2-103
19-930 to 19-933            2-102
19-1101                     1-205
19-1102                     1-204
19-1103                     1-204,
                            1-205
19-1301                     1-808
19-1302                     1-808
19-1303                     1-808
19-1304                     1-808
19-1305                     3-101
19-1309                     1-828
19-1310                     1-828
19-1311                     1-828
19-1312                     1-828
19-1401 to 19-1404          1-209
19-2106                     4-201
19-2427                     8-110
                            8-109,
19-2428 through 19-2431     8-310.1,
                            8-313
                            3-103,
19-2701                     3-202,
                            3-703
19-2902                     1-802
19-2903                     1-802
19-2904                     1-802
19-2905                     1-802
19-2906 through 19-2909     1-802
19-3101                     1-108
19-3701                     1-608
23-122                      1-204
25-505.01                   1-710
25-1801                     3-902
25-2703                     1-601
25-21,149 through 25-21,164 1-1003.01
25-21,275                   3-902
25-21,276                   3-902
25-21,277                   3-902
25-21,278                   3-902
28-318                      6-333
28-431                      6-326
28-515.02                   3-903
28-519                      6-213
28-520                      6-302
28-521                      6-302
28-523                      3-502,
                            6-322
28-609                      6-311
28-610                      6-312
28-730.01                   7-102,
                            7-106
28-801                      6-332
28-806                      6-333
28-830                      6-332
28-831                      6-332
28-903                      6-313
28-904                      6-313
28-906                      6-315
28-907                      6-317
28-908                      6-316
28-1004                     6-208
28-1005                     6-208
28-1005.04                  6-208
28-1008                     6-206
28-1009                     6-206
28-1012                     6-206
28-1013                     6-206
28-1101                     6-334
28-1102                     6-334
28-1103                     6-334
28-1104                     6-334
28-1107                     6-334
28-1108                     6-334
28-1109                     6-334
28-1110                     6-334
28-1111                     6-334
28-1112                     6-334
28-1113                     6-334
28-1117                     6-334
28-1246                     10-423
28-1247                     10-423
28-1249                     10-423
28-1303                     6-323
28-1304                     6-320
28-1321                     6-303,
                            6-318
28-1322                     6-310  
28-1418                     10-706
28-1419                     10-707
28-1421                     10-701
28-1422                     10-702
28-1423                     10-703
28-1424                     10-704
28-1425                     10-704,
                            10-705
28-1426                     10-703
28-1427                     10-708
28-1428                     10-705
28-1429                     10-705
28-1465                     3-303
28-1466                     3-303
28-1472                     3-303
28-1420 to 28-1429          10-702
Chapter 28, Article 3       10-108
Chapter 28, Article 4       10-108
Chapter 28, Article 7       10-108
Chapter 28, Article 10      10-108
Chapter 28, Article 11      10-108
Chapter 28, Article 12      10-108
29-215                      3-303
29-422 to 29-429            6-206,
                            6-331
Chapter 29, Article 8       6-114,
                            10-108
29-830 et seq.              1-214
29-4003                     6-330
29-4013                     6-330
31-1001 through 31-1022     11-601
32-101                      1-104,
                            1-609
32-109                      1-102,
                            1-104
32-110                      1-703
32-115                      1-703
32-404                      1-701,
                            1-705
32-405                      1-704
32-533                      1-101,
                            1-104
32-552                      1-104
32-553                      1-104
32-554                      1-104
32-556                      1-701
32-557                      1-104,
                            1-706
32-559                      1-704
32-560 through 32-572       1-107,
                            1-103
                            1-103,
32-560                      1-107,
                            1-108
32-561                      1-103,
                            1-107
32-562                      1-710
32-567 through 32-570       1-710
32-568                      1-103,
                            1-107
32-569                      1-107
32-603                      1-102,
                            1-104
32-604                      1-104
32-606                      1-707
32-607                      1-707
32-608                      1-708,
                            1-709
32-615                      1-709
32-616                      1-709
32-617                      1-709
32-618                      1-709
32-621                      1-709
32-622                      1-707
32-625                      1-707
32-625(2)                   1-709
32-627                      1-707,
                            1-709
32-628 through 32-631       1-829
32-628                      1-709
32-629                      1-709,
                            1-710
32-630                      1-709,
                            1-710
32-710                      1-709
32-802                      1-702,
                            1-829
32-952 through 32-959       1-704
32-1301                     1-710
32-1302                     1-710
32-1303                     1-710
32-1304                     1-710
32-1305                     1-710
32-1306                     1-710
32-1307                     1-710
                            1-103,
32-1308                     1-107,
                            1-710
32-1309                     1-710
32-1525                     1-711
33-141                      1-205
35-106                      10-502
37-1254.01                  3-303
37-1254.02                  3-303
39-301                      6-308
39-302                      6-308
39-307                      6-321
39-697                      5-124
39-753                      7-108
39-758                      7-105
39-771                      8-305
39-2512                     1-211
39-6,189                    5-124
43-248                      6-332
44-4301 through 44-4339     1-1101
44-4303                     1-1101
45-601 through 45-622       1-813
45-623                      1-813
46-1212                     8-113
48-1503                     1-803
49-1408                     1-902
49-1425                     1-902
49-1499.03                  1-902
49-1499.04                  1-902
49-14,102                   1-902
49-14,103.01                1-902
49-14,103.02                1-902
49-14,103.03                1-902
49-14,103.04                1-902
49-14,103.05                1-902
49-14,103.06                1-902
51-201 through 51-219       2-101,
                            3-502
51-201                      1-829,
                            3-501
51-201.01                   3-506
51-202                      2-101
51-204                      2-101
51-205                      3-502
51-206                      3-505
51-207                      3-502
51-209                      3-501
51-210                      3-503
                            3-502,
51-211                      3-506,
                            3-507
51-212                      3-506
51-213                      3-508
51-214                      3-509
51-215                      1-808,
                            3-510
51-216                      1-808,
                            3-504
51-501                      1-829
Chapter 53, Article 1       10-805
53-103.01 through 53-103.42 10-101
53-103.01 through 53-103.42 6-325
53-103.23                   6-324
53-116.01                   10-110 
53-118                      10-119
53-123.04(3)                10-104
53-123.11(1)(c)             10-104
53-124                      10-109,
                            10-112
53-124.01                   10-109
53-124.12                   10-112  
53-124.15                   10-117
53-125                      10-108
53-131                      10-109
53-132                      10-109,
                            10-502
53-133                      10-109,
                            10-117
53-134                      10-109
                            10-109,
53-134.03                   10-119,
                            10-122
53-134.04                   10-109,
                            10-116
53-135                      10-111  
53-135.01                   10-109,
                            10-111
53-148                      10-113
53-160                      10-502
53-167.02                   10-124  
53-167.03                   10-124  
53-168.06                   10-106
53-175                      10-107  
53-177                      10-117
53-177.01                   10-117
53-178                      10-118
53-179                      10-120  
53-180                      10-102
53-180.01                   6-324
53-180.02                   6-325
53-180.05                   6-324
53-183                      10-121  
53-184                      10-122 
53-186                      10-103
53-186(2)                   10-103
53-186.01                   10-103
53-194.03                   10-107  
53-1,101                    10-114 
53-1,102                    10-115
53-1,115                    10-116  
53-1,121                    10-105
53-401 through 53-409       6-325
54-607                      6-202
54-907 through 54-912       6-207
54-911                      6-207
54-912                      6-207
55-133                      5-101
56-602                      6-104
60-136                      4-301
60-169                      6-326
Chapter 60, Article 3       5-201,
                            5-201
                            1-832,
60-301                      5-309,
                            6-326
60-302                      5-201,
                            5-202
60-311                      5-202
60-320                      5-201,
                            5-202
60-320.01                   5-201
60-321                      5-201,
                            5-202
60-323                      5-201
60-376                      6-326,
                            6-327
Chapter 60, Article 4       5-201
60-462                      5-107
60-606                      5-101
60-607                      5-101
60-610                      5-101
60-613                      5-101
60-624                      5-101
60-631                      5-101
60-638                      5-101
60-646                      5-101
60-654                      5-101
60-656                      5-101
60-658.01                   5-101,
                            5-125
60-661                      5-101
60-669                      5-101
60-670                      5-101
60-671                      5-101
60-672                      5-101
60-676                      5-101
60-678                      5-102
60-680                      5-103,
                            5-301
60-681                      5-104
60-682                      5-112
60-682.01                   5-123,
                            5-125
60-683                      5-107
60-684 through 60-694.01    5-112
60-689                      5-112
60-1901                     6-326
60-1902                     6-326
60-1903                     6-326
60-1903.01                  6-326
60-1904                     6-326
60-1905                     6-326
60-1906                     6-326
60-1907                     6-326
60-1908                     6-326
60-1909                     6-326
60-1911                     6-326
60-4,163                    3-303
60-4,164                    3-303
60-4,186                    5-201
60-6,108                    5-105
60-6,110                    5-108
60-6,114                    5-110
60-6,118                    5-101
60-6,119                    5-109
60-6,121                    5-106
60-6,129                    5-115
60-6,130                    5-116
60-6,134.01                 5-125,
                            5-126
60-6,134.01                 5-126
60-6,138                    5-113
60-6,148                    5-114
60-6,164                    5-302
60-6,165                    5-317
60-6,166                    5-303
60-6,167                    5-312
60-6,168                    5-314 
60-6,185                    5-117
60-6,186                    5-119
60-6,187                    5-121
60-6,187                    5-119,
                            5-121
                            5-119,
60-6,188                    5-121,
                            5-123
60-6,189                    5-120
60-6,190                    5-121
60-6,196                    3-303
60-6,197                    3-303
60-6,211.01                 3-303
60-6,211.02                 3-303
60-6,211.08                 10-103,
                            10-104
60-6,219                    5-203
60-6,220                    5-203
60-6,224                    5-203
60-6,235                    5-203
60-6,243                    5-206
60-6,244                    5-203
60-6,250                    5-117
60-6,254                    5-204
60-6,255                    5-204
60-6,256                    5-204
60-6,285                    5-203
60-6,286                    5-205
60-6,288 through 60-6,290   5-110
60-6,288                    5-117
60-6,294                    5-110
60-6,304                    5-207
60-6,305                    5-119,
                            5-121
60-6,313                    5-119,
                            5-121
66-489                      10-502
66-489.02                   10-502
66-4,140                    10-502
66-4,145                    10-502
66-4,146                    10-502
70-504                      1-1015
70-624.04                   1-902
70-650.01                   1-1015
70-650.02                   1-1015
70-1601 through 70-1615     3-903
70-1601                     3-904
70-1602                     3-901
70-1605                     3-901
70-1606                     3-901
70-1607                     3-901
70-1608 through 70-1614     3-901
70-1615                     3-901
70-2103                     6-302
71-605                      3-603
71-1520                     2-109
71-1522 through 71-1524     2-109
71-1523                     2-109
71-1524 through 71-1526     2-106
71-1536                     2-107
71-1552                     2-106,
                            2-108
71-1557                     11-202
71-1637                     1-829
71-4408                     6-208
71-4603                     6-326
71-5301                     9-302
Chapter 72, Article 14      8-108
73-101 et seq.              1-803
76-704 through 76-724       3-503
77-1343                     8-313
77-1601                     1-831
77-1601.02                  1-831
77-1606                     1-829,
                            1-831
77-1702                     1-814
77-2201 through 77-2215     1-205
77-2201                     1-205
77-2202                     1-205
77-2209                     1-205
77-2210                     1-205
77-2212                     1-205
77-2337                     1-808
77-2341                     1-811
77-2362                     1-809
77-2363                     1-809
77-2364                     1-809
77-2365.01                  1-810
77-2366                     1-809,
                            1-810
77-2386                     1-809
77-2602                     10-502
77-2704.24                  10-502
77-3442                     1-829,
                            3-501
77-3443                     1-829,
                            3-501
77-3444                     1-704,
                            1-829
77-4008                     10-502
77-27,142 through 77-27,148 10-1001
77-27,143                   10-1002
80-20 through to 80-205     1-1015
81-145 through 81-162       1-803
81-502                      7-201
81-520.01                   7-213,
                            7-214
81-566                      10-411
81-579                      10-411
81-586                      10-415
81-592                      10-412,
                            10-419
81-829.65                   3-303
81-1438                     1-208
81-1439 through 81-1446     1-208
81-1444                     3-302
81-3423                     8-113
81-3445                     8-113
81-3447                     9-103
81-3449                     8-113
81-3453                     8-113
81-5,100                    10-412
84-712 through 84-712.09    1-204,
                            1-205
84-712(2)                   1-204
84-1201 through 84-1220     1-204
84-1408                     1-502
84-1409                     1-501
84-1410                     1-506,
                            1-508
                            1-502,
84-1411                     1-503,
                            1-505,
                            1-506
84-1412                     1-509
84-1413                     1-511,
                            1-513
86-704                      10-502
                            
 
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
291      7-9-1973    3-222
293      10-8-1973   10-120
298      6-10-1974   3-120
299      7-8-1974    3-716
301      9-9-1974    4-401,
                     4-402
302      10-14-1974  11-202
306      8-11-1975   8-106
312      6-14-1976   1-101,
                     1-102
313      6-14-1976   1-103,
                     1-107
314      6-14-1976   1-204
                     1-501 -
                     1-503,
315      6-14-1976   1-505,
                     1-509,
                     1-511,
                     1-513
316      6-14-1976   1-803
317      6-14-1976   2-101
318      6-14-1976   2-103
322      6-14-1976   10-503
325      6-14-1976   1-514
326      6-14-1976   1-701
331      3-14-1977   1-201
334      3-14-1997   6-326
340      10-10-1997  2-106
344      5-8-1978    3-716
346      9-11-1978   10-306
347      9-11-1978   2-103
348      9-11-1978   10-120
349      9-11-1978   10-121
350      9-11-1978   2-102
352      6-21-1979   6-401
355      8-13-1979   3-717
359      9-10-1979   3-901
362      9-10-1979   1-803
363      9-10-1979   3-118,
                     3-221
366      9-10-1979   8-208
367      9-10-1979   8-310
368      9-10-1979   8-311,
                     8-312
369      9-10-1979   9-102
370      9-10-1979   10-105
371      10-8-1979   3-716
372      12-10-1979  10-111
376      10-13-1980  1-101,
                     1-102
377      10-13-1980  7-214
378      10-13-1980  10-108
379      10-13-1980  10-109
380      10-13-1980  10-102
381      10-13-1980  10-107
382      10-13-1980  10-110
383      10-13-1980  10-116
384      9-13-1980   11-501 -
                     11-503
386      3-10-1981   3-801 -
                     3-804
399      9-8-1981    2-101
403      9-8-1981    8-108
404      9-8-1981    10-120
405      9-8-1981    10-105
407      3-9-1982    1-805
411      8-24-1982   2-106
412      8-24-1982   2-107
413      8-24-1982   2-108
414      8-24-1982   2-109
419      8-24-1992   7-214
420      8-24-1982   7-213
421      8-24-1982   8-107
422      8-24-1982   10-412
423      8-24-1982   10-411
424      8-24-1982   10-415
425      8-24-1982   1-1001 -
                     1-1015
426      8-24-1982   1-902
433      6-14-1983   3-121
435      9-13-1983   10-108
                     1-501,
437      10-11-1983  1-502,
                     1-505,
                     1-509
438      10-11-1983  1-803
439      10-11-1983  1-902
440      10-11-1983  3-902
441      10-11-1983  5-124
443      10-11-1983  8-311
444      10-11-1983  8-313
                     10-108,
445      10-11-1983  10-109,
                     10-111
446      10-11-1983  10-120
453      6-10-1984   8-106
455      8-14-1984   1-107
456      8-14-1984   1-203
457      8-14-1984   1-704,
                     1-709
458      8-14-1984   1-818
459      8-14-1984   1-802
460      8-14-1984   1-902
                     1-1001 -
461      8-14-1984   1-1005,
                     1-1008 -
                     1-1014
462      8-14-1984   3-210
463      8-14-1984   3-901
464      8-14-1984   5-101
465      8-14-1984   5-317
466      8-14-1984   8-314
468      8-14-1984   10-306
469      1-8-1985    3-222
476      10-8-1985   10-107
479      10-8-1985   1-711
480      10-8-1995   1-504
481      10-8-1995   1-509
491      11-11-1986  3-302
492      11-11-1986  1-902
493      11-11-1976  1-606
494      11-11-1986  8-315
496      11-11-1986  3-604
498      2-10-1987   1-504
499      5-11-1987   4-202
502      6-8-1987    10-601 - 10-622
507      8-17-1987   3-122,
                     3-123
509      8-17-1987   10-602
512      9-14-1987   1-1101
514      9-14-1987   1-509
515      9-14-1987   8-313
516      9-14-1987   8-110
517      9-14-1987   8-109
518      6-14-1976   1-503
524      5-9-1988    9-302
526      6-13-1988   5-124
530      12-12-1998  5-317
531      12-12-1998  1-832
533      12-12-1998  10-112
535      12-12-1998  6-208
540      11-13-1989  1-811
545      12-11-1989  3-119
550      12-10-1990  1-107
552      12-10-1990  6-206
558      5-13-1991   3-106
559      5-13-1991   10-108
564      9-9-1991    10-120
567      4-13-1991   10-122
569      4-13-1992   10-112
570      4-13-1992   5-201
572      4-13-1992   3-122
573      5-11-1992   1-504
                     4-501 -
                     4-507,
574      10-12-1992  4-509 -
                     4-515,
                     10-426
578      10-12-1992  4-514
580      3-8-1993    3-901
581      3-8-1993    10-108
590      6-13-1994   10-801 -
                     10-808
592      8-8-1994    3-716
593      8-8-1994    3-121
594      8-22-1994   10-803
604      8-14-1995   1-817
605      8-14-1995   2-102
606      8-14-1995   3-303
609      8-14-1995   7-214
610      8-14-1995   8-111
611      8-14-1995   8-112
614      8-14-1995   3-901
616      1-8-1996    5-104
617      1-8-1996    1-815
618      1-8-1996    1-820
619      1-8-1996    1-821
620      1-8-1996    2-102
621      1-8-1996    2-103
622      1-8-1996    3-903
624      1-8-1996    5-201
625      1-8-1996    5-202
626      1-8-1996    5-203
627      1-8-1996    8-107
628      1-8-1996    8-108
629      1-8-1996    8-312
630      1-8-1996    10-107
633      9-9-1996    3-222
636      6-9-1997    1-201
638      6-9-1997    1-601
639      6-9-1997    1-602
641      6-9-1997    1-606
642      6-9-1997    1-608
643      6-9-1997    1-609
644      6-9-1997    1-704
645      6-9-1997    1-818
646      6-9-1997    1-820
647      6-9-1997    1-806
648      6-9-1997    1-831
649      6-9-1997    2-104
651      6-9-1997    10-112
652      6-9-1997    3-901
661      8-10-1998   3-124
664      10-12-1998  1-107
666      12-12-1998  1-709
667      10-12-1998  1-818
668      10-12-1998  1-819
669      10-12-1998  1-820
671      10-12-1998  1-829
672      10-12-1998  1-831
673      10-12-1998  1-809
674      10-12-1998  1-810
675      10-12-1998  1-803
676      10-12-1998  10-702
677      10-12-1998  3-201
678      10-12-1998  3-303
679      10-12-1998  5-125
680      10-12-1998  5-126
684      10-12-1998  8-107
685      10-12-1998  8-113
686      10-12-1998  9-103
687      10-12-1998  1-814
688      2-8-1999    5-211
690      5-10-1999   3-904
691      5-10-1999   4-515
692      5-10-1999   10-307,
                     10-308
693      5-10-1999   11-202
694      8-9-1999    3-717
696      9-1-1999    10-424
700      12-13-1999  10-423
701      2-14-2000   5-211
705      10-9-2000   3-222
706      11-13-2000  3-716
708      10-9-2000   8-113
709      10-9-2000   1-831
                     1-1201,
                     2-201,
                     3-1001,
                     4-601,
                     4-602,
710      10-9-2000   6-401,
                     7-401,
                     8-501,
                     9-501,
                     10-1101,
                     11-701
712      10-9-2000   2-110
713      10-9-2000   1-823,
                     1-824
716      10-9-2000   10-109
717      10-9-2000   10-103
718      10-9-2000   10-112
719      10-9-2000   6-326
723      4-9-2001    3-106
724      4-9-2001    3-208
726      4-9-2001    1-818
727      4-9-2001    1-1012
729      5-14-2001   4-302,
                     4-303
733      10-8-2001   11-203
735      5-13-2002   10-112
736      5-13-2002   8-306
737      5-13-2002   8-316, 8-317
740      5-13-2002   1-902
742      5-13-2002   3-124
743      7-15-2002   9-301
                     3-125,
744      7-15-2002   3-126,
                     3-128
747      1-13-2003   3-716
749      3-10-2003   1-108
750      3-10-2003   1-709
752      3-10-2003   1-818
753      3-10-2003   1-819
754      3-10-2003   1-829
755      3-10-2003   1-824
756      3-10-2003   1-814
757      3-10-2003   3-903
758      3-10-2003   3-902
762      1-12-2004   9-101, 9-202
764      1-12-2004   1-704
766      1-12-2004   1-809
767      1-12-2004   1-1003,
                     1-1003.01
769      1-12-2004   3-303
770      1-12-2004   4-511
772      1-12-2004   8-107,
                     8-107.01
773      1-12-2004   9-102
774      1-12-2004   10-602
775      4-12-2004   3-711
780      11-8-2004   1-507,
                     1-508
783      11-8-2004   1-701,
                     1-705
784      11-8-2004   2-103
789      11-8-2004   8-113
790      11-8-2004   8-206
791      11-8-2004   10-423
795      9-12-2005   11-601 - 10-622
798      5-8-2006    5-124
801      6-12-2006   6-330
802      8-23-2006   3-127
808      4-9-2007    1-214
810      5-14-2007   3-107
811      6-11-2007   6-327
815      10-8-2007   3-716
816      10-8-2007   3-121
817      10-8-2007   3-222
818      10-8-2007   6-327
824      9-14-2009   3-716
825      9-14-2009   4-513
826      11-9-2009   3-121
828      12-14-2009  6-326
829      12-14-2009  3-304
830      12-22-2009  3-716
831      12-22-2009  3-121
832      12-22-2009  3-122
847      1-10-2011   3-716
848      3-4-2011    4-513
849      3-14-2011   7-209
850      5-9-2011    10-501
851      5-9-2011    3-121
853      7-28-2011   5-310
854      7-28-2011   11-204
857      10-10-2011  1-213
859      1-3-2012    1-213
860      1-9-2012    3-716
861      3-12-2012   5-310
863      5-14-2012   1-213
867      10-8-2012   6-331
868      11-12-2012  3-106
869      11-12-2012  10-901
870      11-27-2012  10-1001 -
                     10-1005
871      12-12-2012  3-121
873      1-13-2013   3-716
874      1-14-2013   10-702
875      3-11-2013   2-111,
                     2-112
876      6-10-2013   3-716
877      6-10-2013   4-513
881      9-9-2013    3-222
882      9-9-2013    1-213
886      12-9-2013   3-716
887      12-9-2013   1-803
888      12-9-2013   2-112
889      12-9-2013   2-111
894      7-14-2014   4-301 -
                     4-308
896      9-8-2014    3-121
897      9-8-2014    3-222
899      11-10-2014  1-213
900      6-8-2015    6-212,
                     6-213
901      6-8-2015    9-104,
                     9-105
                     5-101,
904      11-9-2015   5-220,
                     5-221
906      11-9-2015   6-329
908      11-9-2015   Adopting Ordinance
909      2-8-2016    4-301 -
                     4-304
910      2-8-2016    4-513
                     4-513,
                     5-101,
911      5-9-2016    5-220,
                     5-221,
                     6-329
915      6-12-2017   1-504
918      9-12-2017   2-113
919      11-14-2017  1-213
                     5-101,
920      11-14-2017  5-220,
                     5-221,
                     5-222
921      2-13-2018   3-303
922      2-13-2018   1-819
923      2-13-2018   1-803
924      2-13-2018   1-820
925      2-13-2018   1-102
926      2-13-2018   1-606.1
927      2-13-2018   2-102
928      2-13-2018   1-829
929      2-13-2018   1-606
930      2-13-2018   8-107
931      2-13-2018   8-310.1
932      2-13-2018   5-101
933      2-13-2018   5-314
934      2-13-2018   4-309
940      6-11-2019   7-215
901      11-12-2019  9-104,
                     9-105
872      12-8-2020   6-101 -
                     6-125
942      4-13-2021   1-213
896      9-14-2021   3-121
897      9-14-2021   3-222
943      4-12-2022   5-318
944      11-8-2022   1-213
945      11-8-2022   1-504
                    
 
 
