HARVARD, NEBRASKA
CODE OF ORDINANCES
2025 S-1 Supplement Contains:
Local legislation current through Ordinance 917, passed 2-11-2025
 
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street, Suite 310
Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
Tel: (800) 445-5588
Internet: http://www.amlegal.com
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
   Chapter
      
10.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
11.   CITY POLICIES
CHAPTER 10: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
10.01   Title of code
   
10.02   Interpretation
   
10.03   Application to future ordinances
   
10.04   Captions
   
10.05   Definitions
   
10.06   Rules of interpretation
   
10.07   Severability
   
10.08   Reference to other sections
   
10.09   Reference to offices
   
10.10   Errors and omissions
   
10.11   Official time
   
10.12   Reasonable time
   
10.13   Ordinances repealed
   
10.14   Ordinances unaffected
   
10.15   Repeal or modification of ordinance
   
10.16   Section histories; statutory references
   
10.17   Local changes to this code of ordinances
 
   
10.99   General penalty
§ 10.01 TITLE OF CODE.
   This codification of ordinances shall be designated as the Harvard Code of
Ordinances and may be so cited.
§ 10.02 INTERPRETATION.
   Unless otherwise provided herein, or by law or implication required, the
same rules of construction, definition and application shall govern the
interpretation of this code as those governing the interpretation of state law.
§ 10.03 APPLICATION TO FUTURE ORDINANCES.
   All provisions of Title I compatible with future legislation shall apply to
ordinances hereafter adopted amending or supplementing this code unless
otherwise specifically provided.
§ 10.04 CAPTIONS.
   Headings and captions used in this code other than the title, chapter and
section numbers are employed for reference purposes only and shall not be
deemed a part of the text of any section.
§ 10.05 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   General rule. Words and phrases shall be taken in their plain or
ordinary and usual sense. However, technical words and phrases having a
peculiar and appropriate meaning in law shall be understood according to their
technical import.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this code, the following definitions
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      CITY, MUNICIPAL CORPORATION or MUNICIPALITY. The City of Harvard,
Nebraska.
      CITY COUNCIL or GOVERNING BODY. The legislative body of the city.
      CODE, THIS CODE or THIS CODE OF ORDINANCES. This city code as modified by
amendment, revision and adoption of new titles, chapters or sections.
      COUNTY. Clay County, Nebraska.
      MAY. The act referred to is permissive.
      MONTH. A calendar month.
      OATH. Includes an affirmation in all cases in which, by law, an
affirmation may be substituted for an oath, and in such cases the words SWEAR
and SWORN shall be equivalent to the words AFFIRM and AFFIRMED.
      OFFICER, OFFICE, EMPLOYEE, COMMISSION or DEPARTMENT. An officer, office,
employee, commission or department of this city unless the context clearly
requires otherwise.
      PERSON. Includes bodies politic and corporate, societies, communities,
the public generally, individuals, partnerships, limited liability companies,
joint-stock companies and associations.
(Neb. RS 49-801(16))
      PRECEDING or FOLLOWING. Next before or next after, respectively.
      SHALL. The act referred to is mandatory.
      SIGNATURE or SUBSCRIPTION. Includes a mark when the person cannot write.
      STATE. The State of Nebraska.
      SUBCHAPTER. A division of a chapter, designated in this code by a heading
in the chapter analysis and a capitalized heading in the body of the chapter,
setting apart a group of sections related by the subject matter of the heading.
Not all chapters have SUBCHAPTERS.
      WRITTEN. Any representation of words, letters or figures, whether by
printing or otherwise.
      YEAR. A calendar year, unless otherwise expressed.
§ 10.06 RULES OF INTERPRETATION.
   The construction of all ordinances of this city shall be by the following
rules, unless that construction is plainly repugnant to the intent of the Mayor
and City Council or of the context of the same ordinance.
   (A)   AND or OR. Either conjunction shall include the other as if written
“and/or,” if the sense requires it.
   (B)   Acts by assistants. When a statute or ordinance requires an act to be
done which, by law, an agent or deputy as well may do as the principal, the
requisition shall be satisfied by the performance of the act by an authorized
agent or deputy.
   (C)   Gender; singular and plural; tenses. Words denoting the masculine
gender shall be deemed to include the feminine and neuter genders; words in the
singular shall include the plural, and words in the plural shall include the
singular; the use of a verb in the present tense shall include the future, if
applicable.
   (D)   General term. A general term following specific enumeration of terms
is not to be limited to the class enumerated unless expressly so limited.
§ 10.07 SEVERABILITY.
   If any provision of this code as now or later amended or its application to
any person or circumstance is held invalid, the invalidity does not affect
other provisions that can be given effect without the invalid provision or
application.
§ 10.08 REFERENCE TO OTHER SECTIONS.
   Whenever a section refers to another section hereof, that reference shall
extend and apply to the section referred to as subsequently amended, revised,
recodified or renumbered unless the subject matter is materially altered by the
amendment or revision.
§ 10.09 REFERENCE TO OFFICES.
   Reference to a public office or officer shall be deemed to apply to any
office, officer or employee of this city exercising the powers, duties or
functions contemplated in the provision, irrespective of any transfer of
functions or change in the official title of the functionary.
§ 10.10 ERRORS AND OMISSIONS.
   If a manifest error is discovered, consisting of the misspelling of any
words; the omission of any word or words necessary to express the intention of
the provisions affected; the use of a word or words to which no meaning can be
attached; or the use of a word or words when another word or words was clearly
intended to express the intent, the spelling shall be corrected and the word or
words supplied, omitted or substituted as will conform with the manifest
intention, and the provisions shall have the same effect as though the correct
words were contained in the text as originally published. No alteration shall
be made or permitted if any question exists regarding the nature or extent of
the error.
§ 10.11 OFFICIAL TIME.
   The official time, as established by applicable state/federal laws, shall be
the official time within this city for the transaction of all city business.
§ 10.12 REASONABLE TIME.
   (A)   In all cases where an ordinance requires an act to be done in a
reasonable time or requires reasonable notice to be given, REASONABLE TIME OR
NOTICE shall be deemed to mean the time which is necessary for a prompt
performance of the act or the giving of the notice.
   (B)   The time within which an act is to be done, as herein provided, shall
be computed by excluding the first day and including the last. If the last day
is Sunday, it shall be excluded.
§ 10.13 ORDINANCES REPEALED.
   This code contains all of the provisions of a general nature pertaining to
the subjects enumerated and embraced in this code. All prior ordinances
pertaining to the subjects treated by this code are repealed, except that
nothing shall affect any rights acquired under, actions involving or fines,
penalties, forfeitures or liabilities incurred pursuant to those ordinances
prior to repeal.
§ 10.14 ORDINANCES UNAFFECTED.
   All ordinances of a temporary or special nature and all other ordinances
pertaining to subjects not embraced in this code, including ordinances
specified in this section, shall remain in full force and effect unless
repealed expressly or by necessary implication:
   (A)   Vacating or setting the boundaries of streets, alleys or other public
places;
   (B)   Annexing or detaching territory;
   (C)   Granting or accepting easements, plats or dedication of land to public
use;
   (D)   Providing for the acquisition or conveyance of real or personal
property;
   (E)   Authorizing or directing public improvements to be made;
   (F)   Levying taxes or special assessments;
   (G)   Appropriating money;
   (H)   Granting franchises or special licenses; or
   (I)   Providing for the issuance of bonds or other instruments of
indebtedness.
§ 10.15 REPEAL OR MODIFICATION OF ORDINANCE.
   (A)   Whenever any ordinance or part of an ordinance is repealed or modified
by a subsequent ordinance, the ordinance or part of an ordinance thus repealed
or modified shall continue in force until the publication of the ordinance
repealing or modifying it to give effect thereto.
   (B)   No suit, proceedings, right, liability, fine, forfeiture or penalty
instituted, created, given, secured or accrued under any ordinance previous to
its repeal shall in any way be affected, released or discharged, but may be
prosecuted, enjoyed and recovered as fully as if the ordinance had continued in
force, unless it is otherwise expressly provided.
   (C)   When any ordinance repealing a former ordinance, clause or provision
is itself repealed, the repeal shall not be construed to revive the former
ordinance, clause or provision, unless it is expressly provided.
Statutory reference:
   Requirements for amendments and revisions, see Neb. RS 17-614
§ 10.16 SECTION HISTORIES; STATUTORY REFERENCES.
   (A)   A statutory cite included in the history indicates that the text of
the section reads substantially the same as the statute.
      Example: (Neb. RS 18-132)
   (B)   A statutory cite set forth as a “statutory reference” following the
text of the section indicates that the reader should refer to that statute for
further information.
      Example:
      § 39.01 PUBLIC RECORDS AVAILABLE.
         This municipality shall make available to any person for inspection or
copying all public records, unless otherwise exempted by state law.
      Statutory reference:
         Inspection of public records, see Neb.RS 84-712 et seq.
§ 10.17 LOCAL CHANGES TO THIS CODE OF ORDINANCES.
   Any provision of this code of ordinances may be repealed, modified or
superseded by an ordinance passed by the City Council.
§ 10.99 GENERAL PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who violates any of the provisions of this city code,
unless otherwise specifically provided herein, shall be deemed guilty of an
offense and upon conviction thereof shall be fined in any sum not exceeding
$500. A new violation shall be deemed to have been committed every 24 hours of
failure to comply with the provisions of this code.
   (B)   (1)   Whenever a nuisance exists as defined in Title IX of this code,
the city may proceed by a suit in equity to enjoin and abate the same, in the
manner provided by law.
      (2)   Whenever, in any action, it is established that a nuisance exists,
the court may, together with the fine or penalty imposed, enter an order of
abatement as a part of the judgment in the case.
(Prior Code, § 1-1201) (Ord. 698, passed 10-10-00)
Statutory reference:
   Authority to abate nuisances, see Neb. RS 18-1720 and 18-1722
   Authority to impose fines, see Neb. RS 17-505
CHAPTER 11: CITY POLICIES
Section
   
11.01   Municipal limits defined
   
11.02   Original plats
   
11.03   Official corporate seal
§ 11.01 MUNICIPAL LIMITS DEFINED.
   All additions, lots, lands, subdivisions and parcels of ground included
within the official municipal map and plat on file at the office of the County
Register of Deeds, having been by act or ordinance of the City Council, or by
law, duly annexed to or made a part of this city, or having been by the act,
authority, acquiescence, consent, platting and dedication of their respective
owners, created either as the original town-site or as additions to the city
are hereby declared to be within the corporate limits of the city. Lawfully
constituted additions or changes in said municipal limits shall be indicated
upon said maps and plat by the City Engineer after such addition or change has
been completed in accordance with the ordinances of the city and the laws of
the state.
(Prior Code, § 11-101)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-1002 and 17-1003
§ 11.02 ORIGINAL PLATS.
   Each and all plats, lots, blocks, additions, subdivisions, outlets and
parcels of ground included within the corporate limits of the city, and not
vacated of record prior to the enactment of this Chapter, including the
original plat of the city, are hereby accepted, approved and confirmed as
valid, and each and all of said lots, blocks, additions, subdivisions and
outlets as heretofore platted and recorded in the office of the County Register
of Deeds, and not heretofore vacated, and all other parcels of ground, included
within said corporate limits, are hereby declared to be within said city and an
integral part thereof.
(Prior Code, § 11-102)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-405 through 17-426, 17-1002 and 17-1003
§ 11.03 OFFICIAL CORPORATE SEAL.
   The official corporate seal of the city shall be kept in the office of the
City Clerk and shall bear the following inscription, “City of Harvard, Official
Seal, Clay County, Nebraska.” The City Clerk shall affix an impression of the
said official seal to all warrants, licenses, permits, ordinances and all other
official papers issued by order of the City Council and counter-signed by the
City Clerk.
(Prior Code, § 1-401)
Statutory reference
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-502
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
   Chapter
      
30.   CITY OFFICIALS
      
31.   ORGANIZATIONS
      
32.   ELECTIONS
      
33.   FISCAL MANAGEMENT; TAXES
      
34.   FORMS OF LEGISLATION
CHAPTER 30: CITY OFFICIALS
Section
General Provisions
   
30.001   Bonds and oaths
   
30.002   Municipal officials
   
30.003   Intergovernmental risk management
Elected Officials
   
30.015   City Mayor; selection and duties
   
30.016   City Council; Acting President
   
30.017   City Council; selection and duties
   
30.018   City Council; organization
   
30.019   Vacancy
   
30.020   Qualifications; holding other elective office
   
30.021   Vacancy due to unexcused absences
Appointed Officials
   
30.035   Appointment; removal
   
30.036   Merger of offices
   
30.037   City Clerk
   
30.038   City Treasurer
   
30.039   City Attorney
   
30.040   Police Chief
   
30.041   Police officers
   
30.042   Fire Chief
   
30.043   Special Engineer
   
30.044   Street Commissioner
   
30.045   Utilities Superintendent
   
30.046   Building Inspector
   
30.047   Electrical Inspector
   
30.048   Plumbing Inspector
   
30.049   Zoning Inspector
Meetings
   
30.060   Definitions
   
30.061   Open to public; notice; agenda
   
30.062   Notice to news media
   
30.063   Council meetings; when; quorum; votes
   
30.064   Emergency meetings
   
30.065   Attendance other than in person
   
30.066   Closed sessions
   
30.067   Prohibited acts; exempt events
   
30.068   Public participation
   
30.069   City Council; order of business
   
30.070   Votes
   
30.071   City Council; parliamentary procedure
   
30.072   Minutes
   
30.073   Change in office
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 30.001 BONDS AND OATHS.
   (A)   Bonds; requirements.
      (1)   The city may enact ordinances or bylaws to require from all
officers and servants, elected or appointed, bonds and security or evidence of
equivalent insurance for the faithful performance of their duties. The city may
pay the premium for such bonds or insurance coverage.
(Neb. RS 17-604)
      (2)   (a)   All official bonds of officers of the city shall be in form
joint and several and made payable to the city in such penalty as the City
Council may fix.
         (b)   In place of the individual bonds required to be furnished by
municipal officers, a schedule, position, blanket bond or undertaking, or
evidence of equivalent insurance, may be given by municipal officers, or a
single corporate surety fidelity, schedule, position, blanket bond or
undertaking, or evidence of insurance coverage covering all the officers,
including officers required by law to furnish an individual bond or
undertaking, may be furnished. The city may pay the premium for the bond or
insurance coverage. The bond or insurance coverage shall be, at a minimum, an
aggregate of the amounts fixed by law or by the City Council, and with such
terms and conditions as may be required.
(Neb. RS 11-104)
         (c)   The penalty amount on any bond shall not fall below the legal
minimum, when one has been set by the state, for each particular official.
      (3)   (a)   Official bonds, with the oath endorsed thereon, shall be
filed in the City Clerk’s office within the following time:
            1.    Of all officers elected at any general election, following
receipt of their election certificate and not later than ten days before the
first Thursday after the first Tuesday in January next succeeding the election;
            2.   Of all appointed officers, within 30 days after their
appointment; and
            3.   Of officers elected at any special election and city officers,
within 30 days after the canvass of the votes of the election at which they
were chosen.
         (b)   The filing of the bond with the oath endorsed thereon does not
authorize a person to take any official action prior to the beginning of his or
her term of office pursuant to Article XVII, § 5 of the Constitution of the
state.
(Neb. RS 11-105)
      (4)   All official bonds of city officers shall be executed by the
principal named in such bonds and by at least two sufficient sureties who shall
be freeholders of the county in which such bonds are given, or any official
bond of a city officer may be executed by the officer as principal and by a
guaranty, surety, fidelity or bonding company as surety, or by two or more such
companies. Only such companies as are legally authorized to transact business
in this state shall be eligible to suretyship on the bond of a city officer.
(Neb. RS 11-109)
      (5)   The City Clerk shall carefully record and preserve the bonds in his
or her office and shall give certified copies thereof, when required, under the
seal of his or her office, and shall be entitled to receive for the same the
usual fee allowed by law for certified copies of records in other cases.
(Neb. RS 11-110)
      (6)   (a)   The approval of each official bond shall be endorsed upon
such bond by the officer approving the same, and no bond shall be filed and
recorded until so approved.
(Neb. RS 11-111)
         (b)   No bond shall be deemed to be given or complete until the
approval of the City Council and all sureties are endorsed in writing on the
instrument by the Mayor and City Clerk pursuant to the approval of the City
Council.
      (7)   All official bonds shall obligate the principal and sureties for
the faithful discharge of all duties required by law of such principal and
shall inure to the benefit of any persons injured by a breach of the conditions
of such bonds.
(Neb. RS 11-112)
      (8)   No official bond shall be rendered void by reason of any
informality of irregularity in its execution or approval.
(Neb. RS 11-113)
      (9)   No city official shall be taken as security on the bond of any
administrator, executor or other officer from whom by law bond is or may be
required.
(Neb. RS 11-114)
      (10)   (a)   If any person elected or appointed to any office neglects to
have his or her official bond executed and approved as provided by law and
filed for record within the time limited by this section, the City Clerk shall
immediately issue an order to such person to show cause why he or she has
failed to properly file such bond and why his or her office should not be
declared vacant. If such person properly files the official bond within ten
days of the issuance of the show cause order for appointed officials or before
the date for taking office for elected officials, such filing shall be deemed
to be in compliance with this section.
         (b)   If such person does not file the bond within ten days of the
issuance of such order for appointed officials or before the date for taking
office for elected officials and sufficient cause is not shown within that
time, his or her office shall thereupon ipso facto become vacant and such
vacancy shall thereupon immediately be filled by election or appointment as the
law may direct in other cases of vacancy in the same office.
(Neb. RS 11-115)
      (11)   Any person appointed to fill a vacancy, before entering upon the
duties of the office, must give a bond corresponding in substance and form with
the bond required of the officer originally elected or appointed, as herein
provided.
(Neb. RS 11-116)
      (12)   When the incumbent of an office is reelected or reappointed, he or
she shall qualify by taking the oath and giving the bond as above directed, but
when such officer has had public funds or property in his or her control, his
or her bond shall not be approved until he or she has produced and fully
accounted for such funds and property. When it is ascertained that the
incumbent of an office holds over by reason of the non-election or non-
appointment of a successor or of the neglect or refusal of the successor to
qualify, he or she shall qualify anew within ten days from the time at which
his or her successor, if elected, should have qualified.
(Neb. RS 11-117)
      (13)   No person shall be surety for the same officer for more than two
successive terms of the same office, but this provision shall not apply to
incorporated surety companies.
(Neb. RS 11-118)
      (14)   If the sureties on the official bond of any appointed officer of
the city, in the opinion of the City Council, become insufficient, the Council
may, by resolution, fix a reasonable time within which the officer may give a
new bond or additional sureties as directed. If the officer fails, refuses or
neglects to give a new bond or additional sureties to the satisfaction and
approval of the Council, the office shall, by such failure, refusal or neglect,
become vacant and it shall be the duty of the Council to appoint a competent
and qualified person to fill the office.
   (B)   Oath of office; city officials.
      (1)   All officials of the city, whether elected or appointed, except
when a different oath is specifically provided herein, shall before entering
upon their respective duties take and subscribe the following oath, which shall
be endorsed upon their respective bonds:
 
I,                                    , do solemnly swear that I will support the Constitution of the United
States and the Constitution of the State of Nebraska, against all enemies foreign and domestic; that I will
bear true faith and allegiance to the same; that I take this obligation freely and without mental reservation
or for the purpose of evasion; and that I will faithfully and impartially perform the duties of the office of
                         , according to law and to the best of my ability. And I do further swear that I do not
advocate nor am I a member of any political party or organization that advocates the overthrow of the
government of the United States or of this state by force or violence; and that during such time as I am in
this position I will not advocate nor become a member of any political party or organization that advocates the
overthrow of the government of the United States or of this state by force or violence. So help me God.
 
      (2)   If any such officer is not required to give bond, the oath shall be
filed with the City Clerk.
(Neb. RS 11-101)
§ 30.002 MUNICIPAL OFFICIALS.
   (A)   Compensation.
      (1)   The officers and employees of the city shall receive such
compensation as the Mayor and Council shall fix by ordinance.
      (2)   The city may enact ordinances or bylaws to regulate and prescribe
the compensation of officers not provided for in state law.
      (3)   No officer shall receive any pay or perquisites from the city other
than his or her salary. The City Council shall not pay or appropriate any money
or other valuable thing to any person not an officer for the performance of any
act, service or duty, the doing or performance of which shall come within the
proper scope of the duties of any officer of the city.
      (4)   (a)   The salary of any elective officer shall not be increased or
diminished during the term for which he or she shall have been elected, except
when there has been a combination and merger of offices as provided in §
30.036 of this code, except that when there are officers elected to the
Council, or any other board or commission having more than one member, and the
terms of one or more members commence and end at different times, the
compensation of all members of such council, board or commission may be
increased or diminished at the beginning of the full term of any member
thereof.
         (b)   No person who shall have resigned or vacated any office shall be
eligible to the same during the time for which he or she was elected if during
the same time the emoluments thereof were increased.
   (B)   Conflict of interest.
      (1)   For purposes of this section, OFFICER shall mean:
         (a)   Any member of any board or commission of the city;
         (b)   Any appointed official if such municipal official:
            1.   Serves on a board or commission which spends and administers
its own funds; and
            2.   Is dealing with a contract made by such board or commission.
         (c)   Any elected municipal official. Unless specified otherwise,
volunteer firefighters and ambulance drivers shall not be considered OFFICERS
for purposes of this section, with respect to their duties as firefighters and
ambulance drivers.
      (2)   No officer of the city shall be permitted to benefit from any
contract to which the city is a party. The existence of such an interest in any
contract renders the contract voidable by decree of a court of competent
jurisdiction as to any person who entered into the contract or took assignment
thereof with actual knowledge of the prohibited conflict. An action to have a
contract declared void under this section may be brought by the city or by any
resident thereof and must be brought within one year after the contract is
signed or assigned. Any such decree may provide for the reimbursement of any
person for the reasonable value of all money, goods, material, labor or
services furnished under the contract, to the extent that the city has
benefitted thereby. The prohibition in this section shall apply only when the
officer or his or her parent, spouse or child:
         (a)   Has a business with which the individual is associated or
business association which shall mean a business:
            1.   In which the individual is a partner, director or officer; or
            2.   In which the individual or a member of the individual’s
immediate family is a stockholder of a closed corporation stock worth $1,000 or
more at fair market value or which represents more than 5% equity interest, or
is a stockholder of publicly-traded stock worth $10,000 or more at fair market
value or which represents more than 10% equity interest.
         (b)   Will receive a direct pecuniary fee or commission as a result of
the contract; provided however, if such officer is an employee of the business
involved in the contract and has no ownership interest or will not receive a
pecuniary fee, such officer shall not be deemed to have an interest within the
meaning of this section.
      (3)   The provisions of this section shall not apply if the interested
officer:
         (a)   Makes a declaration on the record to the City Council
responsible for approving the contract regarding the nature and extent of his
or her interest, prior to official consideration of the contract;
         (b)   Does not vote on the matter of granting the contract, except
that if the number of members of the board declaring an interest in the
contract would prevent the board, with all members present, from securing a
quorum on the issue, then all members may vote on the matter; and
         (c)   Does not act for the city as to inspection or performance under
the contract in which he or she has an interest.
      (4)   (a)   The receiving of deposits, cashing of checks and buying and
selling of warrants and bonds of indebtedness of any municipality by a
financial institution shall not be considered a contract under the provisions
of this section. The ownership of less than 5% of the outstanding shares of a
corporation shall not constitute an interest within the meaning of this
section. Notwithstanding the provisions of divisions (B)(3)(a) through (B)(3)
(c) above, if an officer’s parent, spouse or child is an employee of the
municipality, the officer may vote on all issues of the contract which are
generally applicable to all employees or all employees within a classification
and do not single out his or her parent, spouse or child for special action.
         (b)   If an officer has the power to employ personnel and he or she
hires his or her parent, spouse or child, such officer shall disclose the
hiring pursuant to divisions (B)(5)(a) through (B)(5)(e) below, except that if
the parent, spouse or child is already employed in the position at the time the
officer takes office and such position does not change, no disclosure need be
made. Notwithstanding any other provision of this section, any contract entered
into with an interested officer shall be subject to applicable competitive
bidding requirements and shall be fair and reasonable to the city.
      (5)   The City Clerk shall maintain, separately from other records, a
ledger containing the information listed in divisions (B)(5)(a) through (B)(5)
(e) below about every contract entered into by the city in which an officer has
an interest as specified above for which disclosure is made as provided in
divisions (B)(3)(a) through (B)(3)(c) above. Such information shall be kept in
the ledger for five years from the date of the officer’s last day in office and
shall include the:
         (a)   Names of the contracting parties;
         (b)   Nature of the interest of the officer in question;
         (c)   Date that the contract was approved by the city involved;
         (d)   Amount of the contract; and
         (e)   Basic terms of the contract.
      (6)   The information supplied relative to the contract shall be provided
to the Clerk not later than ten days after the contract has been signed by both
parties. The ledger kept by the Clerk shall be available for public inspection
during the normal working hours of the office in which it is kept.
      (7)   An open account established for the benefit of any municipality or
entity thereof, with a business in which an officer has an interest, shall be
deemed a contract subject to the provisions of this section. The statement
required to be filed pursuant to this section shall be filed within ten days
after such account is opened. Thereafter, the Clerk shall maintain a running
account of all amounts purchased on the open account. Purchases made from petty
cash or a petty cash fund shall not be subject to the provisions of this
section.
      (8)   Any officer who knowingly violates the provisions of Neb. RS 49-
14,103.01 through 49-14,103.03 shall be guilty of a Class III misdemeanor. Any
officer who negligently violates Neb. RS 49-14,103.01 through 49-14,103.03
shall be guilty of a Class V misdemeanor.
      (9)   The city may enact ordinances exempting from the provisions of this
section contracts involving $100 or less in which an officer of such
municipality may have an interest.
      (10)   No officer, including volunteer firefighters and ambulance
drivers, shall receive any pay or perquisites from the municipality other than
his or her salary. The City Council shall not pay or appropriate any money or
other valuable thing to pay a person who is not an officer for the performance
of any act, service or duty, which shall come within the proper scope of the
duties of any municipal officer.
(Prior Code, § 1-902)
   (C)   Salaries of officials. The salaries of the elected officials of the
city are hereby fixed as follows:
      (1)   Mayor, per year: $3,000.
      (2)   Council, per year: $1,500.
(Prior Code, § 1-903)
(Ord. 387, passed 1-26-1982; Ord. 393, passed 2-8-1983; Ord. 404, passed 10-11-
1983; Ord. 413, passed 11-22-1983; Ord. 426, passed 11-13-1984; Ord. 450,
passed 3-11-1986; Ord. 462, passed 10-14-1986; Ord. 482, passed 10-25-1988)
Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Conflicts of interest, see Neb. RS 49-14,103.01 through 49-14,103.03 and 70-
624.04
   Officer compensation; powers and duties, see Neb. RS 17-108, 17-604, 17-611
and 17-612
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 18-305 through 18-312
§ 30.003 INTERGOVERNMENTAL RISK MANAGEMENT.
   The City Council and any one or more public agencies, as defined in Neb. RS
44-4303, may make and execute an agreement providing for joint and cooperative
action in accordance with Neb. RS 44-4301 through 44-4339, to form, become
members of and operate a risk management pool for the purpose of providing to
members risk management services and insurance coverages in the form of group
self-insurance or standard insurance, including any combination of group self-
insurance and standard insurance, to protect members against losses arising
from any of the following:
   (A)   General liability;
   (B)   Damage, destruction or loss of real or personal property, including
but not limited to, loss of use or occupancy and loss of income or extra
expense resulting from loss of use or occupancy;
   (C)   Errors and omissions liability; and
   (D)   Workers’ compensation liability.
(Prior Code, § 1-1101) (Ord. 468, passed 9-22-1987)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 44-4301 through 44-4339
ELECTED OFFICIALS
§ 30.015 CITY MAYOR; SELECTION AND DUTIES.
   The Mayor of the city shall have the general and immediate control over all
property and officials, whether elected or appointed, of the city. He or she
shall preside at all meetings of the City Council and may vote when his or her
vote shall be decisive and the Council is equally divided on any pending
matter, legislation or transaction and the Mayor shall, for the purpose of such
vote, be deemed to be a member of the Council. His or her signature must appear
on the City Clerk’s minutes of all meetings, and he or she must sign all
resolutions which have been passed and warrants for the payment of money when
ordered by the City Council; provided, that any ordinance vetoed by the Mayor
may be passed over his or her veto by a two-thirds vote by the members of the
City Council, but if the Mayor neglects or refuses to sign any ordinance and
returns it to the Council with his or her objections in writing at the next
regular Council meeting, the same shall become a law without his or her
signature. He or she shall from time to time communicate to the Council such
information and recommendations as, in his or her opinion, may improve the
city. He or she may require at reasonable intervals any municipal official to
exhibit his or her accounts and make reports to the Council on any subject
pertaining to his or her office. He or she shall have the power to remit fines
or pardon any offense arising under the ordinances of the city. He or she may
remove at any time an appointed police officer of the municipality. His or her
territorial authority shall extend over all places within five miles of the
corporate limits of the city for the enforcement of any health ordinance and
one-half mile in all matters vested in him or her, except taxation. He or she
shall also have such other duties as the City Council may by resolution confer
upon him or her, or in any other matters which the laws of the state repose in
him or her. He or she shall be elected at the municipal election and shall
serve a four-year term of office. Any candidate for Mayor must have resided
within the city for 40 days prior to filing for said office and must in
addition be a qualified taxpayer.
(Prior Code, § 1-101) (Ord. 324, passed 9-27-1977; Ord. 358, passed 11-25-1980)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-110 through 17-117
§ 30.016 CITY COUNCIL; ACTING PRESIDENT.
   (A)   The City Council shall elect one of its own body who shall be styled
the President of the Council and who shall preside at all meetings of the
Council in the absence of the Mayor.
   (B)   In the absence of the President, the Council shall elect one of its
own body to occupy his or her place temporarily, who shall be styled Acting
President of the Council.
   (C)   The President and Acting President, when occupying the place of the
Mayor, shall have the same privileges as other members of the Council; and all
acts of the President or Acting President, while so acting, shall be as binding
upon the Council and upon the city as if done by the Mayor.
(Neb. RS 17-148)
§ 30.017 CITY COUNCIL; SELECTION AND DUTIES.
   The members of the City Council shall be elected and serve for a four-year
term. The City Council shall be the legislative division of the municipal
government and shall perform such duties and have such powers as may be
authorized by law. The City Council shall maintain the peace, regulate
business, protect the public health and safety and assess such taxes and fees
as are necessary and appropriate in the exercise of these functions.
(Prior Code, § 1-103)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-103 and 17-104
§ 30.018 CITY COUNCIL; ORGANIZATION.
   City Council members shall take office and commence their duties on the
first regular meeting in December following their election. The newly elected
Council members who have qualified as prescribed by law, together with the
members of the City Council holding over, shall assemble in a regular meeting
at the hour and place hereinafter prescribed and perfect the reorganization of
the City Council as herein provided, and all appointive offices in which the
terms of incumbents are expired shall be filled by appointment. After said
meeting has been called to order, the City Clerk shall report to the City
Council the names of all City Council members-elect who have qualified for
their respective offices, and this report shall be spread upon the minutes of
the meeting preceding the roll call. Each ward of the city shall be represented
by at least two Council members. No person shall be eligible who is not at the
time of his or her election an actual resident of the ward for which he or she
is qualified, and should any City Council member move from the ward from which
he or she was elected, his or her office shall thereby become vacant.
(Prior Code, § 1-104) (Ord. 325, passed 9-27-1977)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-104
§ 30.019 VACANCY.
   (A)   Every elective office shall be vacant upon the happening of any of the
events specified in Neb. RS 32-560, except as provided in Neb. RS 32-561.
   (B)   In the case of any vacancy in the office of Mayor, or in case of his
or her disability or absence, the President of the Council shall exercise the
office of Mayor for the unexpired term until such vacancy is filled or such
disability is removed, or in case of temporary absence, until the Mayor
returns. If the President of the Council assumes the office of Mayor for the
unexpired term, there shall be a vacancy on the Council.
   (C)   (1)   Except as otherwise provided in divisions (B), (D) or (E) of
this section, vacancies in city elected offices shall be filled by the Mayor
and City Council for the balance of the unexpired term. Notice of a vacancy,
except a vacancy resulting from the death of the incumbent, shall be in writing
and presented to the Council at a regular or special meeting and shall appear
as a part of the minutes of such meeting. The Council shall at once give public
notice of the vacancy by causing to be published in a newspaper of general
circulation within the city or by posting in three public places in the city
the office vacated and the length of the unexpired term.
      (2)   The Mayor shall, within four weeks after the meeting at which such
notice of vacancy has been presented or upon the death of the incumbent, call a
special meeting of the Council or place the issue of filling such vacancy on
the agenda at the next regular meeting, at which time the Mayor shall submit
the name of a qualified registered voter to fill the vacancy for the balance of
the unexpired term. The Council shall vote upon such nominee, and if a majority
votes in favor of such nominee, the vacancy shall be declared filled. If the
nominee fails to receive a majority of the votes, the nomination shall be
rejected and the Mayor shall, at the next regular or special meeting, submit
the name of another qualified registered voter to fill the vacancy. If the
subsequent nominee fails to receive a majority of the votes, the Mayor shall
continue at such meeting to submit the names of qualified registered voters in
nomination and the Council shall continue to vote upon such nominations until
the vacancy is filled. The Mayor shall cast his or her vote for or against the
nominee in the case of a tie vote of the Council. All Council members present
shall cast a ballot for or against the nominee. Any member of the Council who
has been appointed to fill a vacancy on the Council shall have the same rights,
including voting, as if such person were elected.
   (D)   The Mayor and Council may, in lieu of filling a vacancy in a City
elected office as provided in division (C) above, call a special municipal
election to fill such vacancy.
   (E)   If vacancies exist in the offices of one-half or more of the members
of the City Council, the Secretary of State shall conduct a special municipal
election to fill such vacancies.
(Prior Code, § 1-105) (Ord. 326, passed 9-27-1977; Ord. 421, passed 11-13-1984;
Ord. 525, passed 1-8-1991; Ord. 705, passed 4-23-2002)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 32-560, 32-568(4) and 32-569
§ 30.020 QUALIFICATIONS; HOLDING OTHER ELECTIVE OFFICE.
   (A)   Elected officials shall be residents and registered voters of the
city. No person shall be precluded from being elected or appointed to or
holding an elective office for the reason that he or she has been elected or
appointed to or holds another elective office, unless that person is presently
serving as a member of the legislature or in an elective office described in
Article IV, § 1 of the Constitution of the state. A legislator or an elected
office holder per Article IV may simultaneously serve in another elective
office which is filled at an election held in conjunction with the annual
meeting of a public body. Whenever an incumbent of the legislature or an
Article IV elected officer assumes another elective office, except an elective
office filled at an election held in conjunction with the annual meeting of a
public body, the office first held by the incumbent shall be deemed vacant.
   (B)   Members of the Council shall hold no other employment with the city.
Any Council member who ceases to possess any of the qualifications required by
this section or who has been convicted of a crime while in office shall
forthwith forfeit such office. The Council shall be the judge of the election
and qualifications of its members, subject to review by the courts.
(Prior Code, § 1-107) (Ord. 524, passed 1-8-1991)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-108.02, 19-613 and 32-563
§ 30.021 VACANCY DUE TO UNEXCUSED ABSENCES.
   (A)   In addition to the events listed in Neb. RS 32-560, and any other
reasons for a vacancy provided by law, after notice and a hearing, a vacancy on
the City Council shall exist if a member is absent from more than five
consecutive regular meetings of the Council unless the absences are excused by
a majority vote of the remaining members.
   (B)   The City Council shall take a vote on whether to excuse a member’s
absence from a meeting upon either:
      (1)   A written request from the member submitted to the City Clerk; or
      (2)   A motion of any other Council member.
   (C)   If a Council member has been absent from six consecutive regular
meetings and none of the absences have been excused by a majority vote of the
remaining members, the City Clerk shall include this as an item on the agenda
for the next regular meeting. At that meeting, the Council shall set a date for
a hearing and direct the City Clerk to give the member notice of the hearing by
personal service or first-class mail to the member’s last-known address.
   (D)   At the hearing, the Council member shall have the right to present
information on why one or more of the absences should be excused. If the
Council does not excuse one or more of the member’s absences by a majority vote
at the conclusion of the hearing, there shall be a vacancy on the Council.
(Prior Code, § 1-108) (Ord. 735, passed 4-22-2003)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 19-3101
APPOINTED OFFICIALS
§ 30.035 APPOINTMENT; REMOVAL.
   (A)   The Mayor, with the consent of the City Council, may appoint such
officers as shall be required by ordinance or otherwise required by law. The
Mayor, by and with the consent of the City Council, shall appoint such a number
of regular police officers as may be necessary. The City Council may establish
and provide for the appointment of members of a law enforcement reserve force
as provided by law.
   (B)   All police officers and other appointed officials may be removed at
any time by the Mayor, except that if the city has a Municipal Water
Commissioner, he or she may at any time, for sufficient cause, be removed from
office by a two-thirds vote of the City Council.
   (C)   (1)   The terms of office for all officers, except regular police
officers, appointed by the Mayor and confirmed by the City Council, shall be
established by the City Council by ordinance.
      (2)   All appointed officials, except for the police officers, shall hold
the office to which they have been appointed until the end of the Mayor’s term
of office and until their successors are appointed and qualified, unless sooner
removed.
(Prior Code, § 1-201) (Ord. 635, passed 7-22-1997; Ord. 917, passed 2-11-2025)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-107, 17-541 and 81-1438
§ 30.036 MERGER OF OFFICES.
   (A)   The City Council may, at its discretion, by ordinance combine and
merge any elective or appointive office or employment or any combination of
duties of any such offices or employments, except Mayor and Council member,
with any other elective or appointive office or employment so that one or more
of such offices or employments or any combination of duties of any such offices
or employments may be held by the same officer or employee at the same time.
   (B)   The City Manager/Administrator in a city under the City Manager/
Administrator plan of government as provided by law may in his or her
discretion combine and merge any elective or appointive office or employment or
any combination of duties of any such offices or employments, except Mayor and
Council member, with any other elective or appointive office or employment so
that one or more of such offices or employments may be held by the same officer
or employee at the same time. The offices or employments so merged and combined
shall always be construed to be separate and the effect of the combination or
merger shall be limited to a consolidation of official duties only.
   (C)   The salary or compensation of the officer or employee holding the
merged or combined offices or employments or offices and employments shall not
be in excess of the maximum amount provided by law for the salary or
compensation of the office, offices, employment or employments so merged and
combined. For purposes of this section, volunteer firefighters and ambulance
drivers shall not be considered officers.
(Prior Code, § 1-202) (Ord. 422, passed 11-13-1984; Ord. 526; passed 1-8-1991)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-108.02
§ 30.037 CITY CLERK.
   (A)   The City Clerk shall have the custody of all laws and ordinances and
shall keep a correct journal of the proceedings of the City Council. After the
period of time specified by the State Records Administrator pursuant to the
Records Management Act, the Clerk may transfer the journal of the proceedings
of the City Council to the State Archives of the State Historical Society for
permanent preservation. The Clerk shall also perform such other duties as may
be required by the ordinances of the city. If the Clerk is acting as the
Treasurer, he or she shall also comply with the requirements of Neb. RS 17-606.
(Neb. RS 17-605)
   (B)   It shall be the duty of the Clerk to prepare and publish the official
proceedings of the City Council within 30 days after any meeting of the
Council. The publication shall be in a newspaper of general circulation in the
city, shall set forth a statement of the proceedings of the meeting and shall
also include the amount of each claim allowed, the purpose of the claim and the
name of the claimant, except that the aggregate amount of all payroll claims
may be included as one item. Between July 15 and August 15 of each year, the
employee job titles and the current annual, monthly or hourly salaries
corresponding to such job titles shall be published. Each job title published
shall be descriptive and indicative of the duties and functions of the
position. The charge for the publication shall not exceed the rates provided
for in Neb. RS 23-122.
(Neb. RS 19-1102)
   (C)   The Clerk shall dispose of or destroy city public records when the
records have been determined to be of no further legal, administrative, fiscal
or historical value by the State Records Administrator pursuant to the Records
Management Act. This shall not apply to the minutes of the Clerk and the
permanent ordinance and resolution books, or any other record classified as
permanent by the State Records Administrator.
(Neb. RS 18-1701)
   (D)   (1)   The Clerk shall permit any person to examine and copy the public
records in the Clerk’s custody, and may charge a fee for providing copies of a
public record, as provided in Neb. RS 84-712 through 84-712.09.
      (2)   The Clerk may charge a reasonable fee for certified copies of any
record in his or her office as set by resolution of the City Council.
   (E)   The Clerk shall permit no records, public papers or other documents of
the city kept and preserved in his or her office to be taken therefrom, except
by such officers of the city as may be entitled to the use of the same, but
only upon their leaving a receipt therefor, and except pursuant to Neb. RS 84-
712(2). He or she shall keep all the records of his or her office, including a
record of all licenses issued by him or her, in a blank book with a proper
index. He or she shall include as part of his or her records all petitions
under which the City Council shall order public work to be done at the expense
of the property fronting thereon, together with references to all resolutions
and ordinances relating to the same. He or she shall endorse the date and hour
of filing upon every paper or document so filed in his or her office. All such
filings made by him or her shall be properly docketed. Included in his or her
records shall be all standard codes, amendments thereto and other documents
incorporated by reference and arranged in triplicate in a manner convenient for
reference. He or she shall keep an accurate and complete account of the
appropriation of the several funds and draw, sign and attest all warrants
ordered for the payment of money on the particular fund from which the same is
payable. At the end of each month, he or she shall then make a report of the
amounts appropriated to the various funds and the amount of the warrants drawn
thereon.
   (F)   The Clerk shall deliver all warrants, ordinances and resolutions under
his or her charge to the Mayor for his or her signature. He or she shall also
deliver to officers, employees and committees all resolutions and
communications which are directed at such officers, employees or committees.
With the seal of the city, he or she shall duly attest the Mayor’s signature to
all ordinances, deeds and papers required to be attested to when ordered to do
so by the City Council.
   (G)   The Clerk shall issue and sign all licenses, permits and occupation
tax receipts authorized by law and required by the city ordinances. He or she
shall collect all occupation taxes and license money, except where some other
city officer is specifically charged with that duty. He or she shall keep a
register of all licenses granted in the city and the purpose for which they
have been issued.
   (H)   The Clerk shall keep in a book with a proper index, copies of all
notices required to be published or posted by the Clerk by order of the City
Council or under the ordinances of the city. To each of the file copies of the
notices shall be attached the printer’s affidavit of publication, if the
notices are required to be published, or the Clerk’s certificate under seal
where the same are required to be posted only.
   (I)   The Clerk shall receive all objections to creation of paving districts
and other street improvements. He or she shall receive the claims of any person
against the city, and in the event that the claim is disallowed in part or in
whole, the Clerk shall notify the claimant or his or her agent or attorney by
letter within five days after the disallowance, and the Clerk shall then
prepare transcripts on appeals of any disallowance of a claim in all proper
cases.
(Prior Code, § 1-203)
§ 30.038 CITY TREASURER.
   (A)   The City Treasurer shall be the custodian of all money belonging to
the city. He or she shall keep a separate account of each fund or appropriation
and the debts and credits belonging thereto. He or she shall give every person
paying money into the Treasury a receipt therefor, specifying the date of
payment and on what account paid. He or she shall also file copies of such
receipts with his or her monthly reports. The City Treasurer shall, at the end
of every month, and as often as may be required, render an account to the City
Council, under oath, showing the state of the Treasury at the date of such
account and the balance of money in the Treasury. He or she shall also
accompany such accounts with a statement of all receipts and disbursements,
together with all warrants redeemed and paid by him or her, which warrants,
with any and all vouchers held by him or her, shall be filed with his or her
account in the City Clerk’s office. If the City Treasurer neglects or fails,
for the space of ten days from the end of each month, to render his or her
account, the office shall be declared vacant, and the City Council shall fill
the vacancy by appointment until the next election for municipal officers.
   (B)   (1)   All warrants upon the City Treasurer shall be paid in the order
of their presentation therefor and as otherwise provided in Neb. RS 77-2201
through 77-2215.
      (2)   The City Treasurer shall keep a warrant register in the form
required by Neb. RS 77-2202.
      (3)   The City Treasurer shall make duplicate receipts for all sums which
shall be paid into his or her office, which receipts shall show the source from
which such funds are derived, and shall, by distinct lines and columns, show
the amount received to the credit of each separate fund, and whether the same
was paid in cash, in warrants or otherwise. The Treasurer shall deliver one of
the duplicates to the person making the payment and retain the other in his or
her office.
      (4)   The City Treasurer shall daily, as money is received, foot the
several columns of the cash book and of the register, and carry the amounts
forward, and at the close of each year, in case the amount of money received by
the Treasurer is insufficient to pay the warrants registered, he or she shall
close the account for that year in the register and shall carry forward the
excess.
   (C)   (1)   The City Treasurer shall prepare and publish annually, within 60
days following the close of the municipal fiscal year, a statement of the
receipts and expenditures by funds of the city for the preceding fiscal year.
The statement shall also include the information required by Neb. RS 16-318(3)
or 17-606(2).
      (2)   Publication shall be made in one legal newspaper of general
circulation in the city. If no legal newspaper is published in the city, then
such publication shall be made in one legal newspaper published or of general
circulation within the county in which the city is located.
   (D)   The City Treasurer shall keep all money belonging to the city separate
and distinct from his or her own money. He or she shall invest and collect all
money owned by or owed to the city as directed by the City Council. He or she
shall maintain depository evidence that all municipal money is, in the name of
the city, in a solvent and going financial institution of a type authorized by
state law for deposit of municipal funds. He or she shall cancel all bonds,
coupons, warrants and other evidence of debt against the city, whenever paid by
him or her, by writing or stamping on the face thereof, “Paid by the City
Treasurer,” with the date of payment written or stamped thereon. He or she
shall collect all special taxes, allocate special assessments to the several
owners and obtain from the County Treasurer a monthly report as to the
collection of delinquent taxes.
(Prior Code, § 1-204) (Ord. 706, passed 4-23-2002)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-606, 19-1101, 19-1103, 77-2201, 77-2209
and 77-2210
§ 30.039 CITY ATTORNEY.
   (A)   The City Attorney shall be the legal advisor of the City Council. He
or she shall commence, prosecute and defend all suits and actions necessary to
be commenced, prosecuted or defended on behalf of the city, or that may be
ordered by the Council. When requested, he or she shall attend meetings of the
Council and give them his or her opinion upon any matters submitted to him or
her, either orally or in writing, as may be required. He or she shall draft or
review for legal correctness ordinances, contracts, franchises and other
instruments as may be required, and he or she shall perform such other duties
as may be imposed upon him or her by general law or ordinance. The Council
shall have the right to pay the City Attorney compensation for legal services
performed by him or her for it on such terms as the Council and Attorney may
agree, and to employ additional legal assistance and to pay for such legal
assistance out of the funds of the city.
(Neb. RS 17-610)
   (B)   The City Attorney shall also examine, when requested to do so by the
City Council, the ordinance records and advise and assist the City Clerk as
much as may be necessary to the end that each procedural step will be taken in
the passage of each ordinance to ensure that it will be a valid and subsisting
local law in so far as its passage and approval are concerned.
§ 30.040 POLICE CHIEF.
   (A)   The Police Chief shall direct the police work of the city and shall be
responsible for the maintenance of law and order. Unless the Mayor and City
Council provide otherwise, he or she shall act as Health Inspector and Building
Inspector.
   (B)   If the city has an agreement with the County Sheriff for law
enforcement purposes, the County Sheriff shall have all the powers and duties
of the Police Chief and municipal police officers as specified in the
agreement.
§ 30.041 POLICE OFFICERS.
   (A)   The municipal police, whether regular or special, shall have the power
to arrest all offenders against the laws of the state, or the city, by day or
by night, and keep said offenders in the Municipal Jail, or some other place to
prevent their escape until trial can be held before the proper official of the
state or the city. They shall have full power and authority to call on any
person whenever necessary to assist them in performing public duties, and
failure, neglect or refusal to render such assistance shall be deemed a
misdemeanor punishable upon conviction by a fine. Every municipal police
officer shall be expected to be conversant and knowledgeable with the municipal
and state laws and no law enforcement official shall have any interest in any
establishment having a liquor license.
   (B)   Municipal police officers shall have the duty to file such complaints
and reports as may be required by the municipal ordinances and the laws of the
state. Any municipal police officer who shall willfully fail, neglect or refuse
to make an arrest, or who purposely and willfully fails to make a complaint
after an arrest is made shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and upon
conviction shall be fined. It shall be unlawful for the City Council to retain
any municipal police officer in that position after he or she shall have been
duly convicted of the willful violation of any law of the United States of
America, the state, or any ordinance of the city, except minor traffic
violations.
   (C)   It shall be the duty of every municipal police officer making a lawful
arrest to search all persons in the presence of some other person, whenever
possible, and shall carefully keep and produce to the proper judicial official
upon the trial everything found upon the person of such prisoners. All personal
effects so taken from prisoners aforesaid shall be restored to them upon their
release. Suitable uniforms and badges shall be furnished to the municipal
police by the city. Any member who shall lose or destroy the same shall be
required to pay the replacement costs, and in the event that any member shall
leave the force, he or she shall immediately deliver his or her badge to the
Police Chief. The City Council may from time to time provide the municipal
police with such uniforms, equipment and transportation as may be essential in
the performance of their official duties.
(Prior Code, § 1-209) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-118 and 17-124
§ 30.042 FIRE CHIEF.
   (A)   The City Fire Chief shall be elected by the members of the Fire
Department. He or she shall enforce all laws and ordinances covering the
prevention of fires; the storage and use of explosives and flammable
substances; the installation of fire alarm systems; the maintenance of fire-
extinguishing equipment; the regulation of fire escapes; and the inspection of
all premises requiring adequate fire escapes. He or she shall begin immediately
to investigate the cause, origin and circumstances of fires arising within his
or her jurisdiction. He or she shall, on or before April 1 and October 1 of
each year, cause the secretary to file with the City Clerk, and the Clerk of
the District Court, a certified copy of the rolls of all members in good
standing in their respective companies in order to obtain the exemptions
provided by law.
   (B)   The City Council shall purchase workers’ compensation insurance and a
group term life insurance policy for each active volunteer firefighter. Said
life insurance policy shall provide a minimum of $5,000 for death from any
cause to age 65 and shall, at the option of the individual firefighter, be
convertible to a permanent form of life insurance at age 65. The Fire Chief
shall have the power during the time of a fire and for a period of 36 hours
thereafter to arrest any suspected arsonist, or any person for hindering the
Department’s efforts, conducting himself or herself in a noisy and disorderly
manner, or who shall refuse to obey any lawful order by the Fire Chief or
Assistant Fire Chief.
   (C)   The Fire Chief, or his or her assistant in charge of operations at a
fire, may command the services of any person present at any fire in
extinguishing the same or in the removal and protection of property. Failure to
obey such an order shall be a misdemeanor punishable by a fine. The Fire Chief
shall have the right to enter at all reasonable hours into buildings and upon
all premises within his or her jurisdiction for the purpose of examining the
same for fire hazards and related dangers, in harmony with Neb. RS 81-501.01 to
81-531, the Nebraska Natural Gas Pipeline Safety Act of 1969, the Petroleum
Products and Hazardous Substances Storage and Handling Act and any other
statutory duties imposed upon the State Fire Marshal.
(Prior Code, § 1-210) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-147, 17-505, 35-102, 35-108, 81-506 and
81-512
§ 30.043 SPECIAL ENGINEER.
   The City Council may employ a Special Engineer to make or assist the City
Engineer in making any particular estimate, survey or other work. The Special
Engineer shall make a record of the minutes of his or her surveys and all other
work done for the city. He or she shall, when directed by the City Council,
accurately make all plats, sections, profiles and maps as may be necessary in
the judgment of the City Council. He or she shall, upon request of the City
Council, make estimates of the costs of labor and material which may be done or
furnished by contract with the city, and make all surveys, estimates and
calculations necessary for the establishment of grades, bridges, building of
culverts, sewers, electric light system, waterworks, power plant, public
heating system, curbing and gutters and the improvement of streets and erection
and repair of buildings and shall perform such other duties as the City Council
may require. All records of the Special Engineer shall be public records which
shall belong to the city and shall be turned over to his or her successor.
(Prior Code, § 1-211) (Ord. 401, passed 10-11-1983)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 18-3301, 17-568, 17-568.01 and 17-919
§ 30.044 STREET COMMISSIONER.
   (A)   The Street Commissioner shall, subject to the order of the Mayor and
Council, have general charge, direction and control of all works on the
streets, sidewalks, culverts and bridges of the city and shall perform such
other duties as the Council may require.
(Neb. RS 17-119)
   (B)   It shall be his or her responsibility to see that gutters and drains
in the city function properly and that they are kept in good repair.
   (C)   He or she shall, at the request of the City Council make a detailed
report to the Council on the condition of the streets, sidewalks, culverts,
alleys and bridges of the city and shall direct their attention to such
improvements, repairs and extension thereof as he or she may think proper.
   (D)   The Street Commissioner shall issue such permits and perform such
other duties as may be prescribed by ordinance.
Statutory reference:
   Incentive payments to street superintendents, see Neb. RS 39-2512
§ 30.045 UTILITIES SUPERINTENDENT.
   A Utilities Superintendent shall be appointed in the event that there is
more than one municipal utility, and the City Council determines that it is in
the best interest of the city to appoint one official to have the immediate
control over all said municipal utilities. The Utilities Superintendent may be
removed at any time by the Mayor. Any vacancy occurring in said office by
death, resignation or removal may be filled in the manner hereinbefore provided
for the appointment of all municipal officials.
(Prior Code, § 1-214)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-541
§ 30.046 BUILDING INSPECTOR.
   The Building Inspector shall conduct surveys and make inspections in any
area of the city to determine whether all buildings and structures are in
compliance with the municipal ordinances. He or she shall investigate all
complaints, whether they are verbal, written or in the form of a petition
alleging, and charging that a violation of the municipal ordinances exists, and
that a building or structure is unfit or unsafe for human habitation. The
Building Inspector is authorized upon properly identifying himself or herself
to enter, inspect, survey and investigate between the hours of 8:00 a.m. and 5:
00 p.m., or at any time if an emergency exists, or if requested by the owner or
occupant thereof. He or she shall keep records of all complaints received,
inspection reports, orders and complaints issued. The records shall be
available for public inspection, and he or she shall prepare an annual report
including statistics based on the records kept. The Building Inspector shall
have no financial interest in the furnishing of labor, materials or appliances
for the construction, alteration or maintenance of a building, except where he
or she is the owner of a building, and he or she shall not act as an agent for
any said dealer, or as an agent for the sale, lease or rental of any real
estate. The Building Inspector shall report to the City Council as often as
they may deem necessary, and shall have such other duties, and issue such
permits as they may direct. The Building Inspector may be removed at any time
for good and sufficient cause by the City Council.
(Prior Code, § 1-215)
§ 30.047 ELECTRICAL INSPECTOR.
   The Municipal Electrical Inspector shall enforce all laws relating to the
installation of electrical wiring, and connections thereto. When acting in good
faith and without malice in the scope of his or her official duties, he or she
shall not himself or herself be held personally liable for any damage that may
accrue to persons, or property as the result of any act required by him or her,
or by reason of any act or omission in the discharge of his or her duties. He
or she shall, in the discharge of his or her official duties, and upon proper
identification, have authority to enter into any building, structure or
premises at any reasonable hour. He or she shall perform such other duties and
issue any permits that the City Council may direct. The Electrical Inspector
may be removed at any time for good and sufficient cause by the City Council.
(Prior Code, § 1-216)
§ 30.048 PLUMBING INSPECTOR.
   The Municipal Plumbing Inspector shall enforce all laws relating to the
installation of plumbing and connections thereto. When acting in good faith,
and without malice in the scope of his or her official duties, he or she shall
not himself or herself be held personally liable for any damage that may accrue
to persons, or property as the result of any act required by him or her or by
reason of any act or omission in the discharge of his or her duties. He or she
shall, in the discharge of his or her official duties, and upon proper
identification, have authority to enter into any building, structure or
premises at any reasonable hour. He or she shall perform such other duties and
issue any permits that the City Council may direct. The Plumbing Inspector may
be removed at any time for good and sufficient cause by the City Council.
(Prior Code, § 1-217)
§ 30.049 ZONING INSPECTOR.
   The Mayor may appoint a Zoning Inspector. In the absence of a specific
appointment by the Mayor, the City Clerk is hereby designated as Zoning
Inspector.
(Prior Code, § 1-218)
MEETINGS
§ 30.060 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   MEETING. All regular, special or called meetings, formal or informal, of a
public body for the purposes of briefing, discussion of public business,
formation of tentative policy or the taking of any action.
   PUBLIC BODY.
      (1)   (a)   The City Council;
         (b)   All independent boards, commissions, bureaus, committees,
councils, subunits or any other bodies created by the Constitution of Nebraska,
statute, ordinance or otherwise pursuant to law; and
         (c)   Advisory committees of the bodies listed above.
      (2)   PUBLIC BODY does not include subcommittees of such bodies unless a
quorum of the public body attends a subcommittee meeting or unless the
subcommittees are holding hearings, making policy or taking formal action on
behalf of their parent body.
(Neb. RS 84-1409)
§ 30.061 OPEN TO PUBLIC; NOTICE; AGENDA.
   (A)   The formation of public policy is public business and may not be
conducted in secret. Every meeting of a public body shall be open to the public
in order that citizens may exercise their democratic privilege of attending and
speaking at meetings of public bodies, except as otherwise provided by the
Constitution of Nebraska, federal statutes and the Open Meetings Act.
(Neb. RS 84-1408)
   (B)   (1)   Each public body shall give reasonable advance publicized notice
of the time and place of each meeting as provided in division (B)(2) below. The
notice shall be transmitted to all members of the public body and to the
public.
      (2)   The notice shall be published by:
         (a)   Publication in a newspaper of general circulation within the
public body’s jurisdiction and, if available, on such newspaper’s web site; or
         (b)   Posting written notice in three conspicuous public places in the
city. The notice shall be posted in the same three places for each meeting.
      (3)   In addition to a method of notice required by division (B)(2)
above, the notice shall also be provided by any other appropriate method
designated by the public body.
      (4)   Each public body shall record the methods and dates of the notice
in its minutes.
      (5)   The notice shall contain an agenda of subjects known at the time of
the publicized notice or a statement that the agenda, which shall be kept
continually current, is readily available for public inspection at the office
of the public body during normal business hours. Agenda items shall be
sufficiently descriptive to give the public reasonable notice of the matters to
be considered at the meeting. Except for items of an emergency nature, the
agenda shall not be altered later than 24 hours before the scheduled
commencement of the meeting or 48 hours before the scheduled commencement of a
meeting of the City Council scheduled outside the corporate limits of the city.
The public body shall have the right to modify the agenda to include items of
an emergency nature only at such public meeting.
(Neb. RS 84-1411)
Statutory reference:
   Videoconferencing when emergency is declared by the Governor under the
Emergency Management Act, see Neb. RS 84-1411(7)
§ 30.062 NOTICE TO NEWS MEDIA.
   The City Clerk, in the case of the City Council, and the secretary or other
designee of each other public body shall maintain a list of the news media
requesting notification of meetings and shall make reasonable efforts to
provide advance notification to them of the time and place of each meeting and
the subjects to be discussed at that meeting.
(Neb. RS 84-1411)
§ 30.063 COUNCIL MEETINGS; WHEN; QUORUM; VOTES.
   (A)   Regular meetings of the City Council shall be held at such times as
the Council may provide by ordinance. A majority of all the members elected to
the Council shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of any business, but
a fewer number may adjourn from time to time and compel the attendance of
absent members. When the City Council consists of four members as established
by ordinance or home rule charter, the Mayor shall be deemed a member of the
City Council for purposes of establishing a quorum when the Mayor’s presence is
necessary to establish the quorum. Unless a greater vote is required by law, an
affirmative vote of at least one-half of the elected members shall be required
for the transaction of any business.
(Neb. RS 17-105)
   (B)   (1)   The Mayor or any three Councilmembers shall have power to call
special meetings of the City Council, the object of which shall be submitted to
the Council in writing; and the call and object, as well as the disposition
thereof, shall be entered upon the journal by the City Clerk.
(Neb. RS 17-106)
      (2)   On filing the call for a special meeting, the City Clerk shall
notify the Mayor and Councilmembers of the special meeting, stating the time
and purpose.
   (C)   Unless otherwise provided by the Council, on the request of any two
members, whether a quorum is present or not, all absent members shall be sent
for and compelled to attend.
   (D)   At the hour appointed for a meeting, the City Clerk shall proceed to
call the roll of members and announce whether a quorum is present. If a quorum
is present, the Council shall be called to order by the Mayor, if present, or,
if absent, by the President of the Council.
§ 30.064 EMERGENCY MEETINGS.
   When it is necessary to hold an emergency meeting without reasonable advance
public notice, the nature of the emergency shall be stated in the minutes and
any formal action taken in that meeting shall pertain only to the emergency.
Such emergency meetings may be held by means of electronic or telecommunication
equipment. The provisions of §
30.067 shall be complied with in conducting emergency meetings. Complete
minutes of such emergency meetings specifying the nature of the emergency and
any formal action taken at the meeting shall be made available to the public by
no later than the end of the next regular business day.
(Neb. RS 84-1411)
§ 30.065 ATTENDANCE OTHER THAN IN PERSON.
   A public body may allow a member of the public or any other witness other
than a member of the public body to appear before the public body by means of
video or telecommunications equipment.
(Neb. RS 84-1411)
§ 30.066 CLOSED SESSIONS.
   (A)   (1)   Any public body may hold a closed session by the affirmative
vote of a majority of its voting members if a closed session is clearly
necessary for the protection of the public interest or for the prevention of
needless injury to the reputation of an individual and if that individual has
not requested a public meeting. The subject matter and the reason necessitating
the closed session shall be identified in the motion to close. Closed sessions
may be held for but shall not be limited to such reasons as:
         (a)   Strategy sessions with respect to collective bargaining, real
estate purchases, pending litigation or litigation which is imminent as
evidenced by communication of a claim or threat of litigation to or by the
public body;
         (b)   Discussion regarding deployment of security personnel or
devices;
         (c)   Investigative proceedings regarding allegations of criminal
misconduct; or
         (d)   Evaluation of the job performance of a person when necessary to
prevent needless injury to the reputation of a person and if that person has
not requested a public meeting.
      (2)   Nothing in this section shall permit a closed meeting for
discussion of the appointment or election of a new member to any public body.
   (B)   The vote to hold a closed session shall be taken in open session. The
entire motion, the vote of each member on the question of holding a closed
session and the time when the closed session commenced and concluded shall be
recorded in the minutes. If the motion to close passes, then the presiding
officer immediately prior to the closed session shall restate on the record the
limitation of the subject matter of the closed session. The public body holding
such a closed session shall restrict its consideration of matters during the
closed portions to only those purposes set forth in the motion to close as the
reason for the closed session. The meeting shall be reconvened in open session
before any formal action may be taken. For purposes of this section, FORMAL
ACTION means a collective decision or a collective commitment or promise to
make a decision on any question, motion, proposal, resolution, order or
ordinance or formation of a position or policy but shall not include
negotiating guidance given by members of the public body to legal counsel or
other negotiators in closed sessions authorized under division (A)(1)(a) above.
   (C)   Any member of any public body shall have the right to challenge the
continuation of a closed session if the member determines that the session has
exceeded the reason stated in the original motion to hold a closed session or
if the member contends that the closed session is neither clearly necessary for
the protection of the public interest or the prevention of needless injury to
the reputation of an individual. Such challenge shall be overruled only by a
majority vote of the members of the public body. The challenge and its
disposition shall be recorded in the minutes.
   (D)   Nothing in this section shall be construed to require that any meeting
be closed to the public.
(Neb. RS 84-1410)
§ 30.067 PROHIBITED ACTS; EXEMPT EVENTS.
   (A)   No person or public body shall fail to invite a portion of its members
to a meeting, and no public body shall designate itself a subcommittee of the
whole body for the purpose of circumventing this subchapter or the Open
Meetings Act, being Neb. RS 84-1407 et seq. No closed session, informal
meeting, chance meeting, social gathering, email, fax or electronic
communication shall be used for the purpose of circumventing the requirements
of this subchapter or the Act.
   (B)   This subchapter and the Act do not apply to chance meetings or to
attendance at or travel to conventions or workshops of members of a public body
at which there is no meeting of the body then intentionally convened, if there
is no vote or other action taken regarding any matter over which the public
body has supervision, control, jurisdiction or advisory power.
(Neb. RS 84-1410)
§ 30.068 PUBLIC PARTICIPATION.
   (A)   Subject to this subchapter and the Open Meetings Act, the public has
the right to attend and the right to speak at meetings of public bodies, and
all or any part of a meeting of a public body, except for closed sessions
called pursuant to §
30.071, may be videotaped, televised, photographed, broadcast or recorded by
any person in attendance by means of a tape recorder, a camera, video equipment
or any other means of pictorial or sonic reproduction or in writing.
   (B)   It shall not be a violation of division (A) above for any public body
to make and enforce reasonable rules and regulations regarding the conduct of
persons attending, speaking at, videotaping, televising, photographing,
broadcasting or recording its meetings, including meetings held by virtual
conferencing. A body may not be required to allow citizens to speak at each
meeting, but it may not forbid public participation at all meetings.
   (C)   No public body shall require members of the public to identify
themselves as a condition for admission to the meeting nor shall such body
require that the name of any member of the public be placed on the agenda prior
to such meeting in order to speak about items on the agenda. The body shall
require any member of the public desiring to address the body to identify
himself or herself, including an address and the name of any organization
represented by such person unless the address requirement is waived to protect
the security of the individual.
   (D)   No public body shall, for the purpose of circumventing this subchapter
or the Open Meetings Act, hold a meeting in a place known by the body to be too
small to accommodate the anticipated audience.
   (E)   No public body shall be deemed in violation of this section if it
holds its meeting in its traditional meeting place which is located in this
state.
   (F)   No public body shall be deemed in violation of this section if it
holds a meeting outside of this state if, but only if, a member entity of the
public body is located outside of this state and the other requirements of Neb.
RS 84-1412 are met.
   (G)   The public body shall, upon request, make a reasonable effort to
accommodate the public’s right to hear the discussion and testimony presented
at the meeting.
   (H)   Public bodies shall make available at the meeting, for examination and
copying by members of the public, at least one copy of all reproducible written
material to be discussed at an open meeting, either in paper or electronic
form. Public bodies shall make available at least one current copy of the Open
Meetings Act posted in the meeting room at a location accessible to members of
the public. At the beginning of the meeting, the public shall be informed about
the location of the posted information.
(Neb. RS 84-1412)
§ 30.069 CITY COUNCIL; ORDER OF BUSINESS.
   Promptly at the hour set by law on the day of each regular meeting, the
members of the City Council, the Mayor, the City Clerk and such other city
officials that may be required shall take their regular stations in the meeting
place, and the business of the city shall be taken up for consideration and
disposition in the manner prescribed by the official agenda on file at the
office of the City Clerk.
§ 30.070 VOTES.
   (A)   Any action taken on any question or motion duly moved and seconded
shall be by roll call vote of the public body in open session, and the record
shall state how each member voted, or if the member was absent or not voting.
The requirements of a roll call or viva voce vote shall be satisfied by a city
which utilizes an electronic voting device which allows the yeas and nays of
each member of the City Council to be readily seen by the public.
   (B)   The vote to elect leadership within a public body may be taken by
secret ballot, but the total number of votes for each candidate shall be
recorded in the minutes.
(Neb. RS 84-1413)
§ 30.071 CITY COUNCIL; PARLIAMENTARY PROCEDURE.
   Unless the City Council provides otherwise, the rules of parliamentary
procedure specified in this section shall apply to meetings of the City
Council. The Mayor shall preserve order during meetings of the City Council and
shall decide all questions of order, subject to an appeal to the Council. When
any person is called to order, he or she shall be seated until the point is
decided. When the Mayor is putting the question, no person shall leave the
meeting room. Every person present, previous to speaking, shall rise from his
or her seat and address the presiding officer and while speaking shall confine
his or her comments to the question. When two or more persons rise at once, the
Mayor shall recognize the one who spoke first. All resolutions or motions shall
be reduced to writing before being acted upon, if requested by the City Clerk
or any member of the Council. Every member of the Council who is present when a
question is voted upon shall cast his or her vote unless excused by a majority
of the members of the Council present. No motion shall be put or debated unless
seconded. When seconded, it shall be stated by the Mayor before being
debatable. In all cases where a motion or resolution is entered on the minutes,
the name of the member of the Council making the motion or resolution shall be
entered also. After each vote, the “yeas” and “nays” shall be taken and entered
in the minutes. Before the vote is actually taken, any resolution, motion or
proposed ordinance may be withdrawn from consideration by the sponsor with the
consent of the member of the Council seconding the resolution, motion or
ordinance. When, in the consideration of an ordinance, different times or
amounts are proposed, the question shall be put on the largest sum or the
longest time. A question to reconsider shall be in order when made by a member
voting with the majority, but the motion to reconsider must be made before the
expiration of the third regular meeting after the initial consideration of the
question. When any question is under debate, no motion shall be made,
entertained or seconded except the previous question, a motion to table and to
adjourn. Each of those motions shall be decided without debate. Any of the
rules of the Council for meetings may be suspended by a two-thirds vote of the
members present. In all cases in which provisions are not made by these rules,
Robert’s Rules of Order is the authority by which the Council shall decide all
procedural disputes that may arise.
§ 30.072 MINUTES.
   (A)   Each public body shall keep minutes of all meetings showing the time,
place, members present and absent and the substance of all matters discussed.
   (B)   The minutes of all meetings and evidence and documentation received or
disclosed in open session shall be public records and open to public inspection
during normal business hours.
   (C)   Minutes shall be written or kept as an electronic record and shall be
available for inspection within ten working days or prior to the next convened
meeting, whichever occurs earlier, except that the city may have an additional
ten working days if the employee responsible for writing or keeping the minutes
is absent due to a serious illness or emergency.
(Neb. RS 84-1413)
§ 30.073 CHANGE IN OFFICE.
   (A)   The Mayor and City Council shall meet at the time and place of the
first regular meeting in December in each election year, and the outgoing
officers and the outgoing members of the Council shall present their reports.
Upon the outgoing Council having completed its business, the outgoing members
of the Council shall surrender their offices to the incoming members, and the
outgoing officers shall thereupon each surrender to their successors in office
all property, records, papers and moneys belonging to the same.
   (B)   The newly elected members of the Council and those continuing in
office shall convene immediately after the prior Council adjourns and proceed
to organize themselves for the ensuing year. The Mayor shall call the meeting
to order. The Clerk shall report to the Council the names of all
Councilmembers-elect who have qualified for their respective offices. The
Council shall examine the credentials of its members and any other elective
officers of the city to see that each has been duly and properly elected and to
see that such oaths and bonds as are required have been given. The Clerk’s
report shall be spread upon the minutes of the meeting preceding the roll call.
   (C)   After ascertaining that all Councilmembers and officers are duly
qualified and after the Clerk has called the roll, the Council shall elect a
President of the Council. The Mayor shall nominate his or her candidates for
appointive offices in which the terms of incumbents are expired and call for a
vote on approval of the candidates. The Mayor shall then proceed with the
regular order of business.
CHAPTER 31: ORGANIZATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
31.01   Standing committees
Commissions and Boards
   
31.15   Library Board
   
31.16   Planning Commission
   
31.17   Board of Adjustment
   
31.18   Board of Health
   
31.19   Nursing Home Board
   
31.20   Housing Authority
   
31.21   Airport Authority Board
   
31.22   Tree Board
   
31.23   Community Redevelopment Authority
Fire Department
   
31.35   Operation and funding
   
31.36   Fire Chief
   
31.37   Membership
   
31.38   Records
   
31.39   Fires
   
31.40   Distant fires
   
31.41   Preservation of property
   
31.42   Impersonating firefighters
   
31.43   Mandatory assistance
   
31.44   Power of arrest
   
31.45   Fire investigation
Police Department
   
31.60   Duties
   
31.61   Reserve officer bond
   
31.62   Arrest and enforcement jurisdiction
   
31.63   Mayor; qualifications; election; officers; appointment; removal; terms
of office; police officers; appointment; removal, demotion or suspension;
procedure
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 31.01 STANDING COMMITTEES.
   (A)   (1)   At the organizational meeting of the City Council, the Mayor
shall appoint members of such standing committees as the City Council may by
ordinance or resolution create. The membership of such standing committees may
be changed at any time by the Mayor.
      (2)   The Mayor shall be a member ex officio of each standing committee.
The members of the standing committees shall serve a term of office of one
year, unless reappointed.
   (B)   The following standing committees shall be appointed or reappointed
each year until changed by the City Council:
      (1)   Cemetery, Police and Fire;
      (2)   Finance and Claims;
      (3)   Landfill and Sewer;
      (4)   Park and Pool;
      (5)   Street and Alley; and
      (6)   Utilities.
(Prior Code, § 2-101)
COMMISSIONS AND BOARDS
§ 31.15 LIBRARY BOARD.
   (A)   The Library Board shall consist of five appointed members who shall be
residents of the city and who shall serve terms of four years. The Board
members shall be appointed by a majority vote of the members of the City
Council. Neither the Mayor nor any member of the City Council shall be a member
of the Library Board. The terms of members serving on the effective date of a
change in the number of members shall not be shortened, and any successors to
those members shall be appointed as the terms of those members expire. In cases
of vacancies by resignation, removal or otherwise, the City Council shall fill
the vacancy for the unexpired term. No member shall receive any pay or
compensation for any services rendered as a member of the Library Board. The
City Council may require the members of the Library Board to give a bond in a
sum set by resolution and conditioned upon the faithful performance of their
duties.
   (B)   (1)   The members of the Library Board shall immediately after their
appointment meet and organize by electing from their number a President, a
Secretary and such other officers as may be necessary. A majority of the
members of the Library Board shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of
business.
      (2)   No member of the Board shall serve in the capacity of both the
President and Secretary of the Board. It shall be the duty of the Secretary to
keep the full and correct minutes and records of all meetings and to file the
same with the City Clerk where they shall be available for public inspection at
any reasonable time.
      (3)   The Board shall meet at such times as the Board may designate.
Special meetings may be held upon the call of the President or a majority of
the members of the Board.
(Prior Code, § 2-201) (Ord. 378, passed 10-27-1981; Ord. 707, passed 4-23-2002)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 51-202 and 51-204
§ 31.16 PLANNING COMMISSION.
   (A)   (1)   The City Council shall appoint the Planning Commission which
shall consist of nine members who shall represent, insofar as is possible, the
different professions or occupations in the city and who shall be residents of
the city. However, two of such members may be residents of the area over which
the city is authorized to exercise extraterritorial zoning and subdivision
regulations. The members of the Commission shall serve a three-year term of
office unless reappointed, except that three members of the first Commission to
be so appointed shall serve for the term of one year, three for the term of two
years and three for a term of three years. But if the Planning Commission has
either five or seven members, approximately one-third of the members of the
first Commission shall serve for a term of one year, one-third for a term of
two years and one-third for a term of three years.
      (2)   The Commission shall serve without compensation and may be
required, in the discretion of the City Council, to give a bond in a sum set by
resolution of the City Council and conditioned upon the faithful performance of
their duties. At the time of the Commission’s first meeting in June of each
year, the Commission shall organize by selecting from its membership a
Chairperson and Secretary. It shall be the duty of the Secretary to keep the
full and correct minutes and records of all meetings and to file the same with
the City Clerk where they shall be available for public inspection at any
reasonable time.
      (3)   The Planning Commission shall be funded by the City Council from
time to time out of the General Fund. A majority of the Commission shall
constitute a quorum for the purpose of doing business. Special meetings may be
held upon the call of the Chairperson, or any three members of the Commission.
It shall be the duty of the Commission to make and adopt plans for the physical
development of the city, including any areas outside its boundaries which, in
the Commission’s judgment, bear relation to the planning of the city. All
actions by the Commission shall be subject to the review and supervision of the
City Council.
   (B)   Recommendations from the Commission shall be received by the City
Council within days after the Commission begins consideration of a matter
relating to the comprehensive development plan, capital improvements, building
codes, subdivision development or zoning. The Commission shall be responsible
for making such reports and performing such other duties as the City Council
may, from time to time, designate. No member of the City Council, or other
municipal official, except where otherwise specifically provided, shall serve
as a member of the Planning Commission while serving any other term of office.
No member of the Planning Commission shall serve in the capacity of both the
Chairperson and Secretary of the Commission.
(Prior Code, § 2-202) (Ord. 569, passed 6-14-1994)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 19-925 through 19-929
§ 31.17 BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT.
   (A)   The Mayor shall appoint, with the consent of the City Council, a Board
of Adjustment, which shall consist of five regular members plus one additional
member designated as an alternate who shall attend and serve only when one of
the regular members is unable to attend for any reason. Each member shall be
appointed for a term of three years and shall be removable for cause by the
Mayor upon written charges and after public hearings. Vacancies shall be filled
for the unexpired term of any member whose term becomes vacant. One member only
of the Board of Adjustment shall be appointed from the membership of the
Planning Commission, and the loss of membership on the Planning Commission by
such member shall also result in his or her immediate loss of membership on the
Board of Adjustment and the appointment of another Planning Commissioner to the
Board of Adjustment. If the Board does not include a member who resides in the
extraterritorial zoning jurisdiction of the city, the first vacancy occurring
on the Board of Adjustment after the effective date of this section shall be
filled by the appointment of a person who resides in the extraterritorial
zoning jurisdiction of the city at such time as more than 200 persons reside
within such area. Thereafter, at all times, at least one member of the Board of
Adjustment shall reside outside the corporate boundaries of the city but within
its extraterritorial zoning jurisdiction. Neither the Mayor nor any member of
the City Council shall serve as a member of the Board of Adjustment.
   (B)   The members of the Board shall serve without compensation and may be
required, in the discretion of the City Council, to give a bond in a sum set by
resolution of the City Council and conditioned upon the faithful performance of
their duties. The Board shall organize at its first meeting each year after the
City Council meeting when appointments are regularly made and shall elect from
its membership a Chairperson and Secretary. No member of the Board of
Adjustment shall serve in the capacity of both Chairperson and Secretary of the
Board.
   (C)   The Board shall adopt rules in accordance with the provisions of this
section and Neb. RS 19-901 through 19-914. Meetings of the Board shall be held
at the call of the Chairperson and at such other times as the Board may
determine. Special meetings may be also held upon the call of any three members
of the Board. A majority of the Board shall constitute a quorum for the purpose
of doing business. The Chairperson, or in his or her absence the acting
Chairperson, may administer oaths and compel the attendance of witnesses. All
meetings of the Board shall be open to the public. It shall be the duty of the
Secretary to keep complete and accurate minutes of the Board’s proceedings,
showing the vote of each member upon each question, or, if absent or failing to
vote, indicating such fact, and to keep records of the Board’s examinations and
other official actions, all of which shall be immediately filed in the office
of the Board and shall be public record. The Board shall be responsible for
making such reports and performing such other duties as the Mayor and City
Council may designate.
   (D)   Appeals to the Board may be taken by any person aggrieved or by any
officer, department, board or bureau of the city affected by any decision of
the administrative officer. Such appeal shall be taken within a reasonable
time, as provided by the rules of the Board, by filing with the officer from
whom the appeal is taken and with the Board a notice of appeal specifying the
grounds thereof. The officer from whom the appeal is taken shall forthwith
transmit to the Board all the papers constituting the record upon which the
action appealed from was taken. An appeal stays all proceedings in furtherance
of the action appealed from, unless the officer from whom the appeal is taken
certifies to the Board, after the notice of appeal shall have been filed with
him or her, that by reason of facts stated in the certificate a stay would, in
his or her opinion, cause imminent peril to life or property. In such case,
proceedings shall not be stayed otherwise than by a restraining order which may
be granted by the Board or by a court of record on application on notice to the
officer from whom the appeal is taken and on due cause shown. The Board shall
fix a reasonable time for the hearing of the appeal, give public notice
thereof, as well as due notice to the parties in interest, and decide the same
within a reasonable time. Upon the hearing, any party may appear in person or
by agent or by attorney.
   (E)   The Board shall have only the following powers:
      (1)   To hear and decide appeals when it is alleged there is error in any
order, requirement, decision or determination made by an administrative
official or agency based on or made in the enforcement of any zoning regulation
or any regulation relating to the location or soundness of structures, except
that the authority to hear and decide appeals shall not apply to decisions made
by the City Council or Planning Commission regarding a conditional use or
special exception;
      (2)   To hear and decide, in accordance with the provisions of any zoning
regulation, requests for interpretation of any map; and
      (3)   When by reason of exceptional narrowness, shallowness or shape of a
specific piece of property at the time of the enactment of the zoning
regulations, or by reason of exceptional topographic conditions or other
extraordinary and exceptional situation or condition of such piece of property,
the strict application of any zoning regulation would result in peculiar and
exceptional practical difficulties to or exceptional and undue hardships upon
the owner of such property, to authorize, upon an appeal relating to the
property, a variance from such strict application so as to relieve such
difficulties or hardship, if such relief may be granted without substantial
detriment to the public good and without substantially impairing the intent and
purpose of any ordinance or resolution.
   (F)   (1)   No such variance shall be authorized by the Board unless it
finds that:
         (a)   The strict application of the zoning regulation would produce
undue hardship;
         (b)   Such hardship is not shared generally by other properties in the
same zoning district and the same vicinity;
         (c)   The authorization of such variance will not be of substantial
detriment to adjacent property, and the character of the district will not be
changed by the granting of the variance; and
         (d)   The granting of such variance is based upon reason of
demonstrable and exceptional hardship as distinguished from variations for
purposes of convenience, profit or caprice.
      (2)   No variance shall be authorized unless the Board finds that the
condition or situation of the property concerned or the intended use of the
property is not of so general or recurring a nature as to make reasonably
practicable the formulation of a general regulation to be adopted as an
amendment to the zoning regulations.
   (G)   In exercising the powers granted in this section, the Board may, in
conformity with Neb. RS 19-901 through 19-915, reverse or affirm, wholly or
partly, or may modify the order, requirement, decision or determination
appealed from, and may make such order, requirement, decision or determination
as ought to be made, and to that end shall have all the powers of the officer
from whom the appeal is taken. The concurring vote of four members of the Board
shall be necessary to reverse any order, requirement, decision or determination
of any such administrative official, or to decide in favor of the applicant on
any matter upon which it is required to pass under any such regulation or to
effect any variation in such regulation.
   (H)   Appeals from a decision by the Board may be taken as provided in Neb.
RS 19-912.
(Prior Code, § 2-203) (Ord. 765, passed 3-22-2005)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 19-908 through 19-910
§ 31.18 BOARD OF HEALTH.
   (A)   The City Council shall appoint a Board of Health which shall consist
of four members. The members of the Board shall include the Mayor, who shall
serve as Chairperson, the President of the City Council and two other members.
One member shall be a physician or health care provider, if one can be found
who is willing to serve. Such physician or health care provider, if appointed,
shall be the Board’s medical advisor. If the Mayor has appointed a Chief of
Police, the Chief of Police shall serve on the Board as Secretary and
quarantine officer. The members of the Board shall serve, without compensation,
a one-year term of office, unless reappointed, and shall reorganize at the
first meeting in December of each year. No member of the Board of Health shall
hold more than one Board of Health position.
   (B)   The Secretary shall keep full and correct minutes and records of all
meetings and file the same with the City Clerk where they shall be available
for public inspection during office hours. The Board of Health shall be funded
by the City Council from time to time out of the General Fund. A majority of
the Board shall constitute a quorum for the purpose of doing business. The
Board shall meet at such times as the City Council may designate. Special
meetings may be held upon the call of the Chairperson, or any two members of
the Board.
   (C)   The Board shall enact rules and regulations, which shall have the full
force and effect of law, to safeguard the health of the people of the city. The
Board shall enforce the rules and regulations and provide fines and punishments
for any violations thereof. It may regulate, suppress and prevent the
occurrence of nuisances and enforce all laws of the state and ordinances of the
city relating to nuisances and to matters of sanitation which affect the health
and safety of the people. The Board shall regularly inspect such premises and
businesses as the City Council may direct. All members of the Board shall be
responsible for making such reports and performing such other duties as the
City Council may, from time to time, designate.
(Prior Code, § 2-204) (Ord. 646, passed 7-22-1997)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-121
§ 31.19 NURSING HOME BOARD.
   (A)   The City Council shall appoint the Nursing Home Board. The Board shall
consist of five members who shall be residents of the city. The members of the
Board shall serve a three-year term of office unless reappointed. The members
of the Board will be appointed or reappointed when their three-year term
expires. The Board shall serve without compensation and may be required, in the
discretion of the City Council, to give a bond in a sum set by resolution of
the City Council and conditioned upon the faithful performance of their duties.
At the time of the Board’s first meeting in June of each year, the Board shall
organize by selecting from its membership a Chairperson and Secretary. It shall
be the duty of the Secretary to keep the full and correct minutes and records
of all meetings and to file the same with the City Clerk where they shall be
available for public inspection at any reasonable time.
   (B)   A majority of the Board members shall constitute a quorum for the
transaction of business. The Board shall meet at such times as the City Council
may designate. Special meetings may be held upon the call of the Chairperson,
or any three Board members. It shall be the duty of the Board to have general
charge of the municipal nursing home and establish appropriate rules and
regulations for the management, operation and use of the same. All actions of
the Board shall be subject to the review and supervision of the City Council.
The Board shall be responsible for making such reports and performing such
additional duties as the City Council may, from time to time, designate. No
member of the City Council shall serve as a member of the Nursing Home Board
while serving a term of office as a member of the City Council. No member of
the Nursing Home Board shall serve in the capacity of both the Chairperson and
Secretary of the Nursing Home Board.
(Prior Code, § 2-205) (Ord. 357, passed 11-25-1980)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-966
§ 31.20 HOUSING AUTHORITY.
   (A)   Continued existence as housing agency.
      (1)   The local Housing Authority established under prior state law and
in existence on January 1, 2000, shall have continued existence as a housing
agency under the state’s Housing Agency Act, being Neb. RS 71-1572 et seq.
      (2)   The local housing agency shall conduct its operations consistent
with the state’s Housing Agency Act. All property, rights in land, buildings,
records and equipment and any funds, money, revenue, receipts or assets of the
Authority belong to the agency as successor. All obligations, debts,
commitments and liabilities of the Authority are obligations, debts,
commitments and liabilities of the successor agency.
      (3)   Any resolution by the Authority and any action taken by the
Authority prior to January 1, 2000, with regard to any project or program which
is to completed within or to be conducted for a 12-month period following
January 1, 2000, and which resolution or action is lawful under state law as it
existed prior to January 1, 2000, is a lawful resolution or action of the
successor agency and binding upon the successor agency and enforceable by or
against the agency notwithstanding that such resolution or action is
inconsistent with, not authorized by, or prohibited under the provisions of the
state’s Housing Agency Act.
      (4)   All commissioners of the local housing agency and all officers,
legal counsel, technical experts, directors and other appointees or employees
of the agency holding office or employment by virtue of any such prior law on
January 1, 2000, shall be deemed to have been appointed or employed under the
state’s Housing Agency Act.
(Prior Code, § 2-206)
   (B)   Ownership. The Municipal Housing Authority is owned by the city and
operated through the Housing Authority Commission. The Housing Authority shall
constitute a body corporate and politic and shall have all the powers necessary
or convenient to carry out and effectuate the purposes and provisions of the
state’s Housing Authority Act.
(Prior Code, § 2-207)
   (C)   Definitions. Except as otherwise specifically provided, the
definitions and terms set out in the state statutes relating to housing
authorities under the state’s Housing Authority Act are hereby adopted by
reference as they now exist or may hereafter be amended.
(Prior Code, § 2-208)
   (D)   Operation and management.
      (1)   The Authority shall at all times observe the following duties with
respect to rentals and tenant selection.
         (a)   It may rent or lease dwelling accommodations therein only to
persons of low income, elderly or handicapped persons of low income and
displaced persons in need.
         (b)   There shall be no discrimination in the eligibility or occupancy
of tenants on the basis of race, sex, marital status, religion, color, creed,
national origin or ancestry.
         (c)   The Authority shall not accept any person as a tenant in any
dwelling in the housing project if the persons who occupy the dwelling have an
aggregate annual income which equals or exceeds the amount which the Authority
has conclusively determined to be sufficient to enable one to secure safe,
sanitary and un-congested dwelling accommodations within the area served by the
Authority and to provide an adequate standard of living.
         (d)   The Authority may rent or lease to a tenant a dwelling
consisting of a number of rooms which is deemed necessary to provide safe and
sanitary accommodations to the occupants without overcrowding.
         (e)   The Authority shall fix income limits for occupancy and rents
after taking into consideration:
            1.   The family size, composition, age, physical handicaps and
other factors which might affect the rent-paying ability of the person; and
            2.   The economic factors which affect the financial stability and
solvency of the project.
         (f)   The Authority may accept as a tenant any displaced person or
persons in need, regardless of income, but in no event shall such person or
persons remain as a tenant or tenants of the Authority for more than a period
of six months unless such persons also qualify as persons of low income,
elderly or handicapped persons of low income.
         (g)   All persons of low income, elderly or handicapped persons of low
income or displaced persons in need, shall be entitled to the benefits of this
chapter, and the Authority may establish rules and regulations consistent with
the purposes of this chapter concerning eligibility and occupancy of the
housing project or other such shelter.
         (h)   Nothing herein shall prohibit the right of the Authority to
inquire into the financial condition, family composition, medical, personal and
employment history of any tenant or prospective tenant.
         (i)   The Authority shall prohibit subletting by tenants.
      (2)   The Authority may establish from time to time rules and regulations
consistent with federal and state laws and regulations and the purposes of this
section concerning the termination of tenancy. Any tenant so terminated shall
be sent a written notice of termination setting out the reasons for such
termination, and any tenant served with a notice shall be given the opportunity
to contest the termination in an appropriate hearing, except that tenants who
have created or maintained a threat constituting a serious and clear danger to
the health or safety of other tenants or Authority employees need not be given
such a hearing by the Authority. Such notice may provide that if the tenant
fails to pay his or her rent or comply with any covenant or condition of his or
her lease, or the rules and regulations of such Authority, or cure a violation
or default thereof, as the case may be, as specified in such notice, or follow
the procedure for a hearing as set forth in the notice, all within the time or
times set forth in such notice, the tenancy shall then be automatically
terminated and no other notice or notices need be given of such termination or
the intent to terminate the tenancy, and upon such termination, and without any
notice other than as provided for in this section, the Authority may file suit
against any tenant for recovery of possession of the premises and may recover
the same as provided by law.
      (3)   The Authority may establish from time to time rules and regulations
consistent with the purposes of this section concerning personal property of
tenants and other persons located in projects of the Authority, and if such
personal property is not removed from a dwelling unit at the time of the
termination of the lease, at the time of vacation or abandonment of the
dwelling unit, or at the time of the death of any tenant, then the Authority
may remove the same and store such property at the tenant’s risk and expense.
In the event that possession of such personal property is not taken by the
tenant or other person authorized by law to take possession within 45 days
after such termination, vacation or abandonment, and any storage removal
charges remain unpaid, then the Authority may, at its option, dispose of the
personal property in any manner which the Authority deems fit, except that any
proceeds from the disposal of such personal property shall be paid to the
General Fund of the body which created the Authority. No tenant or other person
shall have any cause of action against the Authority for such removal or
disposition of such personal property.
(Prior Code, § 2-209)
   (E)   Rules and regulations.
      (1)   The Housing Authority may establish from time to time rules and
regulations consistent with the purposes of this section concerning the
priority of eligible applicants for occupancy.
      (2)   The Authority may give preferential treatment to applicants who are
service members or veterans, relatives of service members or veterans, to
disabled service members or veterans, the elderly or disabled, those in urgent
need of adequate housing or who have no adequate source of income; provided,
that in any such system of priority, displaced persons in need shall have a
priority ahead of all other persons; and provided further, that no tenant in
good standing then in occupancy and qualified for continued occupancy shall
have his or her tenancy terminated in order to provide dwelling units for
classes or categories of applicants as the Authority may establish.
(Prior Code, § 2-210)
   (F)   Reports. The Housing Authority shall keep an accurate account of all
its activities and of all its receipts and disbursements and shall make an
annual report at the second regular meeting in January of each year to the City
Council.
(Prior Code, § 2-211) (Ord. 394, passed 2-8-1983; Ord. 395, passed 2-8-1983;
Ord. 696, passed 10-10-2000)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 71-1572 through 71-15,168 and 71-1576
§ 31.21 AIRPORT AUTHORITY BOARD.
   (A)   The Airport Authority Board shall have the full and exclusive
jurisdiction and control over all facilities owned or hereafter acquired by the
city for the purpose of aviation operation, air navigation and air safety
operation. The Board is a body corporate and politic, constituting a public
corporation and an agency of the city. The Board shall consist of five members.
Members of the Board shall be nominated and elected in the manner provided by
law for the election of other elected officials and shall take office on the
first Tuesday in June of each municipal election year. Members of the Board
shall be residents of the city and shall serve a term of six years. Two members
of the Board shall be elected in each municipal election year; provided, that
in each third election year, one member only shall be elected to the Airport
Authority Board.
   (B)   Any vacancy on the Board resulting from any other cause than the
expiration of a term of office, shall be filled by temporary appointment by the
Mayor, with the approval of the City Council, until a successor can be elected
at the next general municipal election to serve the unexpired portion of the
term. A member of the Board may be removed from office for incompetence,
neglect of duty or malfeasance in office. An action for the removal of such
officer may be brought, upon resolution of the City Council, in the county’s
District Court. The Board shall have such other powers and duties as may be
prescribed by state law.
(Prior Code, § 2-212) (Ord. 484, passed 10-25-1988)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 3-501 through 3-514
§ 31.22 TREE BOARD.
   (A)   Creation and establishment. There is hereby created and established a
Tree Board for the city, which shall be appointed by the Mayor with the
approval of the City Council. The Community Forest Manager shall be an ex
officio member of the City Tree Board.
   (B)   Term of office. The term of the seven persons to be appointed by the
Mayor shall be three years except that the term of three of the members
appointed to the first Board shall be for only one year and the term of three
of the first Board shall be for two years. In the event that a vacancy shall
occur during the term of any member, a successor shall be appointed for a new
three-year term.
   (C)   Compensation. Members of the Tree Board shall serve without
compensation.
   (D)   Duties and responsibilities.
      (1)   It shall be the responsibility of the Tree Board to study,
investigate, counsel and develop and/or update annually and administer written
plans (annual and long range) for the care, replacement, maintenance and
removal or disposition of trees and shrubs in parks, along streets and in other
public areas. Such plan will be presented annually to the City Council and upon
its acceptance and approval shall constitute the official comprehensive city
tree plan.
      (2)   The Tree Board, when requested by the City Council, shall consider,
investigate, make finding, report and recommend upon any special matter or
question relating to trees.
   (E)   Operation. The Tree Board shall choose its own officers, make its own
rules and regulations and keep a journal of its proceedings. A majority of the
members shall be a quorum for the transaction of business.
(Prior Code, § 2-213) (Ord. 685, passed 4-11-2000)
§ 31.23 COMMUNITY REDEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY.
   (A)   Creation. There is hereby created the Community Redevelopment
Authority of the city.
   (B)   Officers.
      (1)   Five persons, all of whom shall be residents of the city, shall
constitute the Authority. The five members shall be selected by the Mayor and
approved by the City Council. The Mayor shall designate the term of office for
each member, as provided in Neb. RS 18-2102.01.
      (2)   The Authority shall select one of its members as Chairperson and
one as Vice Chairperson. A total of four members of the Authority shall
constitute a quorum for the transaction of business. The Authority shall adopt
rules for the transaction of its business and shall keep a record of its
resolutions, transactions, findings and determinations, which records shall be
made available for public inspection during regular business hours.
   (C)   Director. The Authority shall select a person to serve as Director and
ex officio Secretary of the Community Redevelopment Authority, and that person
shall perform such duties as may be assigned by the Authority, including the
necessary administrative functions described in Neb. RS 18-2102.01 et seq.
   (D)   Funds. All income, revenue, profits and other funds received by the
Authority shall be deposited with the City Treasurer as ex officio Treasurer of
such Authority without co-mingling such money with any other money under said
Treasurer’s control and disbursed by check or draft only upon warrants, orders
or requisitions by the Chairperson of the Authority or other person authorized
by the Authority, which shall state distinctly the purpose for which the same
are drawn, and a permanent record shall be kept by the Authority of any such
activity.
(Prior Code, § 2-214) (Ord. 764, passed 1-25-2005)
FIRE DEPARTMENT
§ 31.35 OPERATION AND FUNDING.
   (A)   The city may operate a Fire Department through the Fire Chief and
firefighters.
   (B)   The city shall have power to procure fire engines, hooks, ladders,
buckets and other apparatus, to organize fire engine, hook and ladder and
bucket companies, to prescribe rules of duty and the government of the Fire
Department with such penalties as the City Council may deem proper, not
exceeding $100, and to make all necessary appropriations for the Fire
Department.
(Neb. RS 17-147)
   (C)   If the city has only a Voluntary Fire Department or companies, the
City Council may levy a tax annually of not more than $0.07 on each $100 upon
the taxable value of all the taxable property within the city for the
maintenance and benefit of the Fire Department or companies. The amount of such
tax shall be established at the beginning of the year and shall be included in
the adopted budget statement. Upon collection of such tax, the City Treasurer
shall disburse the same upon the order of the Fire Chief with the approval of
the City Council.
(Neb. RS 17-718)
Statutory reference:
   Fire station acquisition, construction and maintenance, see Neb. RS 17-953
et seq.
§ 31.36 FIRE CHIEF.
   The Fire Chief shall manage the Fire Department, and it shall be his or her
duty to inform the City Council when any of the fire engines, hose, ladders or
other apparatus needs repair. Upon the written consent and directive of the
City Council, the Fire Chief shall cause the repair, improvement or maintenance
of the equipment and shall personally supervise and approve of the same. It
shall be the duty of the Fire Chief to come before the City Council at the
regular meeting in January of each year to give an annual report to the City
Council of the general condition and the proposed additions or improvements
recommended by him or her.
§ 31.37 MEMBERSHIP.
   (A)   The Fire Department shall consist of so many members as may be decided
by the City Council. The members may organize themselves in any way they may
decide, subject to the review of the City Council. The Fire Chief shall appoint
no more than 25 members for each Fire Department company, subject to the review
and approval of the City Council. All vacancies shall be filled in this manner.
   (B)   All members of the Fire Department shall be subject to such rules and
regulations and shall perform such duties as may be prescribed or required of
them by the Fire Chief or the City Council. The members of the Fire Department
shall, during the time of a fire or great public danger, have and exercise the
powers and duties of police officers and shall have full power and Authority to
arrest all persons guilty of any violation of the municipal code or the laws of
the state.
   (C)   Members of the Fire Department may hold meetings and engage in social
activities with the approval of the City Council. The Secretary shall, upon
request, keep a record of all meetings and shall make a report to the City
Council of all meetings and activities of the Fire Department.
   (D)   Members of the Fire Department shall be considered to be employees of
the city for the purpose of providing them with workers’ compensation and other
benefits. The City Council may compensate or reimburse any member of the Fire
Department for expenses incurred in carrying out his or her duties in an amount
set by resolution.
   (E)   The City Council shall purchase and maintain in force a policy of
group term life insurance to age 65 covering the lives of all of the city’s
active volunteer fire and rescue personnel, except that when any such person
serves more than one municipality or rural or suburban fire protection
district, the policy shall be purchased only by the first municipality or
district which he or she serves. The policy shall provide a minimum death
benefit of $10,000 for death from any cause and shall, at the option of the
insured, be convertible to a permanent form of life insurance at age 65. The
coverage of such policy shall terminate as to any individual who ceases to be
an active volunteer member of the Fire Department of the city.
   (F)   For purposes of Neb. RS 33-139.01, volunteer firefighters and rescue
squad members testifying as witnesses in that capacity alone shall not be
deemed employees of the city.
(Prior Code, § 2-303) (Ord. 443, passed 9-24-1985; Ord. 740, passed 3-9-2004)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 33-139.01 and 35-108
§ 31.38 RECORDS.
   (A)   The Fire Chief shall keep or cause to be kept a record of all meetings
of the Fire Department, the attendance record of all members, and a record of
all fires and shall make a full report of these records to the City Clerk
during the last week in April each year. The record of any fire shall include
the cause, origin, circumstances, property involved and whether criminal
conduct may have been involved.
   (B)   In the event of sizable property damage, the Fire Chief shall include
the information of whether the losses were covered by insurance, and if so, in
what amount. All records shall be available to the public at any reasonable
time.
§ 31.39 FIRES.
   It shall be the duty of the Fire Department to use all proper means for the
extinguishment of fires, to protect property within the city and to secure the
observance of all ordinances, laws and other rules and regulations with respect
to fires and fire prevention.
§ 31.40 DISTANT FIRES.
   Upon the permission of the Mayor or Fire Chief, or pursuant to any agreement
with a fire district for mutual aid protection, such fire equipment of the city
as may be designated by the City Council as rural equipment may be used beyond
the corporate limits to extinguish reported fires. The firefighters of the city
shall be considered as acting in the performance and within the scope of their
duties in fighting fire or saving property or life outside the corporate limits
of the city when directed to do so by the City Council or the Fire Chief or
some person authorized to act for the Chief, and in so doing, may take such
fire equipment of the city as may be designated by the City Council.
§ 31.41 PRESERVATION OF PROPERTY.
   Any official of the Fire Department shall have the power during the time of
a fire to cause the removal of any private or public property whenever it shall
become necessary to do so for the preservation of such property from fire, to
prevent the spreading of fire or to protect adjoining property. The officials
may direct the hook and ladder firefighters to remove any building, erection or
fence for the purpose of checking the progress of any fire, and the official in
charge of the firefighting effort shall have the power to blow up, or cause to
be blown up, with powder or otherwise, any building or erection during the
progress of a fire for the purpose of extinguishing or checking the same.
(Prior Code, § 2-307)
§ 31.42 IMPERSONATING FIREFIGHTERS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to falsely personate a firefighter by
wearing a badge or other apparel usually worn by a firefighter for the purpose
of obtaining any benefit whatsoever. Nothing herein shall be construed to
prohibit the theatrical representation of a firefighter for bona fide
entertainment purposes when there is no intent to defraud.
(Prior Code, § 2-308) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 28-609
§ 31.43 MANDATORY ASSISTANCE.
   Any official of the Fire Department may command the assistance and services
of any person present at a fire to help in extinguishing the fire, or in the
removal and protection of property. In the event that a spectator refuses,
neglects or fails to assist the Fire Department after a lawful order to do so,
he or she shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor.
(Prior Code, § 2-309) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 31.44 POWER OF ARREST.
   The Fire Chief or the Assistant Fire Chief shall have the power, during the
time of a fire and for a period of 36 hours after its extinguishment, to arrest
any suspected arsonist, or other person hindering or resisting the firefighting
effort, or any person who conducts himself or herself in a noisy or disorderly
manner. The officials shall be severally vested with the usual powers and
authority of city police officers to command all persons to assist them in the
performance of their duties.
§ 31.45 FIRE INVESTIGATION.
   The Fire Chief shall investigate or cause to be investigated the cause,
origin and circumstances of every fire occurring in the city by which property
has been destroyed or damaged. All fires of unknown origin shall be reported
and such officer shall especially make an investigation and report as to
whether the fire was the result of carelessness, accident or design. The
investigation shall begin immediately after of the occurrence of the fire, and
the State Fire Marshal shall have the right to supervise and direct the
investigation whenever he or she deems it expedient or necessary. The officer
making the investigation of fires occurring in the city shall forthwith notify
the State Fire Marshal and shall within one week of the occurrence of the fire
furnish him or her written statement of all the facts relating to the cause and
origin of the fire and such further information as he or she may call for.
(Neb. RS 81-506)
POLICE DEPARTMENT
§ 31.60 DUTIES.
   (A)   If the Mayor and City Council have provided for the appointment of a
Police Chief, the Police Department shall consist of the Chief of Police and
such further number of regular police officers as may be duly ordered by
resolution of the Council.
   (B)   The Chief of Police shall, subject to the direction of the Mayor, have
control and management of all matters relating to the Police Department and its
officers and members and shall have the custody and control of all property and
books belonging to the Department. The Chief shall devote his or her whole time
to the city affairs and interests of the city and to the preservation of peace,
order, safety and cleanliness thereof.
   (C)   (1)   The Department shall execute and enforce all laws and also the
orders of the Mayor. It shall be the duty of the Department to protect the
rights of persons and property. The Department shall take notice of all
nuisances, impediments, obstructions and defects in the streets, avenues,
alleys, business places and residences of the city. The Department shall
execute, or cause to be executed, the processes issued and shall cause all
persons arrested to be brought before the proper court for trial as speedily as
possible.
      (2)   The Chief of Police and all regular and special police officers
shall become thoroughly conversant with the laws of the city and shall see that
the same are strictly enforced and shall make sworn complaints against any
person or persons for violation of the same. It shall be the duty of every city
police officer making a lawful arrest to search all persons in the presence of
some other person, whenever possible, and to carefully keep and produce to the
proper judicial official upon the trial everything found upon the person of
such prisoners. All personal effects so taken from prisoners shall be restored
to them upon their release. The Police Chief and other police officers shall
file such reports as may be required by the city ordinances and the laws of the
state. No law enforcement official shall have any interest in any establishment
having a liquor license.
   (D)   Suitable badges shall be furnished to the city police by the city. Any
police officer who loses or destroys the same shall be required to pay the
replacement costs. If a police officer leaves the city police force, he or she
shall immediately deliver his or her badge to the Police Chief.
   (E)   City police officers shall have full power and authority to call on
any person whenever necessary to assist them in performing public duties, and
failure, neglect or refusal to render such assistance shall be deemed an
offense.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 31.61 RESERVE OFFICER BOND.
   No appointment of a law enforcement reserve officer shall be valid until a
bond in the amount of $2,000, payable to the city, has been filed with the City
Clerk by the individual appointed, or a blanket surety bond arranged and paid
for by the City Council and bonding all such officers of the City Council has
been filed. Such bonds shall be subject to the provisions of Neb. RS Chapter
11, Article 1.
(Prior Code, § 2-402) (Ord. 460, passed 10-14-1986)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 81-1444
§ 31.62 ARREST AND ENFORCEMENT JURISDICTION.
   (A)   Every municipal law enforcement officer has the power and authority to
enforce the laws of this state and the city or otherwise perform the functions
of that office anywhere within his or her primary jurisdiction. PRIMARY
JURISDICTION means the geographic area within territorial limits of the city.
   (B)   Any municipal law enforcement officer who is within this state, but
beyond his or her primary jurisdiction, has the power and authority to enforce
the laws of this state or any legal ordinance of any city or incorporated
village or otherwise perform the functions of his or her office, including the
authority to arrest and detain suspects, as if enforcing the laws or performing
the functions within his or her primary jurisdiction in the following cases.
      (1)   Any municipal law enforcement officer, if in a fresh attempt to
apprehend a person suspected of committing a felony, may follow such person
into any other jurisdiction in this state and there arrest and detain such
person and return such person to the officer’s primary jurisdiction.
      (2)   Any municipal law enforcement officer, if in a fresh attempt to
apprehend a person suspected of committing a misdemeanor or a traffic
infraction, may follow such person anywhere in an area within 25 miles of the
boundaries of the officer’s primary jurisdiction and there arrest and detain
such person and return such person to the officer’s primary jurisdiction.
      (3)   Any municipal law enforcement officer has such enforcement and
arrest and detention authority when responding to a call in which a local,
state or federal law enforcement officer is in need of assistance. A law
enforcement officer in need of assistance shall mean:
         (a)   A law enforcement officer whose life is in danger; or
         (b)   A law enforcement officer who needs assistance in making an
arrest and the suspect:
            1.   Will not be apprehended unless immediately arrested;
            2.   May cause injury to himself or herself or others or damage to
property unless immediately arrested; or
            3.   May destroy or conceal evidence of the commission of a crime.
      (4)   If the city, under the provisions of the Interlocal Cooperation
Act, being Neb. RS 13-801 et seq., or the Joint Public Agency Act, being Neb.
RS 13-2501 et seq., enters into a contract with any other municipality or
county for law enforcement services or joint law enforcement services, law
enforcement personnel may have such enforcement authority within the
jurisdiction of each of the participating political subdivisions if provided
for in the agreement. Unless otherwise provided in the agreement, the city
shall provide liability insurance coverage for its own law enforcement
personnel as provided in Neb. RS 13-1802.
   (C)   When probable cause exists to believe that a person is operating or in
the actual physical control of any motor vehicle, motorboat or aircraft while
under the influence of alcoholic liquor or of any drug or otherwise in
violation of Neb. RS 28-1465, 28-1466, 28-1472, 37-1254.01, 37-1254.02, 60-
4,163, 60-4,164, 60-6,196, 60-6,197, 60-6,211.01 or 60-6,211.02, a municipal
law enforcement officer has the power and authority to do any of the following
or any combination thereof:
      (1)   Transport such person to a facility outside of the law enforcement
officer’s primary jurisdiction for appropriate chemical testing of the person;
      (2)   Administer outside of the law enforcement officer’s primary
jurisdiction any post-arrest test advisement to the person; or
      (3)   With respect to such person, perform other procedures or functions
outside of the law enforcement officer’s primary jurisdiction which are
directly and solely related to enforcing the laws that concern a person
operating or being in the actual physical control of any motor vehicle,
motorboat or aircraft while under the influence of alcoholic liquor or of any
other drug or otherwise in violation of Neb. RS 28-1465, 28-1466, 28-1472, 37-
1254.01, 37-1254.02, 60-4,163, 60-4,164, 60-6,196, 60-6,197, 60-6,211.01 or 60-
6,211.02.
   (D)   If municipal law enforcement personnel are rendering aid in their law
enforcement capacity outside the limits of the city in the event of disaster,
emergency or civil defense emergency or in connection with any program of
practice or training for such disaster, emergency or civil defense emergency
when such program is conducted or participated in by the state’s Emergency
Management Agency or with any other related training program, the law
enforcement personnel have the power and authority to enforce the laws of this
state or any legal ordinances or resolutions of the local government where they
are rendering aid or otherwise perform the functions of their office, including
the authority to arrest and detain suspects, as if enforcing the laws or
performing the functions within their primary jurisdiction. The city shall
self-insure or contract for insurance against any liability for personal
injuries or property damage that may be incurred by it or by its personnel as
the result of any movement made pursuant to this division (D).
(Prior Code, § 2-403) (Ord. 593, passed 3-14-1995; Ord. 668, passed 8-25-1998;
Ord. 741, passed 3-9-2004)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 29-215 and 81-829.65
§ 31.63 MAYOR; QUALIFICATIONS; ELECTION; OFFICERS; APPOINTMENT; REMOVAL; TERMS
OF OFFICE; POLICE OFFICERS; APPOINTMENT; REMOVAL, DEMOTION, OR SUSPENSION;
PROCEDURE.
   (A)   A mayor of a city of the second class shall be elected in the manner
provided in the Election Act. The Mayor shall take office on the date of the
first regular meeting of the City Council held in December following the
statewide general election. The Mayor shall be a resident and registered voter
of the city. If the president of the City Council assumes the office of Mayor
for the unexpired term, there shall be a vacancy on the City Council which
vacancy shall be filled as provided in Neb. RS 32-568.
   (B)   The Mayor, with the consent of the City Council, may appoint such
officers as shall be required by ordinance or otherwise required by law. Such
officers may be removed from office by the Mayor. The terms of office for all
officers, except regular police officers, appointed by the Mayor and confirmed
by the City Council shall be established by the City Council by ordinance. The
ordinance shall provide that either:
      (1)   The officers hold the office to which they have been appointed
until the end of the Mayor’s term of office and until their successors are
appointed and qualified unless sooner removed; or
      (2)   The officers hold office for one year unless sooner removed.
   (C)   (1)   The Mayor, by and with the consent of the City Council, shall
appoint such a number of regular police officers as may be necessary. All
police officers appointed by the Mayor and City Council may be removed, demoted
or suspended at any time by the Mayor as provided in division (C)(2) below. A
police officer, including the Chief of Police, may appeal to the City Council
such removal, demotion or suspension with or without pay. After a hearing, the
City Council may uphold, reverse or modify the action.
      (2)   (a)   The City Council shall by ordinance adopt rules and
regulations governing the removal, demotion or suspension with or without pay
of any police officer, including the Chief of Police. The ordinance shall
include a procedure for such removal, demotion or suspension with or without
pay of any police officer, including the Chief of Police, upon the written
accusation of the Police Chief, the Mayor or any citizen or taxpayer.
         (b)   The City Council shall establish by ordinance procedures for
acting upon such written accusation, including:
            1.   Provisions for giving notice and a copy of the written
accusation to the police officer;
            2.   The police officer’s right to have an attorney or
representative retained by the police officer present with him or her at all
hearings or proceedings regarding the written accusation;
            3.   The right of the police officer or his or her attorney or
representative retained by the police officer to be heard and present evidence;
and
            4.   The right of the police officer as well as the individual
imposing the action or their respective attorneys or representatives to record
all hearings or proceedings regarding the written accusation.
         (c)   The ordinance shall also include a procedure for making
application for an appeal, specifications on the period of time within which
such application shall be made and provisions on the manner in which the
appeals hearing shall be conducted. Both the police officer and the individual
imposing the action or their respective attorneys or representatives shall have
the right at the hearing to be heard and to present evidence to the City
Council for its consideration. Not later than 30 days following the adjournment
of the meeting at which the hearing was held, the City Council shall vote to
uphold, reverse or modify the action. The failure of the city council to act
within 30 days or the failure of a majority of the elected City Council members
to vote to reverse or modify the action shall be construed as a vote to uphold
the action. The decision of the City Council shall be based upon its
determination that, under the facts and evidence presented at the hearing, the
action was necessary for the proper management and the effective operation of
the Police Department in the performance of its duties under the statutes of
the state. Nothing in this section shall be construed to prevent the preemptory
suspension or immediate removal from duty of an officer by the appropriate
authority, pending the hearing authorized by this section, in cases of gross
misconduct, neglect of duty or disobedience of orders.
      (3)   This division (C) does not apply to a police officer during his or
her probationary period.
(Neb. RS 17-107) (Prior Code, § 2-404)
CHAPTER 32: ELECTIONS
Section
   
32.01   Generally
   
32.02   Notice
   
32.03   Registered voters; qualifications
   
32.04   Special elections
   
32.05   Election of officers; certifications required
   
32.06   Partisan ballot; when allowed; requirements
   
32.07   Candidate filing forms; deadlines; filing officer
   
32.08   Filing fee
   
32.09   Petition, write-in and other candidates for general election ballot;
procedures
   
32.10   Recall procedure
   
32.11   Exit polls; poll watchers
Statutory reference:
   Election Act, see Neb. RS 32-101
§ 32.01 GENERALLY.
   (A)   All city issues and offices shall be combined on the statewide primary
and general election ballots whenever possible. The issuance of separate
ballots shall be avoided in a statewide election if city offices or issues can
reasonably be combined with the nonpartisan ballot and state law does not
require otherwise. All city elections involving the election of officers shall
be held in accordance with the Election Act, being Neb. RS 32-101 et seq., and
in conjunction with the statewide primary or general election.
(Neb. RS 32-556)
   (B)   When the city holds an election in conjunction with the statewide
primary or general election, the election shall be held as provided in the
Election Act. Any other election held by the city shall be held as provided in
the Election Act unless otherwise provided by the charter, code or bylaws of
the city.
(Neb. RS 32-404)
§ 32.02 NOTICE.
   The notice of election required to be published by the Election Commissioner
or County Clerk pursuant to Neb. RS 32-802 shall serve as the notice
requirement for all city elections which are held in conjunction with the
statewide primary or general election.
§ 32.03 REGISTERED VOTERS; QUALIFICATIONS.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      REGISTERED VOTER. An elector who has a current voter registration record
on file with the Election Commissioner or County Clerk in the county of his or
her residence.
(Neb. RS 32-115)
   (B)   All registered voters residing within the corporate limits of the city
on or before election day shall be entitled to vote at all city elections.
(Neb. RS 17-602)
Statutory reference:
   Definition of elector, see Neb. RS 32-110
§ 32.04 SPECIAL ELECTIONS.
   (A)   (1)   Except as provided in Neb. RS 77-3444, any issue to be submitted
to the registered voters at a special election by the city shall be certified
by the City Clerk to the Election Commissioner or County Clerk on or before the
eighth Friday prior to the election. A special election may be held by mail as
provided in Neb. RS 32-952 through 32-959. Any other special election under
this section shall be subject to division (B) below.
      (2)   In lieu of submitting the issue at a special election, the city may
submit the issue at a statewide primary or general election or at any scheduled
county election, except that no such issue shall be submitted at a statewide
election or scheduled county election unless the issue to be submitted has been
certified by the City Clerk to the Election Commissioner or County Clerk by
March 1 for the primary election and by September 1 for the general election.
      (3)   After the Election Commissioner or County Clerk has received the
certification of the issue to be submitted, he or she shall be responsible for
all matters relating to the submission of the issue to the registered voters,
except that the City Clerk shall be responsible for the publication or posting
of any required special notice of the submission of the issue other than the
notice required to be given of the statewide election issues. The Election
Commissioner or County Clerk shall prepare the ballots and issue ballots for
early voting and shall also conduct the submission of the issue, including the
receiving and counting of ballots on the issue. The election returns shall be
made to the Election Commissioner or County Clerk. The ballots shall be counted
and canvassed at the same time and in the same manner as the other ballots.
Upon completion of the canvass of the vote by the County Canvassing Board, the
Election Commissioner or County Clerk shall certify the election results to the
City Council. The canvass by the County Canvassing Board shall have the same
force and effect as if made by the City Council.
   (B)   (1)   A city that has submitted an issue for a special election under
division (A)(1) above may cancel the special election if the Secretary of
State, Election Commissioner or County Clerk receives a resolution adopted by
the political subdivision canceling the special election on or before the
fourth Thursday prior to the election. No cancellation shall be effective after
such date. If a special election is canceled in such manner, the city shall be
responsible for the costs incurred that are related to the canceled election.
Such costs shall include all chargeable costs as provided in section Neb. RS
32-1202 associated with preparing for and conducting a special election.
      (2)   A city that has submitted an issue at a statewide primary or
general election or at any scheduled county election under division (A)(2)
above may withdraw the issue from the ballot if the Secretary of State,
Election Commissioner or County Clerk receives a resolution adopted by the city
withdrawing the issue from the ballot no later than March 1 prior to a
statewide primary election or September 1 prior to a statewide general
election. No withdrawal shall be effective after such date. Any issue withdrawn
in this manner shall not be printed on the ballot.
(Neb. RS 32-559)
   (C)   Any special election under the Election Act, being Neb. RS 32-101 et
seq., shall be held on the first Tuesday following the second Monday of the
selected month unless otherwise specifically provided. No special election
shall be held under the Election Act in April, May, June, October, November or
December of an even-numbered year unless it is held in conjunction with the
statewide primary or general election. No special election shall be held under
the Election Act in September of an even-numbered year except for a special
election by a political subdivision pursuant to Neb. RS 13-519 or Neb. RS 77-
3444 to approve a property tax levy or exceed a property tax levy limitation.
(Neb. RS 32-405)
§ 32.05 ELECTION OF OFFICERS; CERTIFICATIONS REQUIRED.
   No later than January 5 of each even-numbered year, the City Council shall
certify to the Secretary of State, the Election Commissioner or the County
Clerk the name of the city, the number of officers to be elected, the length of
the terms of office, the vacancies to be filled by election and length of
remaining term and the number of votes to be cast by a registered voter for
each office. The Secretary of State, Election Commissioner and County Clerk
shall prescribe the forms to be used for certification to him or her.
(Neb. RS 32-404)
§ 32.06 PARTISAN BALLOT; WHEN ALLOWED; REQUIREMENTS.
   All elective city officers shall be nominated and elected on a nonpartisan
basis unless the city provides for a partisan ballot by ordinance. No ordinance
providing for nomination and election on a partisan ballot shall permit
affiliation with any party not recognized as a political party for purposes of
the Election Act. Such ordinance providing for nomination and election on a
partisan ballot shall be adopted and effective not less than 60 days prior to
the filing deadline.
(Neb. RS 32-557)
§ 32.07 CANDIDATE FILING FORMS; DEADLINES; FILING OFFICER.
   (A)   Any candidate may place his or her name on the primary election ballot
by filing a candidate filing form prescribed by the Secretary of State as
provided in division (B) below. If a candidate is an incumbent of any elective
office, the filing period for filing the candidate filing form shall be between
January 5 and February 15 prior to the date of the primary election. No
incumbent who resigns from elective office prior to the expiration of his or
her term shall file for any office after February 15 of that election year. All
other candidates shall file for office between January 5 and March 1 prior to
the date of the general election.
(Neb. RS 32-606)
   (B)   Candidate filing forms shall be filed in the office of the Election
Commissioner or County Clerk.
(Neb. RS 32-607)
Statutory reference:
   Filling of vacancy on ballot, see Neb. RS 32-625 and 32-627
   Withdrawal after filing, see Neb. RS 32-622
§ 32.08 FILING FEE.
   (A)   Except as provided in division (D) or (E) below, a filing fee shall be
paid to the City Treasurer by or on behalf of each candidate for city office
prior to filing for office. The fee shall be placed in the general fund of the
city. No candidate filing forms shall be filed until the proper payment or the
proper receipt showing the payment of such filing fee is presented to the
filing officer. On the day of the filing deadline, the City Treasurer’s office
shall remain open to receive filing fees until the hour of the filing deadline.
   (B)   Except as provided in division (D) or (E) below, the filing fee shall
be a sum equal to 1% of the annual salary as of November 30 of the year
preceding the election for the office for which he or she files as a candidate.
   (C)   All declared write-in candidates shall pay the filing fees that are
required for the office at the time that they present the write-in affidavit to
the filing officer.
   (D)   No filing fee shall be required for any candidate filing for an office
in which a per diem is paid rather than a salary or for which there is a salary
of less than $500 per year.
   (E)   (1)   No filing fee shall be required of any candidate completing an
affidavit requesting to file for elective office in forma pauperis.
      (2)    For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
         AVAILABLE RESOURCES. Includes every type of property or interest in
property that an individual owns and may convert into cash except:
            1.   Real property used as a home;
            2.   Household goods of a moderate value used in the home; and
            3.   Assets to a maximum value of $3,000 used by a recipient in a
planned effort directed towards self-support.
         PAUPER. A person whose income and other resources for maintenance are
found under assistance standards to be insufficient for meeting the cost of his
or her requirements and whose reserve of cash or other available resources does
not exceed the maximum available resources that an eligible individual may own.
   (F)   If any candidate dies prior to an election, the spouse of the
candidate may file a claim for refund of the filing fee with the City Council
prior to the date of the election. Upon approval of the claim by the City
Council, the filing fee shall be refunded.
(Neb. RS 32-608)
§ 32.09 PETITION, WRITE-IN AND OTHER CANDIDATES FOR GENERAL ELECTION BALLOT;
PROCEDURES.
   (A)   (1)   Any registered voter who was not a candidate in the primary
election and who was not registered to vote with a party affiliation on or
after March 1 and before the general election in the calendar year of the
general election may have his or her name placed on the general election ballot
for a partisan office by filing petitions as prescribed in this section and
Neb. RS 32-621 or by nomination by political party convention or committee
pursuant to Neb. RS 32-627 or 32-710.
      (2)   Any candidate who was defeated in the primary election and any
registered voter who was not a candidate in the primary election may have his
or her name placed on the general election ballot if a vacancy exists on the
ballot under Neb. RS 32-625(2) and the candidate files for the office by
petition as prescribed in divisions (B) and (C) below, files as a write-in
candidate as prescribed in Neb. RS 32-615 or is nominated by political party
convention or committee pursuant to Neb. RS 32-710.
(Neb. RS 32-616)
   (B)   Petitions for nomination shall conform to the requirements of Neb. RS
32-628. Petitions shall state the office to be filled and the name and address
of the candidate. Petitions for partisan office shall also indicate the party
affiliation of the candidate. A sample copy of the petition shall be filed with
the filing officer prior to circulation. Petitions shall be signed by
registered voters residing in the city, if candidates are chosen at large, or
in the ward in which the officer is to be elected, if candidates are chosen by
ward, and shall be filed with the filing officer in the same manner as provided
for candidate filing forms in §
34.07. Petition signers and petition circulators shall conform to the
requirements of Neb. RS 32-629 and 32-630. No petition for nomination shall be
filed unless there is attached thereto a receipt showing the payment of the
filing fee required pursuant to Neb. RS 32-608. The petitions shall be filed by
September 1 in the year of the general election.
(Neb. RS 32-617)
   (C)   (1)   The number of signatures of registered voters needed to place
the name of a candidate upon the nonpartisan ballot for the general election
shall be at least 10% of the total number of registered voters voting for
Governor or President of the United States at the immediately preceding general
election in the city or in the ward in which the officer is to be elected, not
to exceed 2,000.
      (2)   The number of signatures of registered voters needed to place the
name of a candidate for an office upon the partisan ballot for the general
election shall be as follows:
         (a)   For each partisan office to be filled by the registered voters
of the entire state, at least 4,000, and at least 750 signatures shall be
obtained in each congressional district in the state;
         (b)   For each partisan office to be filled by the registered voters
of a county, at least 20% of the total number of registered voters voting for
Governor or President of the United States at the immediately preceding general
election within the county, not to exceed 2,000, except that the number of
signatures shall not be required to exceed 25% of the total number of
registered voters voting for the office at the immediately preceding general
election; and
         (c)   For each partisan office to be filled by the registered voters
of a political subdivision other than a county, at least 20% of the total
number of registered voters voting for Governor or President of the United
States at the immediately preceding general election within the political
subdivision, not to exceed 2,000.
(Neb. RS 32-618)
§ 32.10 RECALL PROCEDURE.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      FILING CLERK. The Election Commissioner or County Clerk.
(Neb. RS 32-1301)
   (B)   (1)   The Mayor, any member of the City Council and any other elected
official of the city may be removed from office by recall pursuant to this
section.
      (2)   The recall procedure and special election provisions of this
section shall apply to members of the City Council who are elected by ward.
Only registered voters of such member’s ward may sign a recall petition or vote
at the recall election. The recall election shall be held within the member’s
ward. When a member of the City Council is nominated by ward in the primary
election and elected at large in the general election, the recall provisions
shall apply to the registered voters at the general election.
(Neb. RS 32-1302)
   (C)   (1)   A petition demanding that the question of removing the Mayor, a
member of the City Council or any other elected official be submitted to the
registered voters shall be signed by registered voters equal in number to at
least 35% of the total vote cast for that office in the last general election,
except that for City Council office for which more than one candidate is
chosen, the petition shall be signed by registered voters equal in number to at
least 35% of the number of votes cast for the person receiving the most votes
for such office in the last general election. The signatures shall be affixed
to petition papers and shall be considered part of the petition.
      (2)   Petition circulators shall conform to the requirements of Neb. RS
32-629 and 32-630.
      (3)   The petition papers shall be procured from the filing clerk. Prior
to the issuance of such petition papers, a recall petition filing form shall be
signed and filed with the filing clerk by at least one registered voter. Such
voter or voters shall be deemed to be the principal circulator or circulators
of the recall petition. The filing form shall state the name and office of the
official sought to be removed, shall include in concise language of 60 words or
less the reason or reasons for which recall is sought and shall request that
the filing clerk issue initial petition papers to the principal circulator for
circulation. The filing clerk shall notify the official sought to be removed by
any method specified in Neb. RS 25-505.01 or, if notification cannot be made
with reasonable diligence by any of the methods specified in Neb. RS 25-505.01,
by leaving a copy of the filing form at the official’s usual place of residence
and mailing a copy by first-class mail to the official’s last-known address. If
the official chooses, he or she may submit a defense statement in concise
language of 60 words or less for inclusion on the petition. Any such defense
statement shall be submitted to the filing clerk within 20 days after the
official receives the copy of the filing form. The filing clerk shall prepare
the petition papers within five business days after receipt of the defense
statement. The principal circulator or circulators shall gather the petition
papers within 20 days after being notified by the filing clerk that the
petition papers are available. The filing clerk shall notify the principal
circulator or circulators that the necessary signatures must be gathered within
30 days from the date of issuing the petitions.
      (4)   The filing clerk, upon issuing the initial petition papers or any
subsequent petition papers, shall enter in a record, to be kept in his or her
office, the name of the principal circulator or circulators to whom the papers
were issued, the date of issuance and the number of papers issued. The filing
clerk shall certify on the papers the name of the principal circulator or
circulators to whom the papers were issued and the date they were issued. No
petition paper shall be accepted as part of the petition unless it bears such
certificate. The principal circulator or circulators who check out petitions
from the filing clerk may distribute such petitions to persons who may act as
circulators of such petitions.
      (5)   Petition signers shall conform to the requirements of Neb. RS 32-
629 and 32-630. Each signer of a recall petition shall be a registered voter
and qualified by his or her place of residence to vote for the office in
question.
(Neb. RS 32-1303)
   (D)   Each petition paper shall conform to the requirements of Neb. RS 32-
1304.
   (E)   (1)   The principal circulator or circulators shall file, as one
instrument, all petition papers comprising a recall petition for signature
verification with the filing clerk within 30 days after the filing clerk issues
the initial petition papers to the principal circulator or circulators as
provided in division (C) above.
      (2)   Within 15 business days after the filing of the petition, the
filing clerk shall ascertain whether or not the petition is signed by the
requisite number of registered voters. No new signatures may be added after the
initial filing of the petition papers. No signatures may be removed unless the
filing clerk receives an affidavit signed by the person requesting his or her
signature be removed before the petitions are filed with the filing clerk for
signature verification. If the petition is found to be sufficient, the filing
clerk shall attach to the petition a certificate showing the result of such
examination. If the requisite number of signatures has not been gathered, the
filing clerk shall file the petition in his or her office without prejudice to
the filing of a new petition for the same purpose.
(Neb. RS 32-1305)
   (F)   (1)   If the recall petition is found to be sufficient, the filing
clerk shall notify the official whose removal is sought and the City Council
that sufficient signatures have been gathered. Notification of the official
sought to be removed may be by any method specified in Neb. RS 25-505.01 or, if
notification cannot be made with reasonable diligence by any of the methods
specified in Neb. RS 25-505.01, by leaving such notice at the official’s usual
place of residence and mailing a copy by first-class mail to the official’s
last-known address.
      (2)   The City Council shall, within 21 days after receipt of the
notification from the filing clerk pursuant to division (F)(1) above, order an
election. The date of the election shall be the first available date that
complies with Neb. RS 32-405 and that can be certified to the Election
Commissioner or County Clerk at least 50 days prior to the election, except
that if any other election is to be held in the city within 90 days after such
notification, the City Council shall provide for the holding of the recall
election on the same day.
      (3)   All resignations shall be tendered as provided in Neb. RS 32-562.
If the official whose removal is sought resigns before the recall election is
held, the City Council may cancel the recall election if the City Council
notifies the Election Commissioner or County Clerk of the cancellation on or
before the fourth Thursday prior to the election, otherwise the recall election
shall be held as scheduled.
      (4)   If a filing clerk is subject to a recall election, the Secretary of
State shall conduct the recall election.
(Neb. RS 32-1306)
   (G)   The form of the official ballot at a recall election held pursuant to
division (F) above shall conform to the requirements of Neb. RS 32-1307.
   (H)   (1)   If a majority of the votes cast at a recall election are against
the removal of the official named on the ballot or the election results in a
tie, the official shall continue in office for the remainder of his or her term
but may be subject to further recall attempts as provided in division (I)
below.
      (2)   If a majority of the votes cast at a recall election are for the
removal of the official named on the ballot, he or she shall, regardless of any
technical defects in the recall petition, be deemed removed from office unless
a recount is ordered. If the official is deemed removed, the removal shall
result in a vacancy in the office which shall be filled as otherwise provided
in this section and Neb. RS 32-567 to 32-570 and 32-574.
      (3)   If the election results show a margin of votes equal to 1% or less
between the removal or retention of the official in question, the Secretary of
State, Election Commissioner or County Clerk shall order a recount of the votes
cast unless the official named on the ballot files a written statement with the
filing clerk that he or she does not want a recount.
      (4)   If there are vacancies in the offices of one-half or more of the
members of the City Council or any other governing body at one time due to the
recall of such members, a special election to fill such vacancies shall be
conducted as expeditiously as possible by the Secretary of State, Election
Commissioner or County Clerk.
      (5)   No official who is removed at a recall election or who resigns
after the initiation of the recall process shall be appointed to fill the
vacancy resulting from his or her removal or the removal of any other member of
the same governing body during the remainder of his or her term of office.
(Neb. RS 32-1308)
   (I)   No recall petition filing form shall be filed against an elected
official within 12 months after a recall election has failed to remove him or
her from office or within six months after the beginning of his or her term of
office or within six months prior to the incumbent filing deadline for the
office.
(Neb. RS 32-1309)
§ 32.11 EXIT POLLS; POLL WATCHERS.
   (A)   No person shall conduct an exit poll, a public opinion poll or any
other interview with voters on election day seeking to determine voter
preference within 20 feet of the entrance of any polling place or, if inside
the polling place or building, within 100 feet of any voting booth.
   (B)   (1)   No poll watcher shall interfere with any voter in the
preparation or casting of such voter’s ballot or prevent any election worker
from performing the worker’s duties.
      (2)   A poll watcher shall not provide assistance to a voter as described
in Neb. RS 32-918 unless selected by the voter to provide assistance as
provided in Neb. RS 32-918.
      (3)   A poll watcher shall not engage in electioneering as defined in
Neb. RS 32-1524 while engaged in observing at a polling place.
      (4)   A poll watcher shall maintain a distance of at least eight feet
from the sign-in table, the sign-in register, the polling booths, the ballot
box and any ballots which have not been cast, except that if the polling place
is not large enough for a distance of eight feet, the judge of election shall
post a notice of the minimum distance the poll watcher must maintain from the
sign-in table, the sign-in register, the polling booths, the ballot box and any
ballots which have not been cast. The posted notice shall be clearly visible to
the voters and shall be posted prior to the opening of the polls on election
day. The minimum distance shall not be determined to exclude a poll watcher
from being in the polling place.
(Neb. RS 32-1525) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 33: FISCAL MANAGEMENT; TAXES
Section
General Provisions
   
33.01   Annual audit; financial statements
   
33.02   Contracts and purchases; bidding and other requirements
   
33.03   Warrants
   
33.04   Claims and accounts payable
   
33.05   Special assessment fund
   
33.06   Sinking funds
   
33.07   Deposit of funds
   
33.08   Certificates of deposit; time deposits; conditions
   
33.09   Investment of funds
   
33.10   Bond issues
   
33.11   Collection of special assessments; procedure
Annual Budget
   
33.25   Fiscal year
   
33.26   Budget procedures
   
33.27   Expenditures; general
   
33.28   Expenditures prior to adoption of budget
   
33.29   Proposed budget statement; contents; filing
   
33.30   Proposed budget hearing
   
33.31   Adopted budget statement; filing
   
33.32   Appropriations
   
33.33   General Fund
   
33.34   Transfer of funds
   
33.35   Revision of budget
Tax Levies
   
33.50   Property tax levy
   
33.51   Property tax levy; authority to set
   
33.52   Property tax levy; maximum; authority to exceed
   
33.53   Motor vehicle tax
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 33.01 ANNUAL AUDIT; FINANCIAL STATEMENTS.
   (A)   The City Council shall cause an audit of the municipal accounts to be
made by a qualified accountant as expeditiously as possible following the close
of the fiscal year. Such audit shall be made on a cash or accrual method at the
discretion of the City Council. The audit shall be completed and the annual
audit report made not later than six months after the close of the fiscal year.
The accountant making the audit shall submit not less than three copies of the
audit report to the City Council.
   (B)   All public utilities, or other enterprises which substantially
generate their own revenue, shall be audited separately, except in villages
having a population of less than 800, and the results of such audits shall
appear separately in the annual audit report, and such audits shall be on an
accrual basis and shall contain statements and materials which conform to
generally accepted accounting principles.
   (C)   The audit report shall set forth the financial position and results of
financial operations for each fund or group of accounts of the city as well as
an opinion by the accountant with respect to the financial statements. Two
copies of the annual audit report shall be filed with the City Clerk and shall
become a part of the public records of the City Clerk’s office and will at all
times, thereafter, be open for public inspection; provided, that all villages
may file an unaudited statement of cash receipts and disbursements annually in
lieu of an annual audit. Such unaudited statement shall be filed with the
Auditor of Public Accounts in a form prescribed by him or her. The unaudited
statement of cash receipts and disbursements shall become a part of the public
records of the City Clerk and shall at all times thereafter be open and subject
to public inspection.
   (D)   Every governing body that is required herein to submit to an audit of
its accounts shall provide and file with the City Clerk, not later than August
1 of each year, financial statements showing its actual and budgeted figures
for the most recently completed fiscal year.
(Prior Code, § 1-810) (Ord. 425, passed 11-13-1984)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 19-2901 through 19-2909 and 13-606
§ 33.02 CONTRACTS AND PURCHASES; BIDDING AND OTHER REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Except as provided in Neb. RS 18-412.01 for a contract with a public
power district to operate, renew, replace or add to the electric distribution,
transmission or generation system of the city, no contract for enlargement or
general improvements, such as water extensions, sewers, public heating system,
bridges, work on streets or any other work or improvement when the cost of such
enlargement or improvement is assessed to the property, costing over $30,000
shall be made unless it is first approved by the City Council.
   (B)   Except as provided in Neb. RS 18-412.01, before the City Council makes
any contract in excess of $30,000 for enlargement or general improvements, such
as water extensions, sewers, public heating system, bridges, work on streets or
any other work or improvement when the cost of such enlargement or improvement
is assessed to the property, an estimate of the cost shall be made by the City
Engineer and submitted to the City Council. In advertising for bids as provided
in divisions (C) and (E) below, the City Council may publish the amount of the
estimate.
   (C)   Advertisements for bids shall be required for any contract costing
over $30,000 entered into for enlargement or general improvements, such as
water extensions, sewers, public heating system, bridges, work on streets, or
any other work or improvement when the cost of such enlargement or improvement
is assessed to the property, or for the purchase of equipment used in the
construction of such enlargement or general improvements.
   (D)   A municipal electric utility may enter into a contract for the
enlargement or improvement of the electric system or for the purchase of
equipment used for such enlargement or improvement without advertising for bids
if the price is: $30,000 or less; $60,000 or less and the municipal electric
utility has gross annual revenue from retail sales in excess of $1,000,000;
$90,000 or less and the municipal electric utility has gross annual revenue
from retail sales in excess of $5,000,000; or $120,000 or less and the
municipal electric utility has gross annual revenue from retail sales in excess
of $10,000,000.
   (E)   The advertisement provided for in division (C) above shall be
published at least seven days prior to the bid closing in a legal newspaper
published in or of general circulation in the city and, if there is no legal
newspaper published in or of general circulation in the city, then in some
newspaper of general circulation published in the county in which the city is
located, and if there is no legal newspaper of general circulation published in
the county in which the city is located, then in a newspaper, designated by the
County Board, having a general circulation within the county where bids are
required, and if no newspaper is published in the city or county, or if no
newspaper has general circulation in the county, then by posting a written or
printed copy thereof in each of three public places in the city at least seven
days prior to the bid closing. In case of a public emergency resulting from
infectious or contagious diseases, destructive windstorms, floods, snow, war or
an exigency or pressing necessity or unforeseen need calling for immediate
action or remedy to prevent a serious loss of, or serious injury or damage to,
life, health or property, estimates of costs and advertising for bids may be
waived in the emergency ordinance authorized by Neb. RS 17-613 when adopted by
a three-fourths vote of the City Council and entered of record.
   (F)   If, after advertising for bids as provided in this section, the City
Council receives fewer than two bids on a contract, or if the bids received by
the City Council contain a price which exceeds the estimated cost, the Mayor
and City Council may negotiate a contract in an attempt to complete the
proposed enlargement or general improvements at a cost commensurate with the
estimate given.
   (G)   If the materials are of such a nature that, in the opinion of the
manufacturer and with the concurrence of the City Council, no cost can be
estimated until the materials have been manufactured or assembled to the
specific qualifications of the purchasing municipality, the City Council may
authorize the manufacture and assemblage of such materials and may thereafter
approve the estimated cost expenditure when it is provided by the manufacturer.
   (H)   Any municipal bidding procedure may be waived by the City Council when
materials or equipment are purchased at the same price and from the same seller
as materials or equipment which have formerly been obtained pursuant to the
state bidding procedure in Neb. RS 81-145 through 81-162, or when the contract
is negotiated directly with a sheltered workshop pursuant to Neb. RS 48-1503.
   (I)   (1)   Notwithstanding any other provisions of law or a home rule
charter, a municipality which has established, by an interlocal agreement with
any county, a joint purchasing division or agency may purchase personal
property without competitive bidding if the price for the property has been
established by the Federal General Services Administration or the material
division of the Department of Administrative Services.
      (2)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
         PERSONAL PROPERTY. Includes, but is not limited to, supplies,
materials and equipment used by or furnished to any officer, office,
department, institution, board or other agency.
         PURCHASING or PURCHASE. The obtaining of personal property by sale,
lease or other contractual means.
(Prior Code, § 1-809) (Ord. 332, passed 9-27-1977; Ord. 411, passed 10-11-1983;
Ord. 667, passed 8-25-1998)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-568.01, 17-568.02 and 18-1756
§ 33.03 WARRANTS.
   All warrants drawn upon the City Treasury must be signed by the Mayor and
countersigned by the City Clerk, stating the particular fund to which the
warrant is chargeable, the person to whom it is payable and the purpose of the
expenditure. No money shall be otherwise paid than upon warrants so drawn. Each
warrant shall specify the amount included in the adopted budget statement for
the fund upon which it is drawn and the amount already expended of such fund.
(Prior Code, § 1-812)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-711
§ 33.04 CLAIMS AND ACCOUNTS PAYABLE.
   (A)   (1)   All liquidated and unliquidated claims and accounts payable
against the city shall:
         (a)   Be presented in writing;
         (b)   State the name and address of the claimant and the amount of the
claim; and
         (c)   Fully and accurately identify the items or services for which
payment is claimed or the time, place, nature and circumstances giving rise to
the claim.
      (2)   As a condition precedent to maintaining an action for a claim,
other than a tort claim as defined in Neb. RS 13-903, the claimant shall file
such claim within 90 days of the accrual of the claim in the office of the City
Clerk.
      (3)   The City Clerk shall notify the claimant or his or her agent or
attorney by letter mailed to the claimant’s address within five days if the
claim is disallowed by the City Council.
      (4)   No costs shall be recovered against the city in any action brought
against it for any claim or for any claim allowed in part which has not been
presented to the City Council to be audited, unless the recovery is for a
greater sum than the amount allowed with the interest due.
(Neb. RS 17-714)
   (B)   Upon the allowance of claims by the City Council, the order for their
payment shall specify the particular fund or appropriation out of which they
are payable as specified in the adopted budget statement; and no order or
warrant shall be drawn in excess of 85% of the current levy for the purpose for
which it is drawn, unless there is sufficient money in the Treasury at the
credit of the proper fund for its payment; provided, that if there exists at
the time such warrant is drawn, obligated funds from the federal government or
the state, or both from the federal government and the state, for the general
purpose or purposes of such warrant, then such warrant may be drawn in excess
of 85% of the current levy for the purpose for which it is drawn to the
additional extent of 100% of such obligated federal or state funds. No claim
shall be audited or allowed unless an order or warrant for the payment thereof
may legally be drawn.
(Neb. RS 17-715)
§ 33.05 SPECIAL ASSESSMENT FUND.
   All money received on special assessments shall be held by the City
Treasurer as a special fund to be applied to the payment of the improvement for
which the assessment was made, and this money shall be used for no other
purpose whatever, unless to reimburse the city for money expended for any such
improvement.
(Neb. RS 17-710)
§ 33.06 SINKING FUNDS.
   (A)   The city is hereby empowered to receive money or property by donation,
bequest, gift, devise or otherwise for the benefit of any one or more of the
public purposes for which sinking funds are established by this section, as
stipulated by the donor. Title to any money or property so donated shall vest
in the City Council, or in its successors in office, who shall become the
owners thereof in trust to the uses of the sinking fund or funds. In the event
of a donation of real estate, the City Council may manage such real estate as
in the case of real estate donated to the city for city library purposes under
the provisions of Neb. RS 51-215 and 51-216.
(Neb. RS 19-1301)
   (B)   The City Council, subject to all the limitations set forth in this
section, shall have the power to levy a tax of not to exceed $0.105 on each
$100 in any one year upon the taxable value of all the taxable property within
the city for a term of not to exceed ten years, in addition to the amount of
tax which may be annually levied for the purposes of the adopted budget
statement of the city, for the purpose of establishing a sinking fund for the
construction, purchase, improvement, extension, original equipment or repair,
not including maintenance of any one or more of the following public
improvements, including acquisition of any land incident to the making thereof:
City libraries; city auditoriums or community houses for social or recreational
purposes; city halls; city public libraries, auditoriums or community houses in
a single building; city swimming pools; city jails; city fire stations,
together with firefighting equipment or apparatus; city parks; city cemeteries;
city medical buildings, together with furnishings and equipment; or city
hospitals. The city shall not be authorized to levy the tax or to establish the
sinking fund as provided in this division (B) if, having bonded indebtedness,
such city has been in default in the payment of interest thereon or principal
thereof for a period of ten years prior to the date of the passage of the
resolution providing for the submission of the proposition for establishment of
the sinking fund as required in division (C) below.
(Neb. RS 19-1302)
   (C)   Before any sinking fund or funds are established or before any annual
tax is levied for any such planned city improvements mentioned in division (B)
above by the city, the City Council shall declare its purpose by resolution to
submit to the qualified electors of the city at the next general city election
the proposition to provide the city with the specific city improvement planned
under this section. The resolution of submission shall, among other things, set
forth a clear description of the improvement planned, the estimated cost
according to the prevailing costs, the amount of annual levy over a definite
period of years, not exceeding ten years, required to provide such cost, and
the specific name or designation for the sinking fund sought to be established
to carry out the planned improvement, together with a statement of the
proposition for placement upon the ballot at the election. Notice of the
submission of the proposition, together with a copy of the official ballot
containing the proposition, shall be published in its entirety three successive
weeks before the day of the election in a legal newspaper in or of general
circulation in the city or, if no legal newspaper is in or of general
circulation in the city, in a legal newspaper in or of general circulation in
the county in which the city is located. No such sinking fund shall be
established unless the same has been authorized by a majority or more of the
legal votes of the city cast for or against the proposition. If less than a
majority of the legal votes favor the establishment of the sinking fund, the
planned improvement shall not be made, no annual tax shall be levied therefor,
and no sinking fund or sinking funds shall be established in connection
therewith, but such resolution of submission shall immediately be repealed. If
the proposition shall carry at such election in the manner prescribed in this
division (C), the City Council and its successors in office shall proceed to do
all things authorized under such resolution of submission but never
inconsistent with this section. The election provided for under this section
shall be conducted as provided under the Election Act, being Neb. RS 32-101 et
seq.
(Neb. RS 19-1303)
   (D)   All funds received by the City Treasurer, by donation or by tax levy,
as hereinbefore provided, shall, as they accumulate, be immediately invested by
the Treasurer, with the written approval of the City Council, in the manner
provided in §
33.09 of this code. Whenever investments of such sinking fund or funds are
made, as aforesaid, the nature and character of the same shall be reported to
the City Council, and the investment report shall be made a matter of record by
the City Clerk in the proceedings of the City Council. The sinking fund, or
sinking funds, accumulated under the provisions of this section, shall
constitute a special fund, or funds, for the purpose or purposes for which the
same was authorized and shall not be used for any other purpose unless
authorized by 60% of the qualified electors of the city voting at a general
election favoring such change in the use of the sinking fund or sinking funds.
The question of the change in the use of the sinking fund or sinking funds,
when it fails to carry, shall not be resubmitted in substance for a period of
one year from and after the date of such election.
(Neb. RS 19-1304)
Statutory reference:
   Additional levy limitations, see Neb. RS 17-702
   Investment in warrants, see Neb. RS 77-2337
§ 33.07 DEPOSIT OF FUNDS.
   (A)   (1)   The City Treasurer shall deposit, and at all times keep on
deposit, for safekeeping, in banks, capital stock financial institutions, or
qualifying mutual financial institutions of approved and responsible standing,
all money collected, received or held by him or her as City Treasurer. Such
deposits shall be subject to all regulations imposed by law or adopted by the
City Council for the receiving and holding thereof.
      (2)   The fact that a stockholder, director or other officer of such
bank, capital stock financial institution or qualifying mutual financial
institution is also serving as Mayor, as a member of the City Council or as any
other officer of the city shall not disqualify such bank, capital stock
financial institution or qualifying mutual financial institution from acting as
a depository for such municipal funds.
   (B)   The City Council shall require from all banks, capital stock financial
institutions or qualifying mutual financial institutions a bond in such penal
sum as may be the maximum amount on deposit at any time less the amount insured
or guaranteed by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation or, in lieu thereof,
security given as provided in the Public Funds Deposit Security Act, being Neb.
RS 77-2386, to secure the payment of all such deposits and accretions. The City
Council shall approve such bond or giving of security. The City Treasurer shall
not be liable for any loss of any money sustained by reason of the failure of
any such depository so designated and approved.
   (C)   The insurance or guarantee afforded to depositors in banks, capital
stock financial institutions or qualifying mutual financial institutions
through the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation shall be deemed and construed
to be a surety bond to the extent that the deposits are insured or guaranteed
by such corporation, and for deposits so insured or guaranteed, no other surety
bond or other security shall be required.
   (D)   Neb. RS 77-2366 shall apply to deposits in capital stock financial
institutions. Neb. RS 77-2365.01 shall apply to deposits in qualifying mutual
financial institutions.
(Prior Code, § 1-817) (Ord. 708, passed 4-23-2002; Ord. 736, passed 4-22-2003;
Ord. 744, passed 3-9-2004)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-607 and 77-2362
§ 33.08 CERTIFICATES OF DEPOSIT; TIME DEPOSITS; CONDITIONS.
   (A)   The City Treasurer may, upon resolution of the Mayor and City Council
authorizing the same, purchase certificates of deposit from and make time
deposits in any bank, capital stock financial institution or qualifying mutual
financial institution in the state to the extent that such certificates of
deposit or time deposits are insured by the Federal Deposit Insurance
Corporation.
   (B)   Deposits may be made in excess of the amounts so secured by the
corporation, and the amount of the excess deposit shall be secured by a bond or
by security given in the same manner as is provided for cities of the first
class in Neb. RS 16-714 through 16-716. Neb. RS 77-2366 shall apply to deposits
in capital stock financial institutions. Neb. RS 77-2365.01 shall apply to
deposits in qualifying mutual financial institutions.
(Prior Code, § 1-825) (Ord. 709, passed 4-23-2002)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-720
§ 33.09 INVESTMENT OF FUNDS.
   Whenever a city has accumulated a surplus of any fund in excess of its
current needs or has accumulated a sinking fund for the payment of its bonds
and the money in such sinking fund exceeds the amount necessary to pay the
principal and interest of any such bonds which become due during the current
year, the governing body of such municipality may invest any such surplus in
certificates of deposit, in time deposits and in any securities in which the
state investment officer is authorized by law and as provided in the authorized
investment guidelines of the state’s Investment Council in effect on the date
the investment is made.
(Prior Code, § 1-818) (Ord. 500, passed 11-28-1989)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-608, 17-609 and 77-2341
§ 33.10 BOND ISSUES.
   The City Council may, after meeting all the requirements of state law, issue
bonds, fund bonds and retire bonds for such purposes as may be permitted by
state law. The City Council shall have the authority to levy special
assessments for the payment of interest and principal on these bonds and may
spread the payments up to the maximum number of years permitted by state law.
Statutory reference:
   Bonds in general, see Neb. RS 18-1801 through 18-1805
   Funding and refunding bonds, see Neb. RS 10-606 through 10-612
   General provisions, see Neb. RS 10-101 through 10-143
§ 33.11 COLLECTION OF SPECIAL ASSESSMENTS; PROCEDURE.
   (A)   (1)   The city shall collect the special assessments which it levies
and perform all other necessary functions related thereto including
foreclosure.
      (2)   Notice that special assessments are due shall be mailed or
otherwise delivered to the last-known address of the person against whom such
special assessments are assessed or to the lending institution or other party
responsible for paying such special assessments.
      (3)   Failure to receive such notice shall not relieve the taxpayer from
any liability to pay such special assessments and any interest or penalties
accrued thereon.
   (B)   The city shall:
      (1)   File notice of the assessments and the amount of assessment being
levied for each lot or tract of land to the Register of Deeds; and
      (2)   File a release of assessment upon final payment of each assessment
with the Register of Deeds.
(Prior Code, § 1-821) (Ord. 644, passed 7-22-1997)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 18-1216
ANNUAL BUDGET
§ 33.25 FISCAL YEAR.
   The fiscal year of the city and any public utility of the city commences on
October 1 and extends through the following September 30 except as provided in
the Municipal Proprietary Function Act, being Neb. RS 18-2801 et seq.
(Prior Code, § 1-801) (Ord. 606, passed 3-26-1996)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-701
§ 33.26 BUDGET PROCEDURES.
   The budget instruction manual prepared by the Auditor of Public Accounts is
incorporated by reference for the purpose of proper budget preparation.
§ 33.27 EXPENDITURES; GENERAL.
   No municipal official shall have the power to appropriate, issue or draw any
order or warrant on the City Treasury for money, unless the same has been
appropriated or ordered by ordinance. No expenditure for any improvement to be
paid for out of the General Fund of the city shall exceed in any one year the
amount provided for that improvement in the adopted budget statement.
(Prior Code, § 1-808)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-708
§ 33.28 EXPENDITURES PRIOR TO ADOPTION OF BUDGET.
   (A)   On and after the first day of its fiscal year in 1993 and of each
succeeding year and until the adoption of the budget by the City Council in
September, the City Council may expend any balance of cash on hand for the
current expenses of the city. Except as provided in division (B) below, such
expenditures shall not exceed an amount equivalent to the total amount expended
under the last budget in the equivalent period of the prior budget year. Such
expenditures shall be charged against the appropriations for each individual
fund or purpose as provided in the budget when adopted.
   (B)   The restriction on expenditures in division (A) above may be exceeded
upon the express finding of the City Council that expenditures beyond the
amount authorized are necessary to enable the city to meet its statutory duties
and responsibilities. The finding and approval of the expenditures in excess of
the statutory authorization shall be adopted by the City Council in open public
session. Expenditures authorized by this section shall be charged against
appropriations for each individual fund or purpose as provided in the budget
when adopted, and nothing in this section shall be construed to authorize
expenditures by the city in excess of that authorized by any other statutory
provision.
(Prior Code, § 1-804.01) (Ord. 592, passed 3-14-1995)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 13-509.01 and 13-509.02
§ 33.29 PROPOSED BUDGET STATEMENT; CONTENTS; FILING.
   (A)   The City Council shall prepare in writing and file with the City
Clerk, not later than August 1 of each year on forms prescribed and furnished
by the Auditor of Public Accounts, a proposed budget statement containing the
following information, except as provided by state law:
      (1)   For the immediate two prior fiscal years, the revenue from all
sources, including motor vehicle taxes, other than revenue received from
personal and real property taxation, allocated to the funds and separately
stated as to each such source: The unencumbered cash balance at the beginning
and end of the year; the amount received by taxation of personal and real
property; and the amount of actual expenditures;
      (2)   For the current fiscal year, actual and estimated revenue from all
sources, including motor vehicle taxes, allocated to the funds and separately
stated as to each such source: The actual unencumbered cash balance available
at the beginning of the year; the amount received from personal and real
property taxation; and the amount of actual and estimated expenditures,
whichever is applicable. Such statement shall contain the cash reserve for each
fiscal year and shall note whether or not such reserve is encumbered. Such cash
reserve projections shall be based upon the actual experience of prior years.
The cash reserve shall not exceed 50% of the total budget exclusive of capital
outlay items;
      (3)   For the immediately ensuing fiscal year, an estimate of revenue
from all sources, including motor vehicle taxes, other than revenue to be
received from taxation of personal and real property, separately stated as to
each such source: The actual or estimated unencumbered cash balances, whichever
is applicable, to be available at the beginning of the year; the amounts
proposed to be expended during the year; and the amount of cash reserve, based
on actual experience of prior years, which cash reserve shall not exceed 50% of
the total budget adopted exclusive of capital outlay items;
      (4)   A statement setting out separately the amount sought to be raised
from the levy of a tax on the taxable value of real property for the purpose of
paying the principal or interest on bonds issued by the City Council and for
all other purposes;
      (5)   A uniform summary of the proposed budget statement, including each
proprietary function fund included in a separate proprietary budget statement
prepared pursuant to the Municipal Proprietary Function Act, being Neb. RS 18-
2801 et seq., and a grand total of all funds maintained by the City Council;
and
      (6)   A list of the proprietary functions which are not included in the
budget statement. Such proprietary functions shall have a separate budget
statement which is approved by the City Council as provided in the Municipal
Proprietary Function Act.
   (B)   The actual or estimated unencumbered cash balance required to be
included in the budget statement by this section shall include deposits and
investments of the city as well as any funds held by the County Treasurer for
the city and shall be accurately stated on the proposed budget statement.
   (C)   The estimated expenditures plus the required cash reserve for the
ensuing fiscal year less all estimated and actual unencumbered balances at the
beginning of the year and less the estimated income from all sources, including
motor vehicle taxes, other than taxation of personal and real property shall
equal the amount to be received from taxes, and such amount shall be shown on
the proposed budget statement filed pursuant to this section. The amount to be
raised from taxation of personal and real property, as determined above, plus
the estimated revenue from other sources, including motor vehicle taxes, and
the unencumbered balances shall equal the estimated expenditures, plus the
necessary required cash reserve, for the ensuing year.
(Prior Code, § 1-802) (Ord. 424, passed 11-13-1984; Ord. 566, passed 6-14-1994;
Ord. 642, passed 7-22-1997; Ord. 699, passed 3-13-2001)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 13-504 and 13-505
§ 33.30 PROPOSED BUDGET HEARING.
   (A)   Subsequent to the filing of the proposed budget statement, the City
Council shall publish a proposed budget and conduct a public hearing on the
proposed budget statement. Notice of the place and time of said hearing, as
well as a copy of the proposed budget, shall be published at least five days
prior to the date set for the hearing in a newspaper of general circulation in
the city. After such hearing, the statement shall be adopted, or amended, and
adopted as amended, and a written record shall be made of such hearing.
   (B)   If the adopted budget statement reflects a change from that shown in
the published proposed budget statement, a summary of such changes shall be
published within 20 days after its adoption.
(Prior Code, § 1-803)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 13-506
§ 33.31 ADOPTED BUDGET STATEMENT; FILING.
   The City Council shall file with and certify to the levying board on or
before September 20 of each year and file with the State Auditor a copy of the
adopted budget statement, together with the amount of tax to be levied, setting
out separately the amount to be levied for the payment of principal or interest
on bonds issued by the City Council and the amount to be levied for all other
purposes. Proof of publication shall be attached to the statements. The City
Council shall not certify any tax that exceeds the maximum levy prescribed by
state law, except that in certifying the amount to be so levied, allowance may
be made for delinquent taxes not exceeding 5% of the amount to be levied plus
the actual percentage of delinquent taxes for the preceding tax year.
(Prior Code, § 1-804) (Ord. 567, passed 6-14-1994; Ord. 607, passed 3-26-1996;
Ord. 643, passed 7-22-1997)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 13-508
§ 33.32 APPROPRIATIONS.
   The City Council shall adopt a budget statement pursuant to the Nebraska
Budget Act, to be termed “The Annual Appropriation Bill,” in which are
appropriated such sums of money as may be deemed necessary to defray all
necessary expenses and liabilities of the city.
(Prior Code, § 1-806) (Ord. 568, passed 6-14-1994; Ord. 608, passed 3-26-1996)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-706
§ 33.33 GENERAL FUND.
   If the city has not decided to follow the all-purpose levy method of
financing for the fiscal year, all money not specifically appropriated in the
annual appropriation bill shall be deposited in and known as the General Fund.
§ 33.34 TRANSFER OF FUNDS.
   (A)   Whenever during the current fiscal year, it becomes apparent to the
City Council that, due to unforeseen emergencies, there is temporarily
insufficient money in a particular fund to meet the requirements of the adopted
budget of expenditures for that fund, the City Council may by a majority vote,
unless otherwise provided by state law, transfer money from other funds to such
fund.
   (B)   No expenditure during any fiscal year shall be made in excess of the
amounts indicated in the adopted budget statement, except as authorized in §
33.35 of this code, or by state law.
   (C)   It is unlawful for any officer or officers of the City Council to
obligate funds contrary to the provisions of this section.
(Prior Code, § 1-813) (Ord. 693, passed 10-10-2000) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 13-510
§ 33.35 REVISION OF BUDGET.
   (A)   Unless otherwise provided by law, the City Council may propose to
revise the previously adopted budget statement and shall conduct a public
hearing on such proposal, whenever during the current fiscal year it becomes
apparent to the City Council that:
      (1)   There are circumstances which could not reasonably have been
anticipated at the time the budget for the current year was adopted;
      (2)   The budget adopted violated Neb. RS 13-518 through 13-522, such
that the revenue of the current fiscal year for any fund thereof will be
insufficient, additional expenses will be necessarily incurred, or there is a
need to reduce the budget requirements to comply with Neb. RS 13-518 through
13-522; or
      (3)   The City Council has been notified by the State Auditor of a
mathematical or accounting error or noncompliance with the Nebraska Budget Act.
   (B)   Notice of the time and place of the hearing shall be published at
least four days prior to the date set for hearing in a newspaper of general
circulation within the City Council’s jurisdiction. For purposes of such
notice, the four calendar days shall include the day of publication but not the
day of hearing. Such published notice shall set forth:
      (1)   The time and place of the hearing;
      (2)   The amount in dollars of additional or reduced money required and
for what purpose;
      (3)   A statement setting forth the nature of the unanticipated
circumstances and, if the budget requirements are to be increased, the reasons
why the previously adopted budget of expenditures cannot be reduced during the
remainder of the current year to meet the need for additional money in that
manner;
      (4)   A copy of the summary of the originally adopted budget previously
published; and
      (5)   A copy of the summary of the proposed revised budget.
   (C)   At such hearing any taxpayer may appear or file a written statement
protesting any application for additional money. A written record shall be kept
of all such hearings.
   (D)   (1)   Upon conclusion of the public hearing on the proposed revised
budget and approval of the proposed revised budget by the City Council, the
City Council shall file with the County Clerk of the county or counties in
which such City Council is located, and with the State Auditor, a copy of the
revised budget, as adopted, and shall certify the revised amount of tax to be
levied.
      (2)   The City Council may then issue warrants in payment for
expenditures authorized by the adopted revised budget. Such warrants shall be
referred to as registered warrants and shall be repaid during the next fiscal
year from funds derived from taxes levied therefor.
   (E)   (1)   Within 30 days after the adoption of the budget under Neb. RS
13-506, a City Council may, or within 30 days after notification of an error by
the State Auditor, a City Council shall, correct an adopted budget which
contains a clerical, mathematical or accounting error which does not affect the
total amount budgeted by more than 1% or increase the amount required from
property taxes.
      (2)   No public hearing shall be required for such a correction. After
correction, the City Council shall file a copy of the corrected budget with the
County Clerk of the county or counties in which such City Council is located
and with the State Auditor. The City Council may then issue warrants in payment
for expenditures authorized by the budget.
(Prior Code, § 1-824) (Ord. 693, passed 10-10-2000; Ord. 710, passed 4-23-2002)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 13-511
TAX LEVIES
§ 33.50 PROPERTY TAX LEVY.
   The City Council shall, at the time and in the manner provided by law, cause
to be certified to the County Clerk the amount of tax to be levied upon the
taxable value of all the taxable property of the city which the city requires
for the purposes of the adopted budget statement for the ensuing year,
including all special assessments and taxes assessed as otherwise provided. The
County Clerk shall place the same on the property tax lists to be collected in
the manner provided by law for the collection of county taxes in the county
where the city is situated. In all sales for any delinquent taxes for municipal
purposes, if there are other delinquent taxes due from the same person or a
lien on the same property, the sale shall be for all the delinquent taxes. Such
sales and all sales made under or by virtue of this section or the provision of
law herein referred to shall be of the same validity and in all respects be
deemed and treated as though such sales had been made for the delinquent county
taxes exclusively.
(Neb. RS 17-702)
§ 33.51 PROPERTY TAX LEVY; AUTHORITY TO SET.
   (A)   The property tax request for the prior year shall be the property tax
request for the current year for purposes of the levy set by the County Board
of Equalization in Neb. RS 77-1601 unless the City Council passes by a majority
vote a resolution or ordinance setting the tax request at a different amount.
Such resolution or ordinance shall only be passed after a special public
hearing called for such purpose is held and after notice is published in a
newspaper of general circulation in the area of the city at least five days
prior to the hearing.
   (B)   The hearing notice shall contain the following information:
      (1)   The dollar amount of the prior year’s tax request and the property
tax rate that was necessary to fund that tax request;
      (2)   The property tax rate that would be necessary to fund last year’s
tax request if applied to the current year’s valuation; and
      (3)   The proposed dollar amount of the tax request for the current year
and the property tax rate that will be necessary to fund that tax request.
   (C)   Any resolution setting a tax request under this section shall be
certified and forwarded to the County Clerk prior to October 14 of the year for
which the tax request is to apply.
   (D)   Any tax levy which is not in compliance with this section and Neb. RS
77-1601 shall be construed as an unauthorized levy under Neb. RS 77-1606.
(Prior Code, § 1-822) (Ord. 645, passed 7-22-1997; Ord. 691, passed 10-10-2000)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 77-1632
§ 33.52 PROPERTY TAX LEVY; MAXIMUM; AUTHORITY TO EXCEED.
   (A)   Property tax levies for the support of the city for fiscal years
beginning on or after July 1, 1998, shall be limited to the amounts set forth
in this division (A), except as provided in division (C) below. The city may
levy a maximum levy of $0.45 per $100 of taxable valuation of property subject
to the levy plus an additional $0.05 per $100 of taxable valuation to provide
financing for the city’s share of revenue required under an agreement or
agreements executed pursuant to the Interlocal Cooperation Act, being Neb. RS
13-801, or the Joint Public Agency Act, being Neb. RS 13-2501. The maximum levy
shall include amounts levied to pay for sums to support a library pursuant to
Neb. RS 51-201, a museum pursuant to Neb. RS 51-501, visiting community nurse,
home health nurse or home health agency pursuant to Neb. RS 71-1637, or statue,
memorial or monument, pursuant to Neb. RS 80-202. Property tax levies for
judgments obtained against the city which require or obligate the city to pay
such judgment, to the extent such judgment is not paid by liability insurance
coverage of the city, for preexisting lease purchase contracts approved prior
to July 1, 1998, for bonded indebtedness approved according to law and secured
by a levy on property, and for payments by a public airport to retire interest-
free loans from the Department of Aeronautics in lieu of bonded indebtedness at
a lower cost to the public airport are not included in the levy limits
established by this division (A). The limitations on tax levies provided in
this division (A) are to include all other general or special levies provided
by law. Notwithstanding other provisions of law, the only exceptions to the
limits in this division (A) are those provided by or authorized by this
section. Tax levies in excess of the limitations in this section shall be
considered unauthorized levies under Neb. RS 77-1606 unless approved under
division (C) below.
   (B)   (1)   All city airport authorities established under the Cities
Airport Authorities Act, being Neb. RS 3-501 et seq., community redevelopment
authorities established under the Community Development Law, being Neb. RS 18-
2101 et seq., and off-street parking districts established under the Off-street
Parking District Act, being Neb. RS 19-3301 et seq., may be allocated property
taxes as authorized by law which are authorized by the city and are counted in
the city’s levy limit provided by division (A) above, except that such
limitation shall not apply to property tax levies for preexisting lease-
purchase contracts approved prior to July 1, 1998, for bonded indebtedness
approved according to law and secured by a levy on property, and for payments
by a public airport to retire interest-free loans from the Department of
Aeronautics in lieu of bonded indebtedness at a lower cost to the public
airport. The City Council shall review and approve or disapprove the levy
request of the political subdivisions subject to this division (B). The City
Council may approve all or a portion of the levy request and may approve a levy
request that would allow a levy greater than that permitted by law. The levy
allocated by the city may be exceeded as provided in Neb. RS 77-3444. On or
before August 1, all political subdivisions subject to municipal levy authority
under this division (B) shall submit a preliminary request for levy allocation
to the City Council. The preliminary request of the political subdivision shall
be in the form of a resolution adopted by a majority vote of members present of
the political subdivision’s City Council. The failure of a political
subdivision to make a preliminary request shall preclude such political
subdivision from using procedures set forth in Neb. RS 77-3444 to exceed the
final levy allocation as determined in this division (B).
      (2)   The City Council shall:
         (a)   Adopt a resolution by a majority vote of members present which
determines a final allocation of levy authority to its political subdivisions;
and
         (b)   Forward a copy of such resolution to the Chairperson of the City
Council of each of its political subdivisions.
      (3)   No final levy allocation shall be changed after September 1 except
by agreement between both the City Council and the City Council of the
political subdivision whose final levy allocation is at issue.
   (C)   (1)   The city may exceed the limits provided in division (A) above by
an amount not to exceed a maximum levy approved by a majority of registered
voters voting on the issue in a primary, general or special election at which
the issue is placed before the registered voters. A vote to exceed the limits
must be approved prior to October 10 of the fiscal year which is to be the
first to exceed the limits.
      (2)   The City Council may call for the submission of the issue to the
voters:
         (a)   By passing a resolution calling for exceeding the limits by a
vote of at least two-thirds of the members of the City Council and delivering a
copy of the resolution to the County Clerk or Election Commissioner of every
county which contains all or part of the city; or
         (b)   Upon receipt of a petition by the County Clerk or Election
Commissioner of every county containing all or part of the city requesting an
election signed by at least 5% of the registered voters residing in the city.
      (3)   (a)   The resolution or petition shall include the amount of levy
which would be imposed in excess of the limits provided in division (A) above
and the duration of the excess levy authority. The excess levy authority shall
not have a duration greater than five years. Any resolution or petition calling
for a special election shall be filed with the County Clerk or Election
Commissioner no later than 30 days prior to the date of the election, and the
time of publication and providing a copy of the notice of election required in
Neb. RS 32-802 shall be no later than 20 days prior to the election. The County
Clerk or Election Commissioner shall place the issue on the ballot at an
election as called for in the resolution or petition which is at least 30 days
after receipt of the resolution or petition. The election shall be held
pursuant to the Election Act, being Neb. RS 32-101 et seq.
         (b)   For petitions filed with the County Clerk or Election
Commissioner on or after May 1, 1998, the petition shall be in the form as
provided in Neb. RS 32-628 through 32-631. Any excess levy authority approved
under this division (C) shall terminate pursuant to its terms, on a vote of the
City Council to terminate the authority to levy more than the limits, at the
end of the fourth fiscal year following the first year in which the levy
exceeded the limit, or as provided in division (D) below, whichever is
earliest. The City Council may pass no more than one resolution calling for an
election pursuant to this division (C) during any one calendar year. Only one
election may be held in any one calendar year pursuant to a petition initiated
under this division (C). The ballot question may include any terms and
conditions set forth in the resolution or petition and shall include the
language specified in Neb. RS 77-3444. If a majority of the votes cast upon the
ballot question are in favor of such tax, the County Board shall authorize a
tax in excess of the limits in division (A) above, but such tax shall not
exceed the amount stated in the ballot question. If a majority of those voting
on the ballot question are opposed to such tax, the City Council shall not
impose such tax.
         (c)   The County Clerk or Election Commissioner may set a uniform date
for a special election to be held before October 10, 1998, to submit the issue
of exceeding the limits provided in Neb. RS 77-3442 nor the final levy
allocation as provided in Neb. RS 77-3443 to the voters of political
subdivisions in the county seeking additional levy authority. The city may
individually or in conjunction with one or more other political subdivisions
conduct a special election on a date different from that set by the County
Clerk or Election Commissioner, except that the City Council shall pass a
resolution calling for a special election for this purpose and deliver a copy
of the resolution to the County Clerk or Election Commissioner no later than 30
days prior to the date of the election.
   (D)   (1)   The city may rescind or modify a previously approved excess levy
authority prior to its expiration by a majority of registered voters voting on
the issue in a primary, general or special election at which the issue is
placed before the registered voters. A vote to rescind or modify must be
approved prior to October 10 of the fiscal year for which it is to be
effective.
      (2)   The City Council may call for the submission of the issue to the
voters:
         (a)   By passing a resolution calling for the rescission or
modification by a vote of at least two-thirds of the members of the City
Council and delivering a copy of the resolution to the County Clerk or Election
Commissioner of every county which contains all or part of the city; or
         (b)   Upon request of a petition by the County Clerk or Election
Commissioner of every county containing all or part of the city requesting an
election signed by at least 5% of the registered voters residing in the city.
      (3)   The resolution or petition shall include the amount and the
duration of the previously approved excess levy authority and a statement that
either such excess levy authority will be rescinded or such excess levy
authority will be modified. If the excess levy authority will be modified, the
amount and duration of such modification shall be stated. The modification
shall not have a duration greater than five years. The County Clerk or Election
Commissioner shall place the issue on the ballot at an election as called for
in the resolution or petition which is at least 30 days after receipt of the
resolution or petition and the time of publication and providing a copy of the
notice of election required in Neb. RS 32-802 shall be no later than 20 days
prior to the election. The election shall be held pursuant to the Election Act.
(Prior Code, § 1-823) (Ord. 692, passed 10-10-2000)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 77-3442 through 77-3444
§ 33.53 MOTOR VEHICLE TAX.
   The City Council may levy a tax on all motor vehicles owned or used in such
city, which tax shall be paid to the County Treasurer in which such city is
located when the registration fees as provided in Neb. RS 60-329 through 60-339
are paid. Such taxes shall be credited by the County Treasurer to the Road Fund
of such city. Such funds shall be used by such city for constructing,
resurfacing, maintaining or improving streets, roads alleys, public ways or
parts thereof, for the amortization of bonded indebtedness when created for
such purposes.
(Prior Code, § 1-820) (Ord. 483, passed 10-25-1988; Ord. 501, passed 11-1-1989)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 18-1214
CHAPTER 34: FORMS OF LEGISLATION
Section
Ordinances, Resolutions and Motions
   
34.01   Grant of power
   
34.02   Resolutions and motions
   
34.03   Ordinances; style, title
   
34.04   Bylaws
   
34.05   Publication or posting
   
34.06   Certificate of publication or posting
   
34.07   Effective date; emergency ordinances
   
34.08   Amendments and revisions
Initiative and Referendum
   
34.20   Definitions
   
34.21   Petitions, ballots
   
34.22   Petitions; form; declaratory judgments
   
34.23   Signature sheets
   
34.24   Petitions; affidavit and notification
   
34.25   Frequency of occurrence
   
34.26   Direct vote
   
34.27   Elections
   
34.28   Ballots
   
34.29   Initiative
   
34.30   Referendum limitations
   
34.31   Referendum, passage
   
34.32   Applicability
 
   
34.99   Penalty
ORDINANCES, RESOLUTIONS AND MOTIONS
§ 34.01 GRANT OF POWER.
   The City Council may make all ordinances, bylaws, rules, regulations and
resolutions, not inconsistent with the laws of the state, as may be expedient
for maintaining the peace, good government and welfare of the city and its
trade, commerce and manufactories.
(Prior Code, § 1-601) (Ord. 636, passed 7-22-1997)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-505
§ 34.02 RESOLUTIONS AND MOTIONS.
   (A)   Unless the City Council provides otherwise, resolutions and motions
shall be introduced in one of the methods prescribed in §
34.04 of this code for the introduction of ordinances.
   (B)   The issue raised by the resolution or motion shall be disposed of in
accordance with the usage of parliamentary law adopted for the guidance of the
City Council.
   (C)   A majority vote shall be required to pass any resolution or motion.
The vote on any resolution or motion shall be by roll call vote.
§ 34.03 ORDINANCES; STYLE, TITLE.
   (A)   Style. The style of all city ordinances shall be: “Be it ordained by
the Mayor and Council of the City of              , Nebraska:….”
(Neb. RS 17-613)
   (B)   Title. No ordinance shall contain a subject which is not clearly
expressed in the title.
(Neb. RS 17-614)
§ 34.04 BYLAWS.
   (A)   (1) All ordinances and resolutions or orders for the appropriation or
payment of money shall require for their passage or adoption the concurrence of
a majority of all members elected to the City Council. The Mayor may vote when
his or her vote would provide the additional vote required to attain the number
of votes equal to a majority of the number of members elected to the Council,
and the Mayor shall, for the purpose of such vote, be deemed to be a member of
the Council.
      (2)   Ordinances of a general or permanent nature shall be read by title
on three different days unless three-fourths of the City Council vote to
suspend this requirement. Such requirement shall not be suspended for any
ordinance for the annexation of territory, or the redrawing of boundaries for
city council election districts or wards, or as otherwise provided in Neb. RS
17-614(3), or as otherwise provided by law.
      (3)   In case this requirement is suspended, the ordinance shall be read
by title and then moved for final passage.
      (4)   Three-fourths of the City Council may require a reading of any such
ordinance in full before enactment under either procedure set out in this
section.
(Neb. RS 17-614)
   (B)   On the passage or adoption of every bylaw or ordinance, and every
resolution or order to enter into a contract by the City Council, the yeas and
nays shall be called and recorded. To pass or adopt any bylaw, ordinance or any
such resolution or order, a concurrence of a majority of the whole number of
members elected to the City Council shall be required. All appointments of the
officers by the City Council shall be made viva voce, and the concurrence of a
like majority shall be required, and the names of those, and for whom they
voted, on the vote resulting in an appointment, shall be recorded. The
requirements of a roll call or viva voce vote shall be satisfied by a city
which utilizes an electronic voting device which allows the yeas and nays of
each member of the City Council to be readily seen by the public.
(Neb. RS 17-616)
(Prior Code, § 1-605)
Statutory reference:
   Adjustments to boundaries of election districts, see Neb. RS 17-614
§ 34.05 PUBLICATION OR POSTING.
   All ordinances of a general nature shall, before they take effect, be
published one time, within 15 days after they are passed:
   (A)   In some newspaper published in the city or, if no paper is published
in the city, then by posting a written or printed copy in each of three public
places in the city;
   (B)   In book or pamphlet form; or
   (C)   In electronic form.
(Prior Code, § 1-606) (Ord. 458, passed 10-14-1986; Ord. 638, passed 7-22-1997)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-613
§ 34.06 CERTIFICATE OF PUBLICATION OR POSTING.
   The passage, approval and publication or posting of an ordinance shall be
sufficiently proved by a certificate under the seal of the city from the City
Clerk showing that the ordinance was passed and approved, and when and in what
paper the ordinance was published, or when and by whom and where the ordinance
was posted.
(Neb. RS 17-613)
Statutory reference:
   Passage; rules and regulations, see Neb. RS 17-615
§ 34.07 EFFECTIVE DATE; EMERGENCY ORDINANCES.
   (A)   Except as provided in division (B) below, an ordinance for the
government of the city which has been adopted by the City Council without
submission to the voters of the city shall not go into effect until 15 days
after the passage of the ordinance.
   (B)   (1)   In the case of riot, infectious or contagious diseases, or other
impending danger, failure of a public utility or any other emergency requiring
its immediate operation, an ordinance shall take effect upon the proclamation
of the Mayor and the posting thereof in at least three of the most public
places in the city.
      (2)   Such emergency ordinance shall recite the emergency, be passed by a
three-fourths vote of the City Council and be entered of record on the City
Clerk’s minutes.
(Prior Code, § 1-608) (Ord. 639, passed 7-22-1997)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-613 and 19-3701
§ 34.08 AMENDMENTS AND REVISIONS.
   No ordinance or section thereof shall be revised or amended unless the new
ordinance contains the entire ordinance or section as revised or amended and
the ordinance or section so amended is repealed, except that an ordinance
revising all the ordinances of the city and modifications to zoning or building
districts may be adopted as otherwise provided by law.
(Prior Code, § 1-609) (Ord. 640, passed 7-22-1997)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-614
INITIATIVE AND REFERENDUM
§ 34.20 DEFINITIONS.
   The powers of initiative and referendum are reserved to the qualified
electors of the city by state law. This subchapter shall govern the use of
initiative to enact and the use of referendum to amend or repeal measures
affecting the governance of the city. For the purpose of this subchapter, the
following definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or
requires a different meaning.
   CIRCULATOR. Any person who solicits signatures for an initiative or
referendum petition.
   CLERK. The City Clerk or the municipal official in charge of elections.
   GOVERNING BODY. The legislative authority of the municipality.
   MEASURE. An ordinance, charter provision or resolution which is within the
legislative authority of the governing body to pass, and which is not excluded
from the operation of referendum by the exceptions in §
34.30 of this code.
   MUNICIPALITY. The City of Harvard, Nebraska.
   PETITION. A document authorized for circulation pursuant to §
34.21 of this code, or any copy of such document.
   PLACE OF RESIDENCE. The street and number of the residence. If there is no
street and number for the residence, PLACE OF RESIDENCE shall mean the mailing
address.
   PROSPECTIVE PETITION. A sample document containing the information necessary
for a completed petition, including a sample signature sheet, which has not yet
been authorized for circulation.
   QUALIFIED ELECTORS. All persons registered to vote, at the time the
prospective petition is filed, in the jurisdiction governed or to be governed
by any measure sought to be enacted by initiative or altered or repealed by
referendum.
   RESIDENCE. That place at which a person has established his or her home,
where he or she is habitually present, and to which, when he or she departs, he
or she intends to return.
   SIGNATURE SHEET. A sheet of paper which is part of a petition and which is
signed by persons wishing to support the petition effort.
(Prior Code, § 1-1001)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 18-2501 through 18-2511
§ 34.21 PETITIONS, BALLOTS.
   (A)   (1)   Before circulating an initiative or referendum petition, the
petitioner shall file with the Clerk a prospective petition. The Clerk shall
date the prospective petition immediately upon its receipt. The Clerk shall
verify that the prospective petition is in proper form and shall provide a
ballot title for the initiative or referendum proposal, as described below. If
the prospective petition is in proper form, the Clerk shall authorize the
circulation of the petition and such authorization shall be given within three
working days from the date the prospective petition was filed. If the form of
the prospective petition is incorrect, the Clerk shall, within three working
days from the date the prospective petition was filed, inform the petitioner of
necessary changes and request that those changes be made. When the requested
changes have been made and the revised prospective petition has been submitted
to the Clerk in proper form, the Clerk shall authorize the circulation of the
petition and such authorization shall be given within two working days from the
receipt of the properly revised petition.
      (2)   Verification by the Clerk that the prospective petition is in
proper form does not constitute an admission by the Clerk, City Council or city
that the measure is subject to referendum or limited referendum or that the
measure may be enacted by initiative.
   (B)   The ballot title of any measure to be initiated or referred shall
consist of:
      (1)   A briefly-worded caption by which the measure is commonly known or
which accurately summarizes the measure;
      (2)   A briefly-worded question which plainly states the purpose of the
measure, and is phrased so that an affirmative response to the question
corresponds to an affirmative vote on the measure; and
      (3)   A concise and impartial statement of not more than 75 words of the
chief purpose of the measure.
   (C)   The ballots used when voting on an initiative or referendum proposal
shall contain the entire ballot title. Proposals for initiative and referendum
shall be submitted on separate ballots and the ballots shall be printed in
lower case ten-point type, except that the caption shall be in bold face type.
All initiative and referendum measures shall be submitted in a nonpartisan
manner without indicating or suggesting on the ballot that they have or have
not been approved or endorsed by any political party or organization.
(Prior Code, § 1-1002)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 18-2512 and 18-2513
§ 34.22 PETITIONS; FORM; DECLARATORY JUDGMENTS.
   (A)   The Secretary of State shall design the form to be used for initiative
and referendum petitions, including signature sheets. These forms shall be made
available to the public by the Clerk, and they shall serve as a guide for
individuals preparing prospective petitions. Substantial compliance with
initiative and referendum forms is required before authorization to circulate
such petition shall be granted by the Clerk pursuant to §
34.21 of this code. Chief petitioners or circulators preparing prospective
petitions shall be responsible for making copies of the petition for
circulation, once authorization for circulation has been granted, and each
petition presented for signature must be identical to the petition authorized
for circulation by the Clerk pursuant to §
34.21 of this code.
   (B)   (1)   The city, or any chief petitioners, may seek a declaratory
judgment regarding any questions arising under this subchapter, as it may be
from time to time amended, including, but not limited to, determining whether a
measure is subject to referendum or limited referendum or whether a measure may
be enacted by initiative.
      (2)   If a chief petitioners seeks a declaratory judgment, the city shall
be served by personal, residence or certified mail service upon the Chief
Executive Officer or Clerk. If the city seeks a declaratory judgment, only the
chief petitioners or chief petitioners shall be required to be served. Any
action brought for declaratory judgment for purposes of determining whether a
measure is subject to limited referendum or referendum, or whether a measure
may be enacted by initiative, may be filed in the District Court at any time
after the filing of a referendum or initiative petition with the City Clerk for
signature verification until 40 days from the date the City Council received
notification pursuant to §
34.24(B) of this code.
      (3)   If the city does not bring an action for declaratory judgment to
determine whether the measure is subject to limited referendum or referendum,
or whether the measure may be enacted by initiative until after it has received
notification pursuant to §
34.24(B) of this code, it shall be required to proceed with the initiative or
referendum election in accordance with the provisions of this subchapter. If
the city does file such an action prior to receiving notification pursuant to §
34.24(B) of this code, it shall not be required to proceed to hold such
election until a final decision has been rendered in the action. Any action for
a declaratory judgment shall be governed generally by Neb. RS 25-21,149 through
25-21,164, except that only the city and each chief petitioners shall be
required to be made parties.
      (4)   The city, Clerk, City Council or any of the city’s officers shall
be entitled to rely on any order rendered by the court in any such proceeding.
Any action brought for declaratory judgment pursuant to this section shall be
given priority in scheduling, hearings and in disposition as determined by the
court when an action is brought to determine whether the measure is subject to
limited referendum or referendum, or whether a measure may be enacted by
initiative, a decision shall be rendered by the court no later than five days
prior to the election. The provisions of this section relating to declaratory
judgments shall not be construed as limiting, but construed as supplemental and
additional to other rights and remedies conferred by law.
   (C)   Every petition shall contain the name and place of residence of not
more than three persons as chief petitioners or sponsors of the measure. The
chief petitioners or sponsors shall be qualified electors of the city
potentially affected by the initiative or referendum proposal. Every petition
shall contain the caption and ballot title required in §
34.21 of this code, and only qualified electors shall circulate petitions. When
a special election is being requested, such fact shall be stated on every
petition.
(Prior Code, § 1-1003)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 25-510.02
§ 34.23 SIGNATURE SHEETS.
   (A)   Every signature sheet shall:
      (1)   Contain the caption required in §
34.21(A) of this code;
      (2)   Be part of a complete and authorized petition when presented to
potential signatories;
      (3)   Provide space for signatories to write their names, places of
residence and the date of signing; and
      (4)   Contain a statement that anyone falsifying information on a
signature sheet shall be subject to penalties provided by law.
   (B)   (1)   No more than 25 signatures on each signature sheet shall be
counted. In order to be valid, a signature shall be that of an individual
registered to vote, at the time of signing, in the jurisdiction’ governed or to
be governed by the measure addressed in the petition. A signature shall include
the signatory’s full name, his or her place of residence and the date of
signing.
      (2)   No signatory shall use ditto marks as a means of affixing his or
her place of residence or date on any petition. A wife shall not use her
husband’s Christian or given name when she signs a petition and she shall sign
her own Christian or given name along with her surname.
(Prior Code, § 1-1004)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 18-2516
§ 34.24 PETITIONS; AFFIDAVIT AND NOTIFICATION.
   (A)   Affidavit. Included in the contents of every petition shall be an
affidavit, to be signed by the circulator in the presence of a notary, which
states that the circulator is a qualified elector, that each person who signed
the petition did so in the presence of the circulator on the date indicated,
and that the circulator believes that each signatory was registered to vote in
the affected jurisdiction at the time he or she signed the petition and that
the circulator believes that each signatory has stated his or her name and
place of residence correctly.
(Prior Code, § 1-1005)
   (B)   Notification.
      (1)   Signed petitions shall be filed with the Clerk for signature
verification. Upon the filing of a petition and passage of a resolution by the
City Council, the city and the County Clerk or Election Commissioner of the
county in which such municipality is located may by mutual agreement provide
that the County Clerk or Election Commissioner shall ascertain whether the
petition is signed by the requisite number of voters. The city shall reimburse
the county for any costs incurred by the County Clerk or Election Commissioner.
      (2)   When the verifying official has determined that 100% of the
necessary signatures required by this subchapter have been obtained, he or she
shall notify the City Council of that fact and shall immediately forward to the
City Council a copy of the petition.
      (3)   In order for an initiative or referendum proposal to be submitted
to the City Council and the voters, the necessary signatures shall be on file
with the Clerk within six months from the date the prospective petition was
authorized for circulation. If the necessary signatures are not obtained by
such date, the petition shall be void.
(Prior Code, § 1-1006)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 18-2517 and 18-2518
§ 34.25 FREQUENCY OF OCCURRENCE.
   The same measure, either in form or in essential substance, may not be
submitted to the people by initiative petition, either affirmatively or
negatively, more often than once every two years. No attempt to repeal or alter
an existing measure or portion of such measure by referendum petition may be
made within two years from the last attempt to do the same. Such prohibition
shall apply only when the subsequent attempt to repeal or alter is designed to
accomplish the same, or essentially the same purpose as the previous attempt.
(Prior Code, § 1-1007)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 18-2519
§ 34.26 DIRECT VOTE.
   The Executive Officer and City Council may at any time, by resolution,
provide for the submission to a direct vote of the electors of any measure
pending before it, passed by it, including an override of any veto, if
necessary, or enacted by the electors under this subchapter and may provide in
such resolution that such measure shall be submitted at a special election or
the next regularly scheduled primary or general election. Immediately upon the
passage of any such resolution for submission, the Clerk shall cause such
measure to be submitted to a direct vote of the electors, at the time specified
in such resolution and in the manner provided in this subchapter for submission
of measures upon proposals and petitions filed by voters. Such matter shall
become law if approved by a majority of the votes cast.
(Prior Code, § 1-1008)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 18-2520
§ 34.27 ELECTIONS.
   (A)   The Clerk shall call elections under this subchapter, either at a
special election or regularly scheduled primary or general election. He or she
shall cause notice of every such election to be printed in one or more
newspapers of general circulation in the city at least once not less than 30
days prior to such election and also posted in the office of the Clerk and in
at least three conspicuous places in the city at least 30 days prior to such
election.
   (B)   The notice shall be substantially as follows:
 
 
Notice is hereby given that on Tuesday, the           day of          , (year), at (identify
polling place or precinct) of the municipality of             , Nebraska, an election will be
held at which there will be submitted to the electors of the municipality for their approval or
rejection, the following measures, propositions or issues:
 
(naming measures, propositions or issues),
 
which election will be open at 8:00 a.m. and will continue open until 8:00 p.m., of the same
day. Dated this               day of          , (year).
 
Clerk of the City/Village of            , Nebraska.
 
   (C)   The Clerk shall make available for photocopying a copy in pamphlet
form of measures initiated or referred. Such notice provided in this section
shall designate where such a copy in pamphlet form may be obtained.
(Prior Code, § 1-1009)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 18-2521
§ 34.28 BALLOTS.
   (A)   All ballots for use in special elections under this subchapter shall
be prepared by the Clerk and furnished by the City Council, unless the City
Council contracts with the county for such service and shall be in form the
same as provided by law for election of the Executive Officer and City Council
of such municipality.
   (B)   When ordinances under such sections are submitted to the electors at a
regularly scheduled primary or general election they shall be placed upon the
official ballots as provided in this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 1-1010)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 18-2522
§ 34.29 INITIATIVE.
   (A)   The power of initiative allows citizens the right to enact measures
affecting the governance of the city. An initiative proposal shall not have as
its primary or sole purpose the repeal or modification of existing law except
if such repeal or modification is ancillary to and necessary for the adoption
and effective operation of the initiative measure.
   (B)   An initiative shall not be effective if the direct or indirect effect
of the passage of such initiative measure shall be to repeal or alter an
existing law, or portion thereof, which is not subject to referendum or subject
only to limited referendum pursuant to §
34.30 of this code.
   (C)   Whenever an initiative petition bearing signatures equal in number to
at least 15% of the qualified electors of the city has been filed with the
Clerk and verified, it shall be the duty of the City Council to consider
passage of the measure contained in the petition, including an override of any
veto, if necessary. If the City Council fails to pass the measure without
amendment, including an override of any veto, if necessary, within 30 days from
the date it received notification, the Clerk shall cause the measure to be
submitted to a vote of the people at the next regularly scheduled primary or
general election held within the city. If the City Council desires to submit
the measure to a vote of the people at a special election prior to the next
regularly scheduled primary or general election held within the city, the City
Council, shall, by resolution, direct the Clerk to cause the measure to be
submitted at a special election. Such resolution shall not be subject to
referendum or limited referendum.
   (D)   Whenever an initiative petition bearing signatures equal in number to
at least 20% of the qualified electors, which requests that a special election
be called to submit the initiative measure to a vote of the people, has been
filed with the Clerk and verified pursuant to §
34.24(B) of this code, it shall be the duty of the City Council to consider
passage of the measure contained in the petition, including an override of any
veto, if necessary. If the City Council fails to pass the measure, without
amendment, including an override of any veto, if necessary, within 30 days from
the date it received notification, the Clerk shall cause the measure to be
submitted to a vote of the people at a special election called for such
purpose. The date of such election shall not be less than 30 nor more than 60
days from the date the City Council received notification pursuant to §
34.24(B) of this code.
   (E)   If a majority of voters voting on the initiative measure shall vote in
favor of such measure, it shall become a valid and binding measure of the city
30 days after certification of the election results, unless the City Council by
resolution orders an earlier effective date or the measure itself provides for
a later effective date, which resolution shall not be subject to referendum or
limited referendum. A measure passed by such method shall not be amended or
repealed except by two-thirds majority of the members of the City Council. No
such attempt to amend or repeal shall be made within one year from the passage
of the measure by the electors.
(Prior Code, § 1-1011)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 18-2523 through 18-2526
§ 34.30 REFERENDUM LIMITATIONS.
   (A)   The power of referendum allows citizens the right to repeal or amend
existing measures, or portions thereof, affecting the governance of the city.
   (B)   The following measures shall not be subject to referendum or limited
referendum:
      (1)   Measures necessary to carry out contractual obligations including,
but not limited to, those relating to the issuance of or provided for in bonds,
notes, warrants or other evidence of indebtedness, for projects previously
approved by a measure which was, or is, subject to referendum or limited
referendum or previously approved by a measure adopted prior to July 17, 1982;
      (2)   Measures relating to any industrial development projects,
subsequent to measures giving initial approval to such projects;
      (3)   Measures adopting proposed budget statements following compliance
with procedures set forth in the state’s Budget Act;
      (4)   Measures relating to the immediate preservation of the public
peace, health or safety which have been designated as urgent measures by
unanimous vote of those present and voting of the City Council and approved by
the Mayor;
      (5)   Measures relating to projects for which notice has been given as
provided for in division (E) below for which a sufficient referendum petition
was not filed within the time limit stated in such notice or which received
voter approval after the filing of such petition;
      (6)   Resolutions directing the City Clerk to cause measures to be
submitted to a vote of the people at a special election as provided in §
34.29(C) and §
34.31(A) of this code;
      (7)   Resolutions ordering an earlier effective date for measures enacted
by initiative as provided in §
34.29(E) of this code;
      (8)   Measures relating to any facility or system adopted or enacted
pursuant to the Integrated Solid Waste Management Act, being Neb. RS 13-2001,
by the city and which are necessary to carry out contractual obligations
provided for in previously issued bonds, notes, warrants or other evidence of
indebtedness;
      (9)   Measures that amend, supplement, change, modify or repeal a zoning
regulation, restriction or boundary and are subject to protest as provided in
Neb. RS 19-905;
      (10)   Measures relating to personnel issues, including, but not limited
to, establishment, modification or elimination of any personnel position,
policy, salary or benefit and any hiring, promotion, demotion or termination of
personnel; and
      (11)   Measures relating to matters subject to the provisions of the
Municipal Natural Gas System Condemnation Act.
   (C)   The following measures shall be subject to limited referendum:
      (1)   Measures in furtherance of a policy of the city or relating to
projects previously approved by a measure which was subject to referendum or
which was enacted by initiative or has been approved by the voters at an
election, except that such measures shall not be subject to referendum or
limited referendum for a period of one year after any such policy or project
was approved at a referendum election, enacted by initiative or approved by the
voters at an election;
      (2)   Measures relating to the acquisition, construction, installation,
improvement or enlargement, including the financing or refinancing of the costs
of public ways, public property, utility systems and other capital projects and
measures giving initial approval for industrial development projects;
      (3)   Measures setting utility system rates and charges, except for
measures necessary to carry out contractual obligations provided for in
previously issued bonds, notes, warrants or other evidence of indebtedness and
pay rates and salaries for municipal employees other than the members of the
City Council and the Mayor; and
      (4)   Measures relating to any facility or system adopted or enacted
pursuant to the Integrated Solid Waste Management Act by the city except for
measures necessary to carry out contractual obligations provided for in
previously issued bonds, notes, warrants or other evidence of indebtedness.
   (D)   Measures subject to limited referendum shall ordinarily take effect 30
days after their passage by the City Council, including an override of any
veto, if necessary. Referendum petitions directed at measures subject to
limited referendum shall be filed for signature verification pursuant to §
34.24(B) of this code within 30 days after such measure’s passage by the City
Council, including an override of any veto, if necessary, or after notice is
first published pursuant to division (E)(3) below. If the necessary number of
signatures as provided in §
34.29 of this code has been obtained within the time limitation, the
effectiveness of the measure shall be suspended unless approved by the voters.
   (E)   For any measure relating to the acquisition, construction,
installation, improvement or enlargement of public ways, public property,
utility systems or other capital projects or any measure relating to any
facility or system adopted or enacted pursuant to the Integrated Solid Waste
Management Act, the city may exempt all subsequent measures relating to the
same project from the referendum and limited referendum procedures provided for
in this subchapter by the following procedure:
      (1)   By holding a public hearing on the project, the time and place of
such hearing being published at least once not less than five days prior to the
date set for hearing in a newspaper of general circulation within the City
Council’s jurisdiction;
      (2)   By passage of a measure approving the project, including an
override of a veto, if necessary, at a meeting held on any date subsequent to
the date of hearing; and
      (3)   After passage of such measure, including an override of a veto, if
necessary, by giving notice as follows:
         (a)   For those projects for which applicable statutes require an
ordinance or resolution of necessity, creating a district or otherwise
establishing the project, notice shall be given for such project by including
either as part of such ordinance or resolution or as part of any publicized
notice concerning such ordinance or resolution a statement that the project as
described in the ordinance or resolution is subject to limited referendum for a
period of 30 days after the first publication of such notice and that, after
such 30-day period, the project and measures related to it will not be subject
to any further right of referendum; and
         (b)   For projects for which applicable statutes do not require an
ordinance or resolution of necessity, notice shall be given by publication of a
notice concerning such projects stating in general terms the nature of the
project and the engineer’s estimate of costs of such project and stating that
the project described in the notice is subject to limited referendum for a
period of 30 days after the first publication of such notice and that, after
such 30-day period, the project and measures related to it will not be subject
to any further right of referendum. The notice required by this subdivision
shall be published in at least one newspaper of general circulation within the
city and shall be published not later than 15 days after passage by the City
Council, including an override of a veto, if necessary, of a measure approving
the project.
   (F)   The right of the city to hold such a hearing prior to the passage of
the measure by the City Council and give such notice after passage of such
measure by the City Council to obtain exemption for any particular project in a
manner described in this section is optional, and the city shall not be
required to hold such a hearing or give such notice for any particular project.
   (G)   All measures, except as provided in divisions (B), (C) and (E) above,
shall be subject to the referendum procedure at any time after such measure has
been passed by the City Council, including an override of a veto, if necessary,
or enacted by the voters by initiative.
   (H)   Nothing in divisions (C) and (E) above shall be construed as
subjecting to limited referendum any measure related to matters subject to the
provisions of the Municipal Natural Gas System Condemnation Act.
(Prior Code, § 1-1012) (Ord. 552, passed 3-9-1993; Ord. 700, passed 3-13-2001)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 18-2527 and 18-2528
§ 34.31 REFERENDUM, PASSAGE.
   (A)   Whenever a referendum petition bearing signatures equal in number to
at least 15% of the qualified electors of the city has been filed with the
Clerk and verified pursuant to §
34.24(B) of this code, it shall be the duty of the City Council to reconsider
the measure or portion of such measure which is the object of the referendum.
If the City Council fails to repeal or amend the measure or portion thereof in
the manner proposed by the referendum, including an override of any veto, if
necessary, within 30 days from the date the City Council receives notification
pursuant to §
34.24(B) of this code, the Clerk shall cause the measure to be submitted to a
vote of the people at the next regularly scheduled primary or general election
held within the city. If the City Council desires to submit the measure to a
vote of the people at a special election prior to the next regularly scheduled
primary or general election held within the city, the City Council shall, by
resolution, direct the Clerk to cause the measure to be submitted at a special
election. Such resolution shall not be subject to referendum or limited
referendum.
   (B)   Whenever a referendum petition bearing signatures equal in number to
at least 20% of the qualified voters of the city which requests that a special
election be called to submit the referendum measure to a vote of the people,
has been filed with the Clerk and verified, it shall be the duty of the City
Council to reconsider the measure or portion of such measure which is the
object of the referendum. If the City Council fails to repeal or amend the
measure or portion thereof, in the manner proposed by the referendum, including
an override of any veto, if necessary, the Clerk shall cause the measure to be
submitted to a vote of the people at a special election called for such purpose
within 30 days from the date the City Council received notification. The date
of such special election shall not be less than 30 nor more than 60 days from
the date the City Council received notification.
   (C)   If a majority of the electors voting on the referendum measure shall
vote in favor of such measure, the law subject to the referendum shall be
repealed or amended. A measure repealed or amended by referendum shall not be
reenacted or returned to its original form except by a two-thirds majority of
the members of the City Council. No such attempt to reenact or return the
measure to its original form shall be made within one year of the repeal or
amendment of the measure by the electors. If the referendum measure does not
receive a majority vote, the ordinance shall immediately become effective or
remain in effect.
(Prior Code, § 1-1013)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 18-2529 through 18-2531
§ 34.32 APPLICABILITY.
   (A)   The provisions of the statutes of the state relating to election
officers, voting places, election apparatus and blanks, preparation and form of
ballots, information to voters, delivery of ballots, calling of elections,
conduct of elections, manner of voting, counting of votes, records and
certificates of election and recounts of votes, so far as applicable, shall
apply to voting on ordinances by the electors pursuant to this subchapter.
   (B)   Nothing in this subchapter shall apply to procedures for initiatives
or referendums provided in Neb. RS 18-412 and 18-412.02 relating to municipal
light and power plants, Neb. RS 70-504 and 70-650.01, relating to public power
districts, and Neb. RS 80-203 through 80-205 relating to soldiers’ and sailors’
monuments.
(Prior Code, § 1-1015)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 18-2536 and 18-2537
§ 34.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Whoever knowingly or willfully makes a false affidavit or takes a
false oath regarding the qualifications of any person to sign petitions under
Neb. RS 18-2501 through 18-2531 shall be guilty of a Class I misdemeanor with a
limit of $300 on the fine.
   (C)   Whoever falsely makes or willfully destroys a petition or any part
thereof, or signs a false name thereto, or signs or files any petition knowing
the same or any part thereof to be falsely made, or suppresses any petition, or
any part thereof, which has been duly filed, pursuant to Neb. RS 18-2501
through 18-2531 shall be guilty of a Class I misdemeanor with a limit of $500
on the fine.
   (D)   Whoever signs any petition under Neb. RS 18-2501 through 18-2531
knowing that he or she is not a registered voter in the place where such
petition is made, aids or abets any other person in doing any of the acts
mentioned in this section, bribes or gives or pays any money or thing of value
to any person directly or indirectly to induce him or her to sign such
petition, or engages in any deceptive practice intended to induce any person to
sign a petition, shall be guilty of a Class I misdemeanor with a limit of $300
on the fine.
   (E)   Any Clerk who willfully refuses to comply with the provisions of Neb.
RS 18-2501 through 18-2531 or who willfully causes unreasonable delay in the
execution of his or her duties under such sections shall be guilty of a Class I
misdemeanor but imprisonment shall not be included as part of the punishment.
(Prior Code, § 1-1014) (Ord. 249, passed 11-8-1983)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 18-2532 through 18-2535
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
   Chapter
      
50.   UTILITIES GENERALLY
      
51.   SOLID WASTE
      
52.   WATER
      
53.   SEWER
CHAPTER 50: UTILITIES GENERALLY
Section
   
50.01   Diversion of services
   
50.02   Discontinuance of service; notice
   
50.03   Utility bills; service charges for nonpayment; reconnection fee
   
50.04   Meter tampering; unauthorized reconnection
 
   
50.99   Penalty
§ 50.01 DIVERSION OF SERVICES.
   (A)   The city may bring a civil action for damages against any person who
commits, authorizes, solicits, aids, abets or attempts bypassing, tampering or
unauthorized metering when such act results in damages to a municipal utility.
The city may bring a civil action for damages, pursuant to this section,
against any person receiving the benefit of utility service through means of
bypassing, tampering or unauthorized metering.
   (B)   In any civil action brought pursuant to this section, the city shall
be entitled, upon proof of willful or intentional bypassing, tampering or
unauthorized metering to recover as damages:
      (1)   The amount of actual damage or loss if the amount of the damage or
loss is susceptible of reasonable calculation; or
      (2)   Liquidated damages of:
         (a)   Until July 1, 1985: $500; and
         (b)   On July 1, 1985 and thereafter: $750 if the amount of actual
damage or loss is not susceptible of reasonable calculation.
   (C)   In addition to damage or loss under divisions (A) or (B) above, the
city may recover all reasonable expenses and costs incurred on account of the
bypassing, tampering or unauthorized metering including, but not limited to,
disconnection, reconnection, service calls, equipment, costs of the suit and
reasonable attorneys’ fees in cases within the scope of Neb. RS 25-1801.
   (D)   There shall be a rebuttable presumption that a tenant or occupant, at
any premises where bypassing, tampering or unauthorized metering is proven to
exist, caused or had knowledge of such bypassing, tampering or unauthorized
metering if the tenant or occupant had access to the part of the utility supply
system on the premises where the bypassing, tampering or unauthorized metering
is proven to exist, and was responsible or partially responsible for payment,
either directly or indirectly, to the utility or to any other person for
utility services to the premises.
   (E)   There shall be a rebuttable presumption that a customer, at any
premises where bypassing, tampering or unauthorized metering is proven to
exist, caused or had knowledge of such bypassing, tampering or unauthorized
metering if the customer controlled access to the part of the utility supply
system on the premises where the bypassing, tampering or unauthorized metering
was proven to exist.
   (F)   The remedies provided by this section shall be deemed to be
supplemental and additional to powers conferred by existing laws, and the
remedies provided in this section are in addition to and not in limitation of
any other civil or criminal statutory or common law remedies.
(Prior Code, § 3-1001) (Ord. 408, passed 10-11-1983)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 25-21,275 through 25-21,279
§ 50.02 DISCONTINUANCE OF SERVICE; NOTICE.
   (A)   (1)   The city shall have the right to discontinue utility services
and remove its properties if the charges for such services are not paid within
seven days after the date that the charges become delinquent. Before any
termination, the city shall first give notice by first-class mail or in person
to any domestic subscriber whose service is proposed to be terminated.
      (2)   If notice is given by first-class mail, such mail shall be
conspicuously marked as to its importance. Service shall not be discontinued
for at least seven days, weekends and holidays excluded, after notice is sent
or given. As to any subscriber who has previously been identified as a welfare
recipient to the city by the Department of Health and Human Services, such
notice shall be by certified mail, and notice of such proposed termination
shall be given to the Department of Health and Human Services.
   (B)   The notice shall contain the following information:
      (1)   The reason for the proposed disconnection;
      (2)   A statement of the intention to disconnect unless the domestic
subscriber either pays the bill or reaches an agreement with the city regarding
payment of the bill;
      (3)   The date upon which service will be disconnected if the domestic
subscriber does not take appropriate action;
      (4)   The name, address and telephone number of the employee or
department to whom the domestic subscriber may address an inquiry or complaint;
      (5)   The domestic subscriber’s right, prior to the disconnection date,
to request a conference regarding any dispute over such proposed disconnection;
      (6)   A statement that the city may not disconnect service pending the
conclusion of the conference;
      (7)   A statement to the effect that disconnection may be postponed or
prevented upon presentation of a duly licensed physician’s certificate which
shall certify that the domestic subscriber or a resident within such
subscriber’s household has an existing illness or handicap which would cause
such subscriber or resident to suffer an immediate and serious health hazard by
the disconnection of the city’s service to that household. Such certificate
shall be filed with the city within five days of receiving notice under this
section and will prevent the disconnection of the city’s service for a period
of 30 days from such filing. Only one postponement of disconnection shall be
allowed under this division (B)(7) for each incidence of nonpayment of any past
due account;
      (8)   The cost that will be borne by the domestic subscriber for
restoration of service;
      (9)   A statement that the domestic subscriber may arrange with the city
for an installment payment plan;
      (10)   A statement to the effect that those domestic subscribers who are
welfare recipients may qualify for assistance in payment of their utility bill
and that they should contact their caseworker in that regard; and
      (11)   Any additional information not inconsistent with this section
which has received prior approval from the City Council.
   (C)   A domestic subscriber may dispute the proposed discontinuance of
service by notifying the city with a written statement that sets forth the
reasons for the dispute and the relief requested. If a statement has been made
by the subscriber, a conference shall be held before the city may discontinue
services.
   (D)   The procedures adopted by the City Council for resolving utility
bills, three copies of which are on file in the office of the City Clerk, are
hereby incorporated by reference in addition to any amendments thereto and are
made a part of this section as though set out in full.
   (E)   This section shall not apply to any disconnections or interruptions of
services made necessary by the city for reasons of repair or maintenance or to
protect the health or safety of the domestic subscriber or of the general
public.
(Prior Code, § 3-1002) (Ord. 429, passed 11-13-1984; Ord. 647, passed 7-22-
1997)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 70-1602 et seq. 
§ 50.03 UTILITY BILLS; SERVICE CHARGES FOR NONPAYMENT; RECONNECTION FEE.
   (A)   Definition. The term UTILITY BILLS, as herein used, shall mean every
water, sewer and garbage bill.
   (B)   Utility bill.
      (1)   Utility bills shall be due and payable at the office of the City
Clerk on the first day of each month and shall be delinquent on the fifteenth
day of the month. Bills not paid by the fifteenth day of the month shall have a
service charge added thereto in the amount of $10. Upon being deemed
delinquent, as herein defined, the City Clerk shall give a written notice to
the customer of such delinquency and shall demand payment immediately.
      (2)   In the event that the bill is not paid within seven days after the
service of said notice, it shall be discretionary with the Superintendent to
cut off service at any time; provided, that if the delinquent customer is a
known social services recipient, it shall be the duty of the City Clerk to
notify the customer and the County Social Services Department by certified mail
of the proposed termination, and said service shall be cut off within seven
days.
(Prior Code, § 3-1003) (Ord. 536, passed 1-14-1992) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.04 METER TAMPERING; UNAUTHORIZED RECONNECTION.
   (A)   Any person who connects any pipe or conduit supplying water, without
the knowledge and consent of the city, in such manner that any portion thereof
may be supplied to any instrument by or at which water may be consumed without
passing through the meter provided for measuring or registering the amount or
quantity passing through it, and any person who knowingly uses or knowingly
permits the use of water obtained in the above mentioned unauthorized ways
shall be deemed guilty of an offense.
   (B)   Any person who willfully injures, alters or, by any instrument, device
or contrivance, in any manner interferes with or obstructs the action or
operation of any meter made or provided for measuring, or registering the
amount or quantity of water passing through it, without the knowledge and
consent of the city, shall be deemed guilty of an offense.
   (C)   When water service has been disconnected, pursuant to Neb. RS 70-1601
through 70-1615, or this chapter, any person who reconnects such service
without the knowledge and consent of the city shall be deemed guilty of an
offense.
   (D)   Proof of the existence of any pipe or conduit connection or
reconnection or of any injury, alteration or obstruction of a meter, as
provided in this section, shall be taken as prima facie evidence of the guilt
of the person in possession of the premises where such connection,
reconnection, injury, alteration or obstruction is proved to exist.
(Prior Code, § 3-1004) (Ord. 609, passed 3-26-1996) Penalty, see §
50.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 28-515 through 28-515.02
§ 50.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person, firm or corporation violating any provision of §
50.03 of this code shall be assessed an additional fee of $15 during normal
working hours and $30 after normal working hours, in the event that service is
discontinued for the nonpayment of any utility bill by the Utility
Superintendent. This fee is to compensate the city for the additional time and
effort for disconnect and re-hook service.
(Prior Code, § 3-1003) (Ord. 536, passed 1-14-1992)
CHAPTER 51: SOLID WASTE
Section
Garbage Disposal
   
51.01   Definitions
   
51.02   Disposal
   
51.03   Containers and dumpsters
   
51.04   Garbage collection limitations
   
51.05   Authority
   
51.06   Notice; removal
   
51.07   Nuisances
   
51.08   Lien
   
51.09   Rates
Landfill
   
51.20   Operation and funding
   
51.21   Hours of operation
   
51.22   Prohibitions
   
51.23   State regulations
   
51.24   Landfill keycards
 
   
51.99   Penalty
GARBAGE DISPOSAL
§ 51.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   GARBAGE. Every refuse accumulation of animals, fruit or vegetable matter,
liquid or otherwise that attends the preparation, use, cooking, dealing in or
storing of meat, fish, fruit or vegetables.
   RUBBISH. Waste material and refuse of every character collected or
accumulated within the city, except garbage, and shall include by way of
enumeration, but not by way of limitation, grass, leaves, sticks, tree
branches, stone, concrete, old boards, broken glass, used furniture or
household appliances, tin cans and newspapers.
(Prior Code, § 4-201) (Ord. 514, passed 12-12-1989)
§ 51.02 DISPOSAL.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to dispose of or
dump garbage or rubbish upon the streets of the city or upon any public or
private premises other than those duly designated for such purposes unless by
special permission of the City Council.
(Prior Code, § 4-202) (Ord. 514, passed 12-12-1989) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.03 CONTAINERS AND DUMPSTERS.
   (A)   All garbage and rubbish shall be placed in containers of the type and
size hereinafter prescribed, and said containers shall be placed at convenient
outdoor pickup locations on the terrace next to the street in residential
areas, or in the alley or rear of commercial areas.
   (B)   All garbage shall be placed for collection in standard sized plastic
garbage containers to be furnished.
   (C)   Any business, commercial or industrial location that disposes on a
regular basis will contract with contractor for required size dumpster.
(Prior Code, § 4-203) (Ord. 514, passed 12-12-1989)
§ 51.04 GARBAGE COLLECTION LIMITATIONS.
   (A)   City employees or contractors will not go upon private property,
except when specifically given permission to collect rubbish or garbage, except
in areas that are open to the public, such as business parking lots and private
alleys.
   (B)   The following items will not be collected by the city employees or
contractor and must be disposed of by the owner thereof:
      (1)   Motor vehicles;
      (2)   Waste from the demolition, destruction, burning or disposal of
buildings;
      (3)   Concrete; and
      (4)   Large limbs, tree trunks or tree roots.
   (C)   Refuse or garbage may not be put out for collection more than 48 hours
before the scheduled pickup.
(Prior Code, § 4-204) (Ord. 514, passed 12-12-1989)
§ 51.05 AUTHORITY.
   The City Council may provide for the collection and removal of garbage or
refuse found upon any lot or land within its corporate roads or alleys abutting
such lot or land which constitutes a public nuisance. The city may require the
owner, duly authorized agent or tenant of such lot or land to remove the
garbage or refuse from such lot or land and streets, roads or alleys.
(Prior Code, § 4-205) (Ord. 485, passed 10-25-1988)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 18-1752
§ 51.06 NOTICE; REMOVAL.
   Notice that removal of garbage or refuse is necessary shall be given to each
owner or owner’s duly authorized agent and to the tenant, if any. Such notice
shall be provided by personal service or by certified mall. After providing
such notice, the city, through its proper offices, shall, in addition to other
proper remedies, remove the garbage or refuse, or cause it to be removed, from
such lot or land and streets, roads or alleys.
(Prior Code, § 4-206) (Ord. 485, passed 10-25-1988)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 18-1752
§ 51.07 NUISANCES.
   If the Mayor or the city declares that the accumulation of such garbage or
refuse upon any lot or land constitutes an immediate nuisance and hazard to
public health and safety, the city shall remove the garbage or refuse, or cause
it to be removed, from such lot or land within 48 hours after notice by
personal service or following receipt of a certified letter, in accordance with
§
51.06 of this code, if such garbage or refuse has not been removed.
(Prior Code, § 4-207) (Ord. 485, passed 10-25-1988)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 18-1752
§ 51.08 LIEN.
   Whenever the city removes any garbage or refuse, or causes it to be removed,
from any lot or land pursuant to this subchapter, it shall, after a hearing
conducted by the governing board, assess the cost of the removal against such
lot or land.
(Prior Code, § 4-208) (Ord. 485, passed 10-25-1988)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 18-1752
§ 51.09 RATES.
   (A)   The City Council shall set garbage collection rates by ordinance. All
rates set are hereby declared to be nondiscriminatory and fair to each class of
user. All rates shall be on file in the office of the Clerk for public
inspection at any reasonable time.
   (B)   Garbage disposal rates are established as follows:
 
Nonresidential (per unit, per month) $20
Residential (per unit, per month)    $20
Sanitation fee (per month)           $2
Notes to Table:
Add $10 for one additional tote or $30 for two additional totes.
 
(Ord. 514, passed 12-12-1989; Ord. 547, passed 10-27-1992; Ord. 897, passed 10-
1-2021; Ord. 899, passed 10-1-2021; Ord. 909, passed 9-26-2023)
LANDFILL
§ 51.20 OPERATION AND FUNDING.
   (A)   (1)   The city owns and operates the municipal landfill through the
Maintenance Department. For the purpose of defraying the cost of the care,
management and maintenance of the municipal landfill, the City Council may each
year levy a tax, not to exceed the maximum limit prescribed by state law, on
the actual valuation of all real estate and personal property within the
corporate limits that is subject to taxation.
      (2)   The revenue from said tax shall be known as the Sanitation Fund and
shall remain in the custody of the City Treasurer.
   (B)   (1)   The Maintenance Department shall have the authority to adopt
rules and regulations for the sanitary and efficient management of the
landfill, subject to the supervision and review of the City Council.
      (2)   The landfill caretaker shall have the authority to adopt rules and
regulations for the sanitary and efficient management of the landfill subject
to the supervision and review of the City Council.
   (C)   The City Council has provided that, until changed by ordinance, the
following rates shall be charged for use of the municipal landfill:
 
Residents:
   Basic service charge, per quarter     $3
Nonresidents:
   Basic service charge:
      Car, per load                   $5
      Pick-up truck, per load         $25
      Trucks larger than pick-ups, per$50ad
 
   (D)   It is hereby also noted that the landfill will take and dispose of
garbage, used lumber, small pieces of iron or any other easy to dispose of
items on a limited basis only from nonresidents.
(Prior Code, § 3-901) (Ord. 370, passed 3-10-1981; Ord. 480, passed 5-24-1988;
Ord. 914, passed 6-14-2024)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 19-2101 through 19-2106
§ 51.21 HOURS OF OPERATION.
   The city, through the City Council shall regulate the days of operation and
the hours for which the landfill shall be open.
(Prior Code, § 3-902) (Ord. 370, passed 3-10-1981; Ord. 464, passed 5-12-1987)
§ 51.22 PROHIBITIONS.
   The following activities are prohibited at all times in the municipal
landfill:
   (A)   Scavenging operations;
   (B)   Feeding of farm or domestic animals;
   (C)   Discharge of firearms, including BB and pellet guns;
   (D)   Loitering;
   (E)   Open burning of garbage or of refuse containing garbage; and
   (F)   Vandalism.
(Prior Code, § 3-903) (Ord. 370, passed 3-10-1981)
§ 51.23 STATE REGULATIONS.
   The city shall apply for a license to operate the municipal landfill.
Application shall be made to the Department of Environmental Control on forms
provided by the Department. No fee shall be charged for such licensing. Each
license so issued shall expire five years following its date of issuance, but
may be renewed if the city has complied with the provisions of Neb. RS 81-1501
through 81-1532, and the rules and regulations adopted thereunder. It shall be
the duty of the Maintenance Department to comply with the rules and regulations
prescribed by the Department of Environmental Control for the use and operation
of the municipal landfill.
(Prior Code, § 3-904) (Ord. 914, passed 6-14-2024)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 81-1517 and 81-1519
§ 51.24 LANDFILL KEYCARDS.
   (A)   City residents who have active water accounts may purchase a landfill
keycard to access the municipal landfill. Only one keycard may be purchased per
household. Purchase of a keycard requires a valid photo ID with a current city
address at the time of purchase. The purchaser will also be required to sign a
form showing acceptance of the terms and conditions for use of the landfill and
keycard.
      (1)   A nonresident who owns property must submit a letter or approach a
meeting of the City Council for temporary access to the landfill.
      (2)   Any resident or contractor doing remodeling must rent their own
dumpster through Woodward’s Disposal.
   (B)   A keycard can be purchased at the City Clerk's Office for $25 with
free activation for the first season, and an annual $25 fee to reactivate the
keycard for each following season. If a keycard is lost, mislaid, or stolen, a
replacement keycard can be purchased for $25, with an additional activation fee
of $25.
   (C)   Keycard holders who move or at any point no longer reside within
corporate city limits must return their keycards or pay a $25 replacement fee.
   (D)   Any third party not a part of a keycard purchasing household or an
agent of a purchaser is prohibited from utilizing the municipal landfill or
borrowing a landfill keycard.
   (E)   Any purchaser who allows a third-party nonresident or non-purchaser,
who is not a lawn and tree service, to use their keycard may have their keycard
privileges revoked for a period of one year.
   (F)   Any purchaser may not dump items at the municipal landfill for a non-
purchaser.
      (1)   The City Council shall decide if a violation occurred, based on
evidence gathered, and make a formal decision.
      (2)   The decision shall be served to the offender by certified mail or
personal service.
      (3)   The purchaser can request a formal appeal hearing in front of the
City Council within ten days of receipt of the Council’s decision of violation.
During this hearing, the purchaser may produce evidence to the Council showing
that a violation did not occur or that there were mitigating circumstances.
      (4)   Any person found in violation will be subject to §
51.99.
(Ord. 914, passed 6-14-2024)
§ 51.99 PENALTY.
    Any person, firm or corporation violating any provision of this chapter
shall be fined not less than $25 nor more than $500 for each offense; and a
separate offense shall be deemed committed on each day during which a violation
occurs or continues.
(Prior Code, § 4-209) (Ord. 514, passed 12-12-1989; Ord. 914, passed 6-14-2024)
CHAPTER 52: WATER
Section
General Provisions
   
52.01   Definitions
   
52.02   Water Commissioner authority
   
52.03   Appeals
   
52.04   Abatement
   
52.05   Discontinuance of water service
   
52.06   Operating and funding
   
52.07   Water contract
   
52.08   Installation expense
   
52.09   Repairs
   
52.10   Rates
   
52.11   Water bills
   
52.12   Lien
   
52.13   Restricted use
   
52.14   Fire hydrants
   
52.15   Pollution
   
52.16   Water service contracts
   
52.17   Inspection
   
52.18   Destruction of property
   
52.19   Complaints
   
52.20   Water mains and service lines
Backflow Prevention
   
52.35   Purpose
   
52.36   Definitions
   
52.37   Declaration of nuisance
   
52.38   Unlawful connections; new installations and repairs
   
52.39   Prevention devices required
   
52.40   Minimum standard of protection
   
52.41   Inspections
   
52.42   New meter installation
   
52.43   Maintenance
   
52.44   Testing
Water Wells and Other Facilities
   
52.55   Drilling and operation
   
52.56   Geothermal systems
   
52.57   Permits
   
52.58   Prohibited drilling or installation
   
52.59   Wellhead protection area
 
   
52.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 52.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   MAIN. Any pipe other than a supply or service pipe that is used for the
purpose of carrying water to and disbursing the same in the city.
   SEPARATE PREMISES. More than one consumer procuring water from the same
service or supply pipe. The second premises may be a separate dwelling,
apartment, building or structure used for a separate business.
   SERVICE PIPE. Any pipe extending from the shut-off, stop box or curb cock at
or near the lot line to and beyond the property line of the consumer to the
location on the premises where the water is to be disbursed.
   SUPPLY PIPE. Any pipe tapped into a main and extending from there to a point
at or near the lot line of the consumer’s premises where the shut-off, stop box
or curb cock is located.
(Prior Code, § 3-102)
§ 52.02 WATER COMMISSIONER AUTHORITY.
   (A)   The Water Commissioner shall have the authority to issue any order
consistent with the provisions of this code in order to protect the public
health and safety. Any order of the Water Commissioner shall be in writing and
shall clearly state the nature of the order, compliance requirements and set a
reasonable date by which compliance must be met. All orders will be mailed to
the customer by first class mail, return receipt requested or by personal
service.
   (B)   With the exception of willful or malicious acts, the city shall defend
and hold harmless the Water Commissioner for his or her acts and doings while
carrying out or purporting to carry out his or her responsibilities under §§
52.35 through
52.44 of this code.
(Prior Code, § 3-127) (Ord. 545, passed 6-23-1992)
§ 52.03 APPEALS.
   (A)   (1)   In the event that it is claimed that the true intent and meaning
of this code has been wrongfully interpreted by the Water Commissioner; that
the time allowed for compliance with any order of the Water Commissioner is too
short; or that conditions peculiar to a particular premises make it
unreasonably difficult to meet the literal requirements prescribed by this
code, the owner may file a written notice of appeal with the City Clerk within
ten days after the decision or order of the Water Commissioner has been made.
      (2)   The City Council shall hear all appeals and shall have the power
and authority, when appealed to, to modify the decision or order of the Water
Commissioner.
      (3)   Such a decision shall be final, subject only to any remedy which
the aggrieved party may have at law or equity.
   (B)   Appeals shall be in writing and shall state the reason for the appeal.
(Prior Code, § 3-128) (Ord. 545, passed 6-23-1992)
§ 52.04 ABATEMENT.
   (A)   Whenever a nuisance exists, as defined in this chapter, the city may
proceed by a suit in equity to enjoin and abate the same, in the manner
provided by law.
   (B)   Whenever, in any action, it is established that a nuisance exists, the
court may, together with the fine or penalty imposed, enter an order of
abatement as a part of the judgment in the case.
(Prior Code, § 3-130) (Ord. 545, passed 6-23-1992)
§ 52.05 DISCONTINUANCE OF WATER SERVICE.
   In addition to, or in lieu of, imposition of the sanctions specified by §§
52.04 or
52.99 of this code, at the option of the city, any person who shall violate or
refuse to comply with the enforcement of any of the provisions of §§
52.04 or
52.35 through
52.44 of this code, which violation or refusal to comply pertains to premises
owned or occupied by him or her which are supplied with water from a main of
the Municipal Water Department, may have his or her water service discontinued
by the Water Commissioner. Except in the case of any emergency, the Water
Commissioner shall give ten days’ advance written notice of such proposed
discontinuance to such service. As to any consumer who has previously been
identified as a welfare recipient to the city by the Department of Social
Services, such notice shall also be given to the Department of Social Services.
Any consumer given notice under this section shall have the appeal rights
specified in §
52.03 of this code. Nevertheless, in the case of an emergency, the Water
Commissioner may temporarily discontinue water service pending outcome of such
appeal.
(Prior Code, § 3-131) (Ord. 545, passed 6-23-1992)
§ 52.06 OPERATION AND FUNDING.
   The city owns and operates the Municipal Water Department through the
Utilities Superintendent. The City Council, for the purpose of defraying the
cost of the care, management and maintenance of the Municipal Water Department
may each year levy a tax not exceeding the maximum limit prescribed by state
law, on the actual valuation of all real estate and personal property within
the corporate limits that is subject to taxation. The revenue from said tax
shall be known as the Water Fund and shall remain in the custody of the City
Treasurer. The Utilities Superintendent shall have the direct management and
control of the Municipal Water Department and shall faithfully carry out the
duties of his or her office. The Utilities Superintendent shall have the
authority to adopt rules and regulations for the sanitary and efficient
management of the Water Department subject to the supervision and review of the
City Council. The City Council shall set the rates to be charged for services
rendered by ordinance and shall file a copy of the rates in the office of the
City Clerk for public inspection at any reasonable time.
(Prior Code, § 3-101)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-531, 17-534 and 19-1305
§ 52.07 WATER CONTRACT.
   (A)   The city, through its Water Department, shall furnish water to persons
within its corporate limits whose premises abut a street or alley in which a
commercial main now is or may hereafter be laid. The city may furnish water to
persons within its corporate limits whose premises do not abut a street or
alley in which a municipal commercial main is now or may hereafter be laid and
may also furnish water to persons whose premises is situated outside the
corporate limits of the city, as and when, according to law, the City Council
may see fit to do so. The rules, regulations and water rates hereinafter named
in this chapter shall be considered a part of every application hereafter made
for water service and shall be considered a part of the contract between every
consumer now or hereafter served. Without further formality, the making of
application on the part of any applicant or the use or consumption of water
service by present consumers thereof, and the furnishing of water service to
said consumer, shall constitute a contract between the consumer and the city,
to which said contract both parties are bound.
   (B)   If the consumer shall violate any of the provisions of said contract
or any reasonable rules and regulations that the City Council may hereafter
adopt, the Utilities Superintendent or his or her agent, may cut off or
disconnect the water service from the building or premises or place of such
violation. No further connection for water service to said building, premises
or place shall again be made, save or except by order of said Superintendent or
his or her agent.
(Prior Code, § 3-103) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.08 INSTALLATION EXPENSE.
   The expense of providing water service to the curb stop located in the
sidewalk space shall be paid by the city. The consumer shall then pay the cost
of installation and pipe from the curb stop to the place of dispersal. The cost
of the installation of the stop box shall be paid by the city. The city shall
also pay for the installation of a meter for those businesses whose use of
water is metered. The consumer shall be required to pay the expense of
procuring the services of a plumber and shall pay the expense of furnishing and
installing pipe, trenching and the necessary labor to bring water service from
said lot line to the place of dispersal.
(Prior Code, § 3-104)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-542
§ 52.09 REPAIRS.
   (A)   Repairs to the service pipe shall be made by and at the expense of the
customer. All other repairs to the property of the Water Department, including
the meter, shall be made by the city. All water meters shall be kept in repair
by the city at the expense of the city. When meters are worn out, they shall be
replaced and reset by the city at the expense of the city; provided, that if
the customer permits or allows a water meter to be damaged, injured or
destroyed through his or her own recklessness, carelessness or neglect so that
the meter must be repaired or replaced, the Utilities Superintendent shall bill
and collect from the customer the cost of such meter repair or replacement in
the same manner as water rent is collected.
   (B)   (1)   Permitting a water meter to be damaged or destroyed by freezing
shall always be considered negligence on the part of the customer.
      (2)   All meters shall be tested at the customer’s request at the expense
of the customer any reasonable number of times; provided, that if the test
shows the water meter to be running 2% or more, fast, the expense of such test
shall be borne by the city.
      (3)   The city reserves the right to test any water service meter at any
time, and if said meter is found to be beyond repair, the city shall always
have the right to place a new meter on the customer’s water service fixtures at
municipal expense.
      (4)   Should a consumer’s meter fail to register properly, the customer
shall be charged for water during the time the meter is out of repair on the
basis of the quarterly consumption during the same quarter of the preceding
year; provided, that if no such basis for comparison exists, the customer shall
be charged such amount as may be reasonably fixed by the Utilities
Superintendent.
(Prior Code, § 3-105)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-542
§ 52.10 RATES.
   (A)   (1)   The City Council shall set water rates by ordinance. All rates
set are hereby declared to be nondiscriminatory and fair to each class of user.
      (2)   All rates shall be on file in the office of the Clerk for public
inspection at any reasonable time. All water consumers shall be liable for the
minimum rate set by ordinance unless and until the consumer shall, by written
order, direct the Utilities Superintendent to shut off the water at the stop
box, in which case he or she shall not be liable thereafter for water rental
until the water is turned on again.
   (B)   Water rates are established as follows, or based on demand usage as
determined by Utilities Superintendent:
 
Deposit                                    $75
Commercial and agricultural
   First 11,000 gallons per month       $41.50
   Each additional 1,000 gallons per mon$0.85
Nonresidential (per unit, per month)       $56
Residential (per unit, per month)          $41.50
Tap fees are based on cost of labor and materials
 
(Ord. 372, passed 5-26-1981; Ord. 436, passed 2-26-1985; Ord. 511, passed 12-
12-1989; Ord. 589, passed 2-14-1995; Ord. 629, passed 9-24-1996; Ord. 665,
passed 4-28-1998; Ord. 756, passed 8-24-2004; Ord. 897, passed 10-1-2021)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-542
§ 52.11 WATER BILLS.
   (A)   Water bills shall be due and payable monthly in advance, at the office
of the Water Collector; provided, that those businesses whose water usage is
metered shall pay their bills after the usage is determined by the Utility
Superintendent or his or her authorized agent. For commercial customers, the
Utility Superintendent shall read or cause to be read water meters monthly on
or about the last day of the month during which service is used. Bills shall be
due on the first day of each month and shall be payable by the fifteenth day of
each month. Bills not paid by the fifteenth day of each month shall be deemed
to be delinquent. Upon being deemed to be delinquent, as herein defined, the
City Clerk shall give a written notice to the customer of such delinquency and
shall demand payment immediately.
   (B)   In the event that the bill is not paid within seven days after the
sending of said notice, it shall be discretionary with the Superintendent to
cut off service at any time.
   (C)   The Utility Superintendent shall assess an additional fee of $30
during normal working hours and $60 after normal working hours in the event
that water is shut off for the nonpayment of any water bill, to compensate the
city for the additional hookup necessary to again provide water service to the
delinquent customer.
   (D)   No public or private utility company, including any utility owned and
operated by the city, furnishing water, natural gas or electricity at retail in
this city shall discontinue service to any domestic subscriber for nonpayment
of any past-due account unless the utility company first gives notice to any
subscriber whose service is proposed to be terminated. Such notice shall be
given in person, by first-class mail or by electronic delivery, except that
electronic delivery shall only be used if the subscriber has specifically
elected to receive such notices by electronic delivery. If notice is given by
first-class mail or electronic delivery, such notice shall be conspicuously
marked as to its importance. Service shall not be discontinued for at least
seven days after notice is sent or given. Holidays and weekends shall be
excluded from the seven days. A public or private utility company shall not
charge a fee for the discontinuance or reconnection of utility service that
exceeds the reasonable costs of providing such service.
(Neb. RS 70-1605)
   (E)   (1)   The notice required by Neb. RS 70-1602 shall contain the
following information:
         (a)   The reason for the proposed disconnection;
         (b)   A statement of the intention to disconnect unless the domestic
subscriber either pays the bill or reaches an agreement with the utility
regarding payment of the bill;
         (c)   The date upon which service will be disconnected if the domestic
subscriber does not take appropriate action;
      (d)   The name, address and telephone number of the utility’s employee or
department to whom the domestic subscriber may address an inquiry or complaint;
      (e)   The domestic subscriber’s right, prior to the disconnection date,
to request a conference regarding any dispute over such proposed disconnection;
      (f)   A statement that the utility may not disconnect service pending the
conclusion of the conference;
      (g)   A statement to the effect that disconnection shall be postponed or
prevented upon presentation of a duly licensed physician’s, physician
assistant’s or advanced practice registered nurse’s certificate, which shall
certify that a domestic subscriber or resident within such subscriber’s
household has an existing illness or handicap which would cause such subscriber
or resident to suffer an immediate and serious health hazard by the
disconnection of the utility’s service to that household. Such certificate
shall be filed with the utility within five days of receiving notice under this
section, excluding holidays and weekends, and will prevent the disconnection of
the utility’s service for a period of at least 30 days from such filing. Only
one postponement of disconnection shall be required under this division for
each incidence of nonpayment of any past-due account;
      (h)   The cost that will be borne by the domestic subscriber for
restoration of service;
      (i)   A statement that the domestic subscriber may arrange with the
utility for an installment payment plan;
      (j)   A statement to the effect that those domestic subscribers who are
welfare recipients may qualify for assistance in payment of their utility bill
and that they should contact their caseworker in that regard; and
      (k)   Any additional information not inconsistent with this section which
has received prior approval from the City Council or Board of Public Works, in
the case of a city utility, or the board of directors or administrative board
of any other utility.
      (2)   A public or private utility company, other than a municipal utility
owned and operated by a village, shall make the service termination information
required under divisions (E)(1)(d), (E)(1)(e), (E)(1)(f), (E)(1)(g), (E)(1)(i),
(E)(1)(j) and (E)(1)(k) readily accessible to the public on the website of the
utility company and available by mail upon request.
(Neb. RS 70-1606)
(Ord. 368, passed 1-27-1981; Ord. 437, passed 2-12-1985; Ord. 520, passed 10-9-
1990; Ord. 897, passed 10-1-2021)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-542, 70-1605 and 70-1606
§ 52.12 LIEN.
   (A)   In addition to all other remedies, if a customer shall for any reason
remain indebted to the city for water service furnished, such amount due,
together with any rents and charges in arrears, shall be considered a
delinquent water rent which is hereby declared to be a lien upon the real
estate for which the same was used.
   (B)   The City Clerk shall notify in writing, or cause to be notified in
writing, all owners of premises or their agents whenever their tenants or
lessees are 60 days or more delinquent in the payment of water rent.
   (C)   It shall be the duty of the Utilities Superintendent on June 1 of each
year to report to the City Council a list of all unpaid accounts due for water
together with a description of the premises upon which the same was used. The
report shall be examined and, if approved by the City Council, shall be
certified by the City Clerk to the County Clerk to be collected as a special
tax in the manner provided by law.
(Prior Code, § 3-108)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-538
§ 52.13 RESTRICTED USE.
   The City Council or the Utilities Superintendent may order a reduction in
the use of water or shut off the water on any premises in the event of a water
shortage due to fire or other good and sufficient cause. The city shall not be
liable for any damages caused by shutting off the supply of water of any
consumer while the system or any part thereof is undergoing repairs or when
there is a shortage of water due to circumstances over which the city has no
control.
(Prior Code, § 3-109)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-537
§ 52.14 FIRE HYDRANTS.
   All hydrants for the purpose of extinguishing fires are hereby declared to
be public hydrants, and it shall be unlawful for any person other than members
of the Municipal Fire Department, under the orders of the Fire Chief or the
Assistant Fire Chief, or members of the Water Department to open or attempt to
open any of the hydrants and draw water from the same, or in any manner to
interfere with the hydrants.
(Prior Code, § 3-110) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.15 POLLUTION.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to pollute or attempt to pollute any
stream or source of water for the supply of the Municipal Water Department.
(Prior Code, § 3-111) Penalty, see §
52.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-536
§ 52.16 WATER SERVICE CONTRACTS.
   Contracts for water service are not transferable. Any person wishing to
change from one location to another shall make a new application and sign a new
contract. If any consumer shall move from the premises where service is
furnished, or if said premises is destroyed by fire or other casualty, he or
she shall at once inform the Utilities Superintendent who shall cause the water
service to be shut off at said premises. If the consumer should fail to give
such notice, he or she shall be charged for all water used on said premises
until the Utilities Superintendent is otherwise advised of such circumstances.
(Prior Code, § 3-112)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-537 
§ 52.17 INSPECTION.
   The Utilities Superintendent, or his or her duly authorized agents, shall
have free access, at any reasonable time, to all parts of each premises and
building to, or in which, water is delivered for the purpose of examining the
pipes, fixtures and other portions of the system to ascertain whether there is
any disrepair or unnecessary waste of water.
(Prior Code, § 3-113)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-537
§ 52.18 DESTRUCTION OF PROPERTY.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to willfully or carelessly break, injure
or deface any building, machinery, apparatus, fixture, attachment or
appurtenance of the Municipal Water Department. No person may deposit anything
in a stop box or commit any act tending to obstruct or impair the intended use
of any of the above mentioned property without the written permission of the
Utilities Superintendent.
(Prior Code, § 3-114) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.19 COMPLAINTS.
   Any consumer feeling himself or herself aggrieved by reason of any
controversy with the Utilities Superintendent may appear before the City
Council and present his or her grievance. Any consumer who considers himself or
herself aggrieved by being required to pay the charge demanded for the use of
water, or for the resumption of water service after the same shall have been
shut off, shall pay such charge under protest, in which event the City Clerk
shall write on the receipt given such customer the words “Paid Under Protest.”
Such consumer may then present his or her verified claim in the manner provided
for presenting claims to the City Council for a refund of the amount so paid
under protest. Such claims shall then be considered by the City Council in the
same manner as other claims against the city.
(Prior Code, § 3-115)
§ 52.20 WATER MAINS AND SERVICE LINES.
   Any new, replacement or extension to any water main or service line
connected to the water distribution system of the city shall be equal to or
exceed the minimum specifications of Schedule 80.
(Prior Code, § 3-116) (Ord. 434, passed 2-12-1985)
BACKFLOW PREVENTION
§ 52.35 PURPOSE.
   The City Council hereby finds that backflow and backsiphonage of
contaminants into a public water supply system can be a threat to public health
and safety. Direct or indirect cross-connection within a water distribution
system, including within a water customer’s water distribution system, are
among possible structural arrangements which can result in backflow and
backsiphonage. In the interest of public health and safety, the City Council
hereby adopts the following backflow and backsiphonage prevention program and
cross-connection control program.
(Prior Code, § 3-117) (Ord. 545, passed 6-23-1992)
§ 52.36 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AIR-GAP. Prevention of either backflow or backsiphonage, and AIR-GAP
SEPARATION is the unobstructed vertical distance through the free atmosphere
between the lowest opening from any pipe or faucet supplying water to a tank,
plumbing fixture or other device and the flood level rim of the receptacle.
   ATMOSPHERIC VACUUM BREAKER (NON-PRESSURE TYPE BACKSIPHONAGE PREVENTER).
Protection for direct or indirect water connections to all types of polluted or
contaminated liquids where the preventer is not subject to backpressures and is
installed on the discharge side of the last control valve. This preventer
should not be subjected to continuous flows for periods of more than 12 hours.
   BACKFLOW. The flow of water or other liquids, mixtures or substances into
the water distribution system from other than the intended liquids, mixtures or
substances of the public water supply system.
   BACKSIPHONAGE. The flowing back of water or other liquids, mixtures or
substances into a water distribution system due to negative pressure in the
piping of the water distribution system.
   CROSS-CONNECTION. Any actual or potential connection or structural
arrangement within a water distribution system through which it is possible to
introduce into the public water supply system any water, liquids, mixtures or
substances, other than the intended water, liquids, mixtures or substances of
the public water supply system.
   DOUBLE CHECK-VALVE ASSEMBLY (BACKFLOW PREVENTER). Protection for all direct
or indirect water connections through which foreign substances might enter the
system in such concentrations as to constitute a nuisance or be aesthetically
objectionable. Examples are foods, beverages or other substances which do not
constitute a health hazard.
   NONTOXIC SUBSTANCE. Any substance of a nonpoisonous nature which may create
a moderate or minor hazard to the domestic water system. Hazardous connections
include:
      (1)   Connections to food processing lines, including but not limited to
those carrying syrups, lard or beer;
      (2)   Connections to steam and steam boilers where the steam does not
come in contact with toxic substances;
      (3)   McDaniel tees or steam clean-up connections in food plants,
apartment house boilers or pressing boilers where toxic compounds are not used;
and
      (4)   Connections to enclosed circulating systems, such as radiant-
heating systems and refrigerated-water systems where toxic compounds are not
used.
   PRESSURE VACUUM BREAKER (BACKSIPHONAGE PREVENTER). A protection for direct
or indirect water connections to all types of polluted or contaminated liquids
where the preventer is not subjected to backpressure. This device may be
installed for use under continuous line pressure.
   REDUCED-PRESSURE DEVICE (BACKFLOW PREVENTER). A protection for direct or
indirect water connections where the device may be subject to backpressures
from toxic chemicals, sewage or other lethal substances.
   TOXIC SUBSTANCE. Any substance (liquid, solid or gaseous), including raw
sewage and lethal substances, which when introduced into the water supply
system creates or may create a danger to the health and well-being of the
consumer. Hazardous connections include flush valve toilet, direct connection
to contaminated vessel or system and ship water point.
(Prior Code, § 3-118) (Ord. 545, passed 6-23-1992)
§ 52.37 DECLARATION OF NUISANCE.
   Any actual or potential connection or structural arrangement within a water
distribution system through which it is possible to introduce into the public
water supply system any water, liquids, mixtures or substances other than the
intended water, liquids, mixtures or substances of the public water supply
system shall hereby be declared a nuisance.
(Prior Code, § 3-119) (Ord. 545, passed 6-23-1992)
§ 52.38 UNLAWFUL CONNECTIONS; NEW INSTALLATIONS AND REPAIRS.
   No installation or repair within the water distribution system, including
the customer’s water distribution system, shall be made in such a manner:
   (A)   That a cross-connection shall exist;
   (B)   That it will be possible in any manner to allow the flow of any water
or other liquids, mixtures or substances into the water supply system, other
than the intended water, liquids, mixtures or substances of the public water
supply system; or
   (C)   That it will be possible in any manner to allow the flowing back of
water or other liquids, mixtures or substances into the water supply system due
to negative pressure in the water distribution system.
(Prior Code, § 3-120) (Ord. 545, passed 6-23-1992) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.39 PREVENTION DEVICES REQUIRED.
   A backflow or backsiphonage prevention device approved by the Water
Commissioner shall be installed, by a licensed plumber, at the customer’s
expense in the customer service pipe when any of the following conditions are
found by the Water Commissioner:
   (A)   Premises having an auxiliary water supply;
   (B)   Premises on which, in the opinion of the Water Commissioner,
substances are handled in a manner as to create an actual or potential hazard
to the public water supply;
   (C)   Premises having existing or potential internal cross-connection;
   (D)   Premises where, in the opinion of the Water Commissioner, it is
impossible or impractical to make a complete cross-connection premises survey;
and/or
   (E)   Premises having more than one customer service pipe. No backflow or
backsiphonage prevention device shall be approved by the Water Commissioner
until the device has been approved by the American Society of Sanitary
Engineers, the American Waterworks Association or the University of Southern
California Testing Laboratories.
(Prior Code, § 3-121) (Ord. 545, passed 6-23-1992)
§ 52.40 MINIMUM STANDARD OF PROTECTION.
   When backflow or backsiphonage prevention devices are required by this code,
the prevention devices shall provide a minimum level of protection as provided
below; provided, however, this shall be a minimum standard of protection. When,
in the opinion of the Water Commissioner, a different level of protection would
be more appropriate, the Water Commissioner shall prescribe the method of
backflow or backsiphonage protection.
(Prior Code, § 3-122) (Ord. 545, passed 6-23-1992)
§ 52.41 INSPECTIONS.
   (A)   The Water Commissioner, at the expense of the city, may inspect any
premises to determine whether a backflow device is required and what level of
protection will be necessary to protect the public health and safety.
   (B)   In order to inspect a premises, the Water Commissioner shall give
notice setting forth a proposed date and time to the customer at least ten
working days in advance by first class mail, return receipt requested, or by
personal contact. If the customer cannot make the premises available for
inspection on that date and time, the customer shall contact the Water
Commissioner to arrange another date and time for inspection. If the Water
Commissioner and the customer cannot agree on a date and time for inspection,
the premises shall be declared impossible or impractical to make a cross-
connection survey, and a backflow or backsiphonage device shall be installed,
pursuant to the provisions of this code, pertaining to backflow/backsiphonage.
All inspections shall be at reasonable times.
(Prior Code, § 3-123) (Ord. 545, passed 6-23-1992)
§ 52.42 NEW METER INSTALLATION.
   All backflow and backsiphonage prevention devices shall be installed at the
customer’s expense and in such manner that the device shall be accessible.
(Prior Code, § 3-124) (Ord. 545, passed 6-23-1992)
§ 52.43 MAINTENANCE.
   Backflow and backsiphonage prevention devices shall be maintained in good
working condition by the customer at the customer’s expense.
(Prior Code, § 3-125) (Ord. 545, passed 6-23-1992)
§ 52.44 TESTING.
   Backflow and backsiphonage prevention devices designed to be tested shall be
tested for proper operation annually or when necessary, in the opinion of the
Water Commissioner. Actual testing shall be at the expense of the city. Any
required maintenance or repairs shall be at the expense of the customer and
subject to the approval of the Water Commissioner. If testing shall require
entry into the premises, the Commissioner shall give notice setting forth a
proposed date and time to the customer at least ten working days in advance by
first-class mail, return receipt requested, or by personal contact. If the
customer cannot make the premises available for inspection on that date and
time, the customer shall contact the Water Commissioner to arrange another date
and time.
(Prior Code, § 3-126) (Ord. 545, passed 6-23-1992)
WATER WELLS AND OTHER FACILITIES
§ 52.55 DRILLING AND OPERATION.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, corporation or other entity to drill
and/or operate any of the following facilities within the corporate limits or
zoning jurisdiction of the city without first having obtained the proper permit
from the City Council:
   (A)   Potable water well;
   (B)   Any other well;
   (C)   Sewage lagoon;
   (D)   Absorption or disposal field for water;
   (E)   Cesspool;
   (F)   Dumping grounds;
   (G)   Feedlot;
   (H)   Livestock pasture or corral;
   (I)   Chemical product storage facility;
   (J)   Petroleum product storage facility;
   (K)   Pit toilet;
   (L)   Sanitary landfill;
   (M)   Septic tank;
   (N)   Sewage treatment plant; and
   (O)   Sewage wet well.
(Prior Code, § 3-132) (Ord. 703, passed 3-12-2002) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.56 GEOTHERMAL SYSTEMS.
   Systems utilizing the geothermal properties of the ground for water wells:
   (A)   Must be a closed loop system;
   (B)   Joints must be made by heat fusion;
   (C)   Antifreeze must be potassium acetate, propylene glycol or other food
grade substance;
   (D)   Wells must be scaled from bottom to top with a cement slurry;
   (E)   Piping must consist of polybutylene or polyethylene pipe; and
   (F)   Must be located no closer than 100 feet to the city’s drinking water
source.
(Prior Code, § 3-133) (Ord. 703, passed 3-12-2002)
§ 52.57 PERMITS.
   In order to obtain a permit to drill and/or operate any of the facilities
listed in §
52.55 of this code, the owner of the property on which the proposed facility is
to be located must make application on the proper form provided by the City
Council. Such application must be presented to the City Council at any regular
or special meeting. After reviewing the application of any person desiring to
drill or operate any of such facilities, the City Council must approve or deny
said permit.
(Prior Code, § 3-134) (Ord. 703, passed 3-12-2002)
§ 52.58 PROHIBITED DRILLING OR INSTALLATION.
   (A)   Under no circumstances shall the City Council approve any permit to
drill or operate any of the following facilities within the indicated number of
feet from the city’s municipal water well:
      (1)   Potable water well: 1,000 feet;
      (2)   Closed loop geothermal well: 100 feet;
      (3)   Any other well: 1,000 feet;
      (4)   Sewage lagoon: 1,000 feet;
      (5)   Absorption or disposal field for water: 500 feet;
      (6)   Cesspool: 500 feet;
      (7)   Dumping grounds: 500 feet;
      (8)   Feedlot or feedlot runoff: 500 feet;
      (9)   Livestock pasture or corral: 500 feet;
      (10)   Chemical product storage facility: 500 feet;
      (11)   Petroleum product storage facility: 500 feet;
      (12)   Pit toilet: 500 feet;
      (13)   Sanitary landfill: 500 feet;
      (14)   Septic tank: 500 feet;
      (15)   Sewage treatment plant: 500 feet; and
      (16)   Sewage wet well: 500 feet.
   (B)   These measurements are taken from 179 Neb. Admin. Code Chapter 2 and
will change automatically if said title measurements are revised.
(Prior Code, § 3-135) (Ord. 703, passed 3-12-2002)
§ 52.59 WELLHEAD PROTECTION AREA.
   (A)   Definitions. WELLHEAD PROTECTION AREA means the surface and subsurface
area surrounding water well or well field, supplying a public water system,
through which contaminants are likely to move toward and reach such water or
well field.
   (B)   Designation. The city designates a wellhead protection area for the
purpose of protecting the public water supply system. This delineation is based
upon a map prepared by the state’s Department of Environmental Quality for the
city on May 7, 2001.
   (C)   Description. The legal description for the wellhead protection area is
part of Section 27, the east half of Section 28, the northeast quarter of
Section 33 and the approximate north two-thirds of Section 34, Township 08
North, Range 07 West of the 6th PM, Clay County, Nebraska.
(Prior Code, § 3-137) (Ord. 704, passed 4-23-2002)
§ 52.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   (1)   Any person who shall violate or refuse to comply with the
enforcement of any of the provisions of §§
52.35 through
52.44 of this code shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and upon conviction
thereof shall be fined not more than $100 for each offense.
      (2)   A new violation shall be deemed to have been committed every 24
hours of such failure to comply.
(Prior Code, § 3-129)
   (C)   Any person, corporation or other legal entity found violating any
provision of §§
52.55 through
52.58 of this code shall be subject to a fine, not to exceed $100. The
continuation of a violation of sections §§
52.55 through
52.58 of this code shall be deemed an additional crime for every 24 hours of
such continued violation. In addition, the city may obtain injunctive relief
and sue for damages and remediation and pursue any other remedy available to it
under the laws of the state or other authority having jurisdiction over such
matters.
(Prior Code, § 3-136)
(Ord. 545, passed 6-23-1992; Ord. 703, passed 3-12-2002)
CHAPTER 53: SEWER
Section
   
53.01   Definitions
   
53.02   Operation and funding
   
53.03   Sewer contract
   
53.04   Service contracts
   
53.05   Installation; pipes; tap fee
   
53.06   Repairs and replacement
   
53.07   Classification
   
53.08   Rates
   
53.09   Sewer rental bills
   
53.10   Unlawful use
   
53.11   Special equipment
   
53.12   Manholes
   
53.13   Inspections
   
53.14   Service to nonresidents
   
53.15   Lien
   
53.16   Complaints
   
53.17   Sewer mains and service lines; minimum standards
§ 53.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BIOLOGICAL OXYGEN DEMAND. The quantity of oxygen utilized in the biochemical
oxidation of organic matter under standard laboratory procedure in five days at
20°C, expressed in parts per million by weight.
   BUILDING OR HOUSE DRAIN. The part of the lowest horizontal piping of a house
or building drainage system which receives the discharge from soil, waste or
other drainage pipes inside the walls of any building or house.
   BUILDING OR HOUSE SEWER. The part of a house or building drainage system
extending from the house or building drain to its connection with the main
sewer.
   GARBAGE. Solid wastes from the preparation of cooking and dispensing of food
and produce.
   LOCAL VENTILATING PIPE. Any pipe through which foul air is removed from a
room or fixture.
   pH. The logarithm of the reciprocal of the weight of hydrogen ions in grams
per liter of solution.
   PLUMBING FIXTURES. Receptacles intended to receive and discharge water
liquid or water-carried wastes into the sewer system with which they are
connected.
   PROPERLY SHREDDED. Shredding to such a degree that all particles will be
carried freely under the flow conditions normally prevailing in public sewers
with no particle larger than one-half inch in diameter.
   SANITARY SEWER. A sewer which carries sewage and to which storm, surface and
groundwaters are not intentionally admitted.
   SEWAGE. A combination of the water-carried wastes from residences, business
buildings, institutions and industrial establishments together with such
ground, surface and stormwaters as may be present.
   SEWER SYSTEM. All facilities for collecting, pumping, treating and disposing
of sewage.
   SOIL PIPE. Any pipe which conveys the discharge of water closets with or
without the discharge from other fixtures to the house or building drain.
   STORM SEWER. A sewer which carries storm and surface drainage, but excludes
sewage and polluted industrial wastes.
   SUSPENDED SOLIDS. Solids that either float on the surface of, or are in
immersion in water, sewage or other liquids, and are removable by filtering.
   TRAP. A fitting or device so constructed as to prevent the passage of air or
gas through a pipe without materially affecting the flow of sewage or waste
through it.
   TRAP SEAL. The vertical distance between the crown weir and the dip of the
trap.
   VENT PIPE. Any pipe provided to ventilate a house or building drainage
system and to prevent trap siphonage and backpressure.
   WASTE PIPE. Any pipe which receives the discharge of any fixture, except
water closets, and conveys the same to the house drain, soil pipe or waste
stack.
(Prior Code, § 3-202)
§ 53.02 OPERATION AND FUNDING.
   The city owns and operates the municipal sewer system through the Utilities
Superintendent. The City Council, for the purpose of defraying the cost of the
management and maintenance of the municipal sewer system may each year levy a
tax not exceeding the maximum limit prescribed by state law on the actual
valuation of all real estate and personal property within the corporate limits
that is subject to taxation. The revenue from said tax shall be known as the
Sewer Maintenance Fund. The Utilities Superintendent shall have the direct
management and control of the Sewer Department and shall faithfully carry out
the duties of his or her office. He or she shall have the authority to adopt
rules and regulations for the sanitary and efficient management of the
Department subject to the supervision and review of the City Council.
(Prior Code, § 3-201)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-574 and 17-925.01
§ 53.03 SEWER CONTRACT.
   (A)   The city, through the Sewer Department, shall furnish sewer services
to persons within its corporate limits whose premises abut a street or alley in
which a commercial main is now or may hereafter be laid. The city may also
furnish sewer service to persons whose premises is situated outside the
corporate limits of the city, as and when, according to law, the City Council
may see fit to do so. The rules, regulations and sewer rental rates hereinafter
named in this chapter shall be considered a part of every application hereafter
made for sewer service and shall be considered a part of the contract between
every customer now or hereafter served. Without further formality, the making
of the application on the part of any applicant or the use of sewer service by
present customers thereof shall constitute a contract between the customer and
the city to which said contract both parties are bound.
   (B)   If the customer shall violate any of the provisions of said contract
or any reasonable rules and regulations that the City Council may hereafter
adopt, the Utilities Superintendent, or his or her agent, may cut off or
disconnect the sewer service from the building or premises of such violation.
No further connection for sewer service to said building or premises shall
again be made save or except by order of the Superintendent or his or her
agent.
(Prior Code, § 3-203) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 53.04 SERVICE CONTRACTS.
   Contracts for sewer service are not transferable. Any person wishing to
change from one location to another shall make a new application and sign a new
contract. If any customer shall move from the premises where service is
furnished, or if said premises is destroyed by fire or other casualty, he or
she shall at once inform the Utilities Superintendent.
(Prior Code, § 3-204)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 18-503
§ 53.05 INSTALLATION; PIPES; TAP FEE.
   (A)   In making excavations in streets, alleys or sidewalks for the purpose
of installing pipe, or making repairs, the paving, stones and earth must be
removed and deposited in a manner that will occasion the least inconvenience to
the public and provide for adequate drainage. No person shall leave an
excavation made in the street, alley or sidewalk open at any time without a
barricade, and during the night, warning lights. After the house sewer is laid,
the public ways and property shall be restored to good condition. If the
excavation in the public ways and property is left open or unfinished for a
period of 24 hours or more, the Utilities Superintendent shall have the duty to
finish or correct the work, and all expenses so incurred shall be charged to
the owner, occupant or lessee of the property. All installations or repairs of
pipes require an inspection by the Utilities Superintendent. All installation
shall be done under the supervision and strictly in accordance with the rules,
regulations and specifications for such installation prescribed by the
Utilities Superintendent; provided, that said rules, regulations and
specifications have been reviewed and approved by the City Council.
   (B)   Before the customer shall be allowed to tap into the municipal sewer
system, he or she shall be required to pay to the city a tap fee. If the city
has not tapped the main and run a service line to the edge of the street, the
tap fee shall be $10. The consumer shall then be required to make the tap and
install all of the line in accordance with the procedures set out above. If the
city has previously tapped the main and provided a service line to the edge of
the street, the tap fee shall be such amount as is equal to the cost incurred
by the city to bring the service to said point.
(Prior Code, § 3-205)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 18-503
§ 53.06 REPAIRS AND REPLACEMENT.
   (A)   The Sewer Department may require the owner of any property which is
within the city and connected to the public sewers or drains to repair or
replace any connection line which serves the owner’s property and is broken,
clogged or otherwise in need of repair or replacement. The property owner’s
duty to repair or replace such a connection line shall include those portions
upon the owner’s property and those portions upon public property or easements
up to and including the point of junction with the public main.
   (B)   The City Clerk shall give the property owner notice by registered
letter or certified mail, directed to the last-known address of such owner or
the agent of such owner, directing the repair or replacement of such connection
line. If within 30 days of mailing such notice the property owner fails or
neglects to cause such repairs or replacements to be made, the Utilities
Superintendent may cause such work to be done and assess the cost upon the
property served by such connection.
(Prior Code, § 3-206) (Ord. 427, passed 11-13-1984)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 18-1748
§ 53.07 CLASSIFICATION.
   The City Council may classify for the purpose of rental fees the customers
of the Sewer Department; provided, that such classifications are reasonable and
do not discriminate unlawfully against any consumer or group of consumers.
(Prior Code, § 3-207)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-925.02
§ 53.08 RATES.
   (A)   Customers of the Sewer Department shall be charged a flat rate for the
use of sewer service. The City Council shall set sewer rates by ordinance and
may set different flat rates for different classes of customers. All rates set
are hereby declared to be nondiscriminatory and fair to each class of user. All
rates shall be on file in the office of the Clerk for public inspection at any
reasonable time.
   (B)   Sewer rates are established as follows:
 
Residential (per unit, per month)    $11
Nonresidential (per unit, per month) $15
 
(Ord. 512, passed 12-12-1989; Ord. 757, passed 8-24-2004; Ord. 897, passed 10-
1-2021; Ord. 899, passed 10-1-2021)
§ 53.09 SEWER RENTAL BILLS.
   (A)   Sewer rental bills shall be due and payable monthly at the office of
the City Water Collector. Bills shall be due on the first day of each month and
shall be payable by the tenth day of each month. Bills not paid by the
twentieth day of each month shall be deemed to be delinquent.
   (B)   Upon being deemed to be delinquent, as herein defined, the City Clerk
shall give a written notice to the customer of such delinquency and shall
demand payment immediately. In the event that the bill is not paid within seven
days after the sending of said notice, it shall be discretionary with the
Superintendent to cut off service at any time; provided, if the delinquent
customer is a known welfare recipient, it shall be the duty of the City Clerk
to notify the customer and the County Welfare Department by certified mail of
the proposed termination.
   (C)   The Utility Superintendent shall assess an additional fee set by
resolution of the City Council and on file at the office of the City Clerk in
the event that sewer service is shut off for the nonpayment of any sewer rental
bill to compensate the city for the additional hook-up necessary to again
provide sewer service to the delinquent customer.
(Prior Code, § 3-209) (Ord. 521, passed 10-9-1990)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-925.01
§ 53.10 UNLAWFUL USE.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to discharge or cause to be
discharged any stormwater, surface water, groundwater, roof runoff, surface
drainage or unpolluted industrial process waters into the sanitary sewer.
   (B)   Except as hereinafter provided, no person shall discharge or cause to
be discharged any of the following described waters or wastes into the
municipal sewer system:
      (1)   Liquids or vapors having a temperature higher than 150°F;
      (2)   Water or waste which may contain more than 100 parts per million by
weight of fat, oil or grease;
      (3)   Gasoline, benzene, naptha, fuel oil, other flammable or explosive
liquid, solid or gas;
      (4)   Garbage that has not been properly shredded;
      (5)   Sand, mud, metal, rags, paper or other solid or viscous substance
capable of causing obstruction to the flow in the sewer system;
      (6)   Toxic or poisonous substances in sufficient quantity to interfere
with or injure the sewage treatment process, constitute a hazard to humans,
animals or fish, or create any hazard in the receiving area of the sewage
treatment plant;
      (7)   Suspended solids of such character and quantity that unusual
attention or expense is required to handle such materials;
      (8)   Waters or wastes having a pH lower than 5.5 or higher than 9.0, or
having other corrosive properties capable of causing damage to the structures,
equipment and personnel of the Sewer Department; and
      (9)   Any noxious or malodorous gas or substance capable of creating a
public nuisance.
(Prior Code, § 3-210) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-145
§ 53.11 SPECIAL EQUIPMENT.
   (A)   In the event a customer of the Sewer Department discharges an
unusually large amount of waste daily, an unusually large amount of grease or
oil, or waste with an unusually high biochemical oxygen demand, the Chief Sewer
Official may require said customer to install interceptors or other preliminary
treatment equipment to reduce the objectionable characteristics of the waste to
within such maximum limits as he or she shall prescribe subject to the review
of the City Council.
   (B)   All preliminary treatment facilities shall be purchased and maintained
continuously in satisfactory and efficient operation at the customer’s expense.
Nothing herein shall be construed to prohibit a special agreement or
arrangement between the City Council and an industrial concern whereby an
industrial waste of unusual strength or character may be accepted by the city
for treatment subject to additional rental fees or other charges.
(Prior Code, § 3-211)
§ 53.12 MANHOLES.
   Entrance into a manhole or opening for any purpose except by authorized
persons is hereby prohibited. It shall be unlawful to deposit or cause to be
deposited in any receptacle connected with the sewer system any substance which
is not the usual and natural waste carried by the sewer system.
(Prior Code, § 3-212) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 53.13 INSPECTIONS.
   The Chief Sewer Official, or his or her authorized agents, shall have free
access at any reasonable time to all parts of each premises and building which
is connected with the sewer system to ascertain whether there is any disrepair
or violations of this chapter therein.
(Prior Code, § 3-213)
§ 53.14 SERVICE TO NONRESIDENTS.
   Any person whose premises is located outside the corporate limits of the
city and who desires to install a house or building sewer that will be
connected with the municipal sewer system shall file a written application with
the City Clerk for a permit for such connection and setting forth the name of
the owner, occupant or lessee of the premises, the use to which the premises is
devoted and such other information as the City Council may require.
(Prior Code, § 3-214)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-574 and 19-2701
§ 53.15 LIEN.
   In addition to all other remedies, if a customer shall for any reason remain
indebted to the city for sewer service furnished, such amount due, together
with any rents and charges in arrears shall be considered a delinquent sewer
rent which is hereby declared to be a lien upon the real estate for which the
same was furnished. The City Clerk shall notify in writing or cause to be
notified in writing, all owners of premises, or their agents, whenever their
tenants or lessees are 60 days or more delinquent in the payment of sewer rent.
It shall be the duty of the Utilities Superintendent on June 1 of each year to
report to the City Council a list of all unpaid accounts due for sewer service
together with a description of the premises served. The report shall be
examined and, if approved by the City Council, shall be certified by the City
Clerk to the County Clerk to be collected as a special tax in the manner
provided by law.
(Prior Code, § 3-215)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-925.01
§ 53.16 COMPLAINTS.
   Any consumer feeling himself or herself aggrieved by reason of any
controversy with the Utilities Superintendent may appear before the City
Council and present his or her grievance. Any consumer who considers himself or
herself aggrieved by being required to pay the charge demanded for the use of
the sewer, or for the resumption of sewer service after the same shall have
been shut off, shall pay such charge under protest, in which event the City
Clerk shall write on the receipt given such customer the words “Paid Under
Protest.” Such consumer may then present his or her verified claim in the
manner provided for presenting claims to the City Council for a refund of the
amount so paid under protest. Such claims shall then be considered by the City
Council in the same manner as other claims against the city.
(Prior Code, § 3-216)
§ 53.17 SEWER MAINS AND SERVICE LINES; MINIMUM STANDARDS.
   Any new, replacement or extension to any sewer main or service line
connected to the sanitary sewer distribution system of the city shall be equal
to or exceed the minimum specifications of Schedule 40. Sewer mains or service
lines, including a tracer line, must be laid in sand.
(Prior Code, § 3-217) (Ord. 435, passed 2-12-1985)
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
   Chapter
      
70.   TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
      
71.   PARKING REGULATIONS
      
72.   RECREATIONAL VEHICLES
      
73.   TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
      
74.   PARKING SCHEDULES
CHAPTER 70: TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
70.01   Definitions
Traffic Regulations
   
70.15   Truck routes
   
70.16   One-way traffic
   
70.17   Traffic lanes; designation
   
70.18   Arterial streets; designation
   
70.19   Turning generally; U-turns
   
70.20   Crosswalks
   
70.21   Signs; signals
   
70.22   Stop signs
   
70.23   Traffic control devices
   
70.24   Operator and vehicle license
   
70.25   Trailers
   
70.26   Equipment and maintenance
   
70.27   Restrictions on direction of travel
Prohibitions and Enforcement
   
70.40   Littering
   
70.41   Signs
   
70.42   Unnecessary noise
   
70.43   Speed limits
   
70.44   Speed; electronic detection
   
70.45   Negligent driving
   
70.46   Unnecessary stopping
   
70.47   Mufflers
   
70.48   Enforcement; police; traffic officers
   
70.49   Child passengers; use of restraint system or occupant protection system
   
70.50   Safety belt required
   
70.51   Motorcycles; helmet required
   
70.52   Driving on shoulders of highway
   
70.53   Traffic citations
 
   
70.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 70.01 DEFINITIONS.
   The words and phrases used in this chapter, pertaining to motor vehicles and
traffic regulations, shall be construed as defined in Neb. RS 60-605 et seq.,
as now existing or hereafter amended. If not defined in the designated
statutes, the word or phrase shall have its common meaning.
(Prior Code, § 5-101) (Ord. 570, passed 6-14-1994)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 60-605 and 60-606 through 60-676
TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
§ 70.15 TRUCK ROUTES.
   The City Council may, by resolution, designate certain streets in the city
that trucks shall travel upon, and it shall be unlawful for persons operating
such trucks to travel on other streets than those designated for trucks, unless
to pick up or deliver goods, wares or merchandise, and in that event, the
operator of such truck shall return to such truck routes as soon as possible in
traveling through or about the city. The City Council shall cause notices to be
posted or shall erect signs indicating the streets so designated as truck
routes.
(Prior Code, § 5-201)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 60-681
§ 70.16 ONE-WAY TRAFFIC.
   The City Council may, by resolution, provide for one-way travel in any
street or alley located in the city and shall provide for appropriate signs and
markings when said streets have been so designated by resolution.
(Prior Code, § 5-202)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 60-680
§ 70.17 TRAFFIC LANES; DESIGNATION.
   The City Council may, by resolution, mark lanes for traffic on street
pavements at such places as it may deem advisable.
(Prior Code, § 5-203)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 60-680
§ 70.18 ARTERIAL STREETS; DESIGNATION.
   The City Council may, by resolution, designate any street or portion thereof
as an arterial street and shall provide for appropriate signs or markings when
such street has been so designated.
(Prior Code, § 5-204)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 60-680
§ 70.19 TURNING GENERALLY; U-TURNS.
   (A)   Turning, generally. Vehicles turning to the right into an intersecting
street shall approach such intersection in the lane of traffic nearest to the
right-hand side of the highway and must turn the corner as near the right-hand
curb as possible to keep between the curb to the right and the center of the
intersection of the two streets. The driver of a vehicle intending to turn to
the left shall approach such center line of the highway and in turning shall
pass as near as possible to the center of the intersection, passing as closely
as practicable to the right thereof before turning such vehicle to the left.
For the purposes of this section, the CENTER OF THE INTERSECTION shall mean the
meeting point of the medial lines of the highways intersecting one another.
(Prior Code, § 5-206)
   (B)   U-turns. No vehicle shall be turned so as to proceed in the opposite
direction, except at a street intersection. No vehicle shall be turned so as to
proceed in the opposite direction at any intersection where an automatic signal
is in operation, or where a sign is posted indicating that U-turns are
prohibited.
(Prior Code, § 5-205)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 60-680, 60-6,160 and 60-6,159
§ 70.20 CROSSWALKS.
   The City Council may, by resolution, establish and maintain, by appropriate
devices, markers or lines upon the street, crosswalks at intersections where
there is particular danger to pedestrians crossing the street, and at such
other places as it may deem necessary.
(Prior Code, § 5-207)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 60-680
§ 70.21 SIGNS; SIGNALS.
   The City Council may, by resolution, provide for the placing of stop signs,
or other signs, signals, standards or mechanical devices in any street or alley
under the city’s jurisdiction for the purpose of regulating, or prohibiting,
traffic thereon. Such resolution shall describe: The portion of the street or
alley wherein traffic is to be regulated or prohibited; the regulation or
prohibition; the location where such sign, signal, standard or mechanical
device shall be placed; and the hours when such regulation or prohibition shall
be effective. It shall be unlawful for any person to fail, neglect or refuse to
comply with such regulation or prohibition.
(Prior Code, § 5-208) Penalty, see §
70.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 60-6,119 through 60-6,121 and 60-680
§ 70.22 STOP SIGNS.
   Every person operating any vehicle shall, upon approaching any stop sign
erected in accordance with the resolution prescribed heretofore, cause such
vehicle to come to a complete stop before entering or crossing any street,
highway or railroad crossing. The vehicle operator shall stop at a marked stop
line or, if there is no stop line, before entering the crosswalk; but if
neither is indicated, then as near the right-of-way line of the intersecting
roadway as possible.
(Prior Code, § 5-209)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 60-6,119 through 60-6,121, 60-680
§ 70.23 TRAFFIC CONTROL DEVICES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to willfully or maliciously deface,
injure, remove, obstruct, knock down or interfere with any official traffic
sign or signal, traffic control device or traffic control surveillance device.
(Prior Code, § 5-210) (Ord. 502, passed 11-28-1989)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 60-6,129
§ 70.24 OPERATOR AND VEHICLE LICENSE.
   (A)   No person shall operate or park a motor vehicle upon any street, alley
or public highway within the city without having first registered the same in
accordance with Neb. RS 60-301 et seq. A person may operate a motor vehicle
without registration for a period not to exceed 30 days from the date of
purchase. Upon registration, such vehicle shall have the required number plates
displayed upon said vehicle in the manner and places provided for by Neb. RS
60-399. If a citation is issued to an owner or operator of a vehicle for a
violation of this division (A), and the owner properly registers and licenses
the vehicle not in compliance, and pays all taxes and fees due, and the owner
or operator provides proof of such registration to the prosecuting attorney
within ten days after the issuance of the citation, no prosecution for the
offense cited shall occur.
   (B)   No person shall operate a motor vehicle upon any street, alley or
public highway without having obtained a motor vehicle operator’s license in
accordance with Neb. RS 60-484. It shall be unlawful for any person to operate
a motor vehicle upon any street, alley or public highway during the period that
his or her operator’s license has been revoked or canceled.
(Prior Code, § 5-211) (Ord. 537, passed 3-24-1992; Ord. 571, passed 6-14-1994;
Ord. 611, passed 3-26-1996) Penalty, see §
70.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions see Neb. RS 60-302, 60-323 and 60-4,186
§ 70.25 TRAILERS.
   (A)   No trailer, semitrailer or cabin trailer shall be operated or parked
on any street, alley or public highway within the city without having first
registered the same in accordance with Neb. RS 60-301 et seq., except as
provided in this section. A person may pull such trailer, semitrailer or cabin
trailer without registration for a period not to exceed 30 days from the date
of purchase. Upon registration, such trailer, semitrailer or cabin trailer
shall have the required number plate displayed upon said trailer as provided
for by Neb. RS 60-376.
   (B)   If a citation is issued to an owner or operator of a vehicle for a
violation of this section, and the owner properly registers and licenses the
vehicle not in compliance, and pays all taxes and fees due, and the owner or
operator provides proof of such registration to the prosecuting attorney within
ten days after the issuance of the citation, no prosecution for the offense
cited shall occur.
(Prior Code, § 5-212) (Ord. 612, passed 3-26-1996) Penalty, see §
70.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions see Neb. RS 60-302 and 60-320
§ 70.26 EQUIPMENT AND MAINTENANCE.
   (A)   Every motor vehicle, while in use on the streets, alleys or highways
of the city, shall be equipped with efficient brakes adequate to control the
movement of, to stop and to hold such vehicle, including two separate means of
applying the brakes, and shall be further equipped with a good and sufficient
horn, in good working order, or other efficient signal devices. From sunset to
sunrise, and any other time when there is not sufficient light to render
clearly discernible persons or vehicles upon the street, alley or highway at a
distance of 500 feet, every motor vehicle shall be equipped with lighted
headlights, and every motor vehicle and trailer shall be equipped with one or
more taillights, at the rear of the motor vehicle or trailer, exhibiting a red
light visible from a distance of at least 500 feet to the rear of such vehicle.
No person shall operate any vehicle which is equipped with an electric light or
lights that confuse travelers or pedestrians on streets or crosswalks within
the city.
   (B)   Every motor vehicle having a width of 80 inches or more shall display
clearance lights as required by state law. All vehicle brakes shall be
maintained in good working order; provided, that motorcycles need only be
equipped with one brake. All horns on motor vehicles shall be capable of
emitting sound audible under normal conditions from a distance of not less than
200 feet; provided, that no vehicle, except as herein provided, shall be
equipped with, nor shall any person use upon a vehicle, any siren or horn
otherwise than as reasonable warning; nor shall any person use any horn or
warning device upon a vehicle to make any unnecessary, loud or harsh sound; and
provided further that, every Police and Fire Department vehicle, ambulance or
other authorized emergency vehicle used for emergency calls shall be equipped
with a bell, siren or whistle of the type approved by the City Council.
(Prior Code, § 5-213) (Ord. 613, passed 3-26-1996)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions see Neb. RS 60-6,219, 60-6,220, 60-6,224, 60-6,235, 60-
6,244 and 60-6,285
§ 70.27 RESTRICTIONS ON DIRECTION OF TRAVEL.
   (A)   With respect to highways under its jurisdiction, the City Council may
designate any highway, roadway, part of a roadway, or specific lanes upon which
vehicular traffic shall proceed in one direction at all times or at such times
as shall be indicated by traffic control devices.
   (B)   Except for emergency vehicles, no vehicle shall be operated, backed,
pushed, or otherwise caused to move in a direction that is opposite to the
direction designated by competent authority on any deceleration lane,
acceleration lane, access ramp, shoulder, or roadway.
   (C)   A vehicle that passes around a rotary traffic island shall be driven
only to the right of such island.
(Ord. 913, passed 10-24-2023)
PROHIBITIONS AND ENFORCEMENT
§ 70.40 LITTERING.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to drop, or cause to be left, upon any
municipal highway, street or alley, except at places designated by the City
Council, any rubbish, debris or waste, and any person so doing shall be guilty
of littering.
(Prior Code, § 5-301) Penalty, see §
70.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions see Neb. RS 39-311
§ 70.41 SIGNS.
   (A)   Defacing or interfering with signs. It shall be unlawful for any
person to willfully deface, injure, remove, obstruct or interfere with any
official traffic sign or signal.
(Prior Code, § 5-302)
   (B)   Unauthorized display. It shall be unlawful for any person to maintain
or display upon, or in view of any street, any unofficial sign, signal or
device which purports to be, is an imitation of or resembles an official
traffic sign or signal which attempts to direct the movement of traffic, or
which hides from view, or interferes with the effectiveness of any official
sign or signal. Every such prohibited sign, signal or device is hereby declared
to be a public nuisance, and any police officer is hereby empowered to remove
the same, or cause it to be removed, without notice.
(Prior Code, § 5-303) Penalty, see §
70.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions see Neb. RS 60-6,127 and 60-6,129
§ 70.42 UNNECESSARY NOISE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person in any part of the city to make, or
cause to be made, any unnecessary noise with any signal device, or to use the
same except as a road signal.
(Prior Code, § 5-304) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.43 SPEED LIMITS.
   No person shall operate a motor vehicle on any street, alley or other place
at a rate of speed greater than 25 mph within the residential district, and 20
mph within the business district, unless a different rate of speed is
specifically permitted by ordinance. In no instance shall a person drive a
vehicle on a highway at a speed greater than is reasonable and prudent under
the conditions. Where a different maximum speed is set by ordinance,
appropriate signs shall be posted.
(Prior Code, § 5-305) Penalty, see §
70.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions see Neb. RS 60-6,186 and 60-6,190
§ 70.44 SPEED; ELECTRONIC DETECTION.
   (A)   Determinations made regarding the speed of any motor vehicle based
upon the visual observation of any law enforcement officer may be corroborated
by the use of radio microwaves or other electronic device. The results of such
radio microwave or other electronic speed measurement may be accepted as
competent evidence of the speed of such motor vehicle in any court or legal
proceeding when the speed of the vehicle is at issue.
   (B)   Before the city may offer in evidence the results of such radio
microwave or other electronic speed measurement for the purpose of establishing
the speed of any motor vehicle, the city shall prove the following:
      (1)   The measuring device was in proper working order at the time of
conducting the measurement;
      (2)   The measuring device was being operated in such a manner and under
such conditions so as to allow a minimum possibility of distortion or outside
interference;
      (3)   The person operating such device and interpreting such measurement
was qualified by training and experience to properly test and operate the
device; and
      (4)   The operator conducted external tests of accuracy upon the
measuring device, within a reasonable time both prior to and subsequent to an
arrest being made, and the measuring device was found to be in proper working
order.
   (C)   The driver of any such motor vehicle may be arrested without a warrant
under the authority herein granted if the arresting officer is in uniform or
displays his or her badge of authority; provided, that such officer shall have
observed the recording of the speed of such motor vehicle by the radio
microwaves or other electronic device, or had received a radio message from the
officer who observed the speed of the motor vehicle recorded by the radio
microwaves or other electronic device. In the event of an arrest based on such
a message, such radio message must have been dispatched immediately after the
speed of the motor vehicle had been recorded and must include a description of
the vehicle and the recorded speed.
(Prior Code, § 5-307) (Ord. 410, passed 10-11-1983)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions see Neb. RS 60-6,192
§ 70.45 NEGLIGENT DRIVING.
   Any person who operates a motor vehicle in such a manner as to indicate a
want of ordinary care and caution that a person of ordinary prudence would use
under like circumstances shall be deemed guilty of negligent driving.
(Prior Code, § 5-308) Penalty, see §
70.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions see Neb. RS 60-4,182
§ 70.46 UNNECESSARY STOPPING.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to stop any vehicle on any public street
or alley, other than in permitted parking areas, except when such a stop is
necessary for emergency situations, to comply with traffic control devices and
regulations or to yield the right-of-way to pedestrians or to other vehicles.
(Prior Code, § 5-309) Penalty, see §
70.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions see Neb. RS 60-6,166 and 60-680
§ 70.47 MUFFLERS.
   Every motor vehicle operated within the city shall be provided with a
muffler in good working order to prevent excessive or unusual noise or smoke.
It shall be unlawful to use a “muffler cut-out” on any motor vehicle upon any
streets; provided, that the provisions of this section shall not apply to
authorized emergency vehicles.
(Prior Code, § 5-310)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions see Neb. RS 60-6,286 and 60-6,371
§ 70.48 ENFORCEMENT; POLICE; TRAFFIC OFFICERS.
   (A)   Enforcement. The municipal police are hereby authorized, empowered and
ordered to exercise all powers and duties with relation to the management of
street traffic and to direct, control, stop, restrict, regulate and, when
necessary, temporarily divert or exclude, in the interest of public safety,
health and convenience the movement of pedestrian, animal and vehicular traffic
of every kind in streets, parks and on bridges. The driver of any vehicle shall
stop upon the signal of any police officer.
(Prior Code, § 5-311)
   (B)   Refusal to obey. It shall be unlawful for any person to refuse, or
fail to comply with, any lawful order, signal or direction of a police officer.
(Prior Code, § 5-312)
   (C)   Traffic officers.
      (1)   The City Council or the municipal police may at any time detail
officers, to be known as traffic officers, at street intersections. All traffic
officers shall be vested with the authority to regulate and control traffic at
the intersections to which they are assigned. It shall be their duty to direct
the movement of traffic and prevent congestion and accidents.
      (2)   It shall be unlawful for any person to violate any order or signal
of any such traffic officer, notwithstanding the directive of a stop sign or
signal device which may have been placed at any such intersection.
(Prior Code, § 5-313)
Penalty, see §
70.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions see Neb. 60-6,222, 60-680 and 60-683
§ 70.49 CHILD PASSENGERS; USE OF RESTRAINT SYSTEM OR OCCUPANT PROTECTION
SYSTEM.
   (A)   For purposes of this section, OCCUPANT PROTECTION SYSTEM has the
meaning provided in Neb. RS 60-6,265.
   (B)   (1)   Any person who drives any motor vehicle which has or is required
to have an occupant protection system shall ensure that:
         (a)   All children up to six years of age being transported by such
vehicle use a child passenger restraint system of a type which meets Federal
Motor Vehicle Safety Standard 213, as developed by the National Highway Traffic
Safety Administration, as such standard existed on January 1, 2004, and which
is correctly installed in such vehicle; and
         (b)   All children six years of age and less than 18 years of age
being transported by such vehicle use an occupant protection system.
      (2)   Division (B)(1) above shall apply to every motor vehicle which is
equipped with an occupant protection system or is required to be equipped with
restraint systems, pursuant to Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standard 208, as
such standard existed on January 1, 2004, except taxicabs, mopeds, motorcycles
and any motor vehicle designated by the manufacturer as a 1963 year model or
earlier which is not equipped with an occupant protection system.
   (C)   (1)   Whenever any licensed physician determines, through accepted
medical procedures, that use of a child passenger restraint system by a
particular child would be harmful by reason of the child’s weight, physical
condition or other medical reason, the provisions of division (B) above shall
be waived.
      (2)   The driver of any vehicle transporting such a child shall carry on
his or her person, or in the vehicle, a signed, written statement of the
physician identifying the child and stating the grounds for such waiver.
   (D)   The drivers of authorized emergency vehicles shall not be subject to
the requirements of division (B) above when operating such authorized emergency
vehicles pursuant to their employment.
   (E)   A driver of a motor vehicle shall not be subject to the requirements
of division (B) above if the motor vehicle is being operated in a parade or
exhibition, and the parade or exhibition is being conducted in accordance with
applicable state law and local ordinances and resolutions.
   (F)   (1)   A person violating any provision of division (B) above is guilty
of an offense. The failure to provide a child restraint system for more than
one child in the same vehicle at the same time, as required in division (B)
above, shall not be treated as a separate offense.
      (2)   Enforcement of division (B)(1)(b) above shall be accomplished only
as a secondary action when an operator of a motor vehicle has been cited or
charged with a violation of some other offense, unless the violation involves a
person under the age of 18 years riding in or on any portion of the vehicle not
designed or intended for the use of passengers when the vehicle is in motion.
(Prior Code, § 5-315) (Ord. 445, passed 9-24-1985; Ord. 527, passed 1-8-1991;
Ord. 768, passed 3-22-2005)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions see Neb. RS 60-6,267 and 60-6,268
§ 70.50 SAFETY BELT REQUIRED.
   (A)   (1)   Any driver and front seat passenger of a motor vehicle operated
on a street or highway in the city shall wear a safety belt, except that the
number of front seat passengers required to wear a safety belt shall not exceed
the number of safety belts which were installed in the front seat of such motor
vehicle by the manufacturer. Any driver transporting a child who is four years
of age or more but is less than 16 years of age shall be responsible for
securing such child in a safety belt if the child is riding in the front seat
of the motor vehicle.
      (2)   All safety belts so worn shall be properly adjusted and fastened
and shall be of a type which meets the requirements of 49 C.F.R. § 571.208 as
such regulations currently exists or as the regulation existed when the safety
belts were originally installed by the manufacturer; or if the safety belts
have been replaced, be of a type which meets the requirements of 49 C.F.R. §
571.208 that applied to the originally installed safety belts or of a more
recently issued version of such regulations.
      (3)   Requirements for a child under the age of four are provided in Neb.
RS 60-6,267 through 60-6,269.
   (B)   Enforcement of this section by state or local law enforcement agencies
shall be accomplished only as a secondary action when a driver of a motor
vehicle has been detained for a suspected violation or some other offense.
   (C)   This section shall not apply to:
      (1)   A driver or passenger who possesses written verification from a
physician that the driver or passenger is unable to wear a safety belt for
medical reasons; and
      (2)   A rural letter carrier of the United States Postal Service while
performing his or her duties as a rural letter carrier between the first and
last delivery points.
   (D)   Evidence that a person was not wearing a seat belt at the time he or
she was injured shall not be admissible in regard to the issue of liability or
proximate cause but may be admissible as evidence concerning mitigation of
damages, except that it shall not reduce recovery for damages by more than 5%.
(Prior Code, § 5-316) (Ord. 446, passed 9-24-1985) Penalty, see §
70.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions see Neb. RS 60-6,212 and 60-6,266
§ 70.51 MOTORCYCLES; HELMET REQUIRED.
   (A)   A person shall not operate or be a passenger on a motorcycle or moped
on any highway unless such person is wearing a protective helmet of the type
and design manufactured for use by operators of such vehicles and unless such
helmet is secured properly on his or her head with a chin strap while the
vehicle is in motion. All such protective helmets shall be designed to reduce
injuries to the user resulting from head impacts and shall be designed to
protect the user by remaining on the user’s head, deflecting blows, resisting
penetration and spreading the force of impact.
   (B)   Each such helmet shall consist of lining, padding and chin strap and
shall meet or exceed the standards established in the United States Department
of Transportation’s Motor Vehicle Safety Standard 218, 49 C.F.R. § 571.218, for
motorcycle helmets.
(Prior Code, § 5-317) (Ord. 486, passed 10-25-1988; Ord. 572, passed 6-14-1994)
Penalty, see §
70.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions see Neb. RS 60-6,278 through 60-6,282
§ 70.52 DRIVING ON SHOULDERS OF HIGHWAY.
   No person shall drive on the shoulders of highways, except that:
   (A)   Vehicles may be driven onto the shoulders of roadways:
      (1)   By federal mail carriers while delivering the United States mail;
or
      (2)   To safely remove a vehicle from traffic lanes.
   (B)   Implements of husbandry may be driven onto the shoulders of roadways.
(Prior Code, § 5-318) (Ord. 487, passed 10-25-1988)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions see Neb. RS 60-6,142
§ 70.53 TRAFFIC CITATIONS.
   (A)   Form and records.
      (1)   The District County Court shall provide, in appropriate form,
traffic citations containing notices to appear. The Chief of Police shall be
responsible for the issuance of such books and shall maintain a record of every
such book, and each citation number therein, issued to the municipal police.
      (2)   The Court shall require and retain a receipt for every book so
issued. The Court shall require the return of all copies of every traffic
citation which has been spoiled, or upon which any entry has been made, and not
issued to an alleged violator. All records of traffic citations required herein
shall be audited at least biennially by a member of the City Council.
(Prior Code, § 5-401)
   (B)   Disposition and records.
      (1)   The municipal police, upon issuing a traffic citation to an alleged
violator of any provision of this chapter, shall deposit a copy of the traffic
citation with the City Attorney, unless the citation is just a warning.
      (2)   It shall be unlawful for the municipal police to dispose of a
traffic citation, or copies thereof, or of the record of the issuance of the
same in a manner other than as required herein.
(Prior Code, § 5-402)
   (C)   Illegal cancellation. Any person who cancels or solicits the
cancellation of any traffic citation in any manner other than as provided
herein shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.
(Prior Code, § 5-403)
Penalty, see §
70.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions see Neb. RS 60-680, 29-422 and 29-424
§ 70.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who is found guilty of a traffic infraction in violation of
this traffic code shall be fined:
      (1)   For the first offense: $100;
      (2)   For the second offense within a one-year period: $200; and
      (3)   For the third offense within a one-year period: $300.
   (B)   Any person who violates §
70.50 of this code shall be guilty of a traffic infraction as defined in Neb.
RS 60-6,272 and shall be fined $25, but no court costs shall be assessed
against him or her, nor shall any points be assessed against the driving record
of such person.
(Prior Code, § 5-316)
(Ord. 446, passed 9-24-1985; Ord. 821, passed 6-24-2014)
CHAPTER 71: PARKING REGULATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
71.01   Parking generally
   
71.02   Designation
   
71.03   Prohibited parking areas
   
71.04   Obstructing street, intersection or entrance
   
71.05   Intersections
   
71.06   Alleys
   
71.07   Parking at schools, theaters
   
71.08   Curbs
   
71.09   License required
   
71.10   Time limits
   
71.11   Snow removal
   
71.12   Snow; weather emergencies; highway maintenance
   
71.13   Emergency vehicles
   
71.14   Oil tankers; gasoline transports; tank trucks
   
71.15   Private lots
   
71.16   Removal of illegally parked vehicles
Parking for Disabled Persons
   
71.30   Definitions
   
71.31   Designation of on-street parking spaces and access aisles; display of
permits
   
71.32   Designation of off-street parking stalls, spaces and access aisles
   
71.33   Personal permit; issuance; renewal
   
71.34   Motor vehicle permit; issuance; renewal
   
71.35   Permits; issuance; prohibitions; duplicates
   
71.36   Permits; period of validity; renewal of temporary permits
   
71.37   Permits nontransferable
   
71.38   Removal of unauthorized vehicle
   
71.39   Citation; complaint
Enforcement
   
71.50   Police Department as Violations Bureau
   
71.51   Notification of violations; presumption
   
71.52   Fee collection
   
71.53   Notification
   
71.54   Failure to pay
 
   
71.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 71.01 PARKING GENERALLY.
   (A)   No person shall park any vehicle, or approach the curb with a vehicle,
except when headed in the direction of the traffic. Vehicles, when parked,
shall stand parallel with and adjacent to the curb or edge of the roadway, in
such manner as to have both right wheels within 12 inches of the curb or edge
of the roadway, and so as to leave at least four feet between the vehicle so
parked and any other parked vehicles, except where the City Council designates
that vehicles shall be parked at an angle so as to have the front right wheel
at the curb or edge of the roadway.
   (B)   Where stalls are designated either on the curb or pavement, vehicles
shall be parked within such stalls. No vehicle shall be parked upon a roadway
when there is a shoulder adjacent to the roadway which is available for
parking.
(Prior Code, § 5-601) (Ord. 574, passed 6-14-1994) Penalty, see §
71.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 60-680 and 60-6,167
§ 71.02 DESIGNATION.
   The City Council may, by resolution, designate any street, or portion
thereof, where vehicles shall be parked parallel with and adjacent to the curb
or at an angle so as to have the right front wheel at the curb.
(Prior Code, § 5-602)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 60-6,167 and 60-680
§ 71.03 PROHIBITED PARKING AREAS.
   (A)   The City Council may, by resolution, set aside any street, alley,
public way, or portion thereof, where the parking of a particular kind or class
of vehicle shall be prohibited, or where the parking of any vehicle shall be
prohibited.
   (B)   No vehicle prohibited from parking thereon shall stand or be parked
adjacent to the curb of said street, alley, public way, or portion thereof,
longer than a period of time necessary to load and unload freight or
passengers.
(Prior Code, § 5-603) Penalty, see §
71.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 60-680
§ 71.04 OBSTRUCTING STREET, INTERSECTION OR ENTRANCE.
   No person shall, except in case of an accident or emergency, stop any
vehicle in any location where stopping will obstruct any street, intersection
or entrance to an alley or public or private drive.
Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.05 INTERSECTIONS.
   Except when necessary to avoid conflict with other traffic or when in
compliance with law or the directions of a peace officer or traffic control
device, no person shall park a vehicle or leave a vehicle standing for any
purpose, except momentarily to load or discharge passengers, within 25 feet of
the intersection of curb lines, or if none, then within 15 feet of the
intersection of property lines, or where the curb lines are painted red or
another color specified by the City Council to indicate such prohibition.
Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.06 ALLEYS.
   (A)   No person shall park a vehicle with any portion thereof projecting
into any alley entrance.
   (B)   No person shall park a vehicle in any alley, except for the purpose of
loading or unloading during the time necessary to load or unload, which shall
not exceed the maximum limit of one-half hour. Every vehicle while loading or
unloading in an alley shall be parked in such manner as will cause the least
obstruction possible to traffic in the alley.
Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.07 PARKING AT SCHOOLS, THEATERS.
   The City Council may, by resolution, prohibit the parking or stopping except
for loading or unloading of passengers or freight, of vehicles at the curb on
streets directly in front of any entrance to a schoolhouse, school building or
theater, and such curbs adjacent to the entrance of said schoolhouse, school
building or theater shall be painted red to indicate such prohibition.
(Prior Code, § 5-605)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 60-680
§ 71.08 CURBS.
   (A)   General. No vehicle shall park on any street with its left side to the
curb, unless said street has been designated to be a “one-way” street by the
City Council. Vehicles must not be parked at any curb in such a position as to
prevent another vehicle already parked at the curb from moving away.
(Prior Code, § 5-608)
   (B)   Painted curbs. It shall be the duty of the Utilities Superintendent to
cause the curb space to be painted and keep the same painted as provided in
this chapter. No person, firm or corporation shall paint the curb of any
street, or in any manner set aside, or attempt to prevent the parking of
vehicles in any street, or part thereof, except at such places where the
parking of vehicles is prohibited by the provisions of this chapter. The
marking or designating of portions of streets or alleys where the parking of
vehicles is prohibited or limited shall be done only by the city through its
proper officers, at the direction of the City Council.
(Prior Code, § 5-609) Penalty, see §
71.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 60-680 and 60-6,167
§ 71.09 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful to park or place on the streets, alleys or other public
property any motor vehicle without first securing a current license as provided
by law.
(Prior Code, § 5-610) Penalty, see §
71.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 60-323 
§ 71.10 TIME LIMITS.
   (A)   General. The City Council may, by resolution, entirely prohibit or fix
a time limit for the parking and stopping of vehicles on any street, streets or
district designated by such resolution, and the parking or stopping of any
vehicle in any such street, streets or district for a period of time longer
than fixed in such resolution shall constitute a violation of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 5-611)
   (B)   Maximum time limit. The parking of a motor vehicle on a public street
for over 72 consecutive hours is unlawful, except where a different maximum
time limit is posted.
(Prior Code, § 5-613) Penalty, see §
71.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 60-680
§ 71.11 SNOW REMOVAL.
   After a snowfall of four inches or more, it shall be unlawful to park on the
north and west side of a street on even-numbered days and on the south and east
side of a street on odd-numbered days until the snow removal operations have
been completed on that particular street. Any person parking a vehicle in
violation of this section shall be subject to the penalties provided in §
71.99 of this code, and such vehicle may be removed and parked, under the
supervision of the municipal police, in a suitable nearby location without
further notice to the owner or operator of such vehicle. If the vehicle is
moved by the municipal police, a $5 towing fee may be assessed against the
owner of the vehicle.
(Prior Code, § 5-614) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.12 SNOW; WEATHER EMERGENCIES; HIGHWAY MAINTENANCE.
   (A)   Unless the City Council provides otherwise, it is unlawful to park or
stand any vehicle on any highway in the city at any time within 12 hours after
a snowfall of three inches or more has occurred within a 24-hour period if the
snow has not been removed within that time.
   (B)   The Police Chief, the municipal police or any other designated person
may order any highway or portion thereof vacated for weather emergencies or
highway maintenance. Notice shall be given by personally notifying the owner or
operator of a vehicle parked on such highway or by posting appropriate signs
along the highway not less than four hours prior to the time that the vacation
order is to be effective. It is unlawful to park a vehicle on a highway or
portion thereof vacated in accordance with this division (B).
   (C)   A vehicle parked in violation of this section may be removed and
parked, under the supervision of the municipal police, to a suitable nearby
location without further notice to the owner or operator of such vehicle.
Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.13 EMERGENCY VEHICLES.
   The provisions of this chapter regulating the movement, parking and standing
of vehicles shall not apply to authorized emergency vehicles, as defined in
this chapter, while the driver of such vehicle is operating the same in an
emergency in the necessary performance of public duties.
(Prior Code, § 5-616)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 60-6,114
§ 71.14 OIL TANKERS; GASOLINE TRANSPORTS; TANK TRUCKS.
   (A)   No oil tanker, gasoline transport or tank truck for transporting
inflammable liquids or gasses or anhydrous ammonia, whether the same be loaded
or empty, shall park or stop for any period of time within any truck parking
lot provided for in this chapter, or within the limits of any other street or
alley of the city, except to load or unload its cargo in a safe and expeditious
manner; provided, that drivers of said oil tankers, gasoline transports or tank
trucks may stop or park said vehicles one time while enroute through the city
within the city limits of any truck parking lot designated by this section, for
a period of time not more than 30 minutes for rest and meals; and provided
further, in the case of breakdown or stalling on account of exhaustion of its
motor fuel on any of said streets, the stopping of the disabled vehicle for the
reasonable time necessary to remove the same to the next point where repairs
can be made or to meet the emergency shall not be a violation of this section.
   (B)   No oil tanker, gasoline transport or tank truck, whether containing
any inflammable materials or not, shall park or stop for any period of time on
any private premises within the corporate limits of the city, save and except
for the purpose of loading or unloading, or breakdowns, unless said private
premises be used and employed exclusively for the conduct of the wholesale or
retail petroleum business with ample facilities for parking oil tankers and
gasoline transports or tank trucks.
(Prior Code, § 5-617) (Ord 338, passed 4-25-1978) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.15 PRIVATE LOTS.
   (A)   (1)   Any person parking a motor vehicle in a properly posted,
restricted parking lot, without the consent of the owner or tenant authorized
to give permission, shall be guilty of an infraction, and the vehicle shall be
subject to being towed away at the request of such lot owner or tenant. Any
person found guilty under this section shall be subject to the penalties
provided for infractions. If the identity of the operator of a motor vehicle in
violation of this section cannot be determined, the owner or person in whose
name such vehicle is registered shall be held prima facie responsible for such
infraction.
      (2)   When any law enforcement officer observes or is advised that a
motor vehicle may be in violation of this section, he or she shall make a
determination as to whether a violation has in fact occurred and if so, shall
personally serve or attach to such motor vehicle a citation directed to the
owner or operator of such vehicle, which shall set forth the nature of the
violation. Any person who refuses to sign the citation or otherwise comply with
the command of the citation shall be punished as provided by Neb. RS 29-426.
   (B)   Signs designating a restricted parking lot shall be readily visible
and shall state the purpose or purposes for parking on the restricted parking
lot, state the hours for restricted parking, and state who to contact for
information regarding a towed vehicle.
(Prior Code, § 5-619) (Ord. 380, passed 10-27-1981) Penalty, see §
71.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 60-2401.1 and 60-2402
§ 71.16 REMOVAL OF ILLEGALLY PARKED VEHICLES.
   (A)   Whenever any police officer shall find a vehicle standing upon a
street or alley in violation of any of the provisions of this chapter, such
individual may remove or have such vehicle removed, or require the driver or
other person in charge of the vehicle to move such vehicle, to a position off
the roadway of such street or alley or from such street or alley.
   (B)   The owner or other person lawfully entitled to the possession of any
vehicle towed or stored shall be charged with the reasonable cost of towing and
storage fees. Any such towing or storage fee shall be a lien upon the vehicle
prior to all other claims. Any person towing or storing a vehicle shall be
entitled to retain possession of such vehicle until such charges are paid. The
lien provided for in this section shall not apply to the contents of any
vehicles.
(Prior Code, § 5-620) (Ord. 430, passed 11-13-1984; Ord. 488, passed 10-25-
1988)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 60-6,165 and 60-680
PARKING FOR DISABLED PERSONS
§ 71.30 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACCESS AISLE. A space adjacent to a handicapped parking space or passenger
loading zone which is constructed and designed in compliance with the Americans
with Disabilities Act of 1990, being 42 U.S.C. §§ 12101 et seq., and the
federal rules and regulations adopted and promulgated in response to the Act.
   HANDICAPPED OR DISABLED PARKING PERMIT. A permit issued by the department
that authorizes the use of parking spaces and access aisles that have been
designated for the exclusive use of handicapped or disabled persons.
   HANDICAPPED OR DISABLED PERSON. Any individual with a severe visual,
neurological or physical impairment which limits personal mobility and results
in an inability to travel unassisted more than 200 feet without the use of a
wheelchair, crutch, walker or prosthetic, orthotic or other assistant device,
any individual whose personal mobility is limited as a result of respiratory
problems, any individual who has a cardiac condition to the extent that his or
her functional limitations are classified in severity as being Class III or
Class IV, according to standards set by the American Heart Association, and any
individual who has permanently lost all or substantially all the use of one or
more limbs.
   HANDICAPPED OR DISABLED PERSON, TEMPORARILY. Any handicapped or disabled
person whose personal mobility is expected to be limited in such manner for no
longer than one year.
   HANDICAPPED PARKING INFRACTION. Violation of any section of this subchapter
regulating:
      (1)   The use of parking spaces, including access aisles, designated for
use by handicapped or disabled persons;
      (2)   The unauthorized possession, use or display of handicapped or
disabled parking permits; or
      (3)   The obstruction of any wheelchair ramps constructed or created in
accordance and in conformity with the Federal Americans with Disabilities Act
of 1990.
(Prior Code, § 5-623) (Ord. 503, passed 11-28-1989; Ord. 540, passed 3-24-1992;
Ord. 577, passed 6-14-1994; Ord. 621, passed 3-26-1996; Ord. 650, 7-22-1997;
Ord. 711, passed 4-23-2002)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 18-1736 and 18-1741.01
§ 71.31 DESIGNATION OF ON-STREET PARKING SPACES AND ACCESS AISLES; DISPLAY OF
PERMITS.
   (A)   (1)   The City Council may designate parking spaces, including access
aisles, for exclusive use of:
         (a)   Handicapped or disabled persons whose motor vehicles display the
distinguishing license plates issued to handicapped or disabled persons
pursuant to Neb. RS 60-3,113.06;
         (b)   Handicapped or disabled persons whose motor vehicles display a
distinguishing license plate issued to a handicapped or disabled person by
another state;
         (c)   Such other handicapped or disabled persons or temporarily
handicapped or disabled persons, as certified by the city, whose motor vehicles
display the permit; and
         (d)   Such other motor vehicles, as certified by the city, which
display such permit.
      (2)   All such permits shall be displayed by hanging the permit from the
motor vehicle’s rearview mirror so as to be clearly visible through the front
windshield. The permit shall be displayed on the dashboard only when there is
no rearview mirror.
   (B)   If the City Council so designates a parking space or access aisle, it
shall be indicated by posting above ground and immediately adjacent to and
visible from each space or access aisle a sign as described in Neb. RS 18-1737.
In addition to such sign, the space or access aisle may also be indicated by
blue paint on the curb or edge of the paved portion of the street adjacent to
the space or access aisle.
(Prior Code, § 5-621) (Ord. 503, passed 11-28-1989; Ord. 540, passed 3-24-1992;
Ord. 575, passed 6-14-1994; Ord. 614, passed 3-26-1996; Ord. 648, passed 7-22-
1997; Ord. 675, passed 3-23-1999; Ord. 712, passed 4-23-2002)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 18-1736
§ 71.32 DESIGNATION OF OFF-STREET PARKING STALLS, SPACES AND ACCESS AISLES.
   The city and any person in lawful possession of any off-street parking
facility may designate stalls or spaces, including access aisles, in such
facility owned or operated by the city or person for exclusive use of:
   (A)   Handicapped or disabled persons whose motor vehicles display the
distinguishing license plates issued to such individuals pursuant to Neb. RS
60-3,113.06;
   (B)   Such other handicapped or disabled persons or temporarily handicapped
or disabled persons, as certified by the city, whose motor vehicles display the
permit; and
   (C)   Such other motor vehicles, as certified by the city, which display
such permit. Such designation shall be made by posting above ground and
immediately adjacent to and visible from each stall or space, including access
aisles, a sign which is in conformance with the requirements in Neb. RS 18-
1737.
(Prior Code, § 5-622) (Ord. 503, passed 11-28-1989; Ord. 540, passed 3-24-1992;
Ord. 576, passed 6-14-1994; Ord. 649, passed 7-22-1997; Ord. 713, passed 4-23-
2002)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 18-1737
§ 71.33 PERSONAL PERMIT; ISSUANCE; RENEWAL.
   (A)   The City Clerk shall take an application, on a form provided by the
Department of Motor Vehicles, from a handicapped or disabled person or
temporarily handicapped or disabled person or his or her parent, legal guardian
or foster parent for a permit which will entitle the holder thereof or a person
driving a motor vehicle for the purpose of transporting such holder to park in
those spaces or access aisles provided for by this subchapter when the holder
of the permit will enter or exit the motor vehicle while it is parked in such
spaces or access aisles. For the purposes of this section, the handicapped or
disabled person or temporarily handicapped or disabled person shall be
considered the holder of the permit.
   (B)   A person applying for a permit, or for the renewal of a permit, shall
complete an application, shall provide proof of identity and shall submit a
completed medical form containing the statutory criteria for qualification and
signed by a physician, physician assistant or advanced practice registered
nurse certifying that the person who will be the holder meets the definition of
handicapped or disabled person or temporarily handicapped or disabled person.
No applicant shall be required to provide his or her social security number. In
the case of a temporarily handicapped or disabled person, the certifying
physician, physician’s assistant or advanced practice registered nurse shall
indicate the estimated date of recovery or that the temporary handicap or
disability will continue for a period of six months, whichever is less.
   (C)   A person may hold only one permit under this section and may hold
either a permit under this section or a permit under §
71.34 of this code, but not both.
   (D)   A copy of the completed application form shall be given to each
applicant. The City Clerk shall submit to the Department of Motor Vehicles the
name, address and license number of all persons applying for a permit pursuant
to this section.
   (E)   An application for the renewal of a permit under this section may be
filed within 30 days prior to the expiration of the permit. The existing permit
shall be invalid upon receipt of the new permit.
   (F)   The City Clerk shall not accept the application for a permit of any
person making application contrary to the provisions of the Nebraska Revised
Statutes.
(Prior Code, § 5-624) (Ord. 503, passed 11-28-1989; Ord. 540, passed 3-24-1992;
Ord. 615, passed 3-26-1996; Ord. 651, passed 7-22-1997; Ord. 714, passed 4-23-
2002)
§ 71.34 MOTOR VEHICLE PERMIT; ISSUANCE; RENEWAL.
   (A)   The City Clerk shall take an application from any person for a motor
vehicle permit which will entitle the holder thereof or a person driving the
motor vehicle for the purpose of transporting handicapped or disabled persons
or temporarily handicapped or disabled persons to park in those spaces or
access aisles provided for by this subchapter if the motor vehicle is used
primarily for the transportation of handicapped or disabled persons or
temporarily handicapped or disabled persons. Such parking permit shall be used
only when the motor vehicle for which it was issued is being used for the
transportation of a handicapped or disabled person, or temporarily handicapped
or disabled person, and such person will enter or exit the motor vehicle while
it is parked in such designated spaces or access aisles.
   (B)   A person applying for a permit, or for the renewal of a permit,
pursuant to this section, shall apply for a permit for each motor vehicle used
for the transportation of handicapped or disabled persons, or temporarily
handicapped or disabled persons, shall complete such forms as are provided to
the City Clerk by the Department of Motor Vehicles and shall demonstrate to the
City Clerk that each such motor vehicle is used primarily for the
transportation of handicapped or disabled persons, or temporarily handicapped
or disabled persons. A copy of the completed application form shall be given to
each applicant.
   (C)   No more than one such permit shall be issued for each motor vehicle. A
person may hold either a permit under this section or a permit under §
71.33 of this code, but not both.
   (D)   An application for the renewal of a permit under this section may be
filed within 30 days prior to the expiration of the permit. The existing permit
shall be invalid upon receipt of the new permit.
   (E)   The City Clerk shall submit to the Department of Motor Vehicles the
name, address and license number of all persons applying for a permit pursuant
to this section.
   (F)   The City Clerk shall not accept the application for a permit of any
person making application contrary to the Nebraska Revised Statutes.
(Prior Code, § 5-625) (Ord. 503, passed 11-28-1989; Ord. 540, passed 3-24-1992;
Ord. 616, passed 3-26-1996; Ord. 652, passed 7-22-1997; Ord. 715, passed 4-23-
2002)
§ 71.35 PERMITS; ISSUANCE; PROHIBITIONS; DUPLICATES.
   (A)   (1)   No permit shall be issued to any person or for any motor vehicle
if any parking permit has been issued to such person or for such motor vehicle
and such permit has been suspended, pursuant to §
71.37 of this code.
      (2)   At the expiration of such suspension, a permit may be renewed in
the manner provided for renewal in this subchapter.
   (B)   A duplicate permit may be provided without cost if the original permit
is destroyed, lost or stolen. Such duplicate permit shall be issued in the same
manner as the original permit, except that a newly completed medical form need
not be provided if a completed medical form submitted at the time of the most
recent application for a permit or its renewal is on file with the City Clerk
or the Department of Motor Vehicles. A duplicate permit shall be valid for the
remainder of the period for which the original permit was issued.
(Prior Code, § 5-626) (Ord. 503, passed 11-28-1989; Ord. 540, passed 3-24-1992;
Ord. 553, passed 3-9-1993; Ord. 617, passed 3-26-1996; Ord. 653, passed 7-22-
1997; Ord. 716, passed 4-23-2002)
§ 71.36 PERMITS; PERIOD OF VALIDITY; RENEWAL OF TEMPORARY PERMITS.
   (A)   All permanently issued permits for handicapped or disabled parking
authorized by this subchapter shall be issued for a period ending on September
30 of the third year after the date of issuance and shall expire on that date.
   (B)   (1)   All permits authorized under this subchapter for temporarily
handicapped or disabled parking shall be issued for a period ending not more
than six months after the date of issuance but may be renewed one time for a
period not to exceed six months.
      (2)   For the renewal period, there shall be submitted an additional
application with proof of a handicap or disability.
(Prior Code, § 5-627) (Ord. 503, passed 11-28-1989; Ord. 540, passed 3-24-1992;
Ord. 578, passed 6-14-1994; Ord. 618, passed 3-26-1996; Ord. 654, passed 7-22-
1997; Ord. 717, passed 4-23-2002)
§ 71.37 PERMITS NONTRANSFERABLE.
   (A)   Permits issued under this subchapter shall not be transferable and
shall be used only by the party to whom issued or for the motor vehicle for
which issued and only for the purpose for which it is issued. No person shall
alter or reproduce in any manner a permit issued pursuant to this subchapter.
No person shall knowingly hold more than one permit or knowingly provide false
information on an application for a permit.
   (B)   No person who is not the holder of a handicapped or disabled parking
permit issued to him or her as a handicapped or disabled person shall display a
handicapped or disabled parking permit and park in a space or access aisle
designated for the exclusive use of a handicapped or disabled person.
   (C)   No person who is the holder of a handicapped or disabled parking
permit issued for the use of such person when transporting a handicapped or
disabled person shall display his or her handicapped or disabled parking permit
and park in a space or access aisle designated for the exclusive use of a
handicapped or disabled person unless a handicapped or disabled person is
actually in the vehicle displaying the permit at the time it is parked, has
left the vehicle while it was parked and will return to the vehicle before it
leaves the designated space or access aisle.
   (D)   No person who is not the holder of a handicapped or disabled parking
permit issued for use when a vehicle is transporting a handicapped or disabled
person shall display a handicapped or disabled parking permit and park in a
space or access aisle designated for the exclusive use of a handicapped or
disabled person, unless a handicapped or disabled person is actually in the
vehicle displaying the permit at the time it is parked, has left the vehicle
while it was parked and will return to the vehicle before it leaves the
designated space or access aisle.
   (E)   (1)   Any violation of this section shall constitute a handicapped
parking infraction and shall be cause for suspension of such permit for a
period of six months and imposition of the penalty provided for violation of
this chapter. In addition, the trial court shall impose a fine of not more than
$250, which may be waived by the court if, at the time of sentencing, all
handicapped parking permits issued to or in the possession of the offender are
returned to the court.
      (2)   At the expiration of such six-month period, a suspended permit may
be renewed in the manner provided for renewal in this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 5-628) (Ord. 503, passed 11-28-1989; Ord. 540, passed 3-24-1992;
Ord. 619, passed 3-26-1996; Ord. 655, passed 7-22-1997; Ord. 718, passed 4-23-
2002) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.38 REMOVAL OF UNAUTHORIZED VEHICLE.
   (A)   The owner or person in lawful possession of an off-street parking
facility, after notifying the municipal police and the city, if it provides on-
street parking or owns, operates or provides an off-street parking facility,
may cause the removal, from a stall or space, including access aisles,
designated exclusively for handicapped or disabled persons or temporarily
handicapped or disabled persons or motor vehicles for the transportation of
handicapped or disabled persons or temporarily handicapped or disabled persons,
of any vehicle not displaying the proper permit or the distinguishing license
plates specified in this subchapter if there is posted above ground and
immediately adjacent to and visible from such stall or space, including access
aisles, a sign which clearly and conspicuously states the area so designated as
a tow-in zone.
   (B)   (1)   A person who parks a vehicle in any on-street parking space or
access aisle which has been designated exclusively for handicapped or disabled
persons, or temporarily handicapped or disabled persons, or motor vehicles for
the transportation of handicapped or disabled persons, or temporarily
handicapped or disabled persons, or in any so exclusively designated parking
space or access aisle in any off-street parking facility, without properly
displaying the proper permit or when the handicapped or disabled person to whom
or for whom, as the case may be, the license plate or permit is issued will not
enter or exit the vehicle while it is parked in the designated space or access
aisle shall be guilty of a handicapped parking infraction and shall be subject
to the procedures set forth in §
71.39 of this code.
      (2)   The display on a motor vehicle of a distinguishing license plate or
permit issued to a handicapped or disabled person by and under the duly
constituted authority of another state shall constitute a full and complete
defense in any action for a handicapped parking infraction.
      (3)   If the identity of the person who parked the vehicle in violation
of this section cannot be readily determined, the owner or person in whose name
the vehicle is registered shall be held prima facie responsible for such
violation and shall be guilty and subject to the penalties and procedures
described in this section.
   (C)   In the case of a privately-owned off-street parking facility, the city
shall not require the owner or person in lawful possession of such facility to
inform the city of a violation of this section prior to the city issuing the
violator a handicapped parking infraction citation.
(Prior Code, § 5-629) (Ord. 503, passed 11-28-1989; Ord. 540, passed 3-24-1992;
Ord. 554, passed 3-9-1993; Ord. 579, passed 6-14-1994; Ord. 620, passed 3-26-
1996; Ord. 657, passed 7-22-1997; Ord. 719, passed 4-23-2002) Penalty, see §
71.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 18-1737
§ 71.39 CITATION; COMPLAINT.
   (A)   For any offense classified as a handicapped parking infraction, a
handicapped parking citation may be issued by any peace officer or by any
person designated by ordinance by the City Council to exercise the authority to
issue a citation for any handicapped parking infraction.
   (B)   (1)   When a handicapped parking citation is issued for a handicapped
parking infraction, the person issuing the handicapped parking citation shall
enter thereon all required information, including the name and address of the
cited person or, if not known, the license number and description of the
offending motor vehicle, the offense charged and the time and place the person
cited is to appear in court.
      (2)   Unless the person cited requests an earlier date, the time of
appearance shall be at least three days after the issuance of the handicapped
parking citation.
      (3)   One copy of the handicapped parking citation shall be delivered to
the person cited or attached to the offending motor vehicle.
   (C)   At least 24 hours before the time set for the appearance of the cited
person, either the City Attorney, or other person authorized by law to issue a
complaint for the particular offense, shall issue and file a complaint charging
such person with a handicapped parking infraction, or such person shall be
released from the obligation to appear as specified.
   (D)   The trial of any person for a handicapped parking infraction shall be
by the court without a jury. A person cited for a handicapped parking violation
may waive his or her right to trial.
   (E)   For any handicapped parking citation issued for a handicapped parking
infraction by reason of the failure of a vehicle to display a handicapped
parking permit issued, the complaint shall be dismissed, if, within seven
business days after the date of issuance of the citation, the person cited
files with the court the affidavit included on the citation, signed by a peace
officer certifying that the recipient is the lawful possessor in his or her own
right of a handicapped parking permit issued under Neb. RS 18-1738 or 18-
1738.01, and that the peace officer has personally viewed the permit.
(Prior Code, § 5-629.01) (Ord. 580, passed 6-14-1994; Ord. 656, passed 7-22-
1997)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 18-1741.01, 18-1741.04 and 18-1741.06
ENFORCEMENT
§ 71.50 POLICE DEPARTMENT AS VIOLATIONS BUREAU.
   The Police Department of the city is hereby designated as the Violations
Bureau for the city for all parking violations. It shall be the duty of the
police officers of the city to accept penalties and fees herein designated from
violators desiring to plead guilty or no contest in accordance with the
proceedings set forth.
(Prior Code, § 5-630) (Ord. 555, passed 4-13-1993)
§ 71.51 NOTIFICATION OF VIOLATIONS; PRESUMPTION.
   (A)   Notification of violations. Violators of the provisions of this
chapter may be given notice in the form of an official police tag attached to
the offending motor vehicle, which notice shall require violators to appear
forthwith at the police station. Such office police tag may contain a statement
that a complaint and warrant of arrest shall be issued to the violator if such
notice of violation is disregarded for a period of 30 days.
(Prior Code, § 5-631)
   (B)   Presumption. If any prosecution charging a violation of the provisions
of this chapter, proof that the particular vehicle described in the complaint
was parked in violation of any of the said provisions, together with proof that
the defendant named in the complaint was, at the time of said parking, the
registered owner of said vehicle, shall constitute a prima facie rebuttable
presumption that the first registered owner of said vehicle was the person who
parked or placed said vehicle at the place where, and for the period during
which, said violation occurred.
(Prior Code, § 5-632)
(Ord. 555, passed 4-13-1993)
§ 71.52 FEE COLLECTION.
   The Police Department shall make a record of all violators, showing the name
of each violator, the time and date of each violation, the disposition of the
case and the penalty assessed. Such record shall be given to the Police Chief.
All money collected by the Police Department under this section shall be paid
to the City Treasurer to be accounted for according to law.
(Prior Code, § 5-634) (Ord. 555, passed 4-13-1993)
§ 71.53 NOTIFICATION.
   (A)   In the event such violator fails to respond to the notification
provided for in §
71.51(A) of this code for at least ten days, the City Attorney may notify the
violator by mail of:
      (1)   The violation;
      (2)   The presumption provided for in §
71.51 of this code;
      (3)   That should he or she fail to make payment of the penalty as set
forth in the most recent Council fee resolution or show cause why the City
Attorney should not proceed further on the matter within 20 days from the date
of the letter, a complaint will be filed with the County Court against him or
her.
   (B)   That from the date of filing the complaint and for ten days thereafter
he or she may appear in County Court and pay the penalty as set forth in the
most recent Council fee resolution plus court costs and if he or she should
fail to do so, a warrant may be issued for his or her arrest.
(Prior Code, § 5-635) (Ord. 555, passed 4-13-1993)
§ 71.54 FAILURE TO PAY.
   (A)   In the event such violator fails to respond to the notification
provided for in §
71.51(A) of this code, the City Attorney shall cause a complaint to be filed
with the County Court against such persons.
   (B)   From the date of filing the complaint and for ten days thereafter the
person against whom the complaint is filed may appear in County Court and pay
the penalty as set forth in the most recent Council fee resolution, plus court
costs.
   (C)   Upon ten days or more passing after the complaint is filed, the City
Attorney may apply for a warrant for the arrest of the violator.
(Prior Code, § 5-636) (Ord. 555, passed 4-13-1993)
§ 71.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any violator of the provisions of this chapter, appearing at the
Police Department and desiring to plead guilty or no contest and waive court
appearance, shall present the official police tag and pay the Police Department
a penalty in an amount as set forth in the most recent Council fee resolution.
The violator shall have this privilege until ten days have elapsed after the
issuance of the ticket. After that time the fine for the parking violation
shall increase to an increased penalty in an amount as set forth in the most
recent Council fee resolution, which may be paid until such time as a complaint
is filed in County Court.
   (B)   If the violator fails to pay the appropriate fine within 30 days after
issuance of the parking ticket, the City Attorney may then file a complaint
against said violator in County Court. The City Attorney shall notify the
violator of the filing of the complaint by serving a copy upon the violator by
mailing, or any other means reasonably calculated to give the violator notice.
(Prior Code, § 5-633) (Ord. 555, passed 4-13-1993)
CHAPTER 72: RECREATIONAL VEHICLES
Section
Minibikes and Go-Carts
   
72.01   Definition
   
72.02   Unlawful operation
   
72.03   Driving on public lands
All-Terrain Vehicles
   
72.15   Definition
   
72.16   Operation
   
72.17   Headlights
   
72.18   Equipment requirements
   
72.19   Prohibitions
   
72.20   Competition
   
72.21   Accident report
   
72.22   Enforcement
 
   
72.99   Penalty
MINIBIKES AND GO-CARTS
§ 72.01 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, MINIBIKE is a two-wheel motor vehicle
which has a total wheel and tire diameter of less than 14 inches or an engine
rated capacity of less than 45 cubic centimeters displacement or any other two-
wheel motor vehicle primarily designed by the manufacturer for off-road use
only.
(Prior Code, § 5-501) (Ord. 379, passed 10-27-1981)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 60-6,347
§ 72.02 UNLAWFUL OPERATION.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate a minibike upon any street or
highway within the corporate limits of the city.
(Prior Code, § 5-501) (Ord. 379, passed 10-27-1981) Penalty, see §
72.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 60-6,347
§ 72.03 DRIVING ON PUBLIC LANDS.
   Minibikes and go-carts shall be prohibited upon the public lands owned by
the city except where allowed by resolution of the City Council.
(Prior Code, § 5-502)
ALL-TERRAIN VEHICLES
§ 72.15 DEFINITION.
   (A)   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definition shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      ALL-TERRAIN VEHICLE. Any motorized off-highway vehicle which:
         (a)   Is 50 inches or less in width;
         (b)   Has a dry weight of 1,200 pounds or less;
         (c)   Travels on three or more low-pressure tires; and
         (d)   Is designed for operator use only with no passengers or is
specifically designed by the original manufacturer for the operator and one
passenger.
      UTILITY-TYPE VEHICLE.
         (a)   Any motorized off-highway vehicle which:
            1.   Is 74 inches in width or less;
            2.   Is not more than 180 inches, including the bumper, in length;
            3.   Has a dry weight of 2,000 pounds or less; and
            4.   Travels on four or more non-highway tires.
         (b)   UTILITY TYPE VEHICLE does not include all-terrain vehicles, golf
car vehicles or low-speed vehicles.
   (B)   All-terrain vehicles and utility-type vehicles which have been
modified or retrofitted with after-market parts to include additional equipment
not required by Neb. RS 60-6,357 and 60-6,358 shall not be registered under the
Motor Vehicle Registration Act, nor shall such modified or retrofitted vehicles
be eligible for registration in any other category of vehicle defined in the
Act.
(Prior Code, § 5-701) (Ord. 473, passed 9-22-1987; Ord. 745, passed 3-9-2004)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 60-6,355
§ 72.16 OPERATION.
   (A)   An all-terrain vehicle or a utility-type vehicle shall not be operated
on any controlled-access highway with more than two marked traffic lanes. The
crossing of any controlled-access highway with more than two marked traffic
lanes shall not be permitted except as provided in divisions (I) and (J) below.
Divisions (B), (C) and (E) through (H) below authorize and apply to operation
of an all-terrain vehicle or a utility-type vehicle only on a highway other
than a controlled-access highway with more than two marked traffic lanes.
   (B)   An all-terrain vehicle or a utility-type vehicle may be operated in
accordance with the operating requirements of division (C) below:
      (1)   Outside the corporate limits of a city, village or unincorporated
village if incidental to the vehicle’s use for agricultural purposes;
      (2)   Within the corporate limits of a city or village if authorized by
the city or village by ordinance adopted in accordance with this section; or
      (3)   Within an unincorporated village if authorized by the county board
of the county in which the unincorporated village is located by resolution in
accordance with this section.
   (C)   An all-terrain vehicle or a utility-type vehicle may be operated as
authorized in division (B) above when such operation occurs only between the
hours of sunrise and sunset. Any person operating an all-terrain vehicle or a
utility-type vehicle as authorized in division (B) above shall have a valid
Class O operator’s license or a farm permit as provided in Neb. RS § 60-4,126,
shall have liability insurance coverage for the all-terrain vehicle or a
utility-type vehicle while operating the all-terrain vehicle or a utility-type
vehicle on a highway and shall not operate such vehicle at a speed in excess of
30 mph. The person operating the all-terrain vehicle or a utility-type vehicle
shall provide proof of such insurance coverage to any peace officer requesting
such proof within five days of such a request. When operating an all-terrain
vehicle or a utility-type vehicle as authorized in division (B) above, the
headlight and taillight of the vehicle shall be on and the vehicle shall be
equipped with a bicycle safety flag which extends not less than five feet above
ground attached to the rear of such vehicle. The bicycle safety flag shall be
triangular in shape with an area of not less than 30 square inches and shall be
day-glow in color.
   (D)   All-terrain vehicles and utility-type vehicles may be operated without
complying with division (C) above on highways in parades which have been
authorized by the state or any department, board, commission or political
subdivision of the state.
   (E)   The crossing of a highway other than a controlled-access highway with
more than two marked traffic lanes shall be permitted by an all-terrain vehicle
or a utility-type vehicle without complying with division (C) above only if:
      (1)   The crossing is made at an angle of approximately 90 degrees to the
direction of the highway and at a place where no obstruction prevents a quick
and safe crossing;
      (2)   The vehicle is brought to a complete stop before crossing the
shoulder or roadway of the highway;
      (3)   The operator yields the right-of-way to all oncoming traffic that
constitutes an immediate potential hazard;
      (4)   In crossing a divided highway, the crossing is made only at an
intersection of such highway with another highway; and
      (5)   Both the headlight and taillight of the vehicle are on when the
crossing is made.
   (F)   All-terrain vehicles and utility-type vehicles may be operated outside
the corporate limits of any municipality by electric utility personnel within
the course of their employment in accordance with the operation requirements of
division (C) above, except that the operation of the vehicle pursuant to this
division (F) need not be limited to the hours between sunrise and sunset.
   (G)   A city or village may adopt an ordinance authorizing the operation of
all-terrain vehicles and utility-type vehicles within the corporate limits of
the city or village if the operation is in accordance with division (C) above.
The city or village may place other restrictions on the operation of all-
terrain vehicles and utility-type vehicles within its corporate limits.
   (H)   A county board may adopt a resolution authorizing the operation of
all-terrain vehicles and utility-type vehicles within any unincorporated
village within the county if the operation is in accordance with division (C)
above. The county may place other restrictions on the operation of all-terrain
vehicles and utility-type vehicles within the unincorporated village.
   (I)   Except as provided in division (J) below, the crossing of a
controlled-access highway with more than two marked traffic lanes shall be
permitted by a utility-type vehicle if the operation is in accordance with the
operation requirements of division (C) above and if the following requirements
are met:
      (1)   The crossing is made at an intersection that:
         (a)   Is controlled by a traffic control signal; or
         (b)   For any intersection located outside the corporate limits of a
city or village, is controlled by stop signs;
      (2)   The crossing at such intersection is made in compliance with the
traffic control signal or stop signs; and
      (3)   The crossing at such intersection is specifically authorized as
follows:
         (a)   If such intersection is located within the corporate limits of a
city or village, by ordinance of such city or village;
         (b)   If such intersection is located within an unincorporated
village, by resolution of the county board of the county in which such
unincorporated village is located; or
         (c)   If such intersection is located outside the corporate limits of
a city or village and outside any unincorporated village, by resolution of the
county board of the county in which such intersection is located.
   (J)   When the use of the all-terrain vehicle or utility-type vehicle is for
an agricultural purpose, the crossing of a controlled-access highway with more
than two marked traffic lanes shall be permitted if such vehicle is operated in
accordance with division (C) above.
(Neb. RS 60-6,356) (Prior Code, § 5-702)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 60-6,356
§ 72.17 HEADLIGHTS.
   Every all-terrain vehicle shall display a lighted headlight and taillight
during the period of time from sunset to sunrise and at any time when
visibility is reduced due to insufficient light or unfavorable atmospheric
conditions.
(Prior Code, § 5-703) (Ord. 473, passed 9-22-1987)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 60-6,357
§ 72.18 EQUIPMENT REQUIREMENTS.
   Every all-terrain vehicle shall be equipped with:
   (A)   A brake system maintained in good operating condition;
   (B)   An adequate muffler system in good working condition; and
   (C)   A United States Forest Service qualified spark arrester.
(Prior Code, § 5-704) (Ord. 473, passed 9-22-1987)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 60-6,358
§ 72.19 PROHIBITIONS.
   No person shall:
   (A)   Equip the exhaust system of an all-terrain vehicle or a utility-type
vehicle with a cutout, bypass or similar device;
   (B)   Operate an all-terrain vehicle or a utility-type vehicle with an
exhaust system so modified; or
   (C)   Operate an all-terrain vehicle or a utility-type vehicle with the
spark arrester removed or modified except for use in closed-course competition
events.
(Prior Code, § 5-705) (Ord. 473, passed 9-22-1987) Penalty, see §
72.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 60-6,359
§ 72.20 COMPETITION.
   All-terrain vehicles and utility-type vehicles participating in competitive
events may be exempted from §§
72.17 through
72.19 of this code at the discretion of the Director of Motor Vehicles.
(Prior Code, § 5-706) (Ord. 473, passed 9-22-1987)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 60-6,360
§ 72.21 ACCIDENT REPORT.
   If an accident results in the death of any person or in the injury of any
person which requires the treatment of the person by a physician, the operator
of each all-terrain vehicle or utility-type vehicle involved in the accident
shall give notice of the accident in the same manner as provided in Neb. RS 60-
699.
(Prior Code, § 5-707) (Ord. 473, passed 9-22-1987)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 60-6,361
§ 72.22 ENFORCEMENT.
   Any peace officer of the state or of any political subdivision, including
conservation officers of the Game and Parks Commission shall be charged with
the enforcement of the provisions of §§
72.16 through
72.21 of this code.
(Prior Code, § 5-709) (Ord. 473, passed 9-22-1987)
§ 72.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any violation of §§
72.16 through
72.21 of this code, which is also a violation under Neb. RS 39 or 60, may be
punished under the penalty provisions of such chapter.
(Prior Code, § 5-708) (Ord. 473, passed 9-22-1987)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 60-6,362
CHAPTER 73: TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
Schedule
      
I.   Speed limits
      
II.   Truck routes
SCHEDULE I. SPEED LIMITS.
   The following speed limits are hereby set by ordinance and appropriate signs
have been posted. It shall be unlawful to operate a motor vehicle at speeds
greater than posted on the following streets in the Courts Addition:
 
Street                                                             Speed Limit
Clay Avenue from the north city limits south to Beech Street       30 mph
Clay Avenue from South Depot Street south to the south city limits 30 mph
Seventh Street from Furnas Avenue to east city limits (during      15 mph
school hours)
North Street from Furnas Avenue to east city limits (during school 15 mph
hours)
Furnas Avenue from North Street to Seventh Street (during school   15 mph
hours)
Second Avenue, Third Avenue, Elm Street and Orange Street          20 mph
 
(Prior Code, § 5-306) Penalty, see §
70.99
SCHEDULE II. TRUCK ROUTES.
   (A)   The following streets located within the municipal boundaries of the
city are designated as the truck route, and are streets which all trucks
traveling within the city shall travel.
Truck Routes
Truck Routes
7th Street from Kearney Avenue to east city limits
11th Street from the west city limits to the east city limits
Adams Avenue from North Depot Street north to Oak Street
Airport Road from south city limits to north city limits
Clay Avenue from North Depot Street north to Oak Street
Harvard Avenue from Oak Street to Walnut Street
Kearney Avenue from North Depot Street north to Oak Street
North Depot Street from Clay Avenue east to city limits
North Street from Furnas Avenue to east city limits
Oak Street from the west city limits to Kearney Avenue
Walnut Street from Harvard Avenue to Clay Avenue
 
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any truck traveling within the city
boundaries or on or across the streets of the city to travel by any alternate
routes except for the route established in division (A) above. A violation of
this schedule shall constitute a traffic infraction.
(Ord. 821, passed 6-24-2014) Penalty, see §
70.99
CHAPTER 74: PARKING SCHEDULES
Schedule
      
I.   Prohibited parking
      
II.   Prohibited parking; trucks
SCHEDULE I. PROHIBITED PARKING.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to park for any time on the
following streets, and any other streets designated by resolution of the City
Council as a no parking area.
Street
Street
Cedar Street
Cherry Street
Cypress Street
First Avenue
Fourth Avenue
Main Avenue
Olive Street
Palm Street
Pine Street
Willow Street
Notes to Table:
All the above streets are in the Courts Addition and include the south side of
Eleventh Street between Airport Road and N. Harvard Avenue.
 
   (B)   (1)   In addition, there shall be no parking on public or private
property in the city, except in designated parking areas, such as parking
stalls or driveways, or along streets in areas. It shall be unlawful to park in
areas, including on lawns or yards, between units or houses and public streets,
lanes and alleys which are not designated parking areas in the Courts Addition.
      (2)   Where “no parking” areas are designated, appropriate signs shall be
posted.
(Prior Code, § 5-612) (Ord. 825, passed 4-26-2016) Penalty, see §
71.99
SCHEDULE II. PROHIBITED PARKING; TRUCKS.
   (A)   For the purpose of this schedule, the following definitions shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      TRUCK. Any motor vehicle designed, used or maintained primarily for the
transportation of property with a registered gross weight of 6,000 pounds or
more.
      TRUCK-TRACTOR. Any motor vehicle designed and primarily used for drawing
another vehicle and not so constructed as to carry a load other than apart of
the weight of the vehicle and load so drawn.
   (B)   All trucks with a gross vehicle weight of 12,000 pounds or more shall
be prohibited from parking on the following described areas in the city:
 
Streets
Furnas Street from Beech Street to Seventh Street
Seventh Street from Harlan Street to Airport Road
 
(Prior Code, § 5-617.01)
   (C)   (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate a truck-tractor
or any truck with a capacity of more than 6,000 pounds on the following streets
in the Court Addition, and any other streets designated by resolution of the
City Council as no truck areas.
Streets
Streets
Cedar Street
Cherry Street
Cypress Street
Elm Street
First Avenue
Fourth Avenue
Main Avenue
Olive Street
Orange Street
Palm Street
Pine Street
Second Avenue
Third Avenue
Willow Street
 
      (2)   Where no truck areas are designated, appropriate signs shall be
posted.
      (3)   The following shall be exempt from this schedule: Delivering
vehicles when in use for delivery of goods and products; moving vans when in
use for delivery of pick up of household goods; service vehicles when in use
for direct service of utilities or repairs; and recreational vehicles.
(Prior Code, § 5-618)
(Ord. 346, passed 7-24-1979; Ord. 732, passed 4-8-2003) Penalty, see §
71.99
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
90.   ANIMALS
      
91.   FIRE PREVENTION AND PROTECTION
      
92.   HEALTH AND SAFETY; NUISANCES
      
93.   PARKS AND RECREATION
      
94.   LIBRARY
      
95.   CEMETERY
CHAPTER 90: ANIMALS
Section
General Provisions
   
90.01   Definitions
   
90.02   Limit on number of dogs and cats per household
   
90.03   Miniature pigs; permits; regulations
   
90.04   Animal cruelty
   
90.05   Dangerous animals
   
90.06   Noises
   
90.07   Strays
   
90.08   Killing dangerous animals
   
90.09   Diseased animals
   
90.10   Housing animals and poultry
   
90.11   Animal units
   
90.12   Animal pitting prohibited
   
90.13   Abandonment; neglect; cruelty
   
90.14   Enclosures
Dogs
   
90.25   Definitions
   
90.26   Licenses
   
90.27   Running at large; rabid or vicious dogs
   
90.28   Killing, poisoning and injuring
   
90.29   Removal of collar, harness or tags
   
90.30   Liability of owner
   
90.31   Barking and chasing; complaints
   
90.32   Impounding
   
90.33   Dangerous dogs
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 90.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ABANDON. To leave any animal for any length of time without making effective
provision for its food, water or other care as is reasonably necessary for the
animal’s health.
   ANIMAL. Any vertebrate member of the animal kingdom other than an uncaptured
wild creature.
   ANIMAL CONTROL OFFICER. Any person authorized by law or employed or
appointed for the purpose of aiding in the enforcement of this chapter or any
other law or ordinance relating to the licensing, control, seizure or
impoundment of animals.
   CRUELLY MISTREAT. To knowingly and intentionally kill, maim, disfigure,
torture, beat, mutilate, burn, scald or otherwise set upon any animal.
   CAT. A cat which is a household pet.
(Neb. RS 71-4401)
   CRUELLY NEGLECT. To fail to provide any animal in one’s care, whether as
owner or custodian, with food, water or other care as is reasonably necessary
for the animal’s health.
   DEPARTMENT. The State Department of Health and Human Services.
   DOMESTIC ANIMAL. Any dog of the species Canis familiaris, cat of the species
Felis domesticus or ferret of the species Mustela putorius furo.
(Neb. RS 71-4401)
   HUMANE KILLING. The destruction of an animal by a method which causes the
animal a minimum of pain and suffering.
   HYBRID ANIMAL. Any animal which is the product of the breeding of a domestic
dog with a nondomestic canine species.
(Neb. RS 71-4401)
   LAW ENFORCEMENT OFFICER. Any member of the Nebraska State Patrol, any County
or Deputy Sheriff, any member of the police force of any city or village or any
other public official authorized by a city or village to enforce state or local
animal control laws, rules, regulations or ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 6-212)
   OWN. To possess, keep, harbor or have control of, charge of or custody of a
domestic or hybrid animal. This term does not apply to domestic or hybrid
animals owned by other persons which are temporarily maintained on the premises
of a veterinarian or kennel operator for a period of not more than 30 days.
(Neb. RS 71-4401)
   OWNER. Any person who owns, possesses, keeps, harbors or has charge, custody
or control of an animal or permits an animal to habitually remain or be lodged
or fed within his or her house, store, building, enclosure, yard, lot, grounds
or premises. OWNER does not include any veterinarian or kennel operator
temporarily maintaining on his or her premises an animal owned by another
person for not more than 30 days.
(Prior Code, § 6-104)
   RABIES CONTROL AUTHORITY. City health and law enforcement officials who
shall enforce the provisions of this subchapter relating to the vaccination and
impoundment of domestic or hybrid animals. Such public officials shall not be
responsible for any accident or disease of a domestic or hybrid animal
resulting from the enforcement of such sections.
(Neb. RS 71-4401)
   RUN AT LARGE.  Not being under the actual control of the owner by means of:
      (a)   A leash, cord, chain or other suitable means of physical restraint
which is securely fastened or tethered in a manner sufficient to keep the
animal on the premises where tethered;
      (b)   A leash, cord, chain or other suitable means of physical restraint
of six feet or less in length physically held by the owner;
      (c)   Being confined within a cage, receptacle, enclosed vehicle, fenced
enclosure or shelter; or
      (d)   Being within the real property limits of the owner and in the
owner’s presence and under direct and effective voice or other control.
   VACCINATION AGAINST RABIES. The inoculation of a domestic or hybrid animal
with a United States Department of Agriculture-licensed rabies vaccine
administered consistent with its labeling. The vaccination shall be performed
by a veterinarian duly licensed to practice veterinary medicine in the state or
licensed in the state where the vaccination was administered.
(Neb. RS 71-4401)
(Ord. 489, passed 10-25-1989; Ord. 528, passed 1-8-1991; Ord. 529, passed 1-8-
1991)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 28-1004, 28-1008, 54-606 and 71-4401
§ 90.02 LIMIT ON NUMBER OF DOGS AND CATS PER HOUSEHOLD.
   (A)   No property owner, tenant or occupant shall allow more than three
adult dogs or four adult cats per household, except as authorized by special
permit approved by the City Council. A kitten shall be considered an adult cat
at 15 weeks of age. A puppy shall be considered an adult dog at 12 weeks of
age.
   (B)   Violation of this section may result in a fine not to exceed $500 and/
or seizure of excess animals, with costs for boarding, care and disposal of
excess animals assessed to the person found to be in violation. Each animal in
excess of the limits established by this section shall constitute a separate
violation.
(Ord. 895, passed 10-12-2021) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 90.03 MINIATURE PIGS; PERMITS; REGULATIONS.
   (A)   The keeping of miniature pigs, such as Vietnamese potbellied pigs (sus
scrofa bittatus), shall be allowed within corporate limits.
   (B)   A miniature pig shall not exceed a weight of 200 pounds.
   (C)   No more than three miniature pigs shall be allowed per household.
   (D)   All miniature pigs shall be spayed or neutered.
   (E)   All miniature pigs shall be kept within an enclosed area bounded by a
six-foot privacy fence. Such enclosure shall be maintained in a clean
condition, free of accumulated refuse, manure and debris.
   (F)   All miniature pigs shall be licensed by the city on an annual basis.
The license fee shall be set by separate resolution.
   (G)   Breeding or raising of miniature pigs is prohibited within corporate
limits.
   (H)   The owner of any miniature pig causing damages to property or persons
shall be liable for such damages to the person(s) injured.
   (I)   Any miniature pigs in violation of any provision of this section shall
be subject to impound by the animal control authority. The owner of any
miniature pig in violation of any provision of this section shall be subject to
the general penalty in §
10.99 and may be assessed the costs for boarding, care and disposal of said
animals.
(Ord. 901, passed 6-28-2022) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 90.04 ANIMAL CRUELTY.
   No person shall cruelly treat any animal in the city in any way; any person
who inhumanely beats, under-feeds, overloads or abandons any animal shall be
deemed guilty of a violation of the section.
(Prior Code, § 6-201) (Ord. 496, passed 1-10-1989; Ord. 496, passed 1-10-1989)
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 90.05 DANGEROUS ANIMALS.
   It shall be unlawful to permit any dangerous animal or vicious animal of any
kind to run at large within the city; exhibitions or parades of animals which
are ferae naturae in the eyes of the law may be conducted only upon securing a
permit from the Chief of Police.
(Prior Code, § 6-202) (Ord. 496, passed 1-10-1989) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 90.06 NOISES.
   It shall be unlawful to harbor or keep any animals which disturb the peace
by loud noises at any time of the day or night.
(Prior Code, § 6-203) (Ord. 496, passed 1-10-1989) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 90.07 STRAYS.
   It shall be unlawful to permit any cattle, horse, sheep or poultry to run at
large in the city; any such animal running at large in any public place in the
city shall be impounded in the manner provided in this chapter. It shall
further be unlawful to picket or tie any such animal in any of the streets of
the city for the purpose of grazing or feeding.
(Prior Code, § 6-204) (Ord. 496, passed 1-10-1989) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 90.08 KILLING DANGEROUS ANIMALS.
   The members of the Police Department or any other person in the city, are
authorized to kill any dangerous animals of any kind when it is necessary for
the protection of any person or property.
(Prior Code, § 6-205) (Ord. 496, passed 1-10-1989)
§ 90.09 DISEASED ANIMALS.
   (A)   No domestic animal afflicted with a contagious or infectious disease
shall be allowed to run at large, or to be exposed in any public place whereby
the health of a human or beast may be affected; nor shall such diseased animal
be shipped or removed from the premises of the owner thereof, except under the
supervision of the Chief of Police or the health officer.
   (B)   It is hereby made the duty of the health officer to secure such
disposition of any diseased animal and such treatment of affected premises as
to prevent the communication and spread of the contagion or infection, except
in cases where the state veterinarian is empowered to act.
(Prior Code, § 6-206) (Ord. 496, passed 1-10-1989)
§ 90.10 HOUSING ANIMALS AND POULTRY.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to maintain in the city any poultry or animal
yard within 100 feet of any building used for residence purposes or within 20
feet of any public way other than an alley or within 300 feet of any church or
school building.
   (B)   For the purpose of this section, the term POULTRY OR ANIMAL YARD shall
include every enclosure, shed or structure used to house units of live fowl,
including, in the term FOWL: Chickens; ducks; geese and other poultry; or units
of livestock consisting of cattle, horses, sheep or other domestic animals.
   (C)   Every person maintaining a poultry or animal yard shall keep the same
clean, sanitary and free from all refuse. Such yard shall be thoroughly swept
at least once every two weeks, and it shall be unlawful to permit any decaying
food, or any refuse of any kind, to remain in such yard. Refuse from such yard
shall, when swept up or collected, be kept in airtight containers until
disposed of in accordance with the ordinances of the city, and it shall be
unlawful to permit any such refuse to remain uncovered.
   (D)   Every poultry or animal yard shall be adequately enclosed so as to be
impenetrable against rats or other rodents. The presence of any rats in any
poultry or animal yard shall be prima facie evidence that such yard is
maintained in violation of the provisions of this section.
   (E)   Fences shall be tight and strong enough to hold such animals being
enclosed.
(Prior Code, § 6-207) (Ord. 496, passed 1-10-1989) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 90.11 ANIMAL UNITS.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, an ANIMAL UNIT is the term used to
describe the relationship of various animals that are being held or fed.
Slaughter steers and heifers are assigned the base unit of one. The following
multipliers are used in determining animal units:
 
All fowl                     0.05
Cow; calf                    1.3
Dairy cattle                 1.4
Horses                       1
Sheep                        0.1
Slaughter steers and heifers 1
 
   (B)   Livestock shall further be limited in that they shall have the
following areas per animal unit:
      (1)   One head of livestock requires 1,000 square feet;
      (2)   Two head of livestock requires 2,500 square feet;
      (3)   Three head of livestock requires 5,000 square feet; and
      (4)   Four head of livestock requires 8,000 square feet.
   (C)   Livestock shall be further limited in that only cattle, horses, sheep
and fowl are permitted within the city limits.
(Prior Code, § 6-208) (Ord. 496, passed 1-10-1989; Ord. 561, passed 11-9-1993)
§ 90.12 ANIMAL PITTING PROHIBITED.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      BEAR-BAITING. The pitting of any animal against a bear.
      COCK-FIGHTING. The pitting of a fowl against another fowl.
      DOGFIGHTING. The pitting of a dog against another dog.
      PITTING. Bringing animals together in combat.
(Prior Code, § 6-209)
   (B)   Participation prohibited. No person shall knowingly promote, engage in
or be employed at dogfighting, cockfighting, bear-baiting or pitting an animal
against another. Nor shall any person knowingly receive money for the admission
of another person to a place kept for such purpose. Nor shall any person
knowingly own, use, train, sell or possess an animal for the purpose of animal
pitting. Nor shall any person knowingly permit any act as described in this
section to occur on any premises owned or controlled by him or her.
(Prior Code, § 6-210)
   (C)   Spectators prohibited. No person shall knowingly and willingly be
present at and witness as a spectator dogfighting, cockfighting, bear-baiting
or the pitting of an animal against another as prohibited in division (B)
above.
(Prior Code, § 6-211)
(Ord. 489, passed 10-25-1989; Ord. 529, passed 1-8-1991) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 28-1005
§ 90.13 ABANDONMENT; NEGLECT; CRUELTY.
   (A)   Law enforcement.
      (1)   Any law enforcement officer who has reason to believe that an
animal has been abandoned or is being cruelly neglected or cruelly mistreated
may seek a warrant authorizing entry upon private property to inspect, care for
or impound the animal.
      (2)   Any law enforcement officer who has reason to believe that an
animal has been abandoned or is being cruelly neglected or cruelty mistreated
may issue a citation to the owner as prescribed by law.
      (3)   Any law enforcement officer acting under this section shall not be
liable for damage to property if such damage is not the result of the officer’s
negligence.
(Prior Code, § 6-213)
   (B)   Cruelty. A person commits cruelty to animals if he or she abandons,
cruelty mistreats or cruelly neglects an animal.
(Prior Code, § 6-214)
(Ord. 528, passed 1-8-1991)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 28-1009 and 28-1012
§ 90.14 ENCLOSURES.
   All pens, cages, sheds, yards, or any other area or enclosure for the
confinement or animals not specifically barred within the corporate limits
shall be kept in a clean and orderly manner so as not to become a menace or
nuisance to the neighborhood in which the enclosure is located.
(Ord. 912, passed 10-24-2023) Penalty, see §
10.99
DOGS
§ 90.25 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ANIMAL CONTROL AUTHORITY. An entity authorized to enforce the animal control
laws of a municipality.
   ANIMAL CONTROL OFFICER. Any individual employed, appointed or authorized by
an animal control authority for the purpose of aiding in the enforcement of
this chapter or any other law or ordinance relating to the licensing of
animals, control of animals or seizure and impoundment of animals and shall
include any state or local law enforcement or other employee whose duties in
whole or in part include assignments that involve the seizure and impoundment
of any animal.
   DANGEROUS DOG. Any dog that, according to the records of an animal control
authority:
      (1)   Has killed or inflicted severe injury on a human being of public or
private property;
      (2)   Has killed a domestic animal without provocation while the dog was
off the owner’s property; or
      (3)   Has been previously determined to be a potentially DANGEROUS DOG by
an animal control authority and the owner has received notice of such
determination and such dog again aggressively bites, attacks or endangers the
safety of humans or domestic animals. A dog shall not be defined as a DANGEROUS
DOG if the threat, any injury that is not a severe injury or the damage was
sustained by a person who, at the time, was committing a willful trespass as
defined in Neb. RS 20-203, 28-520 or 28-521, or any other tort upon the
property of the owner of the dog, who was tormenting, abusing or assaulting the
dog, who has, in the past, been observed or reported to have tormented, abused
or assaulted the dog, or who was committing or attempting to commit a crime.
   DOMESTIC ANIMAL. A cat, a dog or livestock.
   OWNER. Any person, firm, corporation, organization, political subdivision or
department possessing , harboring, keeping or having control or custody of a
dog.
   POTENTIALLY DANGEROUS DOG.
      (1)   Any dog that when unprovoked:
         (a)   Inflicts a non-severe injury on a human or injures a domestic
animal either on public or private property; or
         (b)   Chases or approaches a person upon streets, sidewalks or any
public grounds in a menacing fashion or apparent attitude of attack.
      (2)   Any specific dog with a known propensity, tendency or disposition
to attack when unprovoked, to cause injury or to threaten the safety of humans
or domestic animals.
   SEVERE INJURY. Any physical injury that results in disfiguring lacerations
requiring multiple sutures, or cosmetic surgery, or one or more broken bones,
or that creates a potential danger to the life or health of the victim.
(Prior Code, § 6-116) (Ord. 505, passed 11-28-1989)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 54-617
§ 90.26 LICENSES.
   (A)   License required.
       (1)   Any person who shall own, keep or harbor a dog over the age of
four months within the city shall, within 30 days after its acquisition,
acquire a license for each dog annually by or before April 1 of each year. The
tax shall be delinquent from and after April 10; provided, that the possessor
of any dog brought into or harbored within the corporate limits subsequent to
April 1 of any year shall be liable for the payment of the dog tax levied
herein and such tax shall be delinquent if not paid within ten days thereafter.
Licenses shall be issued by the City Clerk upon the payment of a license fee of
$5 for each male dog and spayed female dog plus $1.25 state tax, and $10 for
each unneutered male dog or unspayed female dog plus $1.25 state tax. Said
license shall not be transferable and no refund will be allowed in case of
death, sale or other disposition of the licensed dog. The owner shall state at
the time the application is made and upon printed forms provided for such
purpose, his or her name and address and the name, breed, color and sex of each
dog owned and kept by him or her. A certificate that the dog has had a rabies
shot, effective for the ensuing year of the license, shall be presented when
the license is applied for and no license or tag shall be issued until the
certificate is shown.
      (2)   No person or persons occupying a residence or apartments shall
have, own, maintain or keep more than three dogs on the respective residence or
apartment at any time.
(Prior Code, § 6-101)
   (B)   License tags. Upon the payment of the license fee, the City Clerk
shall issue to the owner of a dog a license certificate and a metallic tag for
each dog so licensed. The metallic tags shall be properly attached to the
collar or harness of all dogs so licensed and shall entitle the owner to keep
or harbor said dog until March 31 following such licensing. All license fees
and collections shall be immediately credited to the General Fund. It shall be
the duty of the City Clerk to issue tags of a suitable design that are
different in appearance each year.
(Prior Code, § 6-102)
   (C)   Wrongful licensing. It shall be unlawful for the owner, keeper or
harborer of any dog to permit or allow it to wear any license, metallic tag or
other municipal identification than that issued by the City Clerk for dogs; nor
shall the owner, keeper or harborer wrongfully and knowingly license an
unspayed female dog with a license prescribed for a male or spayed female dog.
(Prior Code, § 6-103)
(Ord. 532, passed 1-22-1991; Ord. 544, passed 6-9-1992; Ord. 910, passed 10-24-
2023) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-526, 54-603 and 71-4412
§ 90.27 RUNNING AT LARGE; RABID OR VICIOUS DOGS.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
   CAT. A cat which is a household pet.
   DEPARTMENT. The State Department of Health and Human Services.
   DOMESTIC ANIMAL. Any dog of the species Canis familiaris, cat of the species
Felis domesticus or ferret of the species Mustela putorius furo.
   HYBRID ANIMAL. Any animal which is the product of the breeding of a domestic
dog with a nondomestic canine species.
   OWN. To possess, keep, harbor or have control of, charge of or custody of a
domestic or hybrid animal. This term does not apply to domestic or hybrid
animals owned by other persons which are temporarily maintained on the premises
of a veterinarian or kennel operator for a period of not more than 30 days.
   OWNER. Any person possessing, keeping, harboring or having charge or control
of any domestic or hybrid animal or permitting any domestic or hybrid animal to
habitually be or remain on or be lodged or fed within the person’s house, yard
or premises. This term does not apply to veterinarians or kennel operators
temporarily maintaining on their premises domestic or hybrid animals owned by
other persons for a period of not more than 30 days.
   RABIES CONTROL AUTHORITY. City health and law enforcement officials who
shall enforce the provisions of this section relating to the vaccination and
impoundment of domestic or hybrid animals. Such public officials shall not be
responsible for any accident or disease of a domestic or hybrid animal
resulting from the enforcement of such sections.
   VACCINATION AGAINST RABIES. The inoculation of a domestic or hybrid animal
with a United States Department of Agriculture-licensed rabies vaccine
administered consistent with its labeling. The vaccination shall be performed
by a veterinarian duly licensed to practice veterinary medicine in the state or
licensed in the state where the vaccination was administered.
(Neb. RS 71-4401)
   (B)   Un-collared. All dogs found running at large upon the streets and
public grounds of the city without a collar or harness are hereby declared a
public nuisance. Un-collared dogs found running at large shall be killed or
impounded in the municipal dog shelter by the municipal police.
(Prior Code, § 6-106)
   (C)   Running at large. It shall be unlawful for the owner of any dog to
allow such dog to run at large at any time within the corporate limits of the
city. It shall be the duty of the municipal police to cause any dog found to be
running at large within the city to be taken up and impounded. RUNNING AT LARGE
shall mean any dog found off the premises of the owner and not under control of
the owner or a responsible person, either by leash, cord, chain, wire, rope,
cage or other suitable means of physical restraint.
(Prior Code, § 6-107)
   (D)   Capture of dog impossible. The municipal police shall have the
authority to kill any animals showing vicious tendencies or characteristics of
rabies which make capture impossible because of the danger involved.
(Prior Code, § 6-108)
   (E)   Vicious dogs. It shall be unlawful for any person to own, keep or
harbor any dog of a dangerous or ferocious disposition that habitually snaps or
manifests a disposition to bite, without said dog being securely held by a
chain. If any vicious or dangerous dog is allowed to run at large, the
municipal police shall have the authority to put the dog to death. Upon the
written complaint of any affected person, filed with the City Clerk’s office,
that any dog owned by the person named in the complaint is committing injury to
persons or property, or is an annoyance, dangerous, offensive or unhealthy, the
Police Department shall investigate the complaint and, if in their opinion the
situation warrants, shall notify the owner to restrain such dog in a secure
manner.
(Prior Code, § 6-109)
   (F)   Interference with police. It shall be unlawful for any person to
hinder, delay or interfere with any municipal police officer who is performing
any duty enjoined upon him or her by the provisions of this subchapter, or to
break open, or in any manner directly or indirectly aid, counsel or advise the
breaking open of the animal shelter, any ambulance wagon or other vehicle used
for the collecting or conveying of dogs to the shelter.
(Prior Code, § 6-110)
Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 28-906 and 54-605
§ 90.28 KILLING, POISONING AND INJURING.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to kill, administer or cause to be
administered poison of any sort to, or in any manner injure, maim or destroy or
attempt to injure, maim or destroy any animal or to place any poison or
poisoned food where it is accessible to an animal, except that:
   (A)   This section shall not apply to any law enforcement officer or animal
control officer acting within his or her power and duty;
   (B)   This section shall not apply if the animal is vicious, dangerous or
showing characteristics of rabies and cannot be captured without danger to the
persons attempting to effect a capture of the animal; and
   (C)   Any owner of a dog that he or she wishes to be destroyed may place the
dog in an animal pound or shelter or with a licensed veterinarian to be
humanely destroyed and disposed of according to the provisions in this chapter
or other provisions of law.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 90.29 REMOVAL OF COLLAR, HARNESS OR TAGS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to remove, or cause to be removed, the
collar, harness, metallic license tag or rabies tag from any dog without the
consent of the owner of the dog.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 90.30 LIABILITY OF OWNER.
   It shall be unlawful for the owner to allow a dog to injure or destroy any
real or personal property of any description belonging to another person. The
owner of the dog, in addition to the usual judgment upon conviction, may be
made to be liable to the person injured in an amount equal to the value of the
damage sustained.
Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Authority to guard against injuries or annoyances, see Neb. RS 17-526
   Statutory liability for damages, see Neb. RS 54-601, 54-602 and 54-606
§ 90.31 BARKING AND CHASING; COMPLAINTS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the owner to allow a dog to annoy or disturb
any neighborhood or person by loud, continued or frequent barking, howling or
yelping or to habitually bark at or chase pedestrians, drivers or owners of
horses or vehicles while they are on any public sidewalks, streets or alleys in
the city.
   (B)   Upon the written complaint of two or more affected persons from
different households, filed within any 30-day period with the City Clerk or
animal control officer, that any dog owned by the person named in the complaint
is an annoyance or disturbance, or otherwise violates the provisions of this
section, the city police or animal control officer shall investigate the
complaint and, if in his or her opinion the situation warrants, notify the
owner to silence and restrain the dog.
   (C)   The provisions of this section shall not be construed to apply to any
city animal shelter.
Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Authority to guard against annoyances, see Neb. RS 17-526
§ 90.32 IMPOUNDING.
   It shall be the duty of the municipal police to capture, secure and remove
in a humane manner to an animal shelter or pound any dog found in violation of
any of the provisions of this subchapter. All dogs so impounded shall be
treated in a humane manner and shall be provided with a sufficient supply of
food and fresh water each day. Each impounded dog shall be kept and maintained
at the shelter or pound for a period of not less than five days after notice of
impoundment has been given, unless reclaimed earlier by the owner. Notice of
impoundment of all dogs, including any significant marks or identifications,
shall be posted at the City Clerk’s office within 72 hours after impoundment as
public notification of such impoundment. Any dog may be reclaimed by its owner
during the period of impoundment by payment of the costs of impounding. The
costs of impoundment are hereby deemed to be $25 for the first and $50 for each
subsequent impoundment within any given 12-month period. If it becomes
necessary to hold a dog for a longer period of time, the person owning or
having custody of the dog when impounded may be required to pay any extra
thereby incurred. The owner shall comply with the licensing and rabies
vaccination requirements of this subchapter as a condition of the release of
the dog. If the dog is not claimed at the end of five days after the notice the
city shall be deemed the owner of the dog and may dispose of the same. All dogs
shall be destroyed and buried in a summary and humane manner as may be
prescribed by the Board of Health, unless a suitable home can be found for such
a dog.
(Prior Code, § 6-115) (Ord. 335, passed 9-27-1977; Ord. 381, passed 10-27-1981;
Ord. 753, passed 4-27-2004)
§ 90.33 DANGEROUS DOGS.
   (A) Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following definitions
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      ANIMAL CONTROL AUTHORITY. An entity authorized to enforce the animal
control laws of the city, and includes any local law enforcement agency or
other agency designated by the city to enforce the animal control laws of the
city.
      ANIMAL CONTROL OFFICER. Any individual employed, appointed or authorized
by an animal control authority for the purpose of aiding in the enforcement of
this section or any other law or ordinance relating to the licensing of
animals, control of animals or seizure and impoundment of animals and includes
any state or local law enforcement or other employee whose duties in whole or
in part include assignments that involve the seizure and impoundment of any
animal.
      DANGEROUS DOG.
         (a)   Any dog that, according to the records of the animal control
authority:
            1.   Has killed a human being;
            2.   Has inflicted injury on a human being that requires medical
treatment;
            3.   Has killed a domestic animal without provocation; or
            4.   Has been previously determined to be a potentially dangerous
dog by an animal control authority, the owner has received notice of such
determination from an animal control authority or an animal control officer,
and the dog inflicts an injury on a human being that does not require medical
treatment, injures a domestic animal or threatens the safety of humans or
domestic animals.
         (b)   A dog shall not be defined as a DANGEROUS DOG if the individual
was tormenting, abusing or assaulting the dog at the time of the injury or has,
in the past, been observed or reported to have tormented, abused or assaulted
the dog.
         (c)   A dog shall not be defined as a DANGEROUS DOG if the injury,
damage or threat was sustained by an individual who, at the time, was
committing a willful trespass as defined in Neb. RS 20-203, 28-520 or 28-521;
was committing any other tort upon the property of the owner of the dog; was
tormenting, abusing or assaulting the dog; or has, in the past, been observed
or reported to have tormented, abused or assaulted the dog, or was committing
or attempting to commit a crime.
         (d)   A dog shall not be defined as a DANGEROUS DOG if the dog is a
police animal as defined in Neb. RS 28-1008.
      DOMESTIC ANIMAL. A cat, a dog or livestock. Livestock includes buffalo,
deer, antelope, fowl and any other animal in any zoo, wildlife park, refuge,
wildlife area or nature center intended to be on exhibit.
      MEDICAL TREATMENT. Treatment administered by a physician or other
licensed health care professional that results in sutures or surgery or
treatment for one or more broken bones.
      OWNER. Any person, firm, corporation, organization, political subdivision
or department possessing, harboring, keeping or having control or custody of a
dog.
      POTENTIALLY DANGEROUS DOG.
         (a)   Any dog that when unprovoked:
            1.   Inflicts an injury on a human being that does not require
medical treatment;
            2.   Injures a domestic animal; or
            3.   Chases or approaches a person upon streets, sidewalks or any
public grounds in a menacing fashion or apparent attitude of attack.
         (b)   Any specific dog with a known propensity, tendency or
disposition to attack when unprovoked, to cause injury or to threaten the
safety of humans or domestic animals.
(Neb. RS 54-617)
   (B)   (1)   A dangerous dog that has been declared as such shall be spayed
or neutered and implanted with a microchip identification number by a licensed
veterinarian within 30 days after such declaration. The cost of both procedures
is the responsibility of the owner of the dangerous dog. Written proof of both
procedures and the microchip identification number shall be provided to the
animal control authority after the procedures are completed.
      (2)   No owner of a dangerous dog shall permit the dog to go beyond the
property of the owner unless the dog is restrained securely by a chain or
leash.
      (3)   Except as provided in division (B)(4) below or for a reasonable
veterinary purpose, no owner of a dangerous dog shall transport such dog or
permit such dog to be transported to another county, city or village in this
state.
      (4)   An owner of a dangerous dog may transport such dog or permit such
dog to be transported to another county, city or village in this state for the
purpose of permanent relocation of the owner if the owner has obtained written
permission prior to such relocation from the animal control authority of the
county, city or village in which the owner resides and from the county, city or
village in which the owner will reside. Each animal control authority may grant
such permission based upon a reasonable evaluation of both the owner and the
dog, including if the owner has complied with the laws of this state and of the
county, city or village in which he or she resides with regard to dangerous
dogs after the dog was declared dangerous. An animal control authority shall
not grant permission under this section if the county, city or village has an
ordinance or resolution prohibiting the relocation of dangerous dogs. After the
permanent relocation, the animal control authority of the county, city or
village in which the owner resides shall monitor the owner and such dog for a
period of at least 30 days but not to exceed 90 days to ensure the owner’s
compliance with the laws of this state and of such county, city or village with
regard to dangerous dogs. Nothing in this division shall permit the rescindment
of the declaration of dangerous dog.
(Neb. RS 54-618)
   (C)   (1)   No person, firm, partnership, limited liability company or
corporation shall own, keep or harbor or allow to be in or on any premises
occupied by him, her or it or under his, her or its charge or control any
dangerous dog without such dog being confined so as to protect the public from
injury.
      (2)   While unattended on the owner’s property, a dangerous dog shall be
securely confined, in a humane manner, indoors or in a securely enclosed and
locked pen or structure suitably designed to prevent the entry of young
children and to prevent the dog from escaping. The pen or structure shall have
secure sides and a secure top. If the pen or structure has no bottom secured to
the sides, the sides shall be embedded into the ground at least one foot. The
pen or structure shall also protect the dog from the elements. The pen or
structure shall be at least ten feet from any property line of the owner. The
owner of a dangerous dog shall post warning signs on the property where the dog
is kept that are clearly visible from all areas of public access and that
inform persons that a dangerous dog is on the property. Each warning sign shall
be no less than ten inches by 12 inches and shall contain the words warning and
dangerous animal in high-contrast lettering at least three inches high on a
black background.
(Neb. RS 54-619)
   (D)   Failure to comply.
      (1) Any dangerous dog may be immediately confiscated by an animal control
officer if the owner is in violation of this section. The owner shall be
responsible for the reasonable costs incurred by the animal control authority
for the care of a dangerous dog confiscated by an animal control officer or for
the destruction of any dangerous dog if the action by the animal control
authority is pursuant to law and if the owner violated this section.
(Neb. RS 54-620)
      (2) In addition to any other penalty, a court may order the animal
control authority to dispose of a dangerous dog in an expeditious and humane
manner.
(Neb. RS 54-621)
   (E)   (1)   Any owner whose dangerous dog inflicts on a human being a
serious bodily injury as defined in Neb. RS 28-109 is guilty of a Class I
misdemeanor for the first offense, whether or not the same dangerous dog is
involved.
      (2)   It is a defense to a violation of division (E)(1) above that the
dangerous dog was, at the time of the infliction of the serious bodily injury,
in the custody of or under the direct control of a person other than the owner
or the owner’s immediate family.
(Neb. RS 54-622.01)
   (F)   Effect of prior conviction. If a dangerous dog of an owner with a
prior conviction under this section attacks or bites a human being or domestic
animal, in addition to any other penalty, the dangerous dog shall be
immediately confiscated by an animal control authority, placed in quarantine
for the proper length of time and thereafter destroyed in an expeditious and
humane manner.
(Neb. RS 54-623)
(Prior Code, § 6-120) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Owner felony liability; serious bodily injury second offense, see Neb. RS
54-622.01
   Prior conviction; ownership of dangerous dog prohibited for ten years after,
see Neb. RS 54-623
CHAPTER 91: FIRE PREVENTION AND PROTECTION
Section
Fires
   
91.01   Preservation of property
   
91.02   Disorderly spectator
   
91.03   Equipment
   
91.04   Interference
   
91.05   Obstruction
   
91.06   Assistance required
   
91.07   Driving over hose
   
91.08   False alarm
Fire Prevention
   
91.20   Fire Prevention Code
   
91.21   Fire Code enforcement
   
91.22   Fire limits defined
   
91.23   Removal required
   
91.24   Removal or repair required
   
91.25   Lumber yards
   
91.26   Fire prohibited
   
91.27   Open burning ban; waiver
Hazardous Materials and Explosives
   
91.40   Definitions
   
91.41   Above ground storage
   
91.42   Portable storage
   
91.43   High explosives
   
91.44   Blasting permits
   
91.45   Poisonous and flammable gases and explosives; storage registration
Fireworks
   
91.60   Definitions
   
91.61   Use of fireworks within the city
   
91.62   Sale of fireworks
 
   
91.99   Penalty
FIRES
§ 91.01 PRESERVATION OF PROPERTY.
   The Fire Chief, or any officer in charge of the Fire Department, shall have
the authority and power to cause the removal of property whenever it shall
become necessary for the preservation of more valuable property, the protection
of human life or to prevent the spreading of fire to adjoining property. The
Fire Chief may direct the municipal firefighters to remove any building,
structure or fence for the purpose of checking the progress of any fire. The
Fire Chief shall have the authority to blow up, or cause to be blown up, with
explosives any building or structure during the progress of a fire for the
purpose of checking the progress of the same.
(Prior Code, § 7-101)
§ 91.02 DISORDERLY SPECTATOR.
   It shall be unlawful for any person during the time of a fire and for a
period of 36 hours after its extinguishment to hinder, resist or refuse to obey
the Municipal Fire Chief, or to act in a noisy or disorderly manner. The Fire
Chief and Assistant Fire Chief shall have the power and authority during such
time to arrest or command any such person to assist them in the performance of
their official duties.
(Prior Code, § 7-102) Penalty, see §
91.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 28-908
§ 91.03 EQUIPMENT.
   It shall be unlawful for any person except the Fire Chief and the members of
the Municipal Fire Department to molest, destroy, handle or in any other way to
interfere with the use and storage of any of the fire trucks and other
apparatus belonging to the city.
(Prior Code, § 7-101) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.04 INTERFERENCE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person or persons to hinder or obstruct the
Municipal Fire Chief or the members of the Fire Department in the performance
of their duty.
(Prior Code, § 7-104) Penalty, see §
91.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 28-908
§ 91.05 OBSTRUCTION.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to obstruct the use of a fire
hydrant or have or place any material within 15 feet of said hydrant.
   (B)   Any vehicle or material found as an obstruction may be immediately
removed by the Fire Chief or any member of the Fire Department, at the risk,
cost and expense of the owner or claimant.
(Prior Code, § 7-105) Penalty, see §
91.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 60-6,166
§ 91.06 ASSISTANCE REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to refuse, after the command of the Fire
Chief or Assistant Fire Chief, to aid in extinguishing a fire or to assist in
the removal and protection of property.
(Prior Code, § 7-106) Penalty, see §
91.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 28-908
§ 91.07 DRIVING OVER HOSE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, without the consent of the Fire Chief
or Assistant Fire Chief, to drive any vehicle over unprotected hose of the Fire
Department.
(Prior Code, § 7-107) Penalty, see §
91.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 60-6,184
§ 91.08 FALSE ALARM.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to intentionally and without good and
reasonable cause raise any false alarm of fire.
(Prior Code, § 7-108) Penalty, see §
91.99
FIRE PREVENTION
§ 91.20 FIRE PREVENTION CODE.
   (A)   Code adopted. The International Fire Code, 2003 Edition, as published
by the International Code Council, Inc., is hereby adopted as the Fire Code for
the city for regulating and governing the safe guarding of life and property
from fire and explosion hazards arising from the storage, handling and use of
hazardous substances, materials and devices, and from conditions hazardous to
life or property in the occupancy of buildings and premises as herein provided;
providing for the issuance of permits and collection of fees therefore, printed
in book or pamphlet form, is hereby incorporated by reference in addition to
all amended editions as though printed in full herein, insofar as such code
does not conflict with state statutes or other specific model codes adopted by
the city or other specific laws of the city. One copy of the Fire Code is on
file at the office of the City Clerk and is available for public inspection at
any reasonable time. The provisions of the Fire Code shall be controlling
throughout the city and throughout its extraterritorial jurisdiction.
   (B)   Fire Code revisions. The following sections of the Fire Code are
hereby revised:
      Section 101.1. Insert: City of Harvard, Nebraska.
      Section 101.2. Add to read: “Scope. This code establishes regulations
affecting or relating to structures, processes, premises and safeguards
regarding: ... alarm systems; inside the corporate limits of the City of
Harvard, Nebraska, and within one mile thereof, whenever said City is
exercising its extraterritorial zoning jurisdiction within said one mile area,
except where otherwise specifically provided.”
      Section 109.3. Delete.
      Section 111.4. Delete.
      Section 108.1. Amend to read by adding: “The Board shall also review
administrative policies and procedures, and make recommendations to the City
Council. The Board shall have five members.”
(Ord. 783, passed 11-8-2005)
§ 91.21 FIRE CODE ENFORCEMENT.
   It shall be the duty of all municipal officials to enforce the incorporated
fire code provisions and all infractions shall be immediately brought to the
attention of the Fire Chief.
(Prior Code, § 7-202)
§ 91.22 FIRE LIMITS DEFINED.
   The following described territory in the original Town of Harvard, Nebraska
shall be and constitute the fire limits:
   (A)   Lots 199 to 210 inclusive;
   (B)   Lots 211 to 222 inclusive;
   (C)   Lots 319 to 330 inclusive;
   (D)   Lots 349 to 360 inclusive;
   (E)   Lots 423 to 436 inclusive; and
   (F)   Lots 437 to 450 inclusive.
(Prior Code, § 7-203)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-550
§ 91.23 REMOVAL REQUIRED.
   In the event that any wooden or combustible building or structure, or any
non-combustible building which stands within the fire limits is damaged to the
extent of 50% or more of its value, exclusive of the foundation, it shall not
be repaired or rebuilt, but shall be taken down and removed within 60 days from
the date of such fire or other casualty.
(Prior Code, § 7-207)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-550
§ 91.24 REMOVAL OR REPAIR REQUIRED.
   In the event that a building within the fire limits becomes damaged by fire,
wind, flood, vandalism or any other cause, to the extent of less than 50% of
its value, exclusive of the foundation, it shall be the duty of the owner,
lessee or occupant to remove or repair said building in accordance with the
provisions of this subchapter. It shall be unlawful for any person to allow a
building to stand in such damaged or decayed condition. Any such building shall
be removed or repaired within 30 days after receiving notice to do so by the
City Council.
(Prior Code, § 7-208) Penalty, see §
91.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-550 
§ 91.25 LUMBER YARDS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to locate, establish or maintain any
lumber yard or place for the piling, storing, keeping or selling any lumber, or
to keep any lime, lath, shingles, hay, straw or other combustible materials on
any lot or parcel of ground within said fire limits, unless the same is
securely kept in a building constructed of brick, stone, concrete or other
noncombustible material; provided, that the foregoing shall not apply to lumber
yards now built and in use.
(Prior Code, § 7-209) Penalty, see §
91.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-549
§ 91.26 FIRE PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to set out a fire on the pavement, or
near any curb, now built or hereafter to be built, within the city.
(Prior Code, § 7-210) Penalty, see §
91.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-556
§ 91.27 OPEN BURNING BAN; WAIVER.
   (A)   There shall be a statewide open burning ban on all bonfires, outdoor
rubbish fires and fires for the purpose of clearing land.
   (B)   (1)   The Fire Chief of the Municipal Fire Department or his or her
designee may waive an open burning ban under division (A) above for an area
under his or her jurisdiction by issuing an open burning permit to a person
requesting permission to conduct open burning.
       (2)   The permit issued by the Fire Chief or his or her designee to a
person desiring to conduct open burning shall be in writing, signed by the Fire
Chief or his or her designee and on a form provided by the State Fire Marshal.
Permits shall not be issued to burn movable trees, brush, or yard debris
without written approval by the Fire Chief or his or her designee.
   (C)   The Municipal Fire Chief or his or her designee may waive the open
burning ban in his or her jurisdiction when conditions are acceptable to the
Chief or his or her designee. Anyone burning in such jurisdiction when the open
burning ban has been waived shall notify the Fire Department of his or her
intention to burn.
   (D)   The Municipal Fire Chief may adopt and promulgate rules and
regulations listing the conditions acceptable for issuing a permit to conduct
open burning under division (B) above.
   (E)   The Municipal Fire Department may charge a fee, not to exceed $10, for
each such permit issued. This fee shall be remitted to the City Council for
inclusion in the General Fund allocated to the Fire Department. Such Fund shall
not reduce the tax requirements for the Fire Department. No such fee shall be
collected from any state or political subdivision to which such a permit is
issued to conduct open burning under division (B) above in the course of such
state’s or political subdivision’s official duties.
   (F)   Fire pits for individual enjoyment do not require a permit before
burning. A FIRE PIT is defined as a fire-safe container of no more than five
feet in diameter, used on individual residential property, fueled by
unprocessed, untreated wood or fire logs that are self-extinguishing.
(Prior Code, § 7-211) (Ord. 359, passed 11-25-1980; Ord. 595, passed 3-14-1995;
Ord. 906, passed 8-22-2023)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 81-520.01
HAZARDOUS MATERIALS AND EXPLOSIVES
§ 91.40 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   HAZARDOUS MATERIALS.
      (1)   Flammable liquids having a flash point below 100ºF and having a
vapor pressure not exceeding 40 pounds per square inch (absolute) at 100ºF;
      (2)   Combustible liquids having a flash point at or above 100ºF;
      (3)   Highly toxic materials so toxic to human beings as to afford an
unusual hazard to life and health, including but not limited to anhydrous
ammonia and similar chemicals;
      (4)   Explosives; and
      (5)   Any other materials which cause an unusual hazard to the life,
health and safety of the citizens of the city.
   HIGH EXPLOSIVES. Explosive materials which can be caused to detonate by
means of a blasting cap when unconfined (e.g., dynamite).
(Ord. 888, passed - -)
§ 91.41 ABOVE GROUND STORAGE.
   (A)   No tank, receptacle or other storage device used or intended to be
used for the above ground storage of hazardous materials and having a storage
capacity of 2,000 gallons or more, or, in the case of dry materials, 2,000
pounds or more, shall hereafter be erected, constructed or moved above ground
upon any premises within the corporate limits of the city unless said tank,
receptacle or storage device be located more than 750 feet from any residence,
business, school or place open to the public and:
      (1)   The owner obtains authorization from the City Council; and
      (2)   The tank, receptacle or storage device meets the safety
requirements of all applicable state, federal and local laws, ordinances, rules
and regulations.
   (B)   Any tank, receptacle or other storage device in violation of this
provision is hereby declared a nuisance subject to abatement according to the
procedure in §
92.16 of this code.
(Ord. 888, passed - -) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.42 PORTABLE STORAGE.
   (A)   No tank car or other portable storage or transportation device having
a storage capacity in excess of 500 gallons, or, in the case of dry materials,
1,000 pounds, and containing hazardous materials shall be allowed to remain in
the corporate limits within 300 feet from any residence, business, school or
any place open to the public, except for the purpose of loading or unloading
hazardous materials, but in no event shall said tank car or portable storage
transportation device be allowed to remain within said 300 feet for longer than
14 days unless:
      (1)   The owner obtains authorization from the City Council; and
      (2)   The tank, receptacle or storage device is in safe condition (e.g.,
is not leaking) and meets the safety requirements of all applicable state,
federal and local laws, ordinances, rules and regulations.
   (B)   Any tank car or other portable storage or transportation device in
violation of this provision is hereby declared a nuisance subject to abatement
according to the procedure in §
92.16 of this code and/or if located on a highway, subject to removal under the
procedure set forth in §
71.16 of this code.
(Ord. 888, passed - -) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.43 HIGH EXPLOSIVES.
   Any person wishing to discharge high explosives within the city must secure
a permit from the City Council and shall discharge such explosives in
conformance with their direction and under their supervision, and in no case
shall any person perform blasting operations unless operating under the direct
supervision of a person in possession of a valid user’s permit issued by the
Nebraska State Patrol.
(Ord. 888, passed - -)
§ 91.44 BLASTING PERMITS.
   In addition to notifying the Municipal Fire Department pursuant to Neb. RS.
28-1233(3), any person desiring to discharge explosive materials, as defined in
Neb. RS 28-1213, within the city, shall apply for and secure a permit from the
City Council 24 hours prior to such discharge, and shall discharge such
explosive materials in conformance with the conditions specified in the permit.
In no case shall any person perform blasting operations unless operating under
the direct supervision of a person in possession of a valid user’s permit
issued by the Nebraska State Patrol.
(Prior Code, § 7-501) (Ord. 509, passed 11-28-1989; Ord. 584, passed 6-14-1994)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-549, 17-556, 28-1229 and 28-1233
§ 91.45 POISONOUS AND FLAMMABLE GASES AND EXPLOSIVES; STORAGE REGISTRATION.
   (A)   In addition to notifying the Municipal Fire Department, pursuant to
Neb. RS 28-1233(3), any person desiring to store or keep for any period of time
explosive materials as defined in Neb. RS 28-1213, or any form of poisonous or
flammable gases or liquefied petroleum gases within the city shall register
such information with the City Clerk 24 hours prior to such storage.
   (B)   The transfer of such explosives or gases to another person within the
city shall require the person receiving such explosives or gases to register
the transfer and the new location of the explosives and gases with the City
Clerk. The transfer of explosive materials and gases to a new location by the
owner shall require registration of the new location with the City Clerk.
   (C)   This section shall not apply to the storage of five gallons or less of
gasoline.
(Prior Code, § 7-301) (Ord. 585, passed 6-14-1994)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-549, 17-556, 28-1229 or 28-1233
FIREWORKS
§ 91.60 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   1.3G EXPLOSIVES (also known as display fireworks or Class B fireworks or by
United Nations shipping classification number UN0335). Any items classified as
1.3G EXPLOSIVES by the United States Department of Transportation in 49 C.F.R.,
as such regulations existed on January 1, 2021.
   1.4G EXPLOSIVES (also known as consumer fireworks or Class C fireworks or by
United Nations shipping classification number UN0336). Any items classified as
1.4G EXPLOSIVES by the United States Department of Transportation in 49 C.F.R.,
as such regulations existed on January 1, 2021.
   CONSUMER FIREWORKS.
      (1)   Any device that:
         (a)   Meets the requirements set forth in 16 C.F.R. parts 1500 and
1507, as such regulations existed on January 1, 2021; and
         (b)   Is tested and approved by a nationally recognized testing
facility or by the State Fire Marshal.
      (2)   1.4G explosives shall be considered CONSUMER FIREWORKS.
      (3)   CONSUMER FIREWORKS does not include:
         (a)   Wire sparklers; or
         (b)   Fireworks that have been tested by the State Fire Marshal as a
response to complaints and have been deemed to be unsafe.
   DISPLAY FIREWORKS. Those materials manufactured exclusively for use in
public exhibitions or displays of fireworks designed to produce visible or
audible effects by combustion, deflagration or detonation. DISPLAY FIREWORKS
includes but is not limited to firecrackers containing more than 130 milligrams
of explosive composition, aerial shells containing more than 40 grams of
explosive composition and other display pieces which exceed the limits for
classification as consumer fireworks. 1.3G explosives shall be considered
DISPLAY FIREWORKS. DISPLAY FIREWORKS shall be considered an explosive as
defined in Neb. RS 28-1213 and shall be subject to Neb. RS 28-1213 to 28-1239,
except that DISPLAY FIREWORKS may be purchased, received and discharged by the
holder of an approved display permit issued pursuant to Neb. RS 28-1239.01.
   DISTRIBUTOR. Any person engaged in the business of making sales of fireworks
at wholesale in this state to any person engaged in the business of making
sales of fireworks either as a jobber or as a retailer or both.
   FIREWORKS. Any composition or device designed for the purpose of producing a
visible or audible effect by combustion, deflagration or detonation and which
meets the definition of consumer or special fireworks set forth by the United
States Department of Transportation in 49 C.F.R.
   JOBBER. Any person engaged in the business of making sales of fireworks at
wholesale to any other person engaged in the business of making sales at
retail.
   RETAILER. Any person engaged in the business of making sales of fireworks at
retail to consumers or to persons other than distributors or jobbers.
   SALE. Includes barter, exchange or gift or offer therefor and each such
transaction made by any person, whether as principal, proprietor, agent,
servant or employee.
(Neb. RS 28-1241) (Prior Code, § 7-401)
§ 91.61 USE OF FIREWORKS WITHIN THE CITY.
   (A)   The discharge, exploding or use of fireworks within the city, shall be
permitted only on the following dates and during the following hours:
      (1)   June 28 through July 2: 8:00 a.m. through 10:00 p.m.; and
      (2)   July 3 and 4: 8:00 a.m. through 12:00 a.m.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful, regardless of the date or time, for any person
to discharge, fire, launch or throw any fireworks or any object that is lighted
to explode or that explodes upon contact with another object:
      (1)    From or onto any motor vehicle;
      (2)    Onto any street, highway or sidewalk;
      (3)    At or near any person;
      (4)    Into or upon any building;
      (5)    Into or at any group of persons; or
      (6)    At the location of and during the time of any pyrotechnics display
authorized at a designated location by special permit under the ordinances of
the city, except by personnel authorized by said special permit.
(Ord. 886, passed 6-23-2020) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.62 SALE OF FIREWORKS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to sell, hold for sale or offer
for sale as distributor, jobber or retailer any fireworks without first
obtaining a license from the State Fire Marshal for that calendar year.
   (B)   Licensees shall only sell fireworks that have been approved by the
State Fire Marshal.
   (C)   Permissible fireworks may be sold at retail only between June 24 and
July 5 and between December 28 and January 1 of each year.
   (D)   Fireworks commonly known as sky lanterns shall not be permissible
fireworks within the city, notwithstanding any action by the State Fire Marshal
to the contrary, and it shall be unlawful for any person to sell at retail,
offer for sale at retail, discharge, explode or use any of said fireworks
within the city.
(Prior Code, § 7-403) (Ord. 770, passed 3-22-2005; Ord. 887, passed - -
) Penalty, see §
91.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 28-1246 and 28-1249
§ 91.99 PENALTY.
   Any person who violates any of the prohibitions or provisions of any section
of this subchapter shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor. Unless otherwise
specified, the penalty for such violation shall be in any amount not to exceed
$500. A new violation shall be deemed to have been committed every 24 hours of
failure to comply with the provisions of this subchapter.
(Ord. 888, passed - -)
CHAPTER 92: HEALTH AND SAFETY; NUISANCES
Section
General Provisions
   
92.01   Health regulations
   
92.02   Enforcement official
   
92.03   County Board of Health
Nuisances
   
92.15   “Nuisances” defined
   
92.16   Abatement
   
92.17   Jurisdiction
   
92.18   Abandoned automobiles
   
92.19   Adjoining landowner intervention
   
92.20   Weeds; litter; stagnant water
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 92.01 HEALTH REGULATIONS.
   For the purpose of promoting the health and safety of the residents of the
city, the Board of Health shall, from time to time, adopt such rules and
regulations relative thereto and shall make such inspections, prescribe such
penalties and make such reports as may be necessary toward that purpose.
Statutory reference:
   Authority to regulate, see Neb. RS 17-121
§ 92.02 ENFORCEMENT OFFICIAL.
   The Police Chief or other official designated by the City Council, as the
quarantine officer, shall be the chief health officer of the city. It shall be
his or her duty to notify the City Council and the Board of Health of health
nuisances within the city and its zoning jurisdiction.
Statutory reference:
   Quarantine officer, see Neb. RS 17-121
§ 92.03 COUNTY BOARD OF HEALTH.
   It shall be the duty of the Board of Health to work closely with the County
Health Board in protecting the health and welfare of the residents of the city.
NUISANCES
§ 92.15 “NUISANCES” DEFINED.
   (A)   General definition. For the purpose of this subchapter, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      NUISANCE. Consists in doing any unlawful act, or omitting to perform a
duty, or suffering or permitting any condition or thing to be or exist, which
act, omission, condition or thing either:
         (a)   Injures or endangers the comfort, repose, health or safety of
others;
         (b)   Offends decency;
         (c)   Is offensive to the senses;
         (d)   Unlawfully interferes with, obstructs, tends to obstruct or
renders dangerous for passage, any stream, public park, parkway, square, street
or highway in the city;
         (e)   In any way renders other persons insecure in life or the use of
property; or
         (f)   Essentially interferes with the comfortable enjoyment of life
and property, or tends to depreciate the value of the property of others.
   (B)   Specific definitions. The maintaining, using, placing, depositing,
leaving or permitting of any of the following specific acts, omissions, places,
conditions and things are hereby declared to be nuisances:
      (1)   Any odorous, putrid, unsound or unwholesome grain, meat, hides,
skins, feathers, vegetable matter or the whole or any part of any dead animal,
fish or fowl;
      (2)   Privies, vaults, cesspools, dumps, pits or like places which are
not securely protected from flies or rats, or which are foul or malodorous;
      (3)   Filthy, littered or trash-covered cellars, house yards, barnyards,
stable-yards, factory-yards, mill-yards, vacant areas in rear of stores,
granaries, vacant lots, houses, buildings or premises;
      (4)   Animal manure in any quantity which is not securely protected from
flies and the elements, or which is kept or handled in violation of any
ordinance of the city;
      (5)   Liquid household waste, human excreta, garbage, butcher’s trimmings
and offal, parts of fish or any waste vegetable or animal matter in any
quantity; provided, that nothing herein contained shall prevent the temporary
retention of waste in receptacles in a manner provided by the health officer of
the city, nor the dumping of non-putrefying waste in a place and manner
approved by the health officer;
      (6)   Tin cans, bottles, glass, cans, ashes, small pieces of scrap iron,
wire metal articles, bric-a-brac, broken stone or cement, broken crockery,
broken glass, broken plaster and all trash or abandoned material, unless the
same be kept in covered bins or galvanized iron receptacles;
      (7)   Trash, litter, rags, accumulations of barrels, boxes, crates,
packing crates, mattresses, bedding, excelsior, packing hay, straw or other
packing material, lumber not neatly piled, scrap iron, tin or other metal not
neatly piled, old automobiles or parts thereof, or any other waste materials
when any of said articles or materials create a condition in which flies or
rats may breed or multiply, or which may be a fire danger, or which are so
unsightly as to depreciate property values in the vicinity thereof;
      (8)   Any unsightly building, billboard or other structure, or any old,
abandoned or partially destroyed building or structure or any building or
structure commenced and left unfinished, which said buildings, billboards or
other structures are either a fire hazard, a menace to the public health or
safety, or are so unsightly as to depreciate the value of property in the
vicinity thereof;
      (9)   All places used or maintained as junk yards, or dumping grounds, or
for the wrecking and dissembling of automobiles, trucks, tractors or machinery
of any kind, or for the storing or leaving of worn-out, wrecked or abandoned
automobiles, trucks, tractors or machinery of any kind, or of any of the parts
thereof, or for the storing or leaving of any machinery or equipment used by
contractors or builders or by other persons, which said places are kept or
maintained so as to essentially interfere with the comfortable enjoyment of
life or property by others, or which are so unsightly as to tend to depreciate
property values in the vicinity thereof;
      (10)   Stagnant water permitted or maintained on any lot or piece of
ground;
      (11)   Stockyards, granaries, mills, pig pens, cattle pens, chicken pens
or any other place, building or enclosure, in which animals or fowls of any
kind are confined or on which are stored tankage or any other animal or
vegetable matter, or on which any animal or vegetable matter including grain is
being processed, when said places in which said animals are confined, or said
premises on which said vegetable or animal matter is located, are maintained
and kept in such a manner that foul and noxious odors are permitted to emanate
therefrom, to the annoyance of inhabitants of the city, or are maintained and
kept in such a manner as to be injurious to the public health;
      (12)   Any and all excavations, uncovered basements, cellars shall be
filled in with sand or soil or a mixture of the two, so as to be compatible
with the surrounding area and leveled off not to be unsightly and to depreciate
the value of the surrounding area and to be a menace to public health and
safety; and
      (13)   All other things specifically designated as nuisances elsewhere in
this code.
(Prior Code, § 4-302) (Ord. 538, passed 5-14-1985) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 18-1720
§ 92.16 ABATEMENT.
    (A)   It shall be the duty of every owner, occupant, lessee or mortgagee of
real estate in the city to keep such real estate free of public nuisances. Upon
determination by the Board of Health or Compliance and Regulations Committee
that said owner, occupant, lessee or mortgagee has failed to keep such real
estate free of public nuisances, the City Council shall thereupon cause notice
to be served upon the owner, occupant, lessee, mortgagee or agent thereof, by
personal service or by certified mail. Such notice shall describe the condition
as found by the Board of Health or Compliance and Regulations Committee and
state that said condition has been declared a public nuisance, and that the
condition must be remedied at once.
   (B)   If the person receiving the notice has not complied therewith or taken
an appeal from the determination of the Board of Health or Compliance and
Regulations Committee within ten days after receipt of certified mail or date
of personal service, the Board of Health or Compliance and Regulations
Committee shall notify the City Council of such noncompliance. The City Council
shall have such work done and may levy and assess the costs and expenses of the
work upon the real estate so benefitted in the same manner as other special
taxes for improvements are levied and assessed.
   (C)   If the owner, occupant, lessee or mortgagee of real estate requests in
writing a hearing with the City Council, the City Council shall fix a time and
place at which a hearing will be held. Notice of the hearing shall be given by
personal service or certified mail and require the owner, occupant, lessee or
mortgagee of real estate to appear before the City Council to show cause why
such condition should not be found to be a public nuisance and remedied. Such
notice shall be given not less than seven nor more than 14 days before the time
of the hearing. Upon the date fixed for the hearing and pursuant to the notice,
the City Council shall hear all objections made by the owner or occupant and
shall hear evidence submitted by the Board of Health or Compliance and
Regulations Committee, or their designee. If after consideration of all of the
evidence, the City Council shall find that said condition is a public nuisance,
it shall, by resolution, order and direct the owner, occupant, lessee or
mortgagee to remedy said public nuisance at once; provided, that the party or
parties may appeal such decision to the appropriate court for adjudication,
during which proceedings the decision of the City Council shall be stayed.
Should the owner or occupant refuse or neglect to promptly comply with the
order of the City Council, the City Council shall proceed to cause the
abatement of the described public nuisance.
   (D)   Upon completion of the work by the city, a statement of the cost of
such work shall be transmitted to the City Council, which is authorized to bill
the property owner or occupant, or to levy the cost as a special assessment
against the land. Such special assessment shall be a lien on the real estate
and shall be collected in the manner provided for special assessments.
(Prior Code, § 4-303) (Ord. 333, passed 9-27-1977; Ord. 907, passed 9-12-2023)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 18-1720
§ 92.17 JURISDICTION.
   The Mayor and Chief of Police of the city are directed to enforce this code
against all nuisances. The jurisdiction of the Mayor, Chief of Police and court
shall extend to, and the territorial application of this chapter shall include,
all territory adjacent to the limits of the city within two miles thereof and
all territory within the corporate limits.
(Prior Code, § 4-304)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 18-1720
§ 92.18 ABANDONED AUTOMOBILES.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      ABANDONED VEHICLE.
         (a)   A motor vehicle is an ABANDONED VEHICLE:
            1.   If left unattended, with no license plates or valid In Transit
stickers issued pursuant to the Motor Vehicle Registration Act affixed thereto,
for more than six hours on any public property;
            2.   If left unattended for more than 24 hours on any public
property, except a portion thereof on which parking is legally permitted;
            3.   If left unattended for more than 48 hours, after the parking
of such vehicle has become illegal, if left on a portion of any public property
on which parking is legally permitted;
            4.   If left unattended for more than seven days on private
property if left initially without permission of the owner, or after permission
of the owner is terminated;
            5.   If left for more than 30 days in the custody of a city law
enforcement agency after the agency has sent a letter to the last-registered
owner and lienholder under division (D) below; or
            6.   If removed from private property by the city pursuant to a
city ordinance or this code.
         (b)   An all-terrain vehicle or minibike is an ABANDONED VEHICLE:
            1.   If left unattended for more than 24 hours on any public
property, except a portion thereof on which parking is legally permitted;
            2.   If left unattended for more than 48 hours, after the parking
of such vehicle has become illegal, if left on a portion of any public property
on which parking is legally permitted;
            3.   If left unattended for more than seven days on private
property if left initially without permission of the owner, or after permission
of the owner is terminated;
            4.   If left for more than 30 days in the custody of a city law
enforcement agency after the agency has sent a letter to the last-registered
owner and lienholder under division (D) below; or
            5.   If removed from private property by the city pursuant to a
city ordinance or this code.
         (c)   A MOBILE HOME is an abandoned vehicle if left in place on
private property for more than 30 days after a local governmental unit,
pursuant to an ordinance or resolution, has sent a certified letter to each of
the last-registered owners and posted a notice on the mobile home, stating that
the mobile home is subject to sale or auction or vesting of title as set forth
in Neb. RS 60-1903.
         (d)   No motor vehicle subject to forfeiture under Neb. RS 28-431
shall be an ABANDONED VEHICLE under this section.
      MOBILE HOME. A movable or portable dwelling constructed to be towed on
its own chassis, connected to utilities and designed with or without a
permanent foundation for year-round living. It may consist of one or more units
that can be telescoped when towed and expanded later for additional capacity,
or of two or more units, separately towable but designed to be joined into one
integral unit, and shall include a manufactured home as defined in Neb. RS 71-
4603. MOBILE HOME does not include a mobile home or manufactured home for which
an affidavit of affixture has been recorded pursuant to Neb. RS 60-169.
      PRIVATE PROPERTY. Any privately owned property which is not included
within the definition of public property.
      PUBLIC PROPERTY. Any public right-of-way, street, highway, alley or park
or other state-, county- or city-owned property.
(Neb. RS 60-1901)
   (B)   If an abandoned vehicle, at the time of abandonment, has no license
plates of the current year or valid In Transit stickers issued pursuant to Neb.
RS 60-376 affixed and is of a wholesale value, taking into consideration the
condition of the vehicle, of $500 or less, title shall immediately vest in the
city. Any certificate of title issued under this division (B) to the city shall
be issued at no cost to the city.
(Neb. RS 60-1902)
   (C)   (1)   Except for vehicles governed by division (B) above, the city
shall make an inquiry concerning the last-registered owner of such vehicle as
follows:
         (a)   Abandoned vehicle with license plates affixed, to the
jurisdiction which issued such license plates; or
         (b)   Abandoned vehicle with no license plates affixed, to the
Department of Motor Vehicles.
      (2)   The city shall notify the last-registered owner, if any, and any
lienholder, if any, within 15 business days that the vehicle in question has
been determined to be an abandoned vehicle and that, if unclaimed, either:
         (a)   It will be sold or will be offered at public auction after five
days from the date such notice was mailed; or
         (b)   Title will vest in the city 30 days after the date such notice
was mailed.
      (3)   If the agency described in division (C)(1)(a) or (C)(1)(b) above
also notifies the city that a lien or mortgage exists, such notice shall also
be sent to the lienholder or mortgagee. Any person claiming such vehicle shall
be required to pay the cost of removal and storage of such vehicle.
      (4)   Title to an abandoned vehicle, if unclaimed, shall vest in the
city:
         (a)   Five days after the date the notice is mailed if the vehicle
will be sold or offered at public auction under division (C)(2)(a) above;
         (b)   Thirty days after the date the notice is mailed if the city will
retain the vehicle; or
         (c)   If the last-registered owner cannot be ascertained, when notice
of such fact is received.
      (5)   After title to the abandoned vehicle vests pursuant to division (C)
(4) above, the city may retain for use, sell or auction the abandoned vehicle.
If the city has determined that the vehicle should be retained for use, the
city shall, at the same time that the notice, if any, is mailed, publish in a
newspaper of general circulation in the jurisdiction an announcement that the
city intends to retain the abandoned vehicle for its use and that title will
vest in the city 30 days after the publication.
(Neb. RS 60-1903)
   (D)   (1)   If a city law enforcement agency has custody of a motor vehicle
for investigatory purposes and has no further need to keep it in custody, it
shall send a certified letter to each of the last-registered owners, if any,
and lienholders, if any, within 15 calendar days stating that the vehicle is in
the custody of the law enforcement agency, that the vehicle is no longer needed
for law enforcement purposes and that after 30 days the agency will dispose of
the vehicle.
      (2)   This division shall not apply to motor vehicles subject to
forfeiture under Neb. RS 28-431.
      (3)   No storage fees shall be assessed against the registered owner of a
motor vehicle held in custody for investigatory purposes under this division
(D) unless the registered owner or the person in possession of the vehicle when
it is taken into custody is charged with a felony or misdemeanor related to the
offense for which the law enforcement agency took the vehicle into custody. If
a registered owner or the person in possession of the vehicle when it is taken
into custody is charged with a felony or misdemeanor but is not convicted, the
registered owner shall be entitled to a refund of the storage fees.
(Neb. RS 60-1903.01)
   (E)   (1)   A law enforcement agency is authorized to remove an abandoned or
trespassing vehicle from private property upon the request of the private
property owner on whose property the vehicle is located and upon information
indicating that the vehicle is an abandoned or trespassing vehicle. After
removal, the law enforcement agency with custody of the vehicle shall follow
the procedures in Neb. RS 60-1902 and 60-1903.
      (2)   A law enforcement agency is authorized to contact a private towing
service in order to remove an abandoned or trespassing vehicle from private
property upon the request of the private property owner on whose property the
vehicle is located and upon information indicating that the vehicle is an
abandoned or trespassing vehicle. A vehicle towed away under this division (E)
is subject to Neb. RS 52-601.01 to 52-605 and 60-2410 by the private towing
service which towed the vehicle.
      (3)   A private property owner is authorized to remove or cause the
removal of an abandoned or trespassing vehicle from such property and may
contact a private towing service for such removal. A private towing service
that tows the vehicle shall notify, within 24 hours, the designated law
enforcement agency in the jurisdiction from which the vehicle is removed and
provide the registration plate number; the vehicle identification number, if
available; the make, model and color of the vehicle; and the name of the
private towing service and the location, if applicable, where the private
towing service is storing the vehicle. A vehicle towed away under this division
(E) is subject to Neb. RS 52-601.01 to 52-605 and 60-2410 by the private towing
service that towed the vehicle.
      (4)   For purposes of this section, a trespassing vehicle is a vehicle
that is parked without permission on private property that is not typically
made available for public parking.
(Neb. RS 60-1903.02)
   (F)   If a state agency caused an abandoned vehicle described in division
(A)(a)(5) or (A)(b)(4) above to be removed from public property in this city,
the state agency shall be entitled to custody of the vehicle. If a state agency
caused an abandoned vehicle described in division (A)(a)(1), (A)(a)(2), (A)(a)
(3) or (A)(a)(4) or (A)(b)(1), (A)(b)(2) or (A)(b)(3) above to be removed from
public property in this city, the state agency shall deliver the vehicle to the
city which shall have custody.
(Neb. RS 60-1904)
   (G)   Any proceeds from the sale of an abandoned vehicle in the city’s
custody less any expenses incurred by the city shall be held by the city
without interest, for the benefit of the owner or lienholders of such vehicle
for a period of two years. If not claimed within such two-year period, the
proceeds shall be paid into the general fund of the city.
(Neb. RS 60-1905)
   (H)   Neither the owner, owner’s agent, owner’s employee, lessee, nor
occupant of the premises from which any abandoned vehicle is removed, nor the
city, shall be liable for any loss or damage to such vehicle which occurs
during its removal or while in the possession of the city or its contractual
agent, while in the possession of a private towing service or as a result of
any subsequent disposition.
(Neb. RS 60-1906)
   (H)   No person shall cause any vehicle to be an abandoned vehicle as
described in division (A)(a)(1), (A)(a)(2), (A)(a)(3) or (A)(a)(4) or (A)(b)
(1), (A)(b)(2) or (A)(b)(3) above.
(Neb. RS 60-1907)
   (I)   No person other than one authorized by the city or appropriate state
agency shall destroy, deface or remove any part of a vehicle which is left
unattended on a highway or other public place without license plates affixed or
which is abandoned. Anyone violating this division shall be guilty of an
offense.
(Neb. RS 60-1908)
   (J)   The last-registered owner of an abandoned vehicle shall be liable to
the city for the costs of removal and storage of such vehicle.
(Neb. RS 60-1909)
   (K)   Any person violating the provisions of this section shall be guilty of
an offense.
(Neb. RS 60-1911) (Prior Code, § 4-305) Penalty, see §
10.99 
Statutory reference:
   Motor Vehicle Registration Act, see Neb. RS 60-301
§ 92.19 ADJOINING LANDOWNER INTERVENTION.
   In cases of appeal from an action of the City Council condemning real
property as a nuisance or as dangerous under the police powers of the city, the
owners of the adjoining property may intervene in the action at any time before
trial.
(Prior Code, § 4-306) (Ord. 444, passed 9-24-1985)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 19-710
§ 92.20 WEEDS; LITTER; STAGNANT WATER.
   (A)   Lots or pieces of ground within the city shall be drained or filled so
as to prevent stagnant water or any other nuisance accumulating thereon.
   (B)   The owner or occupant of any lot or piece of ground within the city
shall keep the lot or piece of ground and the adjoining streets and alleys free
of any growth of six inches or more in height of weeds, grasses or worthless
vegetation.
   (C)   The throwing, depositing or accumulation of litter on any lot or piece
of ground within the city is prohibited.
   (D)   It shall be a nuisance to permit or maintain any growth of six inches
or more in height of weeds, grasses or worthless vegetation on any lot or piece
of ground within the city or on the adjoining streets or alleys or to litter or
cause litter to be deposited or remain thereon except in proper receptacles.
   (E)   Any owner or occupant of a lot or piece of ground shall, upon
conviction of violating this section, be guilty of an offense.
   (F)   Notice to abate and remove such nuisance shall be given to each owner
or owner’s duly authorized agent and to the occupant, if any, by personal
service or certified mail. If notice by personal or certified mail is
unsuccessful, notice shall be given by publication in a newspaper of general
circulation in the city or by conspicuously posting the notice on the lot or
ground upon which the nuisance is to be abated and removed. Within five days
after receipt of such notice or publication or posting, whichever is
applicable, if the owner or occupant of the lot or piece of ground does not
request a hearing with the city or fail to comply with the order to abate and
remove the nuisance, the city may have such work done. The costs and expenses
of any such work shall be paid by the owner. If unpaid for two months after
such work is done, the city may either:
      (1)   Levy and assess the costs and expenses of the work upon the lot or
piece of ground so benefitted in the same manner as other special taxes for
improvements are levied and assessed; or
      (2)   Recover in a civil action the costs and expense of the work upon
the lot or piece of ground and the adjoining streets and alleys.
   (G)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      LITTER. Includes but is not limited to:
         (a)   Trash, rubbish, refuse, garbage, paper, rags and ashes;
         (b)   Wood; plaster, cement, brick or stone-building rubble;
         (c)   Grass, leaves and worthless vegetation except when used as
ground mulch or in a compost pile;
         (d)   Offal and dead animals; and
         (e)   Any machine or machines, vehicle or vehicles, or parts of a
machine or vehicle which have lost their identity, character, utility or
serviceability as such through deterioration, dismantling or the ravages of
time, are inoperative or unable to perform their intended functions, or are
cast off, discarded or thrown away or left as waste, wreckage or junk.
      WEEDS. Include, but are not limited to: bindweed (Convolvulus arvensis),
puncture vine (Tribulus terrestris), leafy spurge (Euphorbia esula), Canada
thistle (Cirsium arvense), perennial peppergrass (Lepidium draba), Russian
knapweed (Centaurea picris), Johnson grass (Sorghum halepense), nodding or musk
thistle, quack grass (Agropyron repens), perennial sow thistle (Sonchus
arvensis), horse nettle (Solanum carolinense), bull thistle (Cirsium
lanceolatum), buckthorn (Rhamnus sp.) (tourn), hemp plant (Cannabis sativa) and
ragweed (Ambrosiaceae).
(Ord. 813, passed 5-22-2012) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-563
CHAPTER 93: PARKS AND RECREATION
Section
Parks and Recreational Facilities
   
93.01   Operation and funding
   
93.02   Injury to property
Swimming Pool
   
93.15   Operation and funding
   
93.16   Admission
   
93.17   Rentals
   
93.18   Rules and regulations
PARKS AND RECREATIONAL FACILITIES
§ 93.01 OPERATION AND FUNDING.
   (A)   If the city has already acquired or hereafter acquires land for park
purposes, or recreational facilities, or has already built, or hereafter builds
swimming pools, recreational facilities or dams, the Mayor and City Council may
each year make and levy a tax upon the taxable value of all the taxable
property in the city. The levy shall be collected and put into the City
Treasury and shall constitute the park and recreation fund of the city. The
funds so levied and collected shall be used for amusements, for laying out,
improving and beautifying such parks, for maintaining, improving, managing and
beautifying such swimming pools, recreational facilities or dams, and for the
payment of salaries and wages of persons employed in the performance of such
labor.
(Neb. RS 17-951)
   (B)   If the Mayor and City Council create a Board of Park Commissioners or
Board of Park and Recreation Commissioners, when such Board has been appointed
and qualified, all accounts against the Park Fund or Park and Recreation Fund
shall be audited by the Board, and warrants against the fund shall be drawn by
the Chairperson of the Board, and warrants so drawn shall be paid by the City
Treasurer out of the Fund.
(Neb. RS 17-952)
   (C)   (1)   Whether the title to real estate for parks, public grounds,
swimming pools or dams, either for recreational or conservational purposes,
shall be acquired by gift, devise or purchase as provided in Neb. RS 17-948,
the jurisdiction of the City Council or Park Board shall at once be extended
over such real estate; and the City Council or Park Board shall have power to
enact bylaws, rules or ordinances for the protection and preservation of any
real estate acquired, and to provide rules and regulations for the closing of
the park or swimming pool, in whole or in part, to the general public, and
charge admission thereto during such closing, either by the city or by any
person, persons or corporation leasing same. They may provide suitable
penalties for the violation of such bylaws, rules or ordinances; and the police
power of the city shall be at once extended over the same.
(Neb. RS 17-949)
      (2)   The Park Board shall not enter into a contract of any nature that
involves an expenditure of funds, except for ordinary operating expenses,
unless the contract has been approved by resolution of the majority of the
members of the City Council prior to the contractual agreement.
Statutory reference:
   Levy limits, see Neb. RS 77-3442
   Parks and recreational facilities generally, see Neb. RS 17-948 through 17-
952
§ 93.02 INJURY TO PROPERTY.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to maliciously or willfully cut down,
injure or destroy any tree, plant or shrub in any city park or recreational
facility. It shall be unlawful for any person to injure or destroy any sodded
or planted area or injure or destroy any building, structure, equipment, fence,
bench, table or any other property of any city park or recreational area. No
person shall commit any waste on or litter the city parks or other public
grounds.
Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Littering of public and private property, see Neb. RS 28-523
SWIMMING POOL
§ 93.15 OPERATION AND FUNDING.
   The city owns and manages the municipal swimming pool. The City Council, for
the purpose of defraying the cost of the management, maintenance and
improvements of the swimming pool may each year levy a tax not exceeding the
maximum limit prescribed by state law, on the actual valuation of all real
estate and personal property within the city that is subject to taxation. The
revenue from said tax shall be known as the Swimming Pool Fund and shall
include all gifts, grants, deeds of conveyance, bequests or other valuable
income-producing personal property and real estate from any source for the
purpose of endowing the swimming pool. The Swimming Pool Fund shall at all
times be in the custody of the City Treasurer. The Swimming Pool Committee
shall manage the swimming pool. The Committee shall have the power and
authority to hire and supervise the swimming pool manager and such employees as
it may deem necessary and shall pass such rules and regulations for the
operation of the swimming pool as may be proper for its efficient operation.
All actions by the Committee shall be under the supervision and control of the
City Council.
(Prior Code, § 3-601)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-948, 17-951 and 17-952
§ 93.16 ADMISSION.
   The Pool Committee may, for the purpose of defraying the expenses involved
in maintaining, improving, managing and beautifying the swimming pool, make a
reasonable admission charge for the use by any person of the municipal swimming
pool. The said charges shall be on file at the office of the City Clerk and
shall also be posted in a conspicuous place at the municipal swimming pool for
public inspection. Such rates may be structured for classes of persons in a
reasonable manner; provided, that nothing herein shall be construed to permit
or allow discrimination on the basis of race, creed, color or national origin
in the classification of persons for admission charges.
(Prior Code, § 3-602)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-949 
§ 93.17 RENTALS.
   The Swimming Pool Committee shall have the authority to rent the municipal
swimming pool to such organizations and other persons as they may in their
discretion see fit, subject to the review of the City Council. The Committee
shall prescribe rules and regulations for such rentals and shall require an
appropriate number of qualified lifeguards to be in attendance during the
rental period. Such fees and other costs shall be on file at the office of the
City Clerk and posted in a conspicuous place at the municipal swimming pool.
(Prior Code, § 3-603)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-949
§ 93.18 RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   The Swimming Pool Committee shall have the power and authority to enact
bylaws, rules and regulations for the protection of those using the swimming
pool and for the efficient management thereof. They may provide suitable
penalties for the violation of such bylaws, rules and regulations subject to
the review and supervision of the City Council.
(Prior Code, § 3-604)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-949 
CHAPTER 94: LIBRARY
Section
   
94.01   Operation and funding
   
94.02   Library Board; powers and duties
   
94.03   Library Board; annual report
   
94.04   Improper book removal
   
94.05   Cost of use
   
94.06   Grounds and building
   
94.07   Sale and conveyance of real estate
   
94.08   Mortgages; release or renewal
   
94.09   Discrimination prohibited
   
94.10   Recovery of penalties; disposition
   
94.11   Donations
§ 94.01 OPERATION AND FUNDING.
   (A)   The city owns and manages the municipal library through the Library
Board.
   (B)   The City Council, for the purpose of defraying the cost of the
management, purchases, improvements and maintenance of the library may each
year levy a tax not exceeding the maximum limit prescribed by state law, on the
taxable value of all the taxable property within the city. The amount collected
from the levy shall be known as the Library Fund.
   (C)   The Fund shall also include all gifts, grants, deeds of conveyance,
bequests or other valuable income-producing personal property and real estate
from any source for the purpose of endowing the municipal library.
   (D)   All taxes levied or collected and all funds donated or in any way
acquired for the erection, maintenance or support of the municipal library
shall be kept for the use of the library separate and apart from all other
funds of the city, shall be drawn upon and paid out by the City Treasurer upon
vouchers signed by the President of the Library Board and authenticated by the
Secretary of the Board and shall not be used or disbursed for any other purpose
or in any other manner. The City Council may establish a public library sinking
fund for major capital expenditures.
   (E)   Any money collected by the library shall be turned over monthly by the
librarian to the City Treasurer along with a report of the sources of the
revenue.
(Prior Code, § 3-701) (Ord. 720, passed 4-23-2002)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 51-201 and 51-209
§ 94.02 LIBRARY BOARD; POWERS AND DUTIES.
   (A)   The Library Board shall have the power to make and adopt such bylaws,
rules and regulations for its own guidance and for the government of the
library and reading room as it may deem expedient, not inconsistent with Neb.
RS 51-201 through 51-219.
   (B)   The Library Board shall have exclusive control of expenditures, of all
money collected or donated to the credit of the Library Fund, of the renting
and construction of any library building, and the supervision, care and custody
of the grounds, rooms or buildings constructed, leased or set apart for that
purpose.
   (C)   The Library Board shall have the power to appoint a suitable librarian
and assistants, to fix their compensation and to remove such appointees at
pleasure. It shall have the power to establish rules and regulations for the
government of the library as may be deemed necessary for its preservation and
to maintain its usefulness and efficiency. It shall have the power to fix and
impose, by general rules, penalties and forfeitures for trespasses upon or
injury to the library grounds, rooms, books or other property, for failure to
return any book, or for violation of any bylaw, rule or regulation. The Board
shall have and exercise such power as may be necessary to carry out the spirit
and intent of Neb. RS 51-201 through 51-219 in establishing and maintaining the
library and reading room.
(Prior Code, § 3-703) (Ord. 720, passed 4-23-2002)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 51-205, 51-207 and 51-211 
§ 94.03 LIBRARY BOARD; ANNUAL REPORT.
   (A)   The Library Board shall, on or before the second Monday in February in
each year, make a report to the City Council of the condition of its trust on
the last day of the prior fiscal year.
   (B)   The report shall show all money received and credited or expended; the
number of materials held, including books, video and audio materials, software
programs and materials in other formats; the number of periodical subscriptions
on record, including newspapers; the number of materials added and the number
withdrawn from the collection during the year; the number of materials
circulated during the year; and other statistics, information and suggestions
as the Library Board may deem of general interest or as the City Council may
require. The report shall be verified by affidavit of the President and
Secretary of the Library Board.
(Prior Code, § 3-711) (Ord. 720, passed 4-23-2002; Ord. 769, passed 3-22-2005)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 51-213
§ 94.04 IMPROPER BOOK REMOVAL.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person not authorized by the regulations
made by the Library Board to take a book or any other material from the
library, without the consent of the librarian, or an authorized employee of the
library.
   (B)   Any person removing a book or other material from the library without
properly checking it out shall be deemed to be guilty of a misdemeanor.
(Prior Code, § 3-705) (Ord. 720, passed 4-23-2002) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 94.05 COST OF USE.
   (A)   Except as provided in division (B) below, the municipal library and
reading room shall be forever free to the use of the inhabitants of the city,
subject always to such reasonable regulations as the Library Board may adopt to
render the library of the greatest use to such inhabitants. The Library Board
may exclude from the use of the library and reading rooms any person who
willfully violates or refuses to comply with rules and regulations established
for the government thereof.
   (B)   The library shall make its basic services available without charge to
all residents of the city. The Library Board may fix and impose reasonable
fees, not to exceed the library’s actual cost, for non-basic services.
   (C)   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      BASIC SERVICES. Includes, but not limited to, free loan of circulating
print and non-print materials from the local collection and general reference
and information services.
      NON-BASIC SERVICES. Includes, but not limited to, use of:
         (a)   Photocopying equipment;
         (b)   Telephones, facsimile equipment and other telecommunications
equipment;
         (c)   Media equipment;
         (d)   Personal computers; and
         (e)   Videocassette recording and playing equipment.
(Prior Code, § 3-706) (Ord. 720, passed 4-23-2002)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 51-201.01, 51-211 and 51-212
§ 94.06 GROUNDS AND BUILDING.
   The Library Board may purchase or lease grounds, exercise the power of
eminent domain and condemn real estate for the purpose of securing a site for a
library building. The procedure to condemn property shall be exercised in the
manner set forth in Neb. RS 76-704 through 76-724. The Board may erect, lease
or occupy an appropriate building for the use of the library.
(Prior Code, § 3-707) (Ord. 720, passed 4-23-2002)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 51-210 and 51-211
§ 94.07 SALE AND CONVEYANCE OF REAL ESTATE.
   The Library Board may, by resolution, direct the sale and conveyance of any
real estate owned by the Board or by the municipal library, which is not used
for library purposes, or of any real estate so donated or devised to the Board
or to the library upon such terms as the Board may deem best and as otherwise
provided in Neb. RS 51-216.
(Prior Code, § 3-708) (Ord. 720, passed 4-23-2002)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 51-216
§ 94.08 MORTGAGES; RELEASE OR RENEWAL.
   The President of the Library Board shall have the power to release, upon
full payment, any mortgage constituting a credit to the Library Fund and
standing in the name of the Library Board. The signature of the President on
any such release shall be authenticated by the Secretary of the Board. The
President and Secretary in like manner, upon resolution duly passed and adopted
by the Board, may renew such mortgage.
(Prior Code, § 3-709) (Ord. 720, passed 4-23-2002)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 51-206
§ 94.09 DISCRIMINATION PROHIBITED.
   No library service shall be denied to any person because of race, sex,
religion, age, color, national origin, ancestry, physical handicap or marital
status.
(Prior Code, § 3-710) (Ord. 720, passed 4-23-2002)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 51-211
§ 94.10 RECOVERY OF PENALTIES; DISPOSITION.
   Penalties imposed or accruing by any bylaw or regulation of the Library
Board and any court costs and attorneys’ fees may be recovered in a civil
action before any court having jurisdiction, such action to be instituted in
the name of the Library Board. Money, other than any court costs and attorneys’
fees, collected in such actions shall be placed in the City Treasury to the
credit of the Library Fund. Attorneys’ fees collected pursuant to this section
shall be placed in the City Treasury and credited to the budget of the City
Attorney’s office.
(Prior Code, § 3-712) (Ord. 720, passed 4-23-2002)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 51-214
§ 94.11 DONATIONS.
   Any person may make donation of money, lands or other property for the
benefit of the municipal library. The title to property so donated may be made
to and shall vest in the Library Board and their successors in office, and the
Board shall thereby become the owners thereof in trust to the uses of the
municipal library.
(Prior Code, § 3-713) (Ord. 720, passed 4-23-2002)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 51-215
CHAPTER 95: CEMETERY
Section
   
95.01   Operation and funding
   
95.02   Cemetery Sexton
   
95.03   Conveyance of lots
   
95.04   Forfeiture of lots
   
95.05   Lot transfers
   
95.06   Perpetual care
   
95.07   Burial permit
   
95.08   Lot curbing
   
95.09   Shrubs and trees
   
95.10   Monuments
   
95.11   Grave depth
   
95.12   Destruction of property
   
95.13   Reclamation
§ 95.01 OPERATION AND FUNDING.
   (A)   The city owns and manages the Municipal Cemetery through the Cemetery
Board. The City Council, for the purpose of defraying the cost of the care,
management, maintenance and beautification of the Cemetery may each year levy a
tax not exceeding the maximum limit prescribed by state law, on the actual
valuation of all real estate and personal property within the city that is
subject to taxation. The revenue from said tax shall be known as the Cemetery
Fund and shall include all gifts, grants, deeds of conveyance, bequests, money,
stocks, bonds or other valuable income-producing personal property and real
estate from any source for the purpose of endowing the Cemetery. The Cemetery
Fund shall at all times be in the custody of the City Treasurer.
   (B)   The Board shall have the power and authority to hire and supervise
such employees as they may deem necessary and to pass such rules and
regulations for the operation of the Cemetery as may be proper for its
efficient operation. All actions by the Board shall be under the supervision
and control of the City Council.
(Prior Code, § 3-801)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 12-301 through 12-403
§ 95.02 CEMETERY SEXTON.
   The Cemetery Board, subject to the approval of the City Council, shall have
the authority to appoint a Sexton who shall perform such duties and make such
reports as the Cemetery Board shall direct. It shall be the duty of the Sexton,
upon receiving a burial permit to locate and direct the party named in the
permit to the lot mentioned therein and to dig and excavate, or cause the same
to be dug or excavated, in compliance with the rules and regulations of the
Cemetery Board.
(Prior Code, § 3-802)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 12-403
§ 95.03 CONVEYANCE OF LOTS.
   The City Council may convey cemetery lots by certificate signed by the
Mayor, countersigned by the City Clerk under the Municipal Seal specifying that
the person to whom the same is issued is the owner of the lot described therein
by number for the purpose of interment. The said certificate shall give a right
in fee simple to the proprietor, his or her heirs and assigns. The certificate
shall then be recorded in the office of the County Clerk.
(Prior Code, § 3-803)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-941
§ 95.04 FORFEITURE OF LOTS.
   If for three consecutive years, all charges and liens are not paid by the
holders of the lot certificates, said certificates shall be declared forfeited
and subject to resale. All certificates sold shall contain a forfeiture clause
to the effect that if no interment is made on said lot and all liens paid, the
certificate and the rights under the same may, at the option of the Cemetery
Board, with the sanction of the City Council, be declared null and void and the
lot shall be subject to resale.
(Prior Code, § 3-804)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-938
§ 95.05 LOT TRANSFERS.
   Any person who wishes to transfer a certificate may do so by surrendering
the original certificate to the City Clerk, who shall issue a new certificate
upon the receipt of the recording fee set by resolution of the City Council.
(Prior Code, § 3-805)
§ 95.06 PERPETUAL CARE.
   (A)   The City Treasurer shall allocate and set apart a percentage of the
entire amount paid for lots or burial spaces if said lots or burial spaces are
to be endowed with perpetual care. The fund shall be permanent in nature and as
it accumulates shall be invested in such interest bearing securities as are
authorized by state law. The income earned thereon shall be used solely for the
purposes of perpetual care for the Cemetery lots.
   (B)   Any lot owner who shall not have, prior to the purchase of his or her
lot, endowed his or her holdings with perpetual care, may do so by paying to
the Secretary of the Cemetery Board such sum of money as the Board may in each
case fix and determine. Thereafter, the owner shall not be liable for the
payment of an annual maintenance assessment.
(Prior Code, § 3-806)
§ 95.07 BURIAL PERMIT.
   (A)   The funeral director and embalmer in charge of the funeral of any
person dying in the state shall cause a certificate of death to be filled out
with all the particulars contained in the standard form adopted and promulgated
by the department. Such standard form shall include a space for veteran status
and the period of service in the armed forces of the United States and a
statement of the cause of death made by a person holding a valid license as a
physician, physician assistant or nurse practitioner who last attended the
deceased. The standard form shall also include the deceased’s social security
number and a notice that, pursuant to Neb. RS 30-2413, demands for notice which
may affect the estate of the deceased are filed with the county court in the
county where the decedent resided at the time of death. Death and fetal death
certificates shall be completed by the funeral directors and embalmers and
physicians, physician assistants or nurse practitioners for the purpose of
filing with the department and providing child support enforcement information
pursuant to Neb. RS 43-3340.
   (B)   (1)   The physician, physician assistant or nurse practitioner shall
have the responsibility and duty to complete and sign by electronic means
pursuant to Neb. RS 71-603.01, within 24 hours from the time of death, that
part of the certificate of death entitled medical certificate of death. In the
case of a death when no person licensed as a physician, physician assistant or
nurse practitioner was in attendance, the funeral director and embalmer shall
refer the case to the county attorney who shall have the responsibility and
duty to complete and sign the death certificate by electronic means pursuant to
Neb. RS 71-603.01.
      (2)   No cause of death shall be certified in the case of the sudden and
unexpected death of a child between the ages of one week and three years until
an autopsy is performed at county expense by a qualified pathologist pursuant
to Neb. RS 23-1824. The parents or guardian shall be notified of the results of
the autopsy by their physician, physician assistant, nurse practitioner,
community health official or county coroner within 48 hours. The term sudden
infant death syndrome shall be entered on the death certificate as the
principal cause of death when the term is appropriately descriptive of the
pathology findings and circumstances surrounding the death of a child.
      (3)   If the circumstances show it possible that death was caused by
neglect, violence or any unlawful means, the case shall be referred to the
County Attorney for investigation and certification. The County Attorney shall,
within 24 hours after taking charge of the case, state the cause of death as
ascertained, giving as far as possible the means or instrument which produced
the death. All death certificates shall show clearly the cause, disease or
sequence of causes ending in death. If the cause of death cannot be determined
within the period of time stated above, the death certificate shall be filed to
establish the fact of death. As soon as possible thereafter, and not more than
six weeks later, supplemental information as to the cause, disease or sequence
of causes ending in death shall be filed with the department to complete the
record. For all certificates stated in terms that are indefinite, insufficient
or unsatisfactory for classification, inquiry shall be made to the person
completing the certificate to secure the necessary information to correct or
complete the record.
   (C)   A completed death certificate shall be filed with the department
within five business days after the date of death. If it is impossible to
complete the certificate of death within five business days, the funeral
director and embalmer shall notify the department of the reason for the delay
and file the certificate as soon as possible.
   (D)   Before any dead human body may be cremated, a cremation permit shall
first be signed electronically by the County Attorney, or by his or her
authorized representative as designated by the county attorney in writing, of
the county in which the death occurred on an electronic form prescribed and
furnished by the department.
   (E)   A permit for disinterment shall be required prior to disinterment of a
dead human body. The permit shall be issued by the department to a licensed
funeral director and embalmer upon proper application. The request for
disinterment shall be made by the person listed in Neb. RS 30-2223 or a county
attorney on a form furnished by the department. The application shall be signed
by the funeral director and embalmer who will be directly supervising the
disinterment. When the disinterment occurs, the funeral director and embalmer
shall sign the permit giving the date of disinterment and file the permit with
the department within ten days of the disinterment.
   (F)   When a request is made under division (E) above for the disinterment
of more than one dead human body, an order from a court of competent
jurisdiction shall be submitted to the department prior to the issuance of a
permit for disinterment. The order shall include but not be limited to the
number of bodies to be disinterred if that number can be ascertained, the
method and details of transportation of the disinterred bodies, the place of
reinterment and the reason for disinterment. No sexton or other person in
charge of a cemetery shall allow the disinterment of a body without first
receiving from the department a disinterment permit properly completed.
   (G)   No dead human body shall be removed from the state for final
disposition without a transit permit issued by the funeral director and
embalmer having charge of the body in the state, except that when the death is
subject to investigation, the transit permit shall not be issued by the funeral
director and embalmer without authorization of the county attorney of the
county in which the death occurred. No agent of any transportation company
shall allow the shipment of any body without the properly completed transit
permit prepared in duplicate.
   (H)   The interment, disinterment or reinterment of a dead human body shall
be performed under the direct supervision of a licensed funeral director and
embalmer, except that hospital disposition may be made of the remains of a
child born dead pursuant to Neb. RS 71-20,121.
   (I)   All transit permits issued in accordance with the law of the place
where the death occurred in a state other than the state shall be signed by the
funeral director and embalmer in charge of burial and forwarded to the
department within five business days after the interment takes place.
   (J)   The changes made to this section by Laws 2019, LB593 shall apply
retroactively to August 24, 2017.
(Neb. RS 71-605) (Prior Code, § 3-807)
§ 95.08 LOT CURBING.
   It shall be hereafter unlawful for the owner of any lot to construct,
maintain or suffer to remain any curbing around any lot or burial space therein
of a height greater than one inch.
(Prior Code, § 3-808) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 95.09 SHRUBS AND TREES.
   It shall be unlawful, without the written permission of the Cemetery Board,
to plant, maintain or suffer to remain on any Cemetery lot a shrub or tree
attaining a height of more than four feet.
(Prior Code, § 3-809) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 95.10 MONUMENTS.
   Persons desiring to erect monuments, tombstones or other structures shall
first procure a permit from the City Clerk. The Cemetery Board shall review all
such applications and shall give written approval for any permit prior to the
issuance by the City Clerk of said permit.
(Prior Code, § 3-810)
§ 95.11 GRAVE DEPTH.
   Graves shall not be less than six feet deep; provided, nothing herein shall
be construed to prohibit the use of mausoleums or other recognized methods of
interring deceased persons if such a burial procedure is approved by the
Cemetery Board.
(Prior Code, § 3-811)
§ 95.12 DESTRUCTION OF PROPERTY.
   Any person who shall willfully destroy, mutilate, deface, injure or remove
any tomb, monument or gravestone placed in the Cemetery, or any fence, railing
or other work for the protection or ornamentation of the Cemetery, or who shall
willfully destroy, cut, break or injure any tree, shrub or plant shall be
deemed to be guilty of a misdemeanor.
(Prior Code, § 3-812) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 28-514 and 28-519
§ 95.13 RECLAMATION.
   When any lot has been transferred by warranty deed or by a deed conveying a
fee simple title, but there has been no burial in any such lot or subdivision
thereof and no payment of annual assessments for a period of three years, the
Cemetery Board with the sanction of the City Council, may reclaim the unused
portion of such lot or subdivision after notifying the record owner or his or
her heirs or assigns, if known, by certified mail and publishing notice of its
intention to do so. Such notice shall be published once each week for four
weeks in a newspaper of general circulation throughout the county in which the
cemetery is located, shall describe the lot or subdivision proposed to be
reclaimed and shall be addressed to the person in whose name such portion
stands of record or, if there is no owner of record, to all persons claiming
any interest in such lot or subdivision. If no person appears to claim such lot
or subdivision and pay all delinquent assessments with interest within 15 days
after the last date of such publication, the Cemetery Board may by resolution
reclaim such lot or subdivision. Such reclamation shall be complete upon a
filing of a verified copy of such resolution, together with proof of
publication, in the office of the Register of Deeds.
(Prior Code, § 3-813) (Ord. 459, passed 10-14-1986)
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
110.   BUSINESS REGULATIONS
      
111.   ALCOHOL REGULATIONS
      
112.   AMUSEMENTS AND LEISURE
      
113.   SEXUALLY-ORIENTED BUSINESSES
CHAPTER 110: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
Section
Occupation Taxes
   
110.01   Occupation tax amounts
   
110.02   Collection date
   
110.03   Certificates
   
110.04   Failure to pay
Specific Businesses
   
110.15   Peddlers and hawkers
   
110.16   Garbage haulers
   
110.17   Tobacco; license for sale; application
   
110.18   Fire insurance companies
   
110.19   Railroad companies
 
   
110.99   Penalty
OCCUPATION TAXES
§ 110.01 OCCUPATION TAX AMOUNTS.
   For the purpose of raising revenue, an occupation tax is hereby levied on
the following businesses:
   (A)   Fire insurance companies, per year: $5; and
   (B)   Retailers of alcoholic beverages, on-sale and off-sale, including
beer, per year: $200.
(Prior Code, § 10-401)
§ 110.02 COLLECTION DATE.
   (A)   At the time application is made to the commission for a license of any
type, the applicant shall pay the fee provided in Neb. RS 53-124.01 and, if the
applicant is an individual, provide the applicant’s social security number. The
commission shall issue the types of licenses described in this section.
   (B)   There shall be an airline license, a boat license, a special party bus
license, a pedal-pub vehicle license and a railroad license. The commission
shall charge $1 for each duplicate of an airline license, a special party bus
license, a pedal-pub vehicle license or a railroad license.
   (C)   (1)   There shall be a manufacturer’s license for alcohol and spirits,
for beer and for wine. The annual fee for a manufacturer’s license for beer
shall be based on the barrel daily capacity as follows:
         (a)   One to 100 barrel daily capacity, or any part thereof, tier one;
         (b)   One hundred to 150 barrel daily capacity, tier two;
         (c)   One hundred and fifty to 200 barrel daily capacity, tier three;
         (d)   Two hundred to 300 barrel daily capacity, tier four;
         (e)   Three hundred to 400 barrel daily capacity, tier five;
         (f)   Four hundred to 500 barrel daily capacity, tier six;
         (g)   Five hundred barrel daily capacity, or more, tier seven.
      (2)   For purposes of this division (C)(2), DAILY CAPACITY means the
average daily barrel production for the previous 12 months of manufacturing
operation. If no such basis for comparison exists, the manufacturing licensee
shall pay in advance for the first year’s operation a fee of $500.
   (D)   There shall be five classes of nonbeverage users’ licenses: Class 1,
Class 2, Class 3, Class 4 and Class 5.
   (E)   In lieu of a manufacturer’s, a retailer’s or a wholesaler’s license,
there shall be a license to operate issued for a craft brewery, a farm winery
or a microdistillery.
   (F)   (1)   There shall be six classes of retail licenses:
         (a)   Class A: Beer only, for consumption on the premises;
         (b)   Class B: Beer only, for consumption off the premises, sales in
the original packages only;
         (c)   Class C: Alcoholic liquor, for consumption on the premises and
off the premises, sales in original packages only except as provided in Neb. RS
53-123.04(4). If a Class C license is held by a nonprofit corporation, it shall
be restricted to consumption on the premises only. A Class C license may have a
sampling designation restricting consumption on the premises to sampling, but
such designation shall not affect sales for consumption off the premises under
such license;
         (d)   Class D: Alcoholic liquor, including beer, for consumption off
the premises, sales in the original packages only, except as provided in
division (F)(1)(f) below and Neb. RS 53-123.04(2);
         (e)   Class I: Alcoholic liquor, for consumption on the premises
except as provided in Neb. RS 53-123.04(5); and
         (f)   Class J: Alcoholic liquor, including beer, for consumption off
the premises, sales in the original packages only, for a retail licensee whose
annual gross revenue from the sale of alcohol does not exceed 20% of the
licensee’s total annual gross revenue from all retail sales.
      (2)   All applicable license fees shall be paid by the applicant or
licensee directly to the City or Village Treasurer in the case of premises
located inside the corporate limits of a city or village and directly to the
County Treasurer in the case of premises located outside the corporate limits
of a city or village.
   (G)   There shall be four types of shipping licenses as described in Neb. RS
53-123.15: manufacturers, vintage wines, manufacture direct sales and retail
direct sales.
   (H)   There shall be two types of wholesale licenses: alcoholic liquor and
beer only. The annual fee shall be paid for the first and each additional
wholesale place of business operated in this state by the same licensee and
wholesaling the same product.
   (I)   There shall be a bottle club license. All applicable license fees
shall be paid by the applicant or licensee directly to the City or Village
Treasurer in the case of premises located inside the corporate limits of a city
or village and directly to the county treasurer in the case of premises located
outside the corporate limits of a city or village.
   (J)   The license year, unless otherwise provided in the Nebraska Liquor
Control Act, shall commence on May 1 of each year and shall end on the
following April 30, except that the license year for a Class C license shall
commence on November 1 of each year and shall end on the following October 31.
During the license year, no license shall be issued for a sum less than the
amount of the annual license fee as fixed in Neb. RS 53-124.01, regardless of
the time when the application for such license has been made, except that:
      (1)   When there is a purchase of an existing licensed business and a new
license of the same class is issued; or
      (2)   Upon the issuance of a new license for a location which has not
been previously licensed, the license fee and occupation taxes shall be
prorated on a quarterly basis as of the date of issuance.
(Neb. RS 53-124) (Prior Code, § 10-403)
§ 110.03 CERTIFICATES.
   The receipt issued after the payment of any occupation tax shall be the
occupation tax certificate. The certificate shall specify the amount of the tax
and the name of the person and business that paid the tax. The occupation tax
certificate shall then be displayed in a prominent place or carried in such a
way as to be easily accessible while business is being conducted.
§ 110.04 FAILURE TO PAY.
   If any person, company or corporation fails or neglects to pay the
occupation taxes as provided in this chapter on the day they become due and
payable, the city shall then proceed by civil suit to collect the amount due.
All delinquent taxes shall bear interest at the rate of 1% per month until
paid.
SPECIFIC BUSINESSES
§ 110.15 PEDDLERS AND HAWKERS.
   (A)   To prevent the sale of fraudulent, dangerous and unhealthful goods and
services, and to protect the public by maintaining records of the products sold
and the persons and companies responsible for such sales, all peddlers and
hawkers shall, before doing business within the city, register with the city.
   (B)   Application for said registration shall be made to the City Clerk and
shall contain all the necessary information and documents required for the
protection of the residents of the city.
   (C)   Any person or persons granted a peddler and hawker license shall be
subject to any fees, occupation taxes and other rules and regulations which the
City Council deems appropriate for the purposes stated herein. Any such
registration shall be valid for a period of seven days after the date of
issuance.
(Prior Code, § 10-201)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-134, 17-525 and 17-562
§ 110.16 GARBAGE HAULERS.
   (A)   It is necessary for the protection of the health, welfare and safety
of the residents of the city that all commercial haulers of garbage within the
city limits use equipment designed for that purpose and equipment which
includes a permanent cover to prevent the spilling or dropping of such garbage.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any commercial garbage hauler in person or by
his, her or its agent, employee or servant, to use any vehicle to haul any kind
of dirt, rubbish, waste articles or things or substance, whether liquid or
solid, unless such vehicle has a permanent cover to prevent any part of its
load from spilling or dropping at all times while such vehicle is in motion on
any street or alley in the city.
(Prior Code, § 10-501) (Ord. 416, passed 4-10-1984) Penalty, see §
110.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 19-2105 and 19-2106
§ 110.17 TOBACCO; LICENSE FOR SALE; APPLICATION.
   Every person, partnership, limited liability company or corporation desiring
a license to sell tobacco at retail shall file with the City Clerk a written
application on forms provided by the city, stating the name of the person,
partnership, limited liability company or corporation for whom the license is
desired and the exact location of the place of business and shall deposit with
the application a license fee in the amount of $10. If the applicant is an
individual, the application shall include the applicant’s Social Security
number.
(Prior Code, § 10-801) (Ord. 670, passed 8-25-1998)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 28-1422 and 28-1423
§ 110.18 FIRE INSURANCE COMPANIES.
   For the use, support and maintenance of the Municipal Fire Department, all
revenue realized from the occupation tax on fire insurance companies shall be
appropriated to the Fire Department Fund.
(Prior Code, § 10-402)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 35-106
§ 110.19 RAILROAD COMPANIES.
   It shall be unlawful for any railroad company to obstruct or obscure the
traveling public’s view by storing or parking any railroad car on a railroad
track within 50 feet of the crossing of any such railroad track and a public
road within the corporate limits of the city; provided, however, in no instance
shall any person who is authorized to control the movement of such railroad car
or cars within such distance be prevented from reasonably conducting his or her
business.
(Prior Code, § 10-601) (Ord. 448, passed 9-24-1985) Penalty, see §
110.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 74-1323
§ 110.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person, firm or corporation violating any of the provisions of §
110.16 of this code shall be fined not less than $10 nor more than $200 for
each offense; and a separate offense shall be deemed committed on each day
during or on which a violation occurs or continues.
(Prior Code, § 10-501) (Ord. 416, passed 4-10-1984)
CHAPTER 111: ALCOHOL REGULATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
111.01   Definitions
   
111.02   Sale or gift to minor or mentally incompetent person prohibited
   
111.03   Minors; prohibited acts involving alcoholic liquor
   
111.04   Consumption in public places or places open to the public;
restrictions
   
111.05   Removal of intoxicated persons from public or quasi-public property
Licenses
   
111.20   Manufacture, sale, delivery and possession; general prohibitions;
exceptions
   
111.21   Acquisition and possession
   
111.22   Licensee requirements
   
111.23   Licenses; city powers and duties
   
111.24   Licensed premises; inspections
   
111.25   License renewal; city powers and duties
   
111.26   Liquor applications; notice; procedure
   
111.27   Retail licensing standards; binding recommendations
   
111.28   Catering licenses
   
111.29   Display of license
   
111.30   Owner of premises or agent; liability
   
111.31   Employer liability for acts of officer, agent or employee
   
111.32   Citizen complaints
Retail Establishments
   
111.45   Location
   
111.46   Access to dwellings
   
111.47   Credit sales prohibited
   
111.48   Original package
   
111.49   Hours of sale
   
111.50   Sanitary conditions
   
111.51   Keg sales; requirements; prohibited acts
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 111.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For purposes of this chapter, the definitions found in Neb. RS 53-103.01
through 53-103.49 shall be used.
   NEBRASKA LIQUOR CONTROL ACT. Neb. RS 53-101 et seq.
§ 111.02 SALE OR GIFT TO MINOR OR MENTALLY INCOMPETENT PERSON PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person or persons to sell, give away, dispose
of, exchange, permit the sale of or make a gift of any alcoholic liquors, or to
procure any such alcoholic liquors to or for any minor, or to any person who is
mentally incompetent.
(Prior Code, § 10-113) (Ord. 362, passed 11-25-1985) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 53-180
§ 111.03 MINORS; PROHIBITED ACTS INVOLVING ALCOHOLIC LIQUOR.
   (A)   For purposes of this section, the definitions found in Neb. RS 53-103
shall apply, including, but not limited to, the definitions of the terms
ALCOHOLIC LIQUOR, CONSUME, MINOR, SALE and TO SELL.
   (B)   Except as provided in §
111.20 of this code, no minor may sell, dispense, consume or have in his or her
possession or physical control any alcoholic liquor in any tavern or in any
other place, including public streets, alleys, roads or highways, upon property
owned by the state or any subdivision thereof, or inside any vehicle while in
or on any other place, including, but not limited to, the public streets,
alleys, roads or highways, or upon property owned by the state or any
subdivision thereof, except that a minor may consume, possess or have physical
control of alcoholic liquor as a part of a bona fide religious rite, ritual or
ceremony or in his or her permanent place of residence.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person under 21 years of age to
transport, consume or knowingly possess or have under his or her control beer
or other alcoholic liquor in or transported by any motor vehicle.
(Prior Code, § 10-119) (Ord. 725, passed 4-23-2002) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 53-180.02
§ 111.04 CONSUMPTION IN PUBLIC PLACES OR PLACES OPEN TO THE PUBLIC;
RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   Except when the state’s Liquor Control Commission has issued a license
as provided in Neb. RS 53-186(2), it is unlawful for any person to consume
alcoholic liquor upon property owned or controlled by the state or any
governmental subdivision thereof unless authorized by the governing bodies
having jurisdiction over such property.
   (B)   It is unlawful for any person owning, operating, managing or
conducting any bottle club, dance hall, restaurant, café or club or any place
open to the general public to permit or allow any person to consume alcoholic
liquor upon the premises except as permitted by a license issued for such
premises pursuant to the Nebraska Liquor Control Act, being Neb. RS 53-101 et
seq. It is unlawful for any person to consume alcoholic liquor in any bottle
club, dance hall, restaurant, café or club or any place open to the general
public except as permitted by a license issued for such premises pursuant to
the Act. This division (B) does not apply to a retail licensee while lawfully
engaged in the catering of alcoholic beverages or to limousines or buses
operated under Neb. RS 60-6,211.08.
(Prior Code, § 10-120) (Ord. 688, passed 10-10-2000) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 53-186.01
§ 111.05 REMOVAL OF INTOXICATED PERSONS FROM PUBLIC OR QUASI-PUBLIC PROPERTY.
   (A)   Any law enforcement officer with the power to arrest for traffic
violations may take a person who is intoxicated and in the judgment of the
officer dangerous to himself, herself or others, or who is otherwise
incapacitated, from any public or quasi-public property. An officer removing an
intoxicated person from public or quasi-public property shall make a reasonable
effort to take such intoxicated person to his or her home or to place such
person in any hospital, clinic or mental health substance use treatment center
or with a medical doctor as may be necessary to preserve life or to prevent
injury. Such effort at placement shall be deemed reasonable if the officer
contacts those facilities or doctor which have previously represented a
willingness to accept and treat such individuals and which regularly do accept
such individuals. If such efforts are unsuccessful or are not feasible, the
officer may then place such intoxicated person in civil protective custody,
except that civil protective custody shall be used only as long as is necessary
to preserve life or to prevent injury, and under no circumstances longer than
24 hours. The placement of such person in civil protective custody shall be
recorded at the facility or jail at which he or she is delivered and
communicated to his or her family or next of kin, if they can be located, or to
such person designated by the person taken into civil protective custody.
   (B)   The law enforcement officer who acts in compliance with this section
shall be deemed to be acting in the course of his or her official duty and
shall not be criminally or civilly liable for such actions. The taking of an
individual into civil protective custody under this section shall not be
considered an arrest. No entry or other record shall be made to indicate that
the person has been arrested or charged with a crime.
   (C)   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      MENTAL HEALTH SUBSTANCE USE TREATMENT CENTER. Has the same meaning as in
Neb. RS 71-423.
      PUBLIC PROPERTY. Any public right-of-way, street, highway, alley, park or
other state-, county- or city-owned property.
      QUASI-PUBLIC PROPERTY. Private- or publicly-owned property utilized for
proprietary or business uses which invites patronage by the public or which
invites public ingress and egress.
(Prior Code, § 10-122) (Ord. 385, passed 10-27-1981; Ord. 364, passed 11-25-
1985)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 53-1,121
LICENSES
§ 111.20 MANUFACTURE, SALE, DELIVERY AND POSSESSION; GENERAL PROHIBITIONS;
EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   No person shall manufacture, bottle, blend, sell, barter, transport,
deliver, furnish or possess any alcoholic liquor for beverage purposes except
as specifically provided in this chapter and the Nebraska Liquor Control Act,
being Neb. RS 53-101 et seq.
   (B)   Nothing in this chapter shall prevent:
      (1)   The possession of alcoholic liquor legally obtained as provided in
this chapter or the Act for the personal use of the possessor and his or her
family or guests;
      (2)   The making, transport and delivery of wine, cider, beer, mead,
perry or other alcoholic liquor by a person from fruits, vegetables, honey or
grains, or the product thereof, by simple fermentation and without
distillation:
         (a)   If made solely for the use of the maker and his or her family
and guests if such alcoholic liquor is not sold or offered for sale; or
         (b)   If made without a permit for an exhibition, festival or tasting
competition, including exhibitions, festivals or tasting competitions that are
for nonprofit organizations such as fundraising events, legally conducted under
the Act, if such alcoholic liquor is not sold or offered for sale. Alcoholic
liquor served pursuant to this division (B)(2)(b) shall clearly be identified
as alcoholic liquor that was manufactured under an exception to the rules and
regulations of the commission by signage, and the location of the manufacturer
shall be available upon request. Free or reduced admission to the exhibition,
festival or tasting competition shall not be considered a sale of the alcoholic
liquor.
      (3)   Any duly licensed practicing physician or dentist from possessing
or using alcoholic liquor in the strict practice of his or her profession, any
hospital or other institution caring for the sick and diseased persons from
possessing and using alcoholic liquor for the treatment of bona fide patients
of such hospital or other institution, or any drug store employing a licensed
pharmacist from possessing or using alcoholic liquor in the compounding of
prescriptions of licensed physicians;
      (4)   The possession and dispensation of alcoholic liquor by an
authorized representative of any religion on the premises of a place of
worship, for the purpose of conducting any bona fide religious rite, ritual or
ceremony;
      (5)   Persons who are 16 years old or older from carrying alcoholic
liquor from licensed establishments when they are accompanied by a person not a
minor;
      (6)   Persons who are 16 years old or older from handling alcoholic
liquor containers and alcoholic liquor in the course of their employment;
      (7)   Persons who are 16 years old or older from removing and disposing
of alcoholic liquor containers for the convenience of the employer and
customers in the course of their employment;
      (8)   Persons who are 16 years or older from completing a transaction for
the sale of alcoholic liquor in the course of their employment if they are not
handling or serving alcoholic liquor; or
      (9)   Persons who are 19 years old or older from serving or selling
alcoholic liquor in the course of their employment.
(Prior Code, § 10-121) (Ord. 447, passed 9-24-1985; Ord. 363, passed 11-25-
1985; Ord. 625, passed 3-26-1996; Ord. 723, passed 4-23-2002) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 53-168.06
§ 111.21 ACQUISITION AND POSSESSION.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to purchase, receive, acquire,
accept or possess any alcoholic liquor acquired from any other person other
than one duly licensed to handle alcoholic liquor under this chapter and the
Nebraska Liquor Control Act, being Neb. RS 53-101 et seq., unless within
specific exemptions or exceptions provided in this chapter or the Act.
(Neb. RS 53-175)
   (B)   (1)   Except as otherwise provided in this section, it shall be
unlawful for any person to transport, import, bring, ship or cause to be
transported, imported, brought or shipped into the state for the personal use
of the possessor, his or her family or guests a quantity of alcoholic liquor in
excess of nine liters in any one calendar month.
      (2)   Division (B)(1) of this section does not apply to a person
importing alcoholic liquor from a holder of a retail direct sales shipping
license or its equivalent, which alcoholic liquor is for personal use or for
use by such person’s family or guests, if the total amount imported by such
person in any one calendar year does not exceed 108 liters.
(Neb. RS 53-194.03) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.22 LICENSEE REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   No license shall be issued to:
      (1)   A person who is not a resident of this state, except in case of
railroad, airline, boat or special party bus licenses;
      (2)   A person who is not of good character and reputation in the
community in which he or she resides;
      (3)   A person who is not a resident of this state and legally able to
work in this state;
      (4)   A person who has been convicted of or has pleaded guilty to a
felony under the laws of this state, any other state or the United States;
      (5)   A person who has been convicted of or has pleaded guilty to any
Class I misdemeanor pursuant Neb. RS Chapter 28, Art. 3, 4, 7, 8, 10, 11 or 12,
or any similar offense under a prior criminal statute or in another state,
except that any additional requirements imposed by this division (A)(5) on May
18, 1983, shall not prevent any person holding a license on that date from
retaining or renewing that license if the conviction or plea occurred prior to
May 18, 1983;
      (6)   A person whose license issued under the Nebraska Liquor Control Act
has been revoked for cause;
      (7)   A person who at the time of application for renewal of any license
issued under the Act would not be eligible for that license upon initial
application;
      (8)   A partnership, unless one of the partners is a resident of this
state and unless all the members of that partnership are otherwise qualified to
obtain a license;
      (9)   A limited liability company, unless one of the members is a
resident of this state and unless all the members of that company are otherwise
qualified to obtain a license;
      (10)   A corporation, if any officer or director of the corporation or
any stockholder owning in the aggregate more than 25% of the stock of that
corporation would be ineligible to receive a license under this section for any
reason other than the reasons stated in divisions (A)(1) and (A)(3) above, or
if a manager of a corporate licensee would be ineligible to receive a license
under this section for any reason. This division (A)(10) shall not apply to
railroad licenses;
      (11)   A person whose place of business is conducted by a manager or
agent, unless that manager or agent possesses the same qualifications required
of the licensee;
      (12)   A person who does not own the premises for which a license is
sought or does not have a lease or combination of leases on the premises for
the full period for which the license is to be issued;
      (13)   Except as provided in this division, an applicant whose spouse is
ineligible under this section to receive and hold a liquor license. Such an
applicant shall become eligible for a liquor license only if the Nebraska
Liquor Control Commission finds from the evidence that the public interest will
not be infringed upon if the license is granted. It shall be prima facie
evidence that when a spouse is ineligible to receive a liquor license, the
applicant is also ineligible to receive a liquor license. This prima facie
evidence shall be overcome if it is shown to the satisfaction of the
Commission:
         (a)   The licensed business will be the sole property of the
applicant; and
         (b) The licensed premises will be properly operated.
      (14)   A person seeking a license for premises which do not meet
standards for fire safety as established by the State Fire Marshal;
      (15)   A law enforcement officer, except that this division shall not
prohibit a law enforcement officer from holding membership in any nonprofit
organization holding a liquor license or from participating in any manner in
the management or administration of a nonprofit organization; or
      (16)   A person less than 21 years of age.
   (B)   When a trustee is the licensee, the beneficiary or beneficiaries of
the trust shall comply with the requirements of this section, but nothing in
this section shall prohibit any such beneficiary from being a minor or person
who is mentally incompetent.
(Neb. RS 53-125) (Prior Code, § 10-106)
§ 111.23 LICENSES; CITY POWERS AND DUTIES.
   (A)   The City Council is authorized to regulate by ordinance, not
inconsistent with the Nebraska Liquor Control Act, being Neb. RS 53-101 et
seq., the business of all retail, bottle club, craft brewery and
microdistillery licensees carried on within the corporate limits of the city.
(Neb. RS 53-134.03)
   (B)   During the period of 45 days after the date of receipt by mail or
electronic delivery from the Nebraska Liquor Control Commission notice and a
copy of an application for a new license to sell alcoholic liquor at retail, a
craft brewery license or a microdistillery license, the City Council may make
and submit to the Commission recommendations relative to the granting or
refusal to grant the license to the applicant.
(Neb. RS 53-131)
   (C)   The City Council, with respect to licenses within the corporate limits
of the city, has the following powers, functions and duties with respect to
retail, bottle club, craft brewery and microdistillery licenses:
      (1)   To cancel or revoke for cause retail, craft brewery or
microdistillery licenses to sell or dispense alcoholic liquor or bottle club
licenses issued to persons for premises within its jurisdiction, subject to the
right of appeal to the Nebraska Liquor Control Commission;
      (2)   To enter or to authorize any law enforcement officer to enter at
any time upon any premises licensed under the Nebraska Liquor Control Act to
determine whether any provision of the Act, any rule or regulation adopted and
promulgated pursuant to the Act, or any ordinance, resolution, rule or
regulation adopted by the City Council has been or is being violated, and at
that time examine the premises of the licensee in connection with such
determination. Any law enforcement officer who determines that any provision of
the Act, any rule or regulation adopted and promulgated pursuant to the Act, or
any ordinance, resolution, rule or regulation adopted by the local governing
body has been or is being violated shall report such violation in writing to
the Executive Director of the Commission:
         (a)   Within 30 days after determining that such violation has
occurred;
         (b)   Within 30 days after the conclusion of an ongoing police
investigation; or
         (c)   Within 30 days after the verdict in a prosecution related to
such an ongoing police investigation if the prosecuting attorney determines
that reporting such violation prior to the verdict would jeopardize such
prosecution, whichever is later;
      (3)   To receive a signed complaint from any citizen within its
jurisdiction that any provision of the Act, any rule or regulation adopted and
promulgated pursuant to the Act, or any ordinance, resolution, rule or
regulation relating to alcoholic liquor has been or is being violated and to
act upon these complaints in the manner provided in the Act;
      (4)   To receive retail, bottle club, craft brewery and microdistillery
license fees as provided in Neb. RS 53-124 and 53-124.01 and pay the same,
after the license has been delivered to the applicant, to the City Treasurer;
      (5)   To examine or cause to be examined any applicant or any retail,
bottle club, craft brewery or microdistillery licensee upon whom notice of
cancellation or revocation has been served as provided in the Act; to examine
or cause to be examined the books and records of any applicant or licensee,
except as otherwise provided for bottle club licensees under state law; and to
hear testimony and to take proof for its information in the performance of its
duties. For purposes of obtaining any of the information desired, the City
Council may authorize its agent or attorney to act on its behalf;
      (6)   To cancel or revoke on its own motion any license if, upon the same
notice and hearing as provided in §
111.30, it determines that the licensee has violated any of the provisions of
the Nebraska Liquor Control Act or any valid and subsisting ordinance,
resolution, rule or regulation duly enacted, adopted and promulgated relating
to alcoholic liquor. The order of cancellation or revocation may be appealed to
the Commission within 30 days after the date of the order by filing a notice of
appeal with the Commission. The Commission shall handle the appeal in the
manner provided for hearing on an application in Neb. RS 53-133;
      (7)   Upon receipt from the Commission of the notice and copy of
application as provided in Neb. RS 53-131, to fix a time and place for a
hearing at which the City Council shall receive evidence, either orally or by
affidavit from the applicant and any other person, bearing upon the propriety
of the issuance of a license. Notice of the time and place of the hearing shall
be published in a legal newspaper in or of general circulation in the city, one
time not less than seven and not more than 14 days before the time of the
hearing. The notice shall include but not be limited to a statement that all
persons desiring to give evidence before the City Council in support of or in
protest against the issuance of the license may do so at the time of the
hearing. The hearing shall be held not more than 45 days after the date of
receipt of the notice from the Commission, and after the hearing the City
Council shall cause to be recorded in the minute record of its proceedings a
resolution recommending either issuance or refusal of the license. The City
Clerk shall mail to the Commission by first class mail, postage prepaid, a copy
of the resolution which shall state the cost of the published notice, except
that failure to comply with this provision shall not void any license issued by
the Commission. If the Commission refuses to issue such a license, the cost of
publication of notice shall be paid by the Commission from the security for
costs;
      (8)   To review and authorize an application by a retail, bottle club,
craft brewery, farm winery or microdistillery licensee for a temporary
expansion of its licensed premises within the jurisdiction of the local
governing body to an immediately adjacent area owned or leased by the licensee
or to an immediately adjacent street, parking lot or alley, not to exceed 50
days for calendar year 2020 and, for each calendar year thereafter, not to
exceed 15 days per calendar year, as provided in Neb. RS 53-123.12 and Neb. RS
53-129; and
      (9)   To review and authorize an application by a craft brewery, farm
winery or microdistillery licensee that holds a promotional farmers market
special designated license for a permit to use such promotional farmers market
special designated license to sell or dispense alcoholic liquor, which the
holder is licensed to produce, at a farmers market within the jurisdiction of
the local governing body as provided in Neb. RS 53-124.17. The local governing
body shall electronically notify the commission within five days after
authorization of any permit pursuant to this division (C)(9).
(Neb. RS 53-134)
   (D)   (1)   When the Nebraska Liquor Control Commission mails or delivers to
the City Clerk a retail, craft brewery or microdistillery license issued or
renewed by the Commission, the Clerk shall deliver the license to the licensee
upon receipt from the licensee of proof of payment of:
         (a)   The license fee if by the terms of Neb. RS 53-124 the fee is
payable to the City Treasurer;
         (b)   Any fee for publication of notice of hearing before the City
Council upon the application for the license;
         (c)   The fee for publication of notice of renewal, if applicable, as
provided in Neb. RS 53-135.01; and
         (d)   Occupation taxes, if any, imposed by the city, except that Class
J retail licensees shall not be subject to occupation taxes.
      (2)   Notwithstanding any ordinance or charter power to the contrary, the
city shall not impose an occupation tax on the business of any person, firm or
corporation licensed under the Nebraska Liquor Control Act and doing business
within the corporate limits of the city in any sum which exceeds two times the
amount of the license fee required to be paid under the Act to obtain that
license.
(Neb. RS 53-132) (Prior Code, § 10-109)
§ 111.24 LICENSED PREMISES; INSPECTION.
   (A)   The City Council shall cause frequent inspection to be made on the
premises of all retail licensees and bottle club licensees. If it is found that
any such licensee is violating any provision of this chapter, the Nebraska
Liquor Control Act, being Neb. RS 53-101 et seq., or the rules and regulations
of the Nebraska Liquor Control Commission, or is failing to observe in good
faith the purposes of this subchapter or the Act, the license may be suspended,
canceled or revoked after the licensee is given an opportunity to be heard in
his or her defense.
   (B)   The City Council may inspect a charter bus providing service under a
certificate of public convenience and necessity granted by the Public Service
Commission when the owner or operator of the charter allows the consumption of
alcoholic liquor in the charter bus by an individual who is 21 years of age or
older so long as the inspection is performed when the bus has stopped for the
purpose of allowing passengers to embark or disembark.
(Neb. RS 53-116.01) (Prior Code, § 10-124) (Ord. 386, passed 1-12-1982; Ord.
773, passed 3-22-2005)
§ 111.25 LICENSE RENEWAL; CITY POWERS AND DUTIES.
   (A)   A retail license issued by the state’s Liquor Control Commission and
outstanding may be automatically renewed by the Commission in the absence of a
written request by the City Council to require the licensee to submit an
application for renewal. Any licensed retail premises located in an area which
is annexed to the city shall file a formal application for a license, and while
such application is pending, the licensee may continue all license privileges
until the original license expires or is canceled or revoked. If such license
expires within 60 days following the annexation date of such area, the license
may be renewed by order of the Commission for not more than one year.
   (B)   The City Clerk shall cause to be published in a legal newspaper in or
of general circulation in the city, one time between January 10 and January 30
of each year, individual notice in the form prescribed by law of the right of
automatic renewal of each retail liquor and beer license within the city,
except that notice of the right of automatic renewal of Class C licenses shall
be published between the dates of July 10 and July 30 of each year. If written
protests to the issuance of automatic renewal of a license are filed in the
office of the City Clerk by three or more residents of the city on or before
February 10 or August 10 for Class C licenses, the City Council shall hold a
hearing to determine whether continuation of the license should be allowed.
Upon the conclusion of any hearing required by this section, the City Council
may request a licensee to submit an application as provided in Neb. RS 53-135.
(Prior Code, § 10-108) (Ord. 406, passed 10-11-1983; Ord. 774, passed 3-22-
2005)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 53-135
§ 111.26 LIQUOR APPLICATIONS; NOTICE; PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Notice.
      (1)   Notice of a hearing held pursuant to Neb. RS 53-134 shall be given
to the applicant by the City Clerk and shall contain the date, time and
location of the hearing.
      (2)   Two or more proceedings which are legally or factually related may
be heard and considered together unless any party thereto makes a showing
sufficient to satisfy the City Council that prejudice would result therefrom.
   (B)   Procedure.
      (1)   Hearings will be informal and conducted by the City Attorney. The
intent is an inquiry into the facts, not an adversarial action. Each witness
may present his or her testimony in narrative fashion or by question and
answer.
      (2)   The City Council or the applicant may order the hearing to be
recorded by the Clerk, at the expense of the applicant(s).
      (3)   (a)   The City Council may admit and give probative effect to
evidence which possesses probative value commonly accepted by reasonably
prudent individuals.
         (b)   The City Attorney may limit testimony where it appears
incompetent, irrelevant or unduly repetitious.
         (c)   If there is opposition to any application and such opposition
desires the opportunity to present arguments and to cross-examine the applicant
and any witnesses in favor of such application, they shall choose a
spokesperson to perform such function who shall notify the City Attorney of his
or her representation prior to the start of the hearing.
      (4)   The order of the proceeding is as follows:
         (a)   Exhibits will be marked in advance by the Clerk and presented to
the City Attorney during the presentation;
         (b)   Presentation of evidence, witnesses and arguments by applicant;
         (c)   Testimony of any other citizens in favor of such proposed
license;
         (d)   Examination of applicant, witnesses or citizens by City
Attorney, City Council or duly appointed agent;
         (e)   Cross-examination of applicant, witnesses or citizens by
spokesperson for opposition, if any;
         (f)   Presentation of evidence and witnesses by opposition;
         (g)   Testimony of any other citizens in opposition to such proposed
license;
         (h)   Presentation of evidence by city and law enforcement personnel;
         (i)   Cross-examination by applicant;
         (j)   Rebuttal evidence by both parties and by city administration and
agent; and
         (k)   Summation by applicant and opposition spokesperson, if any.
      (5)   In all cases, the burden of proof and persuasion shall be on the
party filing the application. Any member of the City Council and the City
Attorney may question any witness, call witnesses or request information. All
witnesses shall be sworn. The City Council may make further inquiry and
investigation following the hearing. The City Council or the applicant may
order the hearing to be recorded by the Clerk, at the expense of the
applicants.
(Prior Code, § 10-126) (Ord. 507, passed 11-28-1989)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 53-134
§ 111.27 RETAIL LICENSING STANDARDS; BINDING RECOMMENDATIONS.
   (A)   Local governing bodies shall only have authority to approve
applications and deny licenses pursuant to the Nebraska Liquor Control Act,
being Neb. RS 53-101 et seq. The City Council shall only consider the following
licensing standards and criteria at the hearing and an evaluation of any
applicant for a retail alcoholic liquor license, for the upgrading of a license
to sell alcoholic liquor, or for the expansion or change in location of the
premises, and for the purpose of formulating a recommendation from the City
Council to the state’s Liquor Control Commission in accordance with the state’s
Liquor Control Act:
      (1)   The adequacy of existing law enforcement resources and services in
the area;
      (2)   The recommendation of the Police Department or any other law
enforcement agency;
      (3)   Existing motor vehicle and pedestrian traffic flow in the vicinity
of the proposed licensed premises, potential traffic and parking problems, and
the proximity and availability of on-street and off-street parking;
      (4)   Zoning restrictions and the local governing body’s zoning and land-
use policies;
      (5)   Sanitation or sanitary conditions on or about the proposed licensed
premises;
      (6)   The existence of a citizen’s protest and similar evidence in
support of or in opposition to the application;
      (7)   The existing population and projected growth within the
jurisdiction of the local governing body and within the area to be served;
      (8)   The existing liquor licenses, the class of each such license, and
the distance and times of travel between establishments that issued such
licenses;
      (9)   Whether the proposed license would be compatible with the
neighborhood or community where the proposed premises is located;
      (10)   Whether the type of business or activity proposed to be operated
or presently operated in conjunction with the proposed license is and will be
consistent with the public interest as declared in Neb. RS 53-101.01;
      (11)   Whether the applicant can ensure that all alcoholic beverages,
including beer and wine, will be handled by persons in accordance with Neb. RS
53-168.06;
      (12)   Whether the applicant has taken every precaution to protect
against the possibility of shoplifting of alcoholic liquor, which alcoholic
liquor shall be displayed and kept in and sold from an area which is reasonably
secured;
      (13)   Whether the applicant is fit, willing and able to properly provide
the service proposed in conformance with all provisions and requirements of and
rules and regulations adopted and promulgated pursuant to the Act;
      (14)   Whether the applicant has demonstrated that the type of management
and control exercised over the licensed premises will be sufficient to ensure
that the licensee can conform to all the provisions and requirements of and
rules and regulations adopted and promulgated pursuant to the Act;
      (15)   The background information of the applicant established by
information contained in the public records of the Commission and
investigations conducted by law enforcement agencies;
      (16)   Past evidence of discrimination involving the applicant as
evidenced by findings of fact before any administrative board or agency of the
local governing body, any other governmental board or agency of the local
governing body, any other governmental unit or any court of law;
      (17)   Whether the applicant or the applicant’s representatives
suppressed any fact or provided any inaccurate information to the Commission or
local governing body or the employees of the Commission in regard to the
license application or liquor investigations. The applicant shall be required
to cooperate in providing a full disclosure to the investigating agents of the
local governing body;
      (18)   Proximity of and impact on schools, hospitals, libraries, parks
and public institutions;
      (19)   Whether activities proposed to be conducted on the licensed
premises or in adjacent related outdoor areas will create unreasonable noise or
disturbance; and
      (20)   Compliance with state laws, liquor rules and regulations and
municipal ordinances and regulations and whether or not the applicant has ever
forfeited bond to appear in court to answer charges of having committed a
felony or charges of having violated any law or ordinance enacted in the
interest of good morals and decency or has been convicted of violating or has
forfeited bond to appear in court and answer charges for violating any law or
ordinance relating to alcoholic liquor.
   (B)   It shall be the applicant’s duty to produce evidence pertaining to the
designated criteria prescribed in division (A) above. The burden of proof and
persuasion shall be on the party filing the application. When applicable for
purposes of this section, “applicant” shall be synonymous with “licensee.”
(Prior Code, § 10-127) (Ord. 508, passed 11-28-1989)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 53-134
§ 111.28 CATERING LICENSES.
   (A)   The holder of a license to sell alcoholic liquor at retail issued
under Neb. RS 53-124 or a craft brewery license may obtain an annual catering
license by filing an application and license fee with the state’s Liquor
Control Commission.
   (B)   Upon receipt from the Commission of the notice and a copy of the
application as provided in Neb. RS 53-124.12, the City Council shall process
the application in the same manner as provided in §
111.23 of this code.
   (C)   The City Council, with respect to catering licensees within its
corporate limits, may cancel a catering license for cause for the remainder of
the period for which such catering license is issued. Any person whose catering
license is canceled may appeal to the District Court.
   (D)   The City Council may impose an occupation tax on the business of a
catering licensee doing business within the liquor license jurisdiction of the
City Council. The tax may not exceed double the license fee for a catering
license.
(Prior Code, § 10-125) (Ord. 494, passed 10-25-1988; Ord. 541, passed 3-24-
1992; Ord. 598, passed 3-14-1995; Ord. 658, passed 7-22-1997; Ord. 687, passed
10-10-2000; Ord. 775, passed 3-22-2005)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 53-124.12
§ 111.29 DISPLAY OF LICENSE.
   Every licensee under the Nebraska Liquor Control Act shall cause his or her
license to be framed and hung in plain view in a conspicuous place on the
licensed premises.
(Neb. RS 53-148) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.30 OWNER OF PREMISES OR AGENT; LIABILITY.
   If the owner of the licensed premises or any person from whom the licensee
derives the right to possession of the premises, or the agent of that owner or
person, knowingly permits the licensee to use the licensed premises in
violation of the terms of the Nebraska Liquor Control Act, being Neb. RS 53-101
et seq., or any city ordinance, that owner, agent or other person shall be
deemed guilty of a violation of the Act or ordinance to the same extent as the
licensee and be subject to the same punishment.
(Neb. RS 53-1,101) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.31 EMPLOYER LIABILITY FOR ACTS OF OFFICER, AGENT OR EMPLOYEE.
   Every act or omission of whatsoever nature constituting a violation of any
of the provisions of the Nebraska Liquor Control Act, being Neb. RS 53-101 et
seq., or any city ordinance by any officer, director, manager or other agent or
employee of any licensee, if the act is committed or omission is made with the
authorization, knowledge or approval of the licensee, shall be deemed and held
to be the act of the employer or licensee, and the employer or licensee shall
be punishable in the same manner as if the act or omission had been done or
omitted by the licensee personally.
(Neb. RS 53-1,102) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.32 CITIZEN COMPLAINTS.
   Any five residents of the city shall have the right to file a complaint with
the City Council stating that any retail licensee subject to the jurisdiction
of the City Council has been or is violating any provision of the Nebraska
Liquor Control Act, being Neb. RS 53- 101 et seq., or the rules or regulations
issued pursuant to the Act. Such complaint shall be in writing in the form
prescribed by the City Council and shall be signed and sworn to by the parties
complaining. The complaint shall state the particular provision, rule or
regulation believed to have been violated and the facts in detail upon which
belief is based. If the City Council is satisfied that the complaint
substantially charges a violation and that from the facts alleged there is
reasonable cause for such belief, it shall set the matter for hearing within
ten days from the date of the filing of the complaint and shall serve notice
upon the licensee of the time and place of such hearing and of the particular
charge in the complaint. The complaint shall in all cases be disposed of by the
City Council within 30 days from the date the complaint was filed by resolution
thereof, which resolution shall be deemed the final order for purposes of
appeal to the state’s Liquor Control Commission as provided in Neb. RS 53-
1,115.
(Prior Code, § 10-123) (Ord. 365, passed 11-25-1985; Ord. 776, passed 3-22-
2005)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 53-134.04
RETAIL ESTABLISHMENTS
§ 111.45 LOCATION.
   (A)   Except as otherwise provided in division (B) below, no license shall
be issued for the sale at retail of any alcoholic liquor or for a bottle club
within 150 feet of any church, school, hospital or home for indigent persons or
for veterans and their wives or children. This prohibition does not apply to
any location within such distance of 150 feet:
      (1)   For which a license to sell alcoholic liquor at retail or for a
bottle club has been granted by the state’s Liquor Control Commission for two
years continuously prior to making of application for license;
      (2)   To hotels offering restaurant service, to regularly organized
clubs, or to restaurants, food shops or other places where sale of alcoholic
liquor is not the principal business carried on, if such place of business so
exempted was established for such purposes prior to May 24, 1935; or
      (3)   To a college or university in the state which is subject to Neb. RS
53-177.01.
   (B)   If a proposed location for the sale at retail of any alcoholic liquor
or for a bottle club is within 150 feet of any church, a license may be issued
if the Commission gives notice to the affected church and holds a hearing as
prescribed in Neb. RS 53-133 if the affected church submits a written request
for a hearing.
(Neb. RS 53-177)
   (C)   No alcoholic liquor, other than beer, shall be sold for consumption on
the premises within 300 feet from the campus of any college or university
within the city, and no bottle club shall be operated within 300 feet from the
campus of any college, except that this section:
      (1)   Does not prohibit a nonpublic college or university from
contracting with an individual or corporation holding a license to sell
alcoholic liquor at retail for the purpose of selling alcoholic liquor at
retail on the campus of such college or university at events sanctioned by such
college or university but does prohibit the sale of alcoholic liquor at retail
by such licensee on the campus of such nonpublic college or university at
student activities or events; and
      (2)   Does not prohibit sales of alcoholic liquor by a community college
culinary education program pursuant to Neb. RS 53-124.15.
(Neb. RS 53-177.01) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   State commission may waive 300-feet requirement, see Neb. RS 53-177.01 
§ 111.46 ACCESS TO DWELLINGS.
   Except in the case of hotels and clubs, no alcoholic liquor shall be
manufactured or sold at retail or wholesale upon any premises which have any
access which leads from the premises to any other portion of the same building
or structure used for dwelling or lodging purposes and permitted to be used or
kept accessible for use by the public. This section does not prevent any
connection between the premises and such other portion of the building or
structure which is used only by the licensee, his or her family or personal
guests.
(Neb. RS 53-178) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.47 CREDIT SALES PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No person shall sell or furnish alcoholic liquor at retail to any
person on credit, on a passbook, on an order on a store, in exchange for any
goods, wares or merchandise, or in payment for any services rendered, and if
any person extends credit for any such purpose, the debt thereby attempted to
be created shall not be recoverable at law.
   (B)   Nothing in this section shall prevent the following:
      (1)   Any club holding a Class C license from permitting checks or
statements for alcoholic liquor to be signed by members or bona fide guests of
members and charged to the account of such members or guests in accordance with
the bylaws of such club;
      (2)   Any hotel or restaurant holding a retail license from permitting
checks or statements for liquor to be signed by regular guests residing at such
hotel or eating at such restaurant and charged to the accounts of such guests;
or
      (3)   Any licensed retailer engaged in the sale of wine or distilled
spirits from issuing tasting cards to customers.
(Neb. RS 53-183) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.48 ORIGINAL PACKAGE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person or persons who own, manage or lease any
premises in which the sale of alcoholic beverages is licensed, to have in their
possession for sale at retail any alcoholic liquor contained in casks, or other
containers, except in the original package. Nothing in this section shall
prohibit the refilling of original packages of alcoholic liquor for strictly
private use and not for resale.
(Prior Code, § 10-116) (Ord. 538, passed 3-24-1992) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 53-184
§ 111.49 HOURS OF SALE.
   (A)   No alcoholic liquor, including beer, shall be sold at retail or
dispensed on any day between the hours of 1:00 a.m. and 6:00 a.m. except that
the City Council with respect to area inside the corporate limits of the city
may by ordinance or resolution:
      (1)   Require closing prior to 1:00 a.m. on any day;
      (2)   If adopted by a vote of at least two-thirds of the members of the
City Council, permit retail sale or dispensing of alcoholic liquor for
consumption on the premises, excluding sales for consumption off the premises,
later than 1:00 a.m. and prior to 2:00 a.m. on any day;
      (3)   If adopted by a vote of at least two-thirds of the members of City
Council, permit retail sale of alcoholic liquor for consumption off the
premises later than 1:00 a.m. and prior to 2:00 a.m. on any day; or
      (4)   If adopted by a vote of at least two-thirds of the members of City
Council, permit retail sale or dispensing of alcoholic liquor for consumption
on the premises, excluding sales for consumption off the premises and permit
retail sale of alcoholic liquor for consumption off the premises later than 1:
00 a.m. and prior to 2:00 a.m. on any day.
   (B)   Except as provided for and allowed by ordinance of the City Council,
no alcoholic liquor, including beer, shall be sold at retail or dispensed
inside the corporate limits of the city between the hours of 6:00 a.m. Sunday
and 1:00 a.m. Monday. This division (B) shall not apply after 12:00 noon on
Sunday to a licensee which is a nonprofit corporation and the holder of a Class
C license or a Class I license.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful on property licensed to sell alcoholic liquor at
retail to allow alcoholic liquor in open containers to remain or be in
possession or control of any person for purposes of consumption between the
hours of 15 minutes after the closing hour applicable to the licensed premises
and 6:00 a.m. on any day.
   (D)   Nothing in this section shall prohibit licensed premises from being
open for other business on days and hours during which the sale or dispensing
of alcoholic liquor is prohibited by this section.
(Neb. RS 53-179) (Prior Code, § 10-117)
§ 111.50 SANITARY CONDITIONS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to open for public use any retail liquor
establishment that is not in a clean and sanitary condition. Toilet facilities
shall be adequate and convenient for customers and patrons. The licensed
premises shall be subject to any health inspections the City Council or the
city police may make or cause to be made.
   (B)   All applications for liquor licenses shall be viewed in part from the
standpoint of the sanitary conditions, and a report concerning the sanitary
conditions shall be made at all hearings concerning the application for or
renewal of a liquor license.
Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Authority to regulate licensed premises, see Neb. RS 53-134.03
   State sanitary rules and regulations authorized, see Neb. RS 53-118
§ 111.51 KEG SALES; REQUIREMENTS; PROHIBITED ACTS.
   (A)   When any person licensed to sell alcoholic liquor at retail sells
alcohol for consumption off the premises in a container with a liquid capacity
of five or more gallons or eighteen and ninety-two hundredths or more liters,
the seller shall record the date of sale, the keg identification number, the
purchaser’s name and address, and the number of the purchaser’s motor vehicle
operator’s license, state identification card or military identification, if
such military identification contains a picture of the purchaser, together with
the purchaser’s signature. Such record shall be on a form prescribed by the
Liquor Control Commission and shall be kept by the licensee at the retail
establishment where the purchase was made for not less than six months. Such
records kept pursuant to this section shall be available for inspection by any
law enforcement officer during normal business hours or at any other reasonable
time. Any person violating this section shall be guilty of an offense.
   (B)   Licensees shall place a label bearing a keg identification number on
each keg at the time of retail sale. Any person who unlawfully tampers with,
alters or removes the keg identification number from a container described in
division (A) above or is in possession of a container described in division (A)
above with an altered or removed keg identification number after such container
has been taken from the licensed premises pursuant to a retail sale and before
its return to such licensed premises or other place where returned kegs are
accepted shall be guilty of an offense.
(Prior Code, § 10-128) (Ord. 587, passed 6-14-1994) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 53-167.02 and 53-167.03
CHAPTER 112: AMUSEMENTS AND LEISURE
Section
Bingo and Lottery
   
112.01   Regulation
   
112.02   Incorporated regulation
   
112.03   Sales outlet locations; approval required; qualification standards
   
112.04   Participation restrictions
BINGO AND LOTTERY
§ 112.01 REGULATION.
   (A)   Games of bingo shall be conducted within the city in accordance with
all laws of the city and the state if said game of bingo is played for or
involves profit or gain. Any association duly licensed by the state to conduct
the game of bingo shall obtain a written permit from the City Council before
commencing operation of said game. Application shall be made to the City Clerk
for such permit. Said application form shall contain such information and
documents or copies thereof as the City Council deems necessary to determine
whether to grant or reject the application.
   (B)   Upon the determination that granting the application would be proper,
the City Council shall immediately direct the City Clerk to issue said license
to the applicant upon the payment of a fee of $10. Said license shall be
subject to revocation at any time for good cause. Any person or persons, so
licensed, shall be subject to any other fees, rules, and regulations which the
City Council may designate. All permits so issued will automatically expire on
September 30, following its issuance or renewal. The fee for each renewal
unless otherwise prescribed shall be in the sum of $10. Said fee shall be
credited to the General Fund. The permit shall be on display at any place where
a game of bingo is conducted.
(Prior Code, § 10-301) (Ord. 432, passed 11-13-1984)
§ 112.02 INCORPORATED REGULATION.
   All applicable state statutes as they now exist or may hereafter be amended
shall be, and will constitute, a part of this subchapter as if repeated
verbatim herein, and violation of any state statute will be a distinct and
separate offense against the city as well as against the state. Violators
thereof shall be separately prosecuted by the city for each of such offenses,
and if convicted, shall be deemed to be guilty of a misdemeanor.
(Prior Code, § 10-304) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 9-201 et seq.
§ 112.03 SALES OUTLET LOCATIONS; APPROVAL REQUIRED; QUALIFICATION STANDARDS.
   (A)   The lottery operator whom the City Council contracts to conduct its
lottery shall not operate the lottery at a sales outlet location other than the
location of the lottery operator without prior approval of the sales outlet
location by the City Council. The City Council shall approve or disapprove each
sales outlet location and individual sole proprietorship, partnership or
corporation which desires to conduct the lottery at its sales outlet location
solely on the basis of the qualification standards prescribed in division (B)
below.
   (B)   Any individual, sole proprietorship, partnership or corporation which
seeks to have its location approved as an authorized sales outlet location
shall:
      (1)   First obtain a retail liquor license for consumption on the
premises pursuant to Neb. RS 53-1;
      (2)   Not have been convicted of, forfeited bond upon a charge of, or
pleaded guilty to forgery, larceny, extortion, conspiracy to defraud, willful
failure to make required payments or reports to a governmental agency at any
level, filing false reports with any such agency, or any similar offense or
offenses or any crime, whether felony or misdemeanor, involving gambling
activity or moral turpitude;
      (3)   Not have had a gaming license revoked or cancelled under the
Nebraska Bingo Act, being Neb. RS 9-201 et seq.; Pickle Card Lottery Act, being
Neb. RS 9-301 et seq.; Lottery and Raffle Act, being Neb. RS 9-401 et seq.; or
County and City Lottery Act, being Neb. RS 9-601 et seq.; and
      (4)   Be fit, willing and able to properly provide the service proposed
in conformance with all provisions and requirements of the state’s County and
City Lottery Act and the rules and regulations adopted and promulgated pursuant
to the Act.
   (C)   If the person seeking to have its location approved as an authorized
sales outlet location is a partnership or corporation, the qualification
standards shall apply to every partner of such partnership, every officer of
such corporation and stockholder owning more than 10% of the stock of such
corporation.
   (D)   The City Council shall notify the Department of Revenue of all
approved lottery locations within 30 days of approval.
(Prior Code, § 10-305) (Ord. 760, passed 12-14-2004)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 9-642.01
§ 112.04 PARTICIPATION RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   No person under 19 years of age shall play or participate in any way
in the lottery established and conducted by the City Council.
   (B)   The operator as well as agents of the operator shall be prohibited
from participating in the keno-style lottery. The contractor or anyone having
ownership in the sales outlet location and employees of the sales outlet
location shall be prohibited from playing while on duty and for a period of one
hour after they are off duty at the sales outlet location where they are
employed.
   (C)   Nothing shall prohibit any member of the City Council, a municipal
official or the immediate family of such member or official from playing the
lottery established and conducted by the City Council; provided that such
person is 19 years of age or older.
   (D)   For purposes of this section, IMMEDIATE FAMILY shall mean a person who
is related to the member, official or operator by blood, marriage or adoption
and resides in the same household of the member, official or operator or person
who is claimed by the member, official, operator or spouse of a member,
official or operator as a dependent for federal income tax purposes.
(Prior Code, § 10-306) (Ord. 763, passed 1-11-2005)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 9-646
CHAPTER 113: SEXUALLY-ORIENTED BUSINESSES
Section
General Provisions
   
113.01   Definitions
   
113.02   Classification
   
113.03   Exemptions
   
113.04   Notices
   
113.05   Injunction
Licensing Regulations
   
113.20   License required
   
113.21   Issuance of license
   
113.22   Fees
   
113.23   Inspection
   
113.24   Suspension
   
113.25   Revocation
   
113.26   Judicial review
   
113.27   No transfer of license
Conditions of Operation
   
113.40   Location restrictions
   
113.41   Nonconforming uses; amortization
   
113.42   Adult motels
   
113.43   Escort agencies
   
113.44   Nude model studios
   
113.45   Public nudity
   
113.46   Sexually explicit films and videos
   
113.47   Exteriors portions of sexually-oriented businesses
   
113.48   Signage
   
113.49   Alcoholic beverages prohibited
   
113.50   Minors prohibited from entry; attendant required
   
113.51   Massages or baths administered by person of opposite sex
   
113.52   Hours of operation
 
   
113.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 113.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ADULT ARCADE. Any place to which the public is permitted or invited wherein
coin-operated or slug-operated or electronically, electrically or mechanically
controlled still or motion picture machines, projectors, videos or other image-
producing devices are maintained to show images to five or fewer persons per
machine at any one time, and where the images so displayed are distinguished or
characterized by the depicting or describing of specified sexual activities or
specified anatomical areas.
   ADULT BOOKSTORE or ADULT VIDEO STORE. A commercial establishment that, as
one of its principal business purposes, offers for sale or rental for any form
or consideration any one or more of the following: Books; magazines;
periodicals or others printed matter or photographs; films; motion picture;
video cassettes or video reproductions; slides or other visual representations
that are distinguished or characterized by the depicting or describing of
specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas; or instruments,
devices or paraphernalia that are designed for use in connections with
specified sexual activities. A principal business purpose exists if materials
offered for sale or rental depicting or describing specified sexual activities
or specified anatomical areas generate 20% or more of total floor space. A
commercial establishment may have other principal business purposes that do not
involve the offering for sale or rental of material depicting or describing
specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas and still be
categorized as ADULT BOOKSTORE or ADULT VIDEO STORE. Such other business
purposes will not serve to exempt such commercial establishments from being
categorized as an ADULT BOOKSTORE or ADULT VIDEO STORE as long as one of its
principal business purposes is the offering for sale or rental for
consideration the specified materials that depict or describe specified sexual
activities or specified anatomical areas.
   ADULT CABARET. A nightclub, bar, restaurant, café or similar commercial
establishment that regularly, commonly, habitually or consistently features:
      (1)   Persons who appear in a state of nudity or semi-nudity;
      (2)   Live performances that are distinguished or characterized by the
exposure of specified anatomical areas or by specified sexual activities;
      (3)   Films, motions pictures, video cassettes, slides, photographic
reproductions or other image producing devices that are distinguished or
characterized by the depiction or description of specified sexual activities or
specified anatomical areas; or
      (4)   Persons who engage in exotic or erotic dancing or performances that
are intended for the sexual interests or titillation of an audience or
customers.
   ADULT MOTEL. A hotel, motel or similar commercial establishment that:
      (1)   Offers accommodation to the public for any form of consideration
and provides patrons with closed-circuit television transmissions, films,
motions pictures, video cassettes, slides or other photographic reproductions
that are distinguished or characterized by the depiction or description of
specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas; and has a sign
visible from the public right-of-way that advertises the availability of this
adult type of photographic reproductions;
      (2)   Offers a sleeping room for rent for a period of time that is less
than 24 hours; or
      (3)   Allows a tenant or occupant of a sleeping room to sub-rent the room
for a period of time that is less than 24 hours.
   ADULT MOTION PICTURE THEATER. A commercial establishment where, for any form
of consideration, films, motion pictures, video cassettes, slides or similar
photographic reproductions are regularly, commonly, habitually or consistently
shown that are distinguished or characterized by the depiction or description
of specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas.
   ADULT THEATER. A theater, concert hall, auditorium or similar commercial
establishment that regularly, commonly, habitually or consistently features
persons who appear, in person, in a state of nudity and/or semi-nudity, and/or
live performances that are distinguished or characterized by the exposure of
specified anatomical areas or by specified sexual activities.
   DIRECTOR. The Chief of Police and such employee(s) of the Police Department
as he or she may designate to perform the duties of the Director under this
chapter.
   EMPLOYEE. A person who performs any service on the premises of a sexually-
oriented business on a full-time, part-time, contract basis or independent
basis, whether or not the person is denominated an employee, independent
contractor, agent or otherwise, and whether or not said person is paid a
salary, wage or other compensation by the operator of said business. EMPLOYEE
does not include a person exclusively on the premises for repair or maintenance
of the premises or equipment on the premises, or for the delivery of good to
the premises, nor does EMPLOYEE include a person exclusively on the premises as
a patron or customer.
   ESCORT. A person who, for consideration, agrees or offers to act as a
companion, guide or date for another person, or who agrees or offers to
privately model lingerie or to privately perform a striptease for another
person.
   ESCORT AGENCY. A person or business association who furnishes, offers to
furnish or advertises to furnish escorts as one of its primary business
purposes for a fee, tip or other consideration.
   ESTABLISHMENT. Means and includes any of the following:
      (1)   The opening or commencement of any sexually-oriented business as a
new business;
      (2)   The conversion of an existing business, whether or not a sexually-
oriented business, to any sexually-oriented business;
      (3)   The additions of any sexually-oriented business to any other
existing sexually-oriented business;
      (4)   The relocation of any sexually-oriented business; or
      (5)   A sexually-oriented business or premises on which the sexually-
oriented business is located.
   LICENSED DAY-CARE CENTER. A facility licensed by the state, whether situated
within the city or not, that provides care, training, education, custody,
treatment or supervision for more than 12 children under 14 years of age, where
such children are not related by blood, marriage or adoption to the owner or
operator of the facility, for less than 24 hours a day, regardless of whether
or not the facility is operated for a profit or charges for the services it
offers.
   LICENSEE. A person in whose name a license has been issued, as well as the
individual listed as an applicant on the application for a license.
   LIVE THEATRICAL PERFORMANCE. A play, skit, opera, ballet, concert, comedy or
musical drama.
   NUDE MODEL STUDIO. Any place where a person who appears in a state of nudity
or displays specified anatomical areas is provided to be observed, sketched,
drawn, painted, sculptured, photographed or similarly depicted by other persons
for consideration.
   NUDITY or STATE OF NUDITY. The appearance of a human bare buttock, anus,
anal cleft or cleavage, pubic area, male genitals, female genitals or vulva,
with less than a fully opaque covering, or a female breast with less than a
full opaque covering of any part of the areola; or human male genitals in a
discernibly turgid state even if completely and opaquely covered.
   PERSON. An individual, proprietorship, partnership, corporation, association
or other legal entity.
   PREMISES. The real property upon which the sexually-oriented business is
located, and all appurtenances thereto and buildings thereon, including, but
not limited to, the sexually-oriented business, the grounds, private walkways,
and parking lots and/or parking garages adjacent thereto, under the ownership,
control or supervision of the licensee, as described in the application for a
business license pursuant to §
113.21 of this code.
   SEMI-NUDE or SEMI-NUDITY. The appearance of the female breast below a
horizontal line across the top of the areola at its highest point. This
definition shall include the entire lower portion of the human female breast
but shall not include any portion of the cleavage of the human female breast
exhibited by a dress, blouse, skirt, leotard, bathing suit or other wearing
apparel provided the areola is not exposed in whole or in part.
   SEXUAL ENCOUNTER CENTER. A business or commercial enterprise that, as one of
its principal business purposes, offers for any form of consideration: Physical
contact in the form of wrestling or tumbling between persons of the opposite
sex; or activities between persons of the opposite sex and/or persons of the
same sex when one or more of the persons is in a state of nudity or semi-
nudity. A principal business purpose exists if the services offered are
intended to generate business income.
   SEXUALLY-ORIENTED BUSINESS. An adult arcade, adult bookstore or adult video
store, adult cabaret, adult motel, adult motion picture theater, adult theater,
escort agency, nude model studio or sexual encounter center.
   SPECIFIED ANATOMICAL AREAS.
      (1)   The human male genitals in a discernibly turgid state, even if
fully and opaquely covered; and
      (2)   Less than completely and opaquely covered human genitals, pubic
region, buttocks or a female breast below a point immediately above the tip of
the areola.
   SPECIFIED CRIMINAL ACTIVITY. Any of the following offenses:
      (1)   Prostitution or promotion of prostitution; dissemination of
obscenity; sale, distribution or display of harmful material to a minor; sexual
performance by a child; possession or distribution of child pornography; public
lewdness; indecent exposure; indecency with a child; sexual assault;
molestation of a child; or any similar sex-related offenses to those described
above under the criminal or penal code of the state, other states or other
countries;
      (2)   For which:
         (a)   Less than two years have elapsed since the since the date of
conviction or the date of release from confinement imposed for the conviction,
whichever is the later date, if the conviction is of a misdemeanor offense;
         (b)   Less than five years have elapsed since the date of conviction
or the date of release from confinement imposed for the conviction whichever is
the later date, if the conviction is of a felony offense; or
         (c)   Less than five years have elapsed since the date of the last
conviction or the date of release from confinement imposed for the last
conviction, whichever is the later date, if the convictions are for two or more
misdemeanor offenses or combination of misdemeanor offenses occurring within
any 24-month period.
      (3)   The fact that a conviction is being appealed shall have no effect
on the disqualification of the applicant.
   SPECIFIED SEXUAL ACTIVITIES. Includes any of the following:
         (1)   The fondling or other erotic touching of human genitals, pubic
region, buttocks, anus or female breasts, whether covered or uncovered;
         (2)   Sex acts, normal or perverted, actual or simulated, including
intercourse, oral copulation or sodomy;
         (3)   Masturbation, actual or simulated; or
         (4)   Excretory functions as part of or in connection with any of the
activities set forth in divisions (1) through (3) of this definition.
   SUBSTANTIAL ENLARGEMENT OF A SEXUALLY-ORIENTED BUSINESS. The increase in
floor areas occupied by the business by more than 25%, as the floor areas
existed on the date the business opened to the public.
   TRANSFER OF OWNERSHIP OR CONTROL OF A SEXUALLY-ORIENTED BUSINESS. Includes
any of the following:
      (1)   The sale, lease or sublease of the business;
      (2)   The transfer of securities that form a controlling interest in the
business, whether by sale, exchange or similar means; or
      (3)   The establishment of a trust, gift or other similar legal device
that transfers the ownership or control of the business, except for the
transfer by bequest or other operation of law upon the death of the person
possessing the ownership or control.
(Prior Code, § 10-901) (Ord. 751, passed 3-23-2004)
§ 113.02 CLASSIFICATION.
   Sexually-oriented business uses are classified as either non-live
entertainment or live entertainment, as follows:
   (A)   Non-live entertainment shall include:
      (1)   Adult arcades;
      (2)   Adult bookstores or adult video stores;
      (3)   Adult motels; or
      (4)   Adult motion picture theaters.
   (B)   Live entertainment shall include:
      (1)   Adult theaters;
      (2)   Adult cabarets;
      (3)   Escort agencies;
      (4)   Nude model studios; or
      (5)   Sexual encounter centers.
(Prior Code, § 10-902) (Ord. 751, passed 3-23-2004)
§ 113.03 EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   It is a defense to prosecution under this chapter that a person
appearing in a state of nudity did so in a modeling class operated:
      (1)   By a proprietary school, licensed by the state, a college junior
college or university supported entirely or partly by taxation; or
      (2)   By a private college or university that maintains and operates
educational programs in which credits are transferable to a college, junior
college or university supported entirely or partly by taxation.
   (B)   Notwithstanding any other provision in this chapter, movies rated G,
PG, PG-13 or R by the Motion Picture Association of America (MPAA), or live
theatrical performances with serious artistic, social or political value, that
depict or describe specified anatomical areas or specified sexual activities,
are expressly exempted from regulation under this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 10-924) (Ord. 751, passed 3-23-2004)
§ 113.04 NOTICES.
   (A)   Any notice required or permitted to be given by the Director or any
other city office, division, department or other agency under this chapter to
any applicant, operator or owner of a sexually-oriented business may be given
either by personal delivery or by certified United States mail, postage
prepaid, return receipt requested, addressed to the most recent address as
specified in the application for the license, or any notice of address change
that has been received by the Director. Notices mailed as above shall be deemed
given upon their deposit in the United States mail. In the event that any
notice given by mail is returned by the postal service, the Director or his or
her designee shall cause it to be posted at the principal entrance to the
establishment.
   (B)   Any notice required or permitted to be given to the Director by any
person under this chapter shall not be deemed given until and unless it is
received in the office of the Director.
   (C)   It shall be the duty of each owner who is designated on the license
application and each operator to furnish notice to the Director in writing of
any change or residence or mailing address.
(Prior Code, § 10-925) (Ord. 751, passed 3-23-2004)
§ 113.05 INJUNCTION.
   A person who operates or causes to be operated a sexually-oriented business
without a valid operator’s license, or in violation of §
113.42 of this code, is subject to a suit for injunction as well as prosecution
for criminal violations. Each day a sexually-oriented business so operates is a
separate offense or violation.
(Prior Code, § 10-926) (Ord. 751, passed 3-23-2004)
LICENSING REGULATIONS
§ 113.20 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   (A)   (1)   It shall be unlawful:
         (a)   For any person to operate a sexually-oriented business without a
valid sexually-oriented business operator’s license issued by the Director
pursuant to this subchapter;
         (b)   For any person who operated a sexually-oriented business to
employ a person to work and/or perform services on the premises of the
sexually-oriented business, if such employee is not in possession of a valid
sexually-oriented business employee license issued to such employee by the
Director pursuant to this subchapter; or
         (c)   For any person to obtain employment with a sexually-oriented
business if such person is not in possession of a valid sexually-oriented
business employee license issued to such person by the Director pursuant to
this subchapter.
         (d)   It shall be a defense to divisions (A)(1)(b) and (A)(1)(c) above
if the employment is of limited duration and for the sole purpose of repair
and/or maintenance of machinery, equipment or the premises.
      (2)   Violation of any provision within this division (A) shall
constitute a misdemeanor.
   (B)   An application for a sexually-oriented business operator’s license
must be made on a form provided by the city. The application must be
accompanied by a sketch or a diagram showing the configuration of the premises,
including a statement of total floor space occupied by the business. The sketch
or diagram need not be professionally prepared but must be drawn to a
designated scale or drawn with marked dimensions of the interior of the
premises to an accuracy of plus or minus six inches. Prior to issuance of an
operator’s license, the premises must be inspected by the Health Department,
Building Department and Zoning Department. Prior inspection by the Health
Department and Building Department shall be required only when the provisions
set forth in §§
113.45 and
113.46 of this code are applicable. (See Schultz v. City of Cumberland, 228
F.3d 831 (7th Cir. 2000).
   (C)   An application for a sexually-oriented business employee license must
be made on a form provided by the city.
   (D)   All applicants for a license must be qualified according to the
provisions of this subchapter. The application may request, and the applicant
shall provide, such information reasonably necessary (including fingerprints)
to enable the city to determine whether the applicant meets the qualifications
established under this subchapter. The applicant has an affirmative duty to
supplement an application with new information received subsequent to the date
that application was deemed completed.
   (E)   If a person who wishes to own or operate a sexually-oriented business
is an individual, he or she must sign the application for an operator’s license
as applicant. If a person who wishes to operate a sexually-oriented business is
other than an individual, each individual who has a 10% or greater interest in
the business must sign the application for an operator’s license as applicant.
If a corporation is listed as owner of a sexually-oriented business or as the
entity that wishes to operate such a business, all corporate officers and
directors must sign the application for an operator’s license as applicant.
   (F)   (1)   Applications for an operator’s license, whether original or
renewal, must be made to the Director by the intended operator of the
enterprise. Applications must be submitted to the office of the Director or the
Director’s designee during regular working hours.
      (2)   Application forms shall be supplied by the Director. The following
information shall be provided on the application form:
         (a)   The name, street address (and mailing address if different) of
the applicants);
         (b)   The applicant’s Social Security number and/or his or her state
or federally-issued tax identification number;
         (c)   The name under which the establishment is to be operated and a
general description of the services to be provided. If the applicant intends to
operate the sexually-oriented business under a name other than that of the
applicant; he or she must state the sexually-oriented business’s fictitious
name and submit the required registration documents;
         (d)   Whether the applicant has been convicted, or is awaiting trial
on pending charges, of a specified criminal activity as defined in §
113.01 of this code and, if so, the specified criminal activity involved, the
date, place and jurisdiction of each;
         (e)   Whether the applicant has had a previous license under this
subchapter, or other similar sexually-oriented business ordinance from another
city or county denied, suspended or revoked, including the name and location of
the sexually-oriented business for which the business license was denied,
suspended or revoked, as well as the date of the denial, suspension or
revocation, and whether the applicant is, or has been, a partner in a
partnership, or an officer, director or principal stockholder of a corporation
that is, or was, licensed under a sexually-oriented business ordinance whose
business license has previously been denied, suspended or revoked, including
the name and location of the sexually-oriented business for which the business
license was denied, suspended or revoked, as well as the date of denial,
suspension or revocation;
         (f)   Whether the applicant holds any other licenses under this
subchapter or other similar sexually-oriented business ordinance from another
city or county and, if so, the names and locations of such other licensed
businesses;
         (g)   The single classification of license, as found in §
113.02 of this code for which the applicant is filing;
         (h)   The telephone number of the establishment;
         (i)   The address and legal description of the tract of land on which
the establishment is to be located;
         (j)   If the establishment is in operation, the date on which the
owner(s) acquired the establishment for which the business license is sought,
and the date on which the establishment began operations as a sexually-oriented
business at the location for which the business license is sought;
         (k)   If the establishment is not in operation, the expected startup
date (which shall be expressed in number of days from the date of issuance of
the business license). If the expected startup date is to be more than ten days
following the date of issuance of the business license, then a detailed
explanation of the construction, repair or remodeling work or other cause of
the expected delay and a statement of the owner’s time schedule and plan for
accomplishing the same; and
         (l)   If an applicant wishes to operate a sexually-oriented business,
other than an adult motel, which shall exhibit on the premises, in a viewing
room or booth of less than 150 square feet of floor space, films, video
cassettes, other video reproductions or live entertainment which depict
specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas, then the applicant
shall comply with the application requirement set forth in §
113.46 of this code.
   (G)   Each application for an operator’s license shall be accompanied by the
following:
      (1)   Payment of the application fee in full;
      (2)   If the establishment is a state corporation, a certified copy of
the articles of incorporation, together with all amendments thereto;
      (3)   If the establishment is a foreign corporation, a certified copy of
the certificate of authority to transact business in this state, together with
all amendments thereto;
      (4)   If the establishment is a limited partnership formed under the laws
of the state, a certified copy of the certificate of limited partnership,
together with all amendments thereto;
      (5)   If the establishment is a foreign limited partnership, a certified
copy of the certificate of limited partnership and the qualification documents,
together with all amendments thereto;
      (6)   Proof of the current fee ownership of the tract of land on which
the establishment is to be situated in the form of a copy of the recorded deed;
      (7)   If the persons identified as the fee owner(s) of the tract of land
in division (G)(6) above is not also the owner of the sexually-oriented
business, then the lease, purchase contract, purchase option contract, lease
options contract or other document(s) evidencing the legally enforceable right
of the owner(s) or proposed owner(s) of the sexually-oriented business to have
or obtain the use and possession of the tract or portion thereof that is to be
used for the sexually-oriented business;
      (8)   A current certificate and straight-line drawing prepared within 30
days prior to application by a registered land surveyor depicting the property
lines and the structures containing any existing sexually-oriented businesses
within 1500 feet of the property to be certified; and the property lines of any
established religious institution/synagogue, school, public park or recreation
area within 500 feet of the property to be certified. For purposes of this
section, a use shall be considered existing or established if it is in
existence at the time an application is submitted; and
      (9)   Any of items in divisions (G)(2) through (G)(8) above shall not be
required for a renewal application if the applicant states that the documents
previously furnished to the Director with the original application or previous
renewals thereof remain correct and current.
   (H)   (1)   Applications for an employee license to work and/or perform
services in a sexually-oriented business, whether original or renewal, must be
made to the Director by the person to whom the employee license shall issue.
Each application for an employee license shall be accompanied by payment of the
application fee in full. Application forms shall be supplied by the Director.
Applications must be submitted to the office of the Director or the Director’s
designee during regular working hours.
      (2)   Each applicant shall be required to give the following information
on the application form:
         (a)   The applicant’s given name, and any other names by which the
applicant is or has been known, including “stage” names and/or aliases;
         (b)   Age, and date and place of birth;
         (c)   Height, weight, hair and eye color;
         (d)   Present residence address and telephone number;
         (e)   Present business address and telephone number;
         (f)   Date, issuing state and number of photo driver’s license or
other state-issued identification card information;
         (g)   Social Security number; and
         (h)   Proof that the individual is a least 18 years old.
      (3)   The personal information provided in this division (H) shall be
confidential and shall not be disclosed to the public except to the extent
required by the state or federal law. (See Schultz v. City of Cumberland, 228
F.3d 831 (7th Cir. 2000).)
   (I)   Attached to the application form for any license under this subchapter
shall be the following:
      (1)   A color photograph of the applicant clearly showing the applicant’s
face, and the applicant’s fingerprints on a form provided by the Police
Department. Any fees for the photographs and fingerprints shall be paid by the
applicant;
      (2)   A statement detailing the license history of the applicant for the
five years immediately preceding the date of the filing of the application,
including whether such applicant, in this or any other city, county, state or
country, has ever had any license, permit or authorization to do business
denied, revoked or suspended, or had any professional or vocational license or
permit denied, revoked or suspended. In the event of any such denial,
revocation or suspension, state the name(s) under which the license was sought
and/or issued, the name(s) of the issuing or denying jurisdiction, and describe
in full the reason(s) for the denial, revocation or suspension. A copy of any
order of denial, revocation or suspension shall be attached to the application;
and
      (3)   A statement whether the applicant has, within the past five years,
been convicted or is awaiting trial on pending charges, of a specified criminal
activity as defined in §
113.01 of this code and, if so, the specified criminal activity involved, the
date, place and jurisdiction of each. (See N. W. Enterprises v. City of
Houston, 27 F. Supp. 2d 754,841 (S.D. Tex. 1998).)
   (J)   Every application for a license under this subchapter shall contain a
statement under oath that:
      (1)   The applicant has personal knowledge of the information contained
in the application, and that the information contained therein and furnished
therewith is true and correct; and
      (2)   The applicant has read the provisions of this subchapter.
   (K)   A separate application and operator’s license shall be required for
each sexually-oriented business classification as set forth in §
113.02 of this code.
   (L)   The fact that a person possesses other types of state or city permits
and/or licenses does not exempt him or her from the requirement of obtaining a
sexually-oriented business operator or employee license.
(Prior Code, § 10-903) (Ord. 751, passed 3-23-2004) Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.21 ISSUANCE OF LICENSE.
   (A)   (1)   Upon the filing of an application for a sexually-oriented
business employee license, the Director shall issue a temporary license to said
applicant. The application shall then be referred to the appropriate city
departments for investigation to be made on the information contained in the
application. The application process shall be completed within 30 days from the
date of the complete application. After the investigation, the Director shall
issue an employee license, unless it is determined by a preponderance of the
evidence that one or more of the following findings is true:
         (a)   The applicant has failed to provide the information reasonably
necessary for issuance of the license or has falsely answered a question or
request for information on the application form;
         (b)   The applicant is under the age of 18 years;
         (c)   The applicant has been convicted of a specified criminal
activity as defined in §
113.01 of this code;
         (d)   The sexually-oriented business employee license is to be used
for employment in a business prohibited by local or state law, statute, rule or
regulation, or prohibited by a particular provision of this subchapter; or
         (e)   The applicant has had a sexually-oriented business employee
license revoked by the city within two years of the date of the current
application.
      (2)   If the sexually-oriented business employee license is denied, the
temporary license previously issued is immediately rendered null and void.
Denial, suspension or revocation of a license issued pursuant to this division
(A) shall be subject to appeal as forth in division (I) below.
   (B)   A license issued pursuant to division (A) above, if granted, shall
state on its face the name of the person to whom it is granted, the expiration
date and the address of the sexually-oriented business. While engaged in
employment or performing service on the sexually-oriented business premises, an
employee shall, at all times, possess the license in such manner as to be
available for the immediate inspection upon lawful request.
   (C)   A license issued pursuant to division (A) above shall be subject to
annual renewal upon the written application of the applicant and a finding by
the Director that the applicant has not been convicted of any specified
criminal activity as defined in this subchapter or committed any act during the
existence of the previous license which would be ground to deny the initial
license application. The decision whether to renew a license shall be made
within 30 days of the completed application. The renewal of a license shall be
subject to the fee as set forth in §
113.22 of this code. Non-renewal of a license shall be subject to appeal as set
forth in division (I) below.
   (D)   If application is made for a sexually-oriented business operator’s
license, the Director shall approve or deny issuance of the license within 30
days of receipt of the complete application. The Director shall issue a license
to an applicant unless it is determined by a preponderance of the evidence that
one or more of the following findings is true:
      (1)   An applicant has failed to provide the information reasonably
necessary for issuance of the license or has falsely answered a question or
request for information on the application form;
      (2)   An applicant is under the age of 18 years;
      (3)   An applicant has been denied a license by the city to operate a
sexually-oriented business within the preceding 12 months, or whose license to
operate a sexually-oriented business has been revoked within the preceding 12
months;
      (4)   An applicant is overdue in payment to the city for taxes, fees,
fines or penalties assessed against or imposed upon him or her in relation to
the sexually-oriented business for which license is sought, or the property on
which the sexually-oriented business is located or will be located;
      (5)   An applicant has been convicted of a specified criminal activity as
defined in §
113.01 of this code;
      (6)   The premises to be used for the sexually-oriented business have not
been approved by the Health Department, Building Department and Zoning
Department as being in compliance with applicable laws and ordinances, if such
approval is required under other sections of this chapter;
      (7)   The license fee required under this chapter has not been paid; and
      (8)   An applicant of the proposed establishment is in violation of or is
not in compliance with one or more of the provisions of this chapter.
   (E)   A license issued pursuant to division (D) above, if granted, shall
state on its face the name of the person or person to whom it is granted, the
expiration date, the address of the sexually-oriented business and the
classification (see §
113.02 of this code) for which the license is issued. The license shall be
posted in a conspicuous place at or near the entrance to the sexually-oriented
business so that it may be easily read at any time.
   (F)   If so required under other sections of this chapter, the Health
Department, Building Department and Zoning Department shall complete their
certification that the premises is in compliance or not in compliance within 20
days of receipt of the completed application by the Director. The certification
shall be promptly presented to the Director. Failure of an appropriate
department to timely certify its inspection shall not be grounds for refusing
to issue a license within the mandatory time period prescribed in division (D)
above. (See Nightclubs, Inc. v. City of Paducah, 2000 WL 122184 at 5 (6th Cir.
2000); Baby Tam v. City of Las Vegas, 199 F. 3d 1111, 1114-15 (9th Cir. 2000).)
In the event the Director fails to render a decision on the application within
the time specified herein, the operator shall be permitted to commence
operation of the business. (See Redner v. Dean, 29 F. 3d 1495, 1500-01 (11th
Cir. 1994), cert, denied, 514 U.S. 1066 (1995).)
   (G)   A sexually-oriented business license shall issue for only one
classification, as set forth in §
113.02 of this code.
   (H)   In the event that the Director determines that an applicant is not
eligible for a sexually-oriented operator’s license, the applicant shall be
given notice in writing of the reasons for the denial within 30 days of the
receipt of the completed application by the Director, provided that the
applicant may request, in writing at any time before the notice is issued, that
such period be extended for an additional period of not more than ten days in
order to make modifications necessary to comply with this subchapter.
   (I)   An applicant may appeal the decision of the Director regarding a
denial to the City Council by filing a written notice of appeal with the City
Secretary within ten days after service of notice upon the applicant of the
Director’s decision. The notice of appeal shall be accompanied by a memorandum
or other writing setting out fully the ground for such appeal and all arguments
in support thereof. The Director may, within 15 days of service upon him or her
of the applicant’s memorandum, submit a responsive memorandum to the City
Council. After reviewing such memoranda, as well as the Director’s written
decision, if any, and exhibits submitted to the Director, the City Council
shall vote either to uphold or overrule the Director’s decision. Such vote
shall be taken within 21 calendar days after the date on which the City
Secretary received the notice of appeal. The status quo immediately prior to
denial of the license shall be maintained during the pendency of the appeal.
(See Nightclubs, Inc. v. City of Paducah, 2000 WL 122184 at 6 (6th Cir. 2000);
4805 Convoy, Inc. v. City of San Diego 183 F. 3d 1108, 1114 (9th Cir. 1999).)
Judicial review of a denial by the Director and City Council may be made
pursuant to §
113.26 of this code. The status quo shall continue to be maintained during the
pendency of judicial review.
   (J)   A license issued pursuant to division (D) above shall be subject to
annual renewal upon the written application of the applicant and a finding by
the Director that the applicant has not been convicted of any specified
criminal activity as defined in this subchapter or committed any act during
this existence of the previous license which would be grounds to deny the
initial license application. The decision whether to renew a license shall be
made within 30 days of the completed application. The renewal of a license
shall be subject to the fee as set forth in §
113.22 of this code.
(Prior Code, § 10-904) (Ord. 751, passed 3-23-2004)
§ 113.22 FEES.
   The annual fee for a sexually-oriented business operator’s license, whether
new or renewal, is $500. The annual fee for a sexually-oriented business
employee license, whether new or renewal, is $50. These fees are to be used to
pay for the cost of the administration and enforcement of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 10-905) (Ord. 751, passed 3-23-2004)
§ 113.23 INSPECTION.
   (A)   The city shall regularly inspect the premises of the sexually-oriented
business in order to ensure compliance with the provisions of this subchapter.
An applicant or licensee shall permit representatives of the Police Department
and/or Health Department to inspect the premises at any time the establishment
is open for business. Such inspection shall be limited to visual assessment of
the activities conducted in areas to which patrons have access or are allowed
access; to requests for inspection of the licenses required under this
subchapter; and to requests for identification of those individuals who
reasonably appear to be under the age of 18. (See New York v. Burger, 482 U.S.
691, 02-03, 711-12 (1987); Deja Vu of Cincinnati, LLC v. Union Twp. Bd. of
Trs., 2007 U.S. Dist. LEXIS 10683 (S.D. Ohio, Feb. 15, 2207 (holding that
inspections must be carefully limited in time, place and scope in order to
withstand constitutional scrutiny)).)
   (B)   When the Director denies renewal of a license, the applicant shall not
be issued a license for one year from the date of denial. Notwithstanding the
provisions of this section, in the event a licensee appeals the non-renewal of
a license, the status quo immediately prior to non-renewal shall be maintained
throughout the pendency of the appeal, up to and including judicial review on
the merits as set forth in §
113.26 of this code.
(Prior Code, § 10-906) (Ord. 751, passed 3-23-2004)
§ 113.24 SUSPENSION.
   (A)   The Director shall suspend a license for a period not to exceed 30
days if he or she determines that licensee or an employee of licensee has:
      (1)   Violated or is not in compliance with any section of this chapter;
      (2)   Operated or performed services in a sexually-oriented business
while intoxicated by the use of alcoholic beverages or controlled substances;
      (3)   Refused to allow prompt inspection of the sexually-oriented
business premises as authorized by this chapter; or
      (4)   With knowledge, permitted gambling by any person on the sexually-
oriented business premises.
   (B)   A licensee may appeal the revocation of a license to the City Council
in accordance with the procedure set forth in §
113.21 of this code. Notwithstanding any other provisions of this section, in
the event a licensee appeals the suspension of a license, the status quo
immediately prior to suspension shall be maintained throughout the pendency of
the appeal, up to and including judicial review on the merits as set forth in §
113.26 of this code. (See Nightclubs, Inc. v. City of Paducah, 2000 WL 122184
at 5 (6th Cir. 2000); 4805 Convoy, Inc. v. City of San Diego, 183 F. 3d 1108,
114 (9th Cir. 1999).)
(Prior Code, § 10-907) (Ord. 751, passed 3-23-2004)
§ 113.25 REVOCATION.
   (A)   The Director shall revoke a license if a cause of suspension in §
113.24 of this code occurs and the license has been suspended within the
proceeding 12 months.
   (B)   The Director shall revoke a license if he or she determines that:
      (1)   A licensee gave materially false or misleading information in the
material submitted during the application process;
      (2)   A licensee was convicted of a specified criminal activity on a
charge that was pending prior to the issuance of the license;
      (3)   A licensee has, with knowledge, permitted the possession, use or
sale of controlled substances on the premises;
      (4)   A licensee has, with knowledge, permitted the sale, use or
consumption of alcoholic beverages on the premises;
      (5)   A licensee has, with knowledge, permitted prostitution on the
premises;
      (6)   A licensee has, with knowledge, operated the sexually-oriented
business during a period of time when the licensee’s license was suspended;
      (7)   A licensee has, with knowledge, permitted any act of sexual
intercourse, sodomy, oral copulation, masturbation or other sexual conduct to
occur in or on the licensed premises;
      (8)   A licensee is delinquent in payment to the city or state for any
taxes, fees, fines or penalties relating to the sexually-oriented business or
the premises thereon;
      (9)   A licensee has, with knowledge, permitted a person under 18 years
of age to enter or remain in the establishment; or
      (10)   A licensee has attempted to sell his or her business license or
has sold, assigned or transferred ownership or control of the sexually-
oriented business to a non-licensee of the establishment; and/or
      (11)   A licensee has, with knowledge, permitted a person or persons to
engage in specified sexual activities on the premises of the sexually-oriented
business.
   (D)   When the Director revokes a license, the revocation shall continue for
one year, and the licensee shall not be issued a license for one year from the
date revocation became effective. A licensee may appeal the revocation of a
license to the City Council in accordance with the procedure set forth in §
113.21(A) of this code. Notwithstanding any other provisions of the section, in
the event the licensee appeals the revocation of a license, the status quo
immediately prior to revocation shall be maintained throughout the pendency of
the appeal up to and including judicial review on the merits as set forth in §
113.26 of this code. (See Nightclubs, Inc. v. City of Paducah, 2000 WL 122184
at 5 (6th Cir. 2000); 4805 Convoy, Inc. v. City of San Diego, 183 F 3d 1108,
1114 (9th Cir. 1999))
(Prior Code, § 10-908) (Ord. 751, passed 3-23-2004)
§ 113.26 JUDICIAL REVIEW.
   (A)   Within 14 days of denial of an initial or renewal application by the
Director and City Council, or suspension or revocation of a license by the
Director, the applicant or licensee may seek prompt judicial review of such
administrative action in any court of competent jurisdiction.
   (B)   Upon notification by summons of the filing of a complaint seeking
judicial review of the city’s administrative action, the city shall transmit
the record of the administrative action to the court no later than five
business days after receipt of said summons and shall answer the complaint no
later than ten days after receipt of the summons.
   (C)   In addition, the city shall submit its response brief within 14 days
of receipt of the petitioner’s brief. The administrative actions shall then be
promptly reviewed by the court. (See Steakhouse, Inc. v. City of Raleigh,
166F.3d634, 641 (4th Cir. 1999).)
(Prior Code, § 10-909) (Ord. 751, passed 3-23-2004)
§ 113.27 NO TRANSFER OF LICENSE.
   (A)   A licensee shall not transfer his or her license to another, nor shall
a licensee operate sexually-oriented business under the authority of a license
at any place other than the address designated in the application and set forth
in the operator’s license.
   (B)   An operator’s license shall not be transferable from one location to
another. (See, e.g., Peterson v. South Salt Lake City, 987 P. 2d 57, 60 (Utah
1999).)
(Prior Code, § 10-910) (Ord. 751, passed 3-23-2004)
CONDITIONS OF OPERATION
§ 113.40 LOCATION RESTRICTIONS.
   Sexually-oriented businesses shall be permitted in any commercial district
provided that:
   (A)   The sexually-oriented business may not be operated within:
      (1)   Five hundred feet of a church, synagogue, mosque, temple or
building which is used primarily for religious worship and related religious
activities;
      (2)   Five hundred feet of a public or private educational facility
including but not limited to child day care facilities, nursery schools,
preschools, kindergartens, elementary schools, private schools, intermediate
schools, junior high schools, middle schools, high schools, vocational schools,
secondary schools, continuation schools, special education school, junior
colleges and universities; school includes the school ground, but does not
include the facilities used primarily for another purpose and only incidentally
as a school;
      (3)   Five hundred feet of a public park or recreational area which has
been designated for a park or recreational activities including but not limited
to a park, playground, nature trails, swimming pool, reservoir, athletic field,
basketball or tennis courts, skating rink, pedestrian/bicycle paths, wilderness
areas or other similar public land within the city which is under the control,
operation or management of the city park and recreation authorities;
      (4)   One hundred feet of the property line of a lot zoned for
residential use and devoted to a residential use as defined in the Zoning Code;
or
      (5)   One thousand five hundred feet of another sexually-oriented
business.
   (B)   A sexually-oriented business may not be operated in the same building,
structure or portion thereof, containing another sexually-oriented business
that is classified in accordance with §
113.02 of this code.
   (C)   For the purpose of this chapter, measurement shall be made in a
straight line, without regard to intervening structure or objects, from the
nearest portion of the building or structure used as a part of the premises
where a sexually-oriented business is conducted, to the nearest property line
of the premises of a church, synagogue, regular place of worship or public or
private elementary or secondary school, or to the nearest boundary of an
affected public park, residential district or residential lot or licensed day
care center.
   (D)   For purposes of division (C) above, the distance between any two
sexually-oriented business uses shall be measured in a straight line, without
regard to intervening structures or objects, from the closest exterior wall of
the structure in which each business is located.
(Prior Code, § 10-911) (Ord. 751, passed 3-23-2004) Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.41 NONCONFORMING USES; AMORTIZATION.
   (A)   Any business lawfully operating on the effective date of this chapter
that is in violation of the location or structural configuration requirements
of this chapter shall be deemed a nonconforming use. The nonconforming use will
be permitted to continue for a period not to exceed two years, unless sooner
terminated for any reason or voluntarily discontinued for a period of 30 days
or more. Such nonconforming uses shall not be increased, enlarged, extended or
altered except that the use may be changed to by conforming use. If two or more
sexually-oriented business are within 1,500 feet of one another and otherwise
in a permissible locations, the sexually-oriented business that was first
established and continually operated at a particular location is the conforming
use and the later-established business(es) is nonconforming.
   (B)   A sexually-oriented business lawfully operating as a conforming use is
not rendered a nonconforming use by the location, subsequent to the grant or
renewal of the sexually-oriented business license, of a church, synagogue or
regular place of religious worship, public or private elementary or secondary
school, licensed day-care center, public park within 500 feet of the sexually-
oriented business or residential district within 100 feet of the sexually-
oriented business. This provision applies only to the renewal of a valid
business license and does not apply when an application for a business license
is submitted after an operator’s license has expired or has been revoked.
(Prior Code, § 10-912) (Ord. 751, passed 3-23-2004)
§ 113.42 ADULT MOTELS.
   (A)   Evidence that a sleeping room in a hotel, motel or a similar
commercial enterprise has been rented and vacated two or more times in a period
of time that is less than ten hours creates a rebuttable presumption that the
enterprise is an adult motel as that term is defined in this chapter.
   (B)   It is unlawful if a person, as the person in control of a sleeping
room in a hotel, motel or similar commercial enterprise that does not have a
sexually-oriented business license rents or sub-rents a sleeping room to a
person and, within ten hours from the time the room is rented, he or she rents
or sub-rents the same sleeping room again.
   (C)   For purposes of division (B) above, the terms RENT or SUB-RENT mean
the act of permitting a room to be occupied for any form of consideration.
   (D)   Violation of division (B) above shall constitute a misdemeanor.
(Prior Code, § 10-913) (Ord. 751, passed 3-23-2004) Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.43 ESCORT AGENCIES.
   (A)   An escort agency shall not employ any person under the age of 18
years.
   (B)   A person commits an offense if the person acts as an escort or agrees
to act as an escort for any person under the age of 18 years.
   (C)   Violation of this section shall constitute a misdemeanor.
(Prior Code, § 10-914) (Ord. 751, passed 3-23-2004) Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.44 NUDE MODEL STUDIOS.
   (A)   A nude model studio shall not employ any person under the age of 18
years.
   (B)   (1)   A person under the age of 18 years commits a misdemeanor if the
person appears seminude or in a state of nudity in or on the premises of a nude
model studio.
      (2)   It is a defense to prosecution under this division (B) if the
person under 18 years was in a restroom not open to the public view or visible
by any other person.
   (C)   A person commits a misdemeanor if the person appears in a state of
nudity, or with knowledge, allows another to appear in a state of nudity in an
area of a nude model studio premises which can be viewed from the public right-
of-way.
   (D)   A nude model studio shall not place or permit a bed, sofa or mattress
in any room on the premises, except that a sofa may be placed in a reception
room open to the public.
(Prior Code, § 10-915) (Ord. 751, passed 3-23-2004) Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.45 PUBLIC NUDITY.
   Provisions of this code dealing with indecency and immorality are hereby
repealed and replaced with the following provisions regarding public indecency.
   (A)   A person commits public indecency, a summary offense, who knowingly or
intentionally, in a public place:
      (1)   Engages in sexual intercourse;
      (2)   Engages in deviate sexual intercourse as defined by the state’s
Crimes Code;
      (3)   Appears in a state of nudity; or
      (4)   Fondles the genitals of himself, herself or another person.
   (B)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      NUDITY. The showing of the human male or female genital, pubic area or
buttocks with less than a fully opaque covering; the showing of the female
breast with less than a fully opaque covering of any part of the nipple; the
exposure of any device, costume or covering which gives the appearance of or
simulates the genitals, pubic hair, natal cleft, perineum anal region or pubic
hair region; or the exposure of any device worn as a cover over the nipples
and/or areola of the female breast, which device simulates and gives the
realistic appearance of nipples and/or areola.
      PUBLIC PLACE. Includes all outdoor places owned by or open to the general
public, and all buildings and enclosed places owned by or open to the general
public, including such places of entertainment, taverns, restaurants, clubs,
theaters, dance halls, banquet halls, party rooms or halls limited to specific
members, restricted to adults or to patrons invited to attend, whether or not
an admission charge is levied.
   (C)   The prohibition set forth in division (A)(3) above shall not apply to:
      (1)   Any child under ten years of age; or
      (2)   Any individual exposing a breast in the process of breastfeeding an
infant under two years of age.
   (D)   In addition to the specific penalties provided in this chapter, it is
hereby declared that any building, portion of a building or enclosed place
regularly used for the prohibited display of public nudity is a public
nuisance, subjecting the owner, proprietor or other operator thereof to any and
all actions authorized by the state for the abatement of public nuisances,
including, but not limited to the procedures set forth in §
92.16 of this code.
(Prior Code, § 10-916) (Ord. 751, passed 3-23-2004) Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.46 SEXUALLY EXPLICIT FILMS AND VIDEOS.
   (A)   A person who operates or causes to be operated a sexually-oriented
business, other than an adult motel, which exhibits on the premises in a
viewing room of less than 150 square feet of floor space, a film, video
cassette or other video reproduction, that depicts specified sexual activities
or specified anatomical areas, shall comply with the following requirements.
      (1)   Upon application for a sexually-oriented business license, the
application shall be accompanied by a diagram of the premises showing a plan
thereof specifying the location of one or more manager’s stations and the
location of all overhead lighting fixtures and designating any portion of the
premises in which patrons will not be permitted. A manager’s station may not
exceed 32 square feet of floor area. The diagram shall also designate the place
at which the business license will be conspicuously posted, if granted. A
professionally prepared diagram in the nature of an engineer’s or architect’s
blueprint shall not be required; however, each diagram should be oriented to
the north or to some designated street or object and should be drawn to a
designated scale or with marked dimensions sufficient to show the various
internal dimensions of all areas of the interior of the premises to an accuracy
of plus or minus six inches. The Director may waive the foregoing diagram for
renewal applications if the applicant adopts a diagram that was previously
submitted and certifies that the configuration of the premises has not been
altered since said diagram was prepared.
      (2)   The application shall be sworn to be true and correct by the
applicant.
      (3)   No alteration in the configuration or location of a manager’s
station may be made without the prior approval of the Director or his or her
designee.
      (4)   It is the duty of the owners and operator of the premises to ensure
that at least one employee is on duty and situated in each manager’s station at
all times that any patron is present inside the premises.
      (5)   The interior of the premises shall be configured in such a manner
that there is an unobstructed view from manager’s station of the entire area of
the premises to which any patron is permitted access for any purpose, excluding
restrooms. Restrooms may not contain video reproduction equipment. If the
premises has two or more manager’s stations designated, then the interior of
the premises shall be configured in such a manner that there is an unobstructed
view of the entire area of the premises to which any patron is permitted access
for any purpose from at least one of the manager’s stations. The view required
in this division (A)(5) must be by direct line of sight from the manager’s
station.
      (6)   It shall be the duty of the operator, and it shall also be the duty
of any agents and employees present in the premises, to ensure that the view
area specified in division (A)(5) above remains unobstructed at all times. No
doors, walls, partitions, curtains, merchandise, display racks or other objects
(s) shall obstruct from view of the manager’s station any portion of the
premises to which patrons have access. It shall be the duty of the operator,
and it shall also be the duty of any agents and employees present in the
premises, to ensure that no patron is permitted access to any area of the
premises that has been designated as an area in which patrons will not be
permitted access, as designated in the application filed pursuant to division
(A)(1) above.
      (7)   The premises shall be equipped with overhead lighting fixtures of
sufficient intensity to illuminate every place to which patrons are permitted
access at an illumination of not less than five foot-candles as measured at the
floor level.
      (8)   It shall be the duty of the operator, and it shall also be the duty
of any agents and employees present in the premises, to ensure that the
illumination described above is maintained at all times that any patron is
present in the premises.
      (9)   No viewing room or booth may be occupied by more than one person at
any time.
      (10)   No opening of any kind shall exist between viewing rooms or
booths.
      (11)   It shall be the duty of the operator, and it shall also be the
duty of any agents and employees present in the premises, to ensure that no
more than one person at a time occupies a viewing booths or rooms, and to
ensure that no person attempts to make an opening of any kind between the
viewing booths or rooms.
      (12)   The operator of the sexually-oriented business shall, each
business day, inspect the walls between the viewing booths to determine if any
openings or holes exist.
      (13)   The operator of the sexually-oriented business shall cause all
floor coverings in the viewing booths to be nonporous, easily cleanable
surfaces, with no rugs or carpeting.
      (14)   The operator of the sexually-oriented business shall cause all
wall surfaces and ceiling surfaces in viewing booths to be constructed of or
permanently covered by nonporous, easily cleanable material. No wood, plywood,
composition board or other porous material shall be used within 48 inches to
the floor.
   (B)   A person having a duty under divisions (A)(1) through (A)(14) above
commits a misdemeanor if he or she, with knowledge, fails to fulfill that duty.
(Prior Code, § 10-917) (Ord. 751, passed 3-23-2004) Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.47 EXTERIOR PORTIONS OF SEXUALLY-ORIENTED BUSINESSES.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any owner or operator of a sexually-oriented
business to allow the merchandise or activities of the establishment to be
visible from a point outside the establishment.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for the owner or operator of a sexually-oriented
business to allow the exterior portion of the sexually-oriented business to
have flashing lights, or any words, lettering, photographs, silhouettes,
drawings or pictorial representations of any manner except to the extent
permitted by the provisions of this subchapter.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for the owner or operator of a sexually-oriented
business to allow exterior portions of the establishment to be painted any
color other than a single achromatic color. This provision shall not apply to
sexually-oriented business if the following conditions are met:
      (1)   The establishment is a part of a commercial multi-unit center; and
      (2)   The exterior portions of each individual unit in the commercial
multi-unit center, including the exterior portions of the business, are painted
the same color as one another or are painted in such a way so as to be a
component of the overall architectural style or pattern of the commercial
multi-unit center.
   (D)   Nothing in this subchapter shall be construed to require the painting
of an otherwise unpainted exterior portion of a sexually-oriented business.
   (E)   A violation of any provision of this section shall constitute a
misdemeanor.
(Prior Code, § 10-918) (Ord. 751, passed 3-23-2004) Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.48 SIGNAGE.
   (A)   Notwithstanding any other city ordinance, code or regulation to the
contrary, it shall be unlawful for the operator of any sexually-oriented
business or any other person to erect, construct or maintain any sign for the
sexually-oriented business other than the primary sign and one secondary sign,
as provided herein.
   (B)   Primary signs shall have no more than two display surfaces. Each such
display surface shall:
      (1)   Not contain any flashing lights;
      (2)   Be flat plane, rectangular in shape;
      (3)   Not exceed 75 square feet in area; and
      (4)   Not exceed ten feet in height or ten feet in length.
   (C)   Primary signs shall contain no photographs, silhouettes, drawings or
pictorial representations in any manner, and may contain only the name of the
enterprise.
   (D)   Each letter forming a work on a primary sign shall be of solid color,
and each such letter shall be the same print-type size and color. The
background behind such lettering on the display surface of a primary sign shall
be of a uniform and solid color.
   (E)   Secondary signs shall have only one display surface. Such display
surface shall:
      (1)   Be a flat plane, rectangular in shape;
      (2)   Not exceed 20 square feet in area;
      (3)   Not exceed five feet in height and four feet in width; and
      (4)   Be affixed or attached to any wall or door of the enterprise.
   (F)   The provisions of divisions (B)(1), (C) and (D) above shall also apply
to secondary signs.
   (G)   Violation of any provisions of this section shall constitute a
misdemeanor.
(Prior Code, § 10-919) (Ord. 751, passed 3-23-2004) Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.49 ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES PROHIBITED.
   (A)   The sale, use or consumption of alcoholic beverages on the premises of
a sexually-oriented business is prohibited.
   (B)   Any violation of this section shall constitute a misdemeanor.
(Prior Code, § 10-920) (Ord. 751, passed 3-23-2004) Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.50 MINORS PROHIBITED FROM ENTRY; ATTENDANT REQUIRED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to allow a person who is younger than 18 years of
age to enter or be on the premises of a sexually-oriented business at any time
the sexually-oriented business is open for business.
   (B)   (1)   It shall be the duty of the operator of each sexually-oriented
business to ensure that an attendant is stationed at each public entrance to
the sexually-oriented business at all times during such sexually-oriented
business’s regular business hours
      (2)   It shall be the duty of the attendant to prohibit any person under
the age of 18 years from entering the sexually-oriented business.
      (3)   It shall be presumed that an attendant knew a person was under the
age of 18 unless such attendant asked for and was furnished:
         (a)   A valid operator’s, commercial operator’s or chauffeur’s
driver’s license; or
         (b)   A valid personal identification certificate issued by the state
reflecting that such person is 18 years of age or older.
   (C)   Violation of this section shall constitute a misdemeanor.
(Prior Code, § 10-921) (Ord. 751, passed 3-23-2004) Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.51 MASSAGES OR BATHS ADMINISTERED BY PERSON OF OPPOSITE SEX.
   It shall be unlawful for any sexually-oriented business, regardless of
whether in a public or private facility, to operate as a massage salon, massage
parlor or any similar type of business where any physical contact with the
recipient of such services is provided by a person of the opposite sex.
Violation of this section shall constitute a misdemeanor. However, a properly
licensed massage therapist shall not be subject to the provisions of this
subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 10-922) (Ord. 751, passed 3-23-2004) Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.52 HOURS OF OPERATION.
   No sexually-oriented business, except for an adult motel, may remain open at
any time between the hours of 10:00 p.m. and 11:00 a.m. on weekdays and
Saturdays. No sexually-oriented business shall open for business or remain open
for business on Sunday or any legal holiday recognized by the state. (An equal
protection claim may arise unless all types of sexually-oriented businesses are
treated similarly.)
(Prior Code, § 10-923) (Ord. 751, passed 3-23-2004) Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Whoever violates this chapter, either by commission of a public
indecency, or by the promotion or maintenance of public indecency as property
owner, proprietor or manager of a business, shall be guilty of a summary
offense, and, upon conviction, shall be sentenced to pay a fine of not more
than $1,000, or be imprisoned for not more than 90 days, or both. Each day such
violation continues is a separate offense.
      (1)   It shall be a misdemeanor for a person who, with knowledge and
intent, appears in person in a state of nudity in a sexually-oriented business.
      (2)   It shall be a misdemeanor for a person who, with knowledge and
intent, appears in person in a semi-nude condition on the sexually-oriented
business premises, unless the person is an employee who, while semi-nude, is at
least ten feet from any patron or customer and on a stage at least two feet
from a floor.
      (3)   It shall be a misdemeanor for an employee, while semi-nude on the
sexually-oriented business premises, to solicit any pay or gratuity from any
patron or customer, or for any patron or customer to pay or give any gratuity
to any employee, while said employee is seminude.
      (4)   It shall be a misdemeanor for an employee, while semi-nude, to
touch a patron or the clothing of a patron to touch a semi-nude employee or the
clothing of a semi-nude employee, while said employee is on the premises of the
sexually-oriented business.
(Prior Code, § 10-916) (Ord. 751, passed 3-23-2004)
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
   Chapter
      
130.   GENERAL OFFENSES
CHAPTER 130: GENERAL OFFENSES
Section
Property Offenses
   
130.01   Destruction of property
   
130.02   Removing dirt
Offenses Against Public Order
   
130.15   Drinking on public property
   
130.16   Drunkenness
   
130.17   Driving under the influence
   
130.18   Obstruction of public ways
   
130.19   Obstructing water flow
   
130.20   Disturbing the peace
Offenses Against Public Peace and Safety
   
130.35   Refusing to assist officer
   
130.36   Abusing officer
   
130.37   Curfew
   
130.38   Discharge of firearms
   
130.39   Slingshots, air guns, BB guns
   
130.40   Unlicensed or inoperable vehicles
Offenses Against Public Morals
   
130.55   Window peeping
   
130.56   Stalking
PROPERTY OFFENSES
§ 130.01 DESTRUCTION OF PROPERTY.
   It shall be unlawful for any person within the corporate limits to
purposely, willfully or maliciously injure in any manner or destroy any real or
personal property of any description belonging to another.
(Prior Code, § 6-303) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 28-523
§ 130.02 REMOVING DIRT.
   It is hereby declared unlawful for any person to remove, disturb or take
away from any street, alley or public grounds any dirt, earth, stones or other
materials forming a part of such street, alley or public grounds without first
having obtained written permission to do so from the City Council.
(Prior Code, § 6-312) Penalty, see §
10.99
OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC ORDER
§ 130.15 DRINKING ON PUBLIC PROPERTY.
   (A)   Except when the state’s Liquor Control Commission has issued a license
as provided in Neb. RS 53-186(2), it is unlawful for any person to consume
alcoholic liquor upon property owned or controlled by the state or any
governmental subdivision thereof unless authorized by the governing bodies
having jurisdiction over such property.
   (B)   (1)   It is unlawful for any person in the passenger area of a motor
vehicle to possess an open alcoholic beverage container while the motor vehicle
is located in a public parking area or on any highway in the city.
      (2)   Except as provided in Neb. RS 53-186, it is unlawful for any person
to consume an alcoholic beverage in a public parking area, or on any highway in
the city or inside a motor vehicle while in a public parking area, or on any
highway in the city.
      (3)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
         ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE. Beer, ale porter, stout and other similar
fermented beverages, including sake or similar products, of any name or
description containing 0.5% or more of alcohol by volume, brewed or produced
from malt, wholly or in part, or from any substitute therefor; wine of not less
than 0.5% of alcohol by volume; or distilled spirits which is that substance
known as ethyl alcohol, ethanol or spirits of wine in any form, including all
dilutions and mixtures thereof from whatever source or by whatever process
produced. ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE does not include trace amounts not readily
consumable as a beverage.
         HIGHWAY. A road or street, including the entire area within the right-
of-way.
         OPEN ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE CONTAINER. Any bottle, can or other receptacle
which contains any amount of alcoholic beverage and which is open or has a
broken seal, or the contents of which are partially removed.
         PASSENGER AREA. The area designed to seat the driver and passengers
while the motor vehicle is in operation and any area that is readily accessible
to the driver or a passenger while in their seating positions, including any
compartments in such area. PASSENGER AREA does not include the area behind the
last upright seat of such motor vehicle if the area is not normally occupied by
the driver or a passenger and the motor vehicle is not equipped with a trunk.
(Prior Code, § 6-305) (Ord. 318, passed 9-27-1977; Ord. 695, passed 10-10-2000)
Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 53-186 and 60-6,211.08
§ 130.16 DRUNKENNESS.
   Any person found in a state of intoxication, or under the influence of
intoxicating liquor, within the city shall be deemed to be guilty of a
misdemeanor and punished in accord with state law.
(Prior Code, § 6-304) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 130.17 DRIVING UNDER THE INFLUENCE.
   (A)   Generally.
      (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate or be in the actual
physical control of any motor vehicle:
         (a)   While under the influence of alcoholic liquor or of any drug;
         (b)   When such person has a concentration of eight hundredths of one
gram or more by weight of alcohol per 100 milliliters of his or her blood; or
         (c)   When such person has a concentration of eight hundredths of one
gram or more by weight of alcohol per 210 liters of his or her breath.
      (2)   Any person who operates or has in his or her actual physical
control a motor vehicle in the city shall be deemed to have given his or her
consent to submit to a chemical test or tests of his or her blood, breath or
urine for the purpose of determining the concentration of alcohol or the
presence of drugs in such blood, breath or urine.
      (3)   Any peace officer who has been duly authorized to make arrests for
violations of traffic laws of this state or of ordinances of the city may
require any person arrested for any offense arising out of acts alleged to have
been committed while the person was driving or was in actual physical control
of a motor vehicle while under the influence of alcoholic liquor or drugs to
submit to a chemical test or tests of his or her blood, breath or urine for the
purpose of determining the concentration of alcohol or the presence of drugs in
such blood, breath or urine when the officer has reasonable grounds to believe
that such person was driving or was in the actual physical control of a motor
vehicle in the city while under the influence of alcoholic liquor or drugs in
violation of division (A)(1) above.
      (4)   Any peace officer who has been duly authorized to make arrests for
violation of traffic laws of this state or ordinances of the city may require
any person who operates or has in his or her actual physical control a motor
vehicle in the city to submit to a preliminary test of his or her breath for
alcohol concentration if the officer has reasonable grounds to believe that
such person has alcohol in his or her body, has committed a moving traffic
violation or has been involved in a traffic accident. Any person who refuses to
submit to such preliminary breath test or whose preliminary breath test results
indicate an alcohol concentration in violation of division (A)(1) above shall
be placed under arrest. Any person who refuses to submit to such preliminary
breath test shall be guilty of an offense.
      (5)   Any person arrested as provided in this section may, upon the
direction of a peace officer, be required to submit to a chemical test or tests
of his or her blood, breath or urine for a determination of the concentration
of alcohol or the presence of drugs. If the chemical test discloses the
presence of a concentration of alcohol in violation of division (A)(1) above,
or if any person refuses to submit to such test or tests required pursuant to
this section, the person shall be subject to the administrative revocation
procedures provided in Neb. RS 60-6,498.01 through 60-6,498.04 and shall be
guilty of an offense.
      (6)   Upon the conviction of any person for violation of this section,
there shall be assessed as part of the court costs the fee charged by any
physician or any agency administering tests pursuant to a permit issued in
accordance with Neb. RS 60-6,201 for the test administered and the analysis
thereof if such test was actually made.
(Prior Code, § 3-318)
   (B)   Person under 21 years of age.
      (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person under 21 years of age to
operate or be in the actual physical control of any motor vehicle:
         (a)   When such person has a concentration of two-hundredths of one
gram or more by weight of alcohol per one hundred milliliters of his or her
blood but less than the concentration prescribed under Neb. RS 60-6,196(1)(b);
or
         (b)   When such person has a concentration of two-hundredths of one
gram or more by weight of alcohol per two hundred ten liters of his or her
breath but less than the concentration prescribed under Neb. RS 60-6,196(1)(c).
      (2)   Enforcement of this section shall be accomplished only as a
secondary action when the driver of a motor vehicle has been cited for a
violation of some other offense.
      (3)   Any person who operates or has in his or her actual physical
control a motor vehicle in the state shall be deemed to have given his or her
consent to submit to a chemical test or tests of his or her blood or breath for
the purposes of determining the concentration of alcohol in such blood or
breath.
      (4)   Any peace officer who has been duly authorized to make arrests for
violations of traffic laws of this state or of ordinances of the city may
require any person under 21 years of age who has been cited for some offense to
submit to a chemical test or tests of his or her blood or breath for the
purpose of determining the concentration of alcohol in such blood or breath
when the officer has reasonable grounds to believe that such person was driving
or was in actual physical control of a motor vehicle in the city in violation
of this section. Such peace officer may require such person to submit to a
preliminary breath test. Any person who refuses to submit to such preliminary
breath test or whose preliminary breath test results indicate an alcohol
concentration in violation of this section shall be placed under arrest.
      (5)   Any person arrested as provided in this section may, upon the
direction of a peace officer, be required to submit to a chemical test or tests
of his or her blood or breath for a determination of the concentration of
alcohol. If the chemical test discloses the presence of a concentration of
alcohol in violation of this section, or such person refuses to submit to such
test or tests required pursuant to this section shall be guilty of an offense.
      (6)   Upon the conviction of any person for the violation of this
section, there shall be assessed as part of the court costs the fee charged by
any physician or any agency administering tests pursuant to a permit issued, in
accordance with Neb. RS 60-6,201, for the test administered and the analysis
thereof if such test was actually made.
(Prior Code, § 6-319)
(Ord. 581, passed 6-14-1994; Ord. 582, passed 6-14-1994; Ord. 724, passed 4-23-
2002) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 60-6,196, 60-6,197, 60-6,203, 60-6,211.01
and 60-6,211.02
§ 130.18 OBSTRUCTION OF PUBLIC WAYS.
   (A)    It shall be unlawful for any person to erect, maintain or suffer to
remain on any street or public sidewalk a stand, wagon, display or other
obstruction inconvenient to or inconsistent with the public use of the same.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to place, push, or deposit snow, sleet, ice, or
mud, or any debris, including leaves, grass, and branches, from private
property onto any street or public sidewalk.
(Ord. 911, passed 10-24-2023) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Additional authority, see Neb. RS 17-555 and 17-557
   Authority to regulate excavation and obstruction of streets, see Neb. RS 17-
142
   Penalties for injuring or obstructing roads, see Neb. RS 39-301 and 39-302
§ 130.19 OBSTRUCTING WATER FLOW.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to stop or obstruct the passage of water
in a street gutter, culvert, water pipe or hydrant.
Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Authority to abate nuisances, see Neb. RS 17-555
   Preventing water obstruction, see Neb. RS 31-134
§ 130.20 DISTURBING THE PEACE.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person or persons to assemble or gather
within the city with the intent to do an unlawful or disorderly act or acts, by
force or violence against the city, or residents therein, or who shall disturb
the public peace, quiet, security, repose or sense of morality.
   (B)   Any person or persons so assembled or gathered shall be deemed to be
guilty of a misdemeanor.
(Prior Code, § 6-308) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 28-1322
OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC PEACE AND SAFETY
§ 130.35 REFUSING TO ASSIST OFFICER.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to refuse to assist a municipal police
officer when lawfully requested to do so by him or her.
(Prior Code, § 6-301) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 28-903
§ 130.36 ABUSING OFFICER.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to abuse a police officer or municipal
official in the execution of his or her office.
(Prior Code, § 6-302) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 28-906
§ 130.37 CURFEW.
   It shall be unlawful for any minor under the age of 18 years to ride in or
operate any vehicle in or upon any street, alley or other public place, or to
loiter, wander, stroll, loaf or play in or upon any of the streets, alleys or
other public places between the hours of 11:00 p.m. of any day and 6:00 a.m. of
the following day, unless accompanied by a parent, guardian or other adult
person having the care, custody or control of said minor, or the minor is
engaged in lawful employment or is on an emergency errand or is going to or
from any school sponsored activity; provided, that when an activity of the kind
normally attended by minors under 18 years of age terminates after, or less
than one hour prior to 11:00 p.m., the curfew shall commence one hour after the
termination of such activity.
(Ord. 881, passed 11-12-2019) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 130.38 DISCHARGE OF FIREARMS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, except an officer of the law in the
discharge of official duty, to fire or discharge any gun, pistol or other
fowling piece within the city, except that nothing in this section shall be
construed to apply to officially sanctioned public celebrations if the persons
so discharging firearms have written permission from the City Council.
Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Authority to regulate, see Neb. RS 17-556
§ 130.39 SLINGSHOTS, AIR GUNS, BB GUNS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to discharge a slingshot, air gun, BB
gun or the like loaded with rock or other dangerous missiles at any time or
under any circumstances within the city.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 130.40 UNLICENSED OR INOPERABLE VEHICLES.
   No person in charge or control of any property within the city, other than
municipal property, whether as owner, tenant, occupant, lessee or otherwise,
shall allow any partially dismantled, inoperable, wrecked, junked or discarded
vehicle to remain on such property longer than ten days. No unlicensed vehicle
shall be permitted to remain on any private or public property for any length
of time; provided, that this section shall not apply: To a vehicle in an
enclosed building; to a vehicle on the premises of a business enterprise,
operated in a lawful place and manner, when such vehicle is necessary to the
lawful operation of the business; or to a vehicle in an appropriate storage
place or depository maintained in a lawful place and manner by the city. Any
vehicle allowed to remain on property in violation of this section shall
constitute a nuisance and shall be abated, and any person violating this
section shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.
(Prior Code, § 6-316) (Ord. 321, passed 9-27-1977; Ord. 456, passed 6-10-1986)
Penalty, see §
10.99
OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC MORALS
§ 130.55 WINDOW PEEPING.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to go upon the private premises of
another to look or peep into any window, door or other opening in a building
occupied by any other person.
(Prior Code, § 6-309) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 130.56 STALKING.
   Any person who willfully and maliciously harasses another person with the
intent to terrify, threaten or intimidate commits the offense of stalking. For
purposes of this section, HARASS shall mean to engage in a knowing and willful
course of conduct directed at a specific person which seriously terrifies,
threatens or intimidates the person and which serves no legitimate purpose, and
COURSE OF CONDUCT shall mean a pattern of conduct composed of a series of acts
of following, detaining, restraining the personal liberty of or stalking the
person or telephoning the person.
(Prior Code, § 6-320) (Ord. 583, passed 6-14-1994)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 28-311.02 and 28-311.03
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
   Chapter
      
150.   BUILDING REGULATIONS
      
151.   MUNICIPAL PLANNING; ZONING
      
152.   PUBLIC WAYS AND PROPERTY
      
153.   TREES
CHAPTER 150: BUILDING REGULATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
150.001   Moving buildings
Codes Adopted
   
150.015   Building Code
   
150.016   Residential Code
   
150.017   Property Maintenance Code
   
150.018   Building maintenance
   
150.019   Mechanical Code
   
150.020   Plumbing Code
   
150.021   Electrical Code
   
150.022   Fuel Gas Code
Building Permits and Regulations
   
150.035   Requirements
   
150.036   Limitation
   
150.037   Duplicate to County Assessor
   
150.038   Excavations and exposures; barricades and lights
Unsafe Buildings
   
150.050   Definition
   
150.051   Prohibitions
   
150.052   Determination; notice
   
150.053   Hearing and appeal
   
150.054   Emergency
   
150.055   Special assessments
 
   
150.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 150.001 MOVING BUILDINGS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to move any
building or structure within the city without a written permit to do so.
Application may be made to the City Clerk and shall include the present and
future location of the building to be moved, the proposed route, the equipment
to be used and such other information as the City Council may require. The
application shall be accompanied by a certificate issued by the County
Treasurer to the effect that all the provisions regulating the moving of
buildings have been complied with on the part of the owner of the real estate
upon which the building is presently located.
   (B)   The City Clerk shall refer the application to the City Council or its
designee for approval of the proposed route over which the building is to be
moved. Upon approval, the City Clerk shall issue the permit, provided that a
good and sufficient corporate surety bond, check or cash in an amount set by
motion of the City Council and conditioned upon moving the building without
doing damage to any private or city property is filed with the City Clerk prior
to the granting of any permit.
   (C)   No moving permit shall be required to move a building that is ten feet
wide or less and 20 feet long or less and, when in a position to move, 15 feet
high or less.
   (D)   In the event it will be necessary for any licensed building mover to
interfere with the telephone or telegraph poles and wires, or a gas line, the
company or companies owning, using or operating the poles, wires or line shall,
upon proper notice of at least 24 hours, be present and assist by disconnecting
the poles, wires or line relative to the building moving operation. All expense
of the disconnection, removal or related work shall be paid in advance by the
licensee unless the disconnection or work is furnished on different terms as
provided in the company’s franchise.
   (E)   Whenever the moving of any building necessitates interference with a
water main, sewer main, pipes or wire belonging to the city, notice in writing
of the time and route of the building moving operation shall be given to the
various officials in charge of the city utility departments, who shall proceed
on behalf of the city and at the expense of the mover to make such
disconnections and do such work as is necessary.
Penalty, see §
150.999
Statutory reference:
   Authority to regulate moving of buildings, see Neb. RS 17-142
CODES ADOPTED
§ 150.015 BUILDING CODE.
   (A)   Code adopted.
      (1)   The International Building Code, 2003 Edition, including Appendix
Chapters C as published by the International Code Council, Inc., is hereby
adopted as the Building Code of the city for establishing the minimum
regulations governing the conditions and maintenance of all property, buildings
and structures, providing the standards for supplied utilities and facilities
and other physical things and conditions essential to ensure that structures
are safe, sanitary and fit for occupation and use and for the demolition of
such buildings and structures.
      (2)   The Building Code, printed in book or pamphlet form, is hereby
incorporated by reference in addition to all amended editions as though printed
in full herein, insofar as such Code does not conflict with the statutes of the
state or other specific model codes adopted by the city or other specific laws
of the city. One copy of the Building Code is on file at the office of the City
Clerk and is available for public inspection at any reasonable time. The
provisions of the Building Code shall be controlling throughout the city and
throughout its extraterritorial zoning jurisdiction.
   (B)   Revisions. The following sections of the Building Code are hereby
revised:
      Section 101.1. Insert: City of Harvard, Nebraska.
      Section 112.1. Amend to read by adding: “The Board shall also review
administrative policies and procedures, and make recommendations to the City
Council. The Board shall have five members.”
      Section 105.2. Delete Building: “1. One-story ... feet. 2. Fences ...
high.”
      Section 101.4.1. Delete entirely.
      Section 101.4.7. Delete entirely.
      CHAPTER 13. Delete entirely.
      Section 103. Delete entirely.
      Section 101.2. Amend to read: “Scope. The provisions of this code shall
apply to the construction, alteration, movement, enlargement, replacement,
repair, equipment, use and occupancy, location, maintenance, removal and
demolition, of every building or structure or any appurtenances connected or
attached to such buildings or structures inside the corporate limits of the
City of Harvard, Nebraska and within one (1) mile thereof, whenever said City
is exercising its extraterritorial zoning jurisdiction within said one (1) mile
area, except where otherwise specifically provided.”
(Ord. 783, passed 11-8-2005)
§ 150.016 RESIDENTIAL CODE.
   (A)   Code adopted.
      (1)   The International Residential Code, 2003 Edition, including
appendix chapters E and G, as published by the International Code Council,
Inc., is hereby adopted as the Residential Code of the city for regulating and
controlling the design, construction, quality of materials, erection,
installation, alteration, repair, location, relocation, replacement, addition
to, use or maintenance of one- and two-family dwellings and townhouses not more
than three stories in height in the city and providing for the issuance of
permits and collection of fees therefore.
      (2)   The Residential Code, printed in book or pamphlet form, is hereby
incorporated by reference in addition to all amended editions as though printed
in full herein, insofar as such code does not conflict with the statutes of the
state or other specific model codes adopted by the city. One copy of the
Residential Code is on file at the office of the City Clerk and is available
for public inspection at any reasonable time. The provisions of the Residential
Code shall be controlling throughout the city and throughout its
extraterritorial zoning jurisdiction.
   (B)   Revisions. The following sections of the Residential Code are hereby
revised:
      Section R103. Delete entirely.
      Section R101.1. Insert: City of Harvard, Nebraska.
      Section R101.2. Amend to read: “Scope. The provisions of this code shall
apply to the construction, alteration, movement, enlargement, replacement,
repair, equipment, use and occupancy, location, maintenance, removal and
demolition, of every building or structure or any appurtenances connected or
attached to such buildings or structures inside the corporate limits of the
City of Harvard, Nebraska and within one (1) mile thereof, whenever said City
is exercising its extraterritorial zoning jurisdiction within said one (1) mile
area, except where otherwise specifically provided.”
      Section R105.2. Delete Building: “1. One-story ...feet. 2. Fences ...
high.”
      Section R112.1. Amend to read by adding: “The Board shall also review
administrative policies and procedures, and make recommendations to the City
Council. The Board shall have five members.”
      Table R301.2(1) Insert:
TABLE R301.2(1)
CLIMATIC AND GEOGRAPHIC DESIGN CRITERIA
GROUND SNOW LOAD                  25 lb/ft2
WIND SPEED                        90mph
SEISMIC DESIGN CATEGORY A SUBJECT TO DAMAGE FROM
   Weathering:                 Severe
   Frost line depth:           44”
   Termite:                    Moderate to heavy
   Decay:                      None to slight
WINTER DESIGN TEMP                -3°F
ICE SHIELD UNDERLAYMENT REQUIRED: Yes
FLOOD HAZARDS:                    FBFM and FIRM, Effective date: Not Applicable
AIR FREEZING INDEX                1362°F-Days
MEAN ANNUAL TEMP                  51.2°F
 
(Ord. 783, passed 11-8-2005)
§ 150.017 PROPERTY MAINTENANCE CODE.
   (A)   Code adopted. The International Property Maintenance Code 2003
Edition, as published by the International Code Council, Inc., is hereby
adopted as the Property Maintenance Code for the city for the control of
buildings and structures as herein provided. The Property Maintenance Code,
printed in book or pamphlet form, is hereby incorporated by reference in
addition to all amended editions as though printed in full herein, insofar as
such code does not conflict with the statutes of the state or other specific
model codes adopted by the city or other specific laws of the city. One copy of
the Property Maintenance Code is on file at the office of the City Clerk and is
available for public inspection at any reasonable time. The provisions of the
Property Maintenance Code shall be controlling throughout the city and
throughout its extraterritorial jurisdiction.
   (B)   Revisions. The following sections of the Property Maintenance Code are
hereby revised:
      Section 101.1. Insert: City of Harvard.
      Section 101.2. Amend to read: Scope. “The provisions of this code shall
apply to all existing residential and nonresidential structures and all
existing premises and constitute minimum requirements and standards for
premises, structures, equipment, and facilities for light, ventilation, space,
heating, sanitation, protection from the elements, life safety, safety from
fire and other hazards, and for safe and sanitary maintenance; the
responsibility of owners, operators and occupants, the occupancy of existing
structures and premises, and for administration, enforcement and penalties
inside the corporate limits of the City of Harvard, Nebraska and within one (1)
mile thereof, whenever said City is exercising its extraterritorial zoning
jurisdiction within said one (1) mile area, except where otherwise specifically
provided.”
      Section 103.6. Delete.
      Section 303.14. Insert: During ... April 1 to October 15, every door....
      Section 602.3. Insert: Every ... September 15 to May 15 to maintain ....
      Section 602.4. Insert: Indoor. . . September 15 to May 15 to maintain
....
(Ord. 783, passed 11-8-2005)
§ 150.018 BUILDING MAINTENANCE.
   (A)   Rental building maintenance.
      (1)   Buildings and property that are rented, leased or otherwise similar
are subject to the provisions of §
150.017 of this code.
      (2)   Owners or the owners’ representative shall submit to an annual
inspection, by the city, and an inspection each time the tenant or lessee
changes, for the purpose of determining compliance with the Property
Maintenance Code of the city. The city will determine if a change in tenant has
occurred in cases of uncertainty. Buildings or property must be acceptable to
the city based upon the Property Maintenance Code. The owner shall notify the
city and request an inspection when due. Buildings shall not be used, occupied
or otherwise perpetuated that are not approved by the city. The cost of the
inspection is an obligation of the property owner. The inspection fee is
established by the municipal fee resolution. The city shall provide
documentation to owners of acceptable property.
   (B)   Ownership change.
      (1)   Buildings and property that change ownership are subject to the
provisions of §
150.017 of this code.
      (2)   Prior to transfer of ownership, of real property (land, buildings,
structure), the seller shall submit to an inspection by the city. The
inspection shall be based on the Property Maintenance Code of the city. The
seller shall only transfer ownership upon successfully meeting the requirements
of the Property Maintenance Code of the city. The inspection report of the city
will determine and state if the property complies with the Property Maintenance
Code.
      (3)   The ownership may also transfer, if the buyer acknowledges receipt
of the city inspection report and agrees to make the property compliant with
the inspection report of the city.
      (4)   The Building Inspector is authorized to implement policies and
procedures for the administration of this section.
      (5)   A fee shall be paid to the city for inspection services, the amount
is established in the city fee resolution.
(Ord. 783, passed 11-8-2005)
§ 150.019 MECHANICAL CODE.
   (A)   Code adopted. The International Mechanical Code 2003 Edition, as
published by the International Code Council, Inc., is hereby adopted as the
Mechanical Code for the city for regulating and governing the design,
construction, quality of materials, erection, installation, alteration, repair,
location, relocation, replacement, addition to, use or maintenance of
mechanical systems as herein provided; providing for the issuance of permits
and collection of fees therefore. The Mechanical Code, printed in book or
pamphlet form, is hereby incorporated by reference in addition to all amended
editions as though printed in full herein, insofar as such code does not
conflict with the statutes of the state or other specific model codes adopted
by the city or other specific laws of the city. One copy of the Mechanical Code
is on file at the office of the City Clerk and is available for public
inspection at any reasonable time. The provisions of the Mechanical Code shall
be controlling throughout the city and throughout its extraterritorial
jurisdiction.
   (B)   Revisions. The following sections of the Mechanical Code are hereby
revised:
      Section 101.1. Insert: City of Harvard, Nebraska.
      Section 101.2. Amend to read: “Scope. This code shall regulate the
design, installation, maintenance, alteration and inspection of mechanical
systems that are permanently installed and utilized to provide control of
environmental conditions and related processes within buildings inside the
corporate limits of the City of Harvard, Nebraska, and within one (1) miles
thereof, whenever said City is exercising its extraterritorial zoning
jurisdiction within said one (1) mile area, except where otherwise specifically
provided. This code shall also regulate those mechanical systems, system
components, equipment and appliances specifically addressed herein. The
installation of fuel gas distribution piping and equipment, fuel gas-fired
appliances and fuel gas-fired appliance venting systems shall be regulated by
the International Fuel Gas Code.”
      Section 103. Delete.
      Section 106.5.2. Delete.
      Section 106.5.3. Delete.
      Section 108.4. Delete.
      Section 108.5. Amend by deleting: Any persons ... dollars.
      Section 109.2.1. Delete.
      Section 109.5. Delete.
(Ord. 783, passed 11-8-2005)
§ 150.020 PLUMBING CODE.
   (A)   Code adopted. The International Plumbing Code, 2003 Edition, as
published by the International Code Council, Inc., is hereby adopted as the
Plumbing Code for the city for the control for regulating and governing the
design construction, quality of materials, erection, installation, alteration,
repair, location, relocation, replacement, addition to, use or maintenance of
plumbing systems as herein provided; providing for the issuance of permits and
collection of fees therefore. The Plumbing Code printed in book or pamphlet
form, is hereby incorporated by reference in addition to all amended editions
as though printed in full herein, insofar as such code does not conflict with
the statutes of the state or other specific model codes adopted by the city or
other specific laws of the city. One copy of the Plumbing Code is on file at
the office of the City Clerk and is available for public inspection at any
reasonable time. The provisions of the Plumbing Code shall be controlling
throughout the city and throughout its extraterritorial jurisdiction.
   (B)   Revisions. The following sections of the Plumbing Code are hereby
revised:
      Section 101.1. Insert: City of Harvard, Nebraska.
      Section 101.2. Amend first paragraph to read: “Scope. The provisions of
this code shall apply to the erection, installation, alteration, repairs,
relocation, replacement, addition to, use or maintenance of plumbing systems
inside the corporate limits of the City of Harvard, Nebraska, and within one
(1) miles thereof, whenever said City is exercising its extraterritorial zoning
jurisdiction within said one (1) mile area, except where otherwise specifically
provided. The code shall also regulate nonflammable, medical gas, inhalation
anesthetic, vacuum piping, non-medical oxygen systems and sanitary and
condensate vacuum collection systems. The installation of fuel gas distribution
piping and equipment, fuel gas-fired water heaters and water heater venting
systems shall be regulated by the Fuel Gas Code of the City. Provisions in the
appendices shall not apply unless specifically adopted.”
      Section 103. Delete.
      Section 106.6.2. Delete.
      Section 106.6.3. Delete.
      Section 108.4. Delete.
      Section 108.5. Delete.
      Section 109.2.1. Delete.
      Section 109.5. Delete.
      Section 305.6.1. Delete.
      Section 904.1. Insert: twelve (12).
(Ord. 783, passed 11-8-2005)
§ 150.021 ELECTRICAL CODE.
   (A)   To provide certain minimum standards, provisions and requirements for
safe and fire proof installation, methods of connection and uses of materials
in the installation of electrical wiring and appliances, the National
Electrical Code, 2005 Edition, as recommended and published by the National
Fire Protection Association, and printed in book or pamphlet form, is hereby
incorporated by reference in addition to all amended editions as though printed
in full herein, insofar as said code does not conflict with the statutes of the
state.
   (B)   One copy of the Electrical Code is on file at the office of the City
Clerk and is available for public inspection at any reasonable time.
   (C)   The provisions of the Electrical Code shall be controlling throughout
the city and throughout its zoning jurisdiction.
(Prior Code, § 9-801) (Ord. 783, passed 11-8-2005)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-1001 and 18-132
§ 150.022 FUEL GAS CODE.
   (A)   Code adopted.
      (1)   The International Fuel Gas Code, 2003 Edition, as published by the
International Code Council, Inc., is hereby adopted as the Fuel Gas Code of the
city for regulating and governing fuel gas systems and gas-fired appliances as
herein provided; providing for the issuance of permits and collection of fees
therefore.
      (2)   The Fuel Gas Code, printed in book or pamphlet form, is hereby
incorporated by reference in addition to all amended editions as though printed
in full herein, insofar as such code does not conflict with the statutes of the
state or other specific model codes adopted by the city or other specific laws
of the city. One copy of the Fuel Gas Code is on file at the office of the City
Clerk and is available for public inspection at any reasonable time. The
provisions of the Fuel Gas Code shall be controlling throughout the city and
throughout its extraterritorial jurisdiction.
   (B)   Revisions. The following sections of the Fuel Gas Code are hereby
revised:
      Section 101.1. Insert: City of Harvard, Nebraska.
      Section 101.2. Delete.
      Section 101.3. Delete.
      Section 101.4. Delete.
      Section 101.5. Amend by deleting: Any persons ... dollars.
      Section 101.6. Amend to read: Scope. This code shall apply to the
installation of fuel gas piping systems, fuel gas utilization equipment and
related accessories in accordance with Sections 101.2.1 through 101.2.5, inside
the corporate limits of the City of Harvard, Nebraska, and within one (1) mile
thereof, whenever said City is exercising its extraterritorial zoning
jurisdiction within said one (1) mile area, except where otherwise specifically
provided. This code shall also regulate those fuel gas systems, system
components, equipment and appliances specifically addressed herein.
      Section 109.2.1. Delete.
      Section 109.5. Delete.
(Ord. 783, passed 11-8-2005)
BUILDING PERMITS AND REGULATIONS
§ 150.035 REQUIREMENTS.
   Any person desiring to commence or proceed to erect, construct, repair,
enlarge, demolish or relocate any building or dwelling, or cause the same to be
done, shall file with the Planning Commission an application for a building
permit. The application shall be in writing on a form to be furnished by the
Utilities Superintendent for that purpose. Every such application shall set
forth the legal description of the land upon which the construction or
relocation is to take place, the nature of the use or occupancy, the principal
dimensions, the estimated cost, the names of the owner, architect and
contractor, and such other information as may be requested thereon. The
application, plans and specifications so filed with the Planning Commission
shall be checked and examined by the Planning Commission and if they are found
to be in conformity with the requirements of this chapter, the municipal zoning
regulations and all other ordinances applicable thereto, the Planning
Commission shall recommend approval to the City Council who may then authorize
the Utilities Superintendent to issue the said applicant a permit upon the
payment of the following permit fees:
 
Less than $100 valuation               No fee
$100 to and including $1,000 valuation $6
Over $1,000 valuation                  $6 plus $1 per each $1,000 valuation or
                                       major fraction thereof
Moving and demolishing                 No fee
 
(Prior Code, § 9-101)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-130 through 17-132, 17-550 and 17-1001
§ 150.036 LIMITATION.
   If the work for which a permit has been issued shall not have begun within
six months of the date thereof, or if the construction is discontinued for a
period of six months, the permit shall be void. Before work can be resumed, a
new permit shall be obtained in the same manner and form as an original permit.
Penalty, see §
150.999
§ 150.037 DUPLICATE TO COUNTY ASSESSOR.
   Whenever a building permit is issued for the erection, alteration or repair
of any building within the city’s corporate limits or extraterritorial zoning
jurisdiction and the improvement is $2,500 or more, a duplicate of such permit
shall be issued to the County Assessor.
(Prior Code, § 9-103) (Ord. 749, passed 3-9-2004)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 18-1743
§ 150.038 EXCAVATIONS AND EXPOSURES; BARRICADES AND LIGHTS.
   Any owner, tenant or lessee causing the construction, demolition or moving
of any building or improvement within the city shall protect all excavations,
exposures, open basements, building materials and debris by suitable barricades
or guards by day and by warning lights at night. The failure, neglect or
refusal of the owner, tenant or lessee to erect and maintain such protections
shall constitute a violation of this section, and the Building Inspector or
other city law enforcement authority may stop all work upon the buildings and
improvements until suitable protections are erected and maintained in the
required manner.
Penalty, see §
150.999
UNSAFE BUILDINGS
§ 150.050 DEFINITION.
   (A)   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definition shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      UNSAFE BUILDING. Includes any building, shed, fence or other human-made
structure:
         (a)   Which is dangerous to the public health because of its condition
and which may cause or aid in the spread of disease or injury to the health of
the occupants of it or neighboring structures;
         (b)   Which because of faulty construction, age, lack of proper repair
or any other cause is especially liable to fire and constitutes or creates a
fire hazard; or
         (c)   Which by reason of faulty construction or any other cause is
liable to cause injury or damage by the collapse or fall of all or any part of
the structure.
   (B)   Any such unsafe building in the city is hereby declared to be a
nuisance.
Penalty, see §
150.999
§ 150.051 PROHIBITIONS.
   It shall be unlawful to maintain or permit the existence of any unsafe
building in the city, and it shall be unlawful for the owner, occupant or
person in custody of any dangerous building to permit the same to remain in an
unsafe condition or to occupy the building or permit it to be occupied while it
is in an unsafe condition.
Penalty, see §
150.999
Statutory reference:
   Authority to prevent and abate nuisances, see Neb. RS 18-1720
§ 150.052 DETERMINATION; NOTICE.
   (A)   (1)   Whenever the City Council or its designee has made a
determination that a building or other structure in the city is an unsafe
building, it shall be the duty of the City Clerk to post the property
accordingly and to file a copy of such determination or resolution in the
office of the county’s Register of Deeds to be recorded.
(Neb. RS 18-1722.01)
      (2)   The Clerk shall also serve written notice upon the owner and any
occupant of the building or other structure by certified mail or personal
service.
   (B)   This notice shall state that the building has been declared to be in
an unsafe condition, that the dangerous condition must be removed or remedied
by repairing or altering the building or by demolishing it, and that the
condition must be remedied within 60 days from the date of receipt. The notice
may be in the following terms:
 
 
“To                                                  (owner-occupant of premises), of the premises known and described as
                               .
 
“You are hereby notified that                             (describe building) on the premises above mentioned has been
determined to be an unsafe building and a nuisance after inspection by                                 . The causes for
this decision are                          (here insert the facts as to the dangerous condition).
 
“You must remedy this condition or demolish the building within 60 days from the date of receipt of this notice or the
city will proceed to do so. Appeal of this determination may be made to the City Council, acting as the Board of Appeals,
by filing with the City Clerk within ten days from the date of receipt of this notice a request for a hearing.”
 
   (C)   If the person receiving the notice has not complied within 60 days
from the date of receipt of the notice, or taken an appeal from the
determination that a dangerous building exists within ten days from the time
when this notice is served upon that person by personal service or certified
mail, the Building Inspector or other designated official may, upon orders of
the City Council, proceed to remedy the condition or demolish the unsafe
building.
§ 150.053 HEARING AND APPEAL.
   Upon receiving the notice to repair or demolish the building, the owner of
the building, within the time stipulated, may in writing to the City Clerk
request a hearing before the Board of Appeals, to present reasons why the
building should not be repaired or demolished. The Board of Appeals shall grant
such hearing within ten days from the date of receiving the request. A written
notice of the Board of Appeals decision following the hearing shall be sent to
the property owner by certified mail. If the Board of Appeals rejects the
appeal, the owner shall have 30 days from the sending of the decision to begin
repair or demolition and removal. If, after the 30-day period, the owner has
not begun work, the City Council may proceed to cause such work to be done.
(Ord. 783, passed 11-8-2005)
§ 150.054 EMERGENCY.
   Where any unsafe building or structure poses an immediate danger to the
health, safety or general welfare of any person or persons and the owner fails
to remedy the situation in a reasonable time after notice to do so, the city
may summarily repair or demolish and remove that building or structure.
§ 150.055 SPECIAL ASSESSMENTS.
   (A)   If any owner of any building or structure fails, neglects or refuses
to comply with notice by or on behalf of the city to repair, rehabilitate or
demolish and remove a building or structure which is unsafe and a public
nuisance, the city may proceed with the work specified in the notice to the
property owner. A statement of the cost of such work shall be transmitted to
the City Council.
   (B)   The City Council may:
      (1)   Levy the cost as a special assessment against the lot or real
estate upon which the building or structure is located. Such special assessment
shall be a lien on the real estate and shall be collected in the manner
provided for special assessments; or
      (2)   Collect the cost from the owner of the building or structure and
enforce the collection by civil action in any court of competent jurisdiction.
(Prior Code, § 9-406) (Ord. 530, passed 1-8-1991)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 18-1720, 18-1722 and 18-1722.01
§ 150.999 PENALTY.
   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no specific
penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
CHAPTER 151: MUNICIPAL PLANNING; ZONING
Section
General Provisions
   
151.01   Comprehensive Plan adopted
   
151.02   Conflicts
   
151.03   Group homes
Subdivisions and Additions
   
151.15   Subdivisions and additions permitted
   
151.16   Designation of extraterritorial jurisdiction
   
151.17   Survey and plat
   
151.18   Streets and alleys
   
151.19   Approval of plat
   
151.20   Recording plat
   
151.21   Additions; incorporation into municipality
   
151.22   Platting and subdividing
Zoning
   
151.35   Zoning regulations adopted
   
151.36   Manufactured homes; standards
 
   
151.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 151.01 COMPREHENSIVE PLAN ADOPTED.
   In order to accommodate anticipated long-range future growth, the
Comprehensive Development Plan for the city, as prepared by Charles L. Leider,
MCP, Clark and Enersen, Olsson, Burroughs and Thomsen, has been approved and
accepted by the City Council in October 1966. Three copies of the accepted Plan
shall be kept on file with the City Clerk and available for inspection by any
member of the public during office hours.
(Prior Code, § 11-301)
§ 151.02 CONFLICTS.
   Where the provisions adopted by this chapter conflict with one another or
with the provisions of
Ch. 150 of this code, the most restrictive or stringent provisions shall
govern.
(Prior Code, § 11-501)
§ 151.03 GROUP HOMES.
   (A)   Definition. For the purpose of this section, the following definition
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      GROUP HOME. A facility licensed by the state in which at least four but
not more than eight persons not including resident managers or house parents,
who are unrelated by blood, marriage or adoption reside while receiving
therapy, training or counseling for the purposes of adaptation to living with,
or rehabilitation of mental or physical disabilities.
(Prior Code, § 11-601)
   (B)   Establishment. A group home, as defined in division (A) above, may be
established and operated in any residential zone within the exercised zoning
jurisdiction of the city, except as limited in division (C) below.
(Prior Code, § 11-602)
   (C)   Exceptions.
      (1)   Departments and agencies of the state are prohibited from licensing
a new group home if it will be within 1,200 feet of an existing group home,
unless the City Council grants the proposed facility a conditional or special
use permit. For purposes of this section, EXISTING GROUP HOME shall include, in
addition to group homes defined in division (A) above, a home of any size which
serves other populations, including but not limited to correctional homes and
homes which serve people recuperating from the effects of drugs or alcohol,
mental illness or physical disability.
      (2)   The number of group homes established in the city shall be limited
according to the population of the city, except that the City Council may issue
a variance to allow additional group homes. For a municipality with a
population of 1,000 residents or less, one group home may be established, for a
municipality with of population of more than 1,000 and less than 10,000
residents, one group home may be established for every 2,000 residents, for a
municipality with a population of at least 10,000 residents but less than
50,000 residents, one group home may be established for every 3,000 residents.
(Prior Code, § 11-603)
(Ord. 366, passed 11-25-1980; Ord. 510, passed 11-28-1989)
SUBDIVISIONS AND ADDITIONS
§ 151.15 SUBDIVISIONS AND ADDITIONS PERMITTED.
   The City Council of any city of the first class or city of the second class
or the Village Board of Trustees of any village shall have power by ordinance
to provide the manner, plan or method by which land within the corporate limits
of any such city or village, or land within the area designated by a city of
the first class pursuant to Neb. RS 16-902(1) or within the area designated by
a city of the second class or village pursuant to Neb. RS 17-1002(1), may be
subdivided, platted or laid out, including a plan or system for the avenues,
streets or alleys to be laid out within or across such land, and to compel the
owners of any such land that are subdividing, platting or laying out such land
to conform to the requirements of the ordinance and to lay out and dedicate the
avenues, streets and alleys in accordance with the ordinance as provided in
Neb. RS 16-901 to 16-905 and Neb. RS 17-1001 to 17-1004. No addition shall have
any validity, right or privileges as an addition, and no plat of land or, in
the absence of a plat, no instrument subdividing land within the corporate
limits of any such municipality or of any land within the area designated by a
city of the first class pursuant to Neb. RS 16-902(1) or within the area
designated by a city of the second class or village pursuant to Neb. RS 17-1002
(1), shall be recorded or have any force or effect, unless the plat or
instrument is approved by the City Council or Village Board of Trustees or its
designated agent and such approval is endorsed on such plat or instrument.
(Neb. RS 19-916)
§ 151.16 DESIGNATION OF EXTRATERRITORIAL JURISDICTION.
   (A)   Except as provided in division (E) below, any city of the second class
may designate by ordinance the portion of the territory located within its
extraterritorial zoning jurisdiction outside of any other organized city within
which the designating city will exercise the powers and duties granted by this
section and Neb. RS 17-1003 or 19-2402.
   (B)   No owner of any real property located within the area designated by a
city pursuant to division (A) above or division (E) below may subdivide, plat
or lay out such real property in building lots, streets or other portions of
the same intended to be dedicated for public use or for the use of the
purchasers or owners of lots fronting thereon or adjacent thereto without first
having obtained the approval of the City Council or its agent designated
pursuant to Neb. RS 19-916 and, when applicable, having complied with Neb. RS
39-1311 to 39-1311.05. The fact that such real property is located in a
different county or counties than some or all portions of the municipality
shall not be construed as affecting the necessity of obtaining the approval of
the City Council or its designated agent.
   (C)   No plat of such real property shall be recorded or have any force or
effect unless approved by the City Council or its designated agent.
   (D)   Except as provided in division (F) below, in counties that have
adopted a comprehensive development plan which meets the requirements of Neb.
RS 23-114.02 and are enforcing subdivision regulations, the County Planning
Commission shall be provided with all available materials on any proposed
subdivision plat, contemplating public streets or improvements, which is filed
with a city of the second class or village in that county, when such proposed
plat lies partially or totally within the portion of the extraterritorial
zoning jurisdiction of that city or village where the powers and duties granted
by this section and Neb. RS 17-1003 or 19-2402 are being exercised by that
municipality in such county. The Commission shall be given four weeks to
officially comment on the appropriateness of the design and improvements
proposed in the plat. The review period for the Commission shall run
concurrently with subdivision review activities of the municipality after the
commission receives all available material for a proposed subdivision plat.
   (E)   If a city of the second class or village receives approval for the
cession and transfer of additional extraterritorial zoning jurisdiction under
Neb. RS 13-327, such city or village may designate by ordinance the portion of
the territory located within its extraterritorial zoning jurisdiction and
outside of any other organized city or village within which the designating
city or village will exercise the powers and duties granted by this section and
Neb. RS 17-1003 or 19-2402 and shall include territory ceded under Neb. RS 13-
327 within such designation.
   (F)   In counties having a population in excess of 100,000 inhabitants as
determined by the most recent federal decennial census or the most recent
revised certified count by the United States Bureau of the Census but less than
250,000 inhabitants that have adopted a comprehensive development plan which
meets the requirements of Neb. RS 23-114.02 and are enforcing subdivision
regulations, the County Planning Department and Public Works Department shall
be provided with all available materials on any proposed subdivision plat,
contemplating public streets or improvements, which is filed with a city of the
second class or village in that county, when such proposed plat lies partially
or totally within the extraterritorial zoning jurisdiction being exercised by
that city of the second class or village in such county. The county may
officially comment on the appropriateness of the design and improvements
proposed in the plat.
(Neb. RS 17-1002) (Prior Code, § 11-201.01)
§ 151.17 SURVEY AND PLAT.
   (A)   The owner or proprietor of any tract or parcel of land who shall
subdivide the same into two or more parts for the purpose of laying out any
addition to the city or any part thereof, or suburban lots, shall cause a plat
of such subdivision, with references to known or permanent monuments, to be
made, which shall accurately describe all subdivisions of such tract or parcel
of land, numbering the same by progressive numbers and giving the dimensions
and length and breadth thereof, and the breadth and courses of all streets and
alleys established therein.
   (B)   (1)   The map or plat of land within the corporate limits of the city
or of any land within the area designated as the city’s extraterritorial
jurisdiction pursuant to Neb. RS 17-1002 shall designate explicitly the land so
laid out and particularly describe the lots, blocks, streets, avenues, alleys
and other grounds belonging to such addition.
      (2)   The lots shall be designated by numbers, and streets, avenues and
other grounds, by names or numbers. Such plat shall be acknowledged before some
other officer authorized to take the acknowledgments of deeds and shall contain
a dedication of the streets, alleys and public grounds therein to the use and
benefit of the public, and have appended a survey made by some competent
surveyor with a certificate attached, certifying that he or she has accurately
surveyed such addition and that the lots, blocks, streets, avenues, alleys,
parks, commons and other grounds are well and accurately staked off and marked.
      (3)   When such map or plat is so made out, acknowledged and certified,
and has been approved by the City Council, the same shall be filed and recorded
in the office of the Register of Deeds and County Assessor.
(Prior Code, § 11-202) (Ord. 728, passed 4-23-2002)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 18-3304 and 19-916
§ 151.18 STREETS AND ALLEYS.
   Streets and alleys laid out in any addition to or in any suburban
development of the city shall be continuous with and correspond in direction
and width to the streets and alleys of the city to which they are an addition.
(Prior Code, § 11-205)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-1003, 18-3301 and 18-3307
§ 151.19 APPROVAL OF PLAT.
   The City Council or Village Board of Trustees may designate by ordinance an
employee of such city or village to approve further subdivision of existing
lots and blocks whenever all required public improvements have been installed,
no new dedication of public rights-of-way or easements is involved and such
subdivision complies with the ordinance requirements concerning minimum areas
and dimensions of such lots and blocks.
(Neb. RS 19-916)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-1002, 18-3301, 19-902 and 19-916
§ 151.20 RECORDING PLAT.
   (A)   All additions laid out contiguous or adjacent to the corporate limits
of a city of the first class, city of the second class or village may be
included within the corporate limits and become a part of such municipality for
all purposes whatsoever if approved by the City Council or Village Board of
Trustees under this subsection. The proprietor or proprietors of any land
within the corporate limits of any city of the first class, city of the second
class or village or of any land contiguous or adjacent to the corporate limits
of such city or village, may lay out such land into lots, blocks, streets,
avenues, alleys and other grounds under the name of _______ Addition to the
City or Village of ____________, and shall cause an accurate map or plat
thereof to be made out, designating explicitly the land so laid out and
particularly describing the lots, blocks, streets, avenues, alleys and other
grounds belonging to such addition. The lots shall be designated by numbers,
and streets, avenues and other grounds, by names or numbers. Such plat shall be
acknowledged before some officer authorized to take the acknowledgments of
deeds; shall contain a dedication of the streets, alleys and public grounds
therein to the use and benefit of the public; and shall have appended a survey
made by some competent surveyor with a certificate attached, certifying that he
or she has accurately surveyed such addition and that the lots, blocks,
streets, avenues, alleys, parks, commons and other grounds are well and
accurately staked off and marked.
   (B)   The addition may become part of the municipality at such time as the
addition is approved by the City Council or Village Board of Trustees if:
      (1)   After giving notice of the time and place of the hearing as
provided in Neb. RS 19-904, the Planning Commission and the City Council or
Village Board of Trustees both hold public hearings on the inclusion of the
addition within the corporate limits; and
      (2)   The City Council or Village Board of Trustees votes to approve the
inclusion of the addition within the corporate boundaries of the municipality
in a separate vote from the vote approving the addition. Such hearings shall be
separate from the public hearings held regarding approval of the addition. If
the City Council or Village Board of Trustees includes the addition within the
corporate limits, the inhabitants of such addition shall be entitled to all the
rights and privileges and shall be subject to all the laws, ordinances, rules
and regulations of the municipality to which such land is an addition. When
such map or plat is made out, acknowledged and certified, and has been approved
by the City Council or Village Board of Trustees, the map or plat shall be
filed and recorded in the office of the register of deeds and county assessor
of the county. If the City Council or Village Board of Trustees includes the
addition within the corporate limits, such map or plat shall be equivalent to a
deed in fee simple absolute to the municipality from the proprietor of all
streets, avenues, alleys, public squares, parks and commons, and of such
portion of the land as is therein set apart for public and municipal use, or is
dedicated to charitable, religious or educational purposes.
(Neb. RS 19-916)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-1002, 18-3301, 18-3306, 19-902, 19-916
and 23-1506
§ 151.21 ADDITIONS; INCORPORATION INTO MUNICIPALITY.
   (A)   All additions to the city laid out and previously located within the
corporate boundaries of the city shall remain a part of the city. All additions
laid out adjoining or contiguous to the corporate limits may be included within
the corporate limits and become a part of the city for all purposes whatsoever
at such time as the addition is approved as provided in Neb. RS 19-916.
   (B)   If the City Council includes the addition within the corporate limits,
the inhabitants of such addition shall be entitled to all the rights and
privileges and shall be subject to all the laws, ordinances, rules and
regulations of the city.
(Prior Code, § 11-208) (Ord. 729, passed 4-23-2002)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 19-916
§ 151.22 PLATTING AND SUBDIVIDING.
   Any person, whether as owner, proprietor or as the agent, attorney or
representative of any owner or proprietor of land who shall plat, or subdivide
any tract of land within the corporate limits of the city, or adjoining and
contiguous to the same, except as herein authorized, or who shall sell,
transfer, deed or convey, contract or agree to sell, transfer or offer for sale
any lot, or piece of ground in any addition, or subdivision of three, or more
parts within said corporate limits, or adjoining and contiguous thereto,
without having first obtained the acceptance and approval of the plat, or map
thereof by the City Council.
(Prior Code, § 11-701) (Ord. 698, passed 10-10-2000)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 18-3315
ZONING
§ 151.35 ZONING REGULATIONS ADOPTED.
   (A)   For the purpose of setting minimum standards to promote the public
health, safety, morals, convenience, order, prosperity and general welfare of
the community and to lessen congestion in the streets; to secure safety from
fire, panic and other dangers; to provide adequate light and air; to prevent
the overcrowding of land; to avoid undue concentration of population; and to
facilitate the adequate provision of transportation, water, sewerage, schools,
parks and other public requirements, the zoning regulations for the city, as
prepared by Charles L. Leider, MCP, Clark and Enersen, Olsson, Burroughs and
Thomsen, and published in pamphlet form, have been adopted by Ord. 262, passed
4-23-1968.
   (B)   Three copies of the adopted zoning regulations shall be kept on file
with the City Clerk and available for inspection by any member of the public
during office hours.
(Prior Code, § 11-401)
§ 151.36 MANUFACTURED HOMES; STANDARDS.
   (A)   A manufactured home may be used as a residential structure in any zone
in which residential uses are permitted if such manufactured home bears an
appropriate seal which indicates that it was constructed in accordance with the
standards of the Nebraska Uniform Standard Code for Manufactured Homes and
Recreational Vehicles, being Neb. RS 71-1555 et seq.; the Nebraska Uniform
Standards for Modular Housing Units Act, being Neb. RS 71-1555 et seq.; or the
United States Department of Housing and Urban Development.
   (B)   Manufactured homes permitted pursuant to this section shall be located
and installed according to the following standards which are applicable to
site-built, single-family dwellings:
      (1)   The home shall be located and installed on a permanent perimeter
foundation;
      (2)   The home shall be installed with permanent utility connections;
      (3)   The home shall comply with all setback and lot requirements of the
residential zone in which it is located; and
      (4)   The home shall comply with the minimum square footage requirements
of the residential zone in which it is located.
   (C)   Manufactured homes shall also meet the following standards.
      (1)   The home shall have no less than 900 square feet of floor area.
      (2)   The home shall have no less than an 18-foot exterior width.
      (3)   The roof shall be pitched with a minimum vertical rise of two and
one-half inches for each 12 inches of horizontal run.
      (4)   The exterior material shall be of a color, material and scale
comparable with those existing in residential site-built, single-family
construction.
      (5)   The home shall have a nonreflective roof material which is or
simulates asphalt or wood shingles, tile or rock.
      (6)   The home shall have wheels, axles, transporting lights and
removable towing apparatus removed.
   (D)   Nothing in this section shall be deemed to supersede any valid
restrictive covenants of record.
   (E)   For the purpose of this section, MANUFACTURED HOME shall mean:
      (1)   A factory-built structure which is to be used as a place for human
habitation, which is not constructed or equipped with a permanent hitch or
other device allowing it to be moved other than to a permanent site, which does
not have permanently attached to its body or frame any wheels or axles, and
which bears a label certifying that it was built in compliance with National
Manufactured Home Construction and Safety Standards, 24 C.F.R. parts 3280 et
seq. promulgated by the United States Department of Housing and Urban
Development; or
      (2)   A modular housing unit as defined in Neb. RS 71-1557, bearing a
seal in accordance with the Nebraska Uniform Standards for Modular Housing
Units Act.
(Prior Code, § 11-402) (Ord. 676, passed 3-23-1999) Penalty, see §
151.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 19-902
§ 151.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person who shall violate, or who shall fail, neglect or refuse to
comply with §
151.22 of this code, as now existing, or as hereafter amended, shall, upon
conviction, be fined $50 for each lot or part of lot sold, leased or offered
for sale.
(Prior Code, § 11-701) (Ord. 698, passed 10-10-2000)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 18-3315
CHAPTER 152: PUBLIC WAYS AND PROPERTY
Section
City Property
   
152.01   Definitions
   
152.02   Maintenance and control
   
152.03   Poles, wires and pipe lines
   
152.04   Dangerous stairways
   
152.05   Prohibited obstructions
   
152.06   Overhanging branches
   
152.07   Signs and canopies
   
152.08   Cutting into paving, curb or sidewalk
Sale and Acquisition of Property; Public Works
   
152.20   Sale and conveyance
   
152.21   Acquisition of property
   
152.22   Public works involving architecture or engineering; requirements
   
152.23   Special assessments for public works or improvements
Sidewalks
   
152.35   Requirement to keep clean
   
152.36   Maintenance
   
152.37   Repair
   
152.38   Construction at owner’s initiative
   
152.39   Municipal construction
Streets and Alleys
   
152.50   Improvement districts
   
152.51   Opening, widening, improving or vacating
   
152.52   Vacating public ways; procedure
   
152.53   Crossings
   
152.54   Names and numbers
   
152.55   Driveway approaches
   
152.56   Excavation
   
152.57   Driving stakes
   
152.58   Mixing concrete
   
152.59   Harmful liquids
   
152.60   Eave and gutter spouts
   
152.61   Heavy equipment
   
152.62   Construction assessment
CITY PROPERTY
§ 152.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   SIDEWALK SPACE. The portion of a street between curb lines and adjacent
property lines.
(Prior Code, § 8-101)
§ 152.02 MAINTENANCE AND CONTROL.
   The City Council shall have the care, supervision and control of all public
highways, bridges, streets, alleys, public squares and commons within the city
and shall cause the same to be kept open and in repair and free from nuisances.
(Neb. RS 17-567)
§ 152.03 POLES, WIRES AND PIPE LINES.
   (A)   Poles, wires, conduits, gas mains, pipe lines and other appurtenances
of public service companies shall be located or erected over, upon or under the
streets, alleys and common grounds of the city. Application for location of
such appurtenances shall be made to the City Council in writing. Approval by
the Council shall be issued in writing. Any public service company granted a
right-of-way for the erection and maintenance of poles, wires, conduits, gas
mains, pipe lines or other appurtenances shall at all times erect and locate
its appurtenances at such places and in such manner as shall be designated by
the Council.
   (B)   All poles, wires, conduits, gas mains, pipe lines and other
appurtenances shall be removed or relocated by the companies at their own
expense when requested to do so by the Council. Any such removal or relocation
shall be ordered by resolution of the Council, and the City Clerk shall notify
any and all companies affected. The companies shall, within 24 hours after
receiving notice, at their own expense, cause the poles, wires, conduits, gas
mains, pipe lines or other appurtenances to be removed or relocated. The
Council shall designate another location as closely as possible where the
appurtenances may be reset or placed.
   (C)   All poles, wires, conduits, gas mains, pipe lines or other
appurtenances shall be reset, placed or erected in such a manner that they will
not interfere with the water system; the sewerage system; any poles, wires,
conduits, mains, lines or other appurtenances of any public utility; any
adjacent buildings; or travel on the public ways and property. Whenever
possible, all poles, wires, conduits, gas mains, pipe lines and appurtenances
shall be confined to the alleys of the city.
§ 152.04 DANGEROUS STAIRWAYS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to construct or maintain any stairway,
open cellarway, open basement way or open entrance thereto in or adjacent to
any sidewalk, pavement or street, and any such entrance is hereby declared to
be a public nuisance, except that all existing stairways, open cellarways, open
basement ways or open entrances thereto in or adjacent to sidewalks, pavements
or streets may be permitted to remain from and after the adoption of this
prohibition if the person owning or using the opening in the sidewalk, pavement
or street satisfies the Street Commissioner that the opening is properly
protected by a balustrade, or coping of durable material and furnishes the city
with a bond in the amount set by the City Council for the benefit of any person
who might suffer an injury or damage by reason of the use of the stairway,
cellarway, basement way or entrance.
§ 152.05 PROHIBITED OBSTRUCTIONS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to obstruct, or encumber, by
fences, gates, buildings, structures or otherwise, any of the streets, alleys
or sidewalks.
   (B)   The public ways and property shall be considered to be obstructed when
the owner or occupant of the adjacent property permits or suffers to remain on
any premises owned or controlled by him or her any hedge, shrubbery, bush or
similar growth within two feet adjacent to the lot line, whether there is a
sidewalk abutting or adjoining the premises or not. It shall be the duty of
owners and occupants to at all times keep trimmed and pruned all such similar
growth.
   (C)   Trees and shrubs growing upon the lot line partially on public ground
and partially upon the abutting property, or wholly upon the abutting property,
and interfering with the use, making or construction of any public improvement
or so that the roots thereof interfere with any utility wire or pipe shall be
deemed an obstruction. Such trees and shrubs and their roots may be removed by
the city at the expense of the owner of the property upon which the trees or
shrubs are partially or wholly located if the owner fails or neglects, after
notice, to do so.
   (D)   When any obstruction described in this section is determined to exist,
the city may proceed against the owner or occupant of the property adjacent to
the sidewalk space as provided in §
92.16 of this code.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 152.06 OVERHANGING BRANCHES.
   The owner or occupant of any lot, piece or parcel of ground abutting or
adjacent to any sidewalk over which there extends the branches of trees shall
at all times keep the branches or limbs thereof trimmed to the height of at
least eight feet above the surface of said walk. Whenever the limbs or branches
of any tree or trees extend over sidewalks contrary to the provisions herein so
as to interfere with the lighting of the street from street lights, or with the
convenience of the public using said sidewalk, the City Council at any regular
or special meeting may pass a resolution ordering the owner or occupant to cut
or remove said obstructions within five days after having received a copy
thereof from the Street Commissioner stating that the city will remove said
branches and charge the costs thereof to the owner or occupant as a special
assessment for improvements as herein provided, if said resolution is not
complied with. In the event the property owner is a nonresident of the county
in which the property lies, the city shall, before levying any special
assessment against that property, send a copy of any notice required by law to
be published by means of certified mail, return receipt requested to the last-
known address of the nonresident property owner. The last-known address shall
be that address listed on the current tax rolls at the time such required
notice was first published.
(Prior Code, § 8-201)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-557.01
§ 152.07 SIGNS AND CANOPIES.
   (A)   No person shall erect or maintain any sign, signboard, poster or rigid
canopy over any street, sidewalk or alley or on other public property without
having first obtained a permit therefor. Permits for signs, signboards, posters
and canopies shall be issued by the City Clerk, subject to the approval of the
Street Commissioner, upon the payment of the fee, if any, established by the
City Council.
   (B)   All signs, signboards, posters and canopies extending over any public
sidewalk, street, alley or other public place must be securely fastened and
constructed so that there will be no danger of the them being dislodged by
ordinary winds or falling from other causes.
   (C)   No sign, signboard, poster or canopy shall be erected or maintained
which extends over any public sidewalk, street, alley or other public place in
such a location as to obstruct the view of any traffic light, sign or signal.
   (D)   Upon a determination that a sign, signboard, poster or canopy is in
violation of this section, the city may proceed against the owner or occupant
of the premises where such the sign, signboard, poster or canopy is located as
provided in §
92.16 of this code.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 152.08 CUTTING INTO PAVING, CURB OR SIDEWALK.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to cut into any paving, curb or
sidewalk for the purpose of constructing a driveway or any other purpose
whatsoever without first having obtained a written permit from the City
Council. Before any person obtains a permit, he or she shall inform the City
Clerk of the place where such cutting is to be done and it shall be the duty of
the Street Commissioner to inspect the proposed place of entry into the paving,
sidewalk or curb.
   (B)   When cutting into any paving, curb or sidewalk, it shall be the duty
of the party to comply with such rules and regulations as may be prescribed by
the Council or the City Engineer. When the applicant is ready to close the
opening made, he or she shall inform the Street Commissioner, who shall
supervise and inspect the materials used and the work done in closing the
opening.
   (C)   It shall be discretionary with the Council to order the Street
Commissioner, under the supervision and inspection of the City Engineer or the
committee of the Council on the streets and alleys, to do the cutting and
closing of the paving, curb or sidewalk and charge the costs thereof to the
party who obtained the permit. The Council may consent to the cutting and
closing of the paving, curb or sidewalk by the party holding the permit.
   (D)   Before any permit is issued by the Council, the applicant for the
permit shall deposit with the City Treasurer a sum set by resolution of the
Council for all paving, curb or sidewalk to be cut. Such sum shall be set on a
per square foot cost of construction basis. The deposit shall be retained by
the city for the purpose of replacing the paving, curb or sidewalk in the event
the work is done by the city. If the Board elects to require the applicant to
replace the paving, curb or sidewalk, the deposit shall be retained by the city
until the work is completed to the satisfaction of the Street Commissioner or
of the committee of the Council on streets and alleys.
   (E)   In addition to making the deposit, the applicant shall, before any
permit is issued, execute a bond to the city with a good and sufficient surety
to be approved by the Council in a sum set by resolution.
SALE AND ACQUISITION OF PROPERTY;
PUBLIC WORKS
§ 152.20 SALE AND CONVEYANCE.
   (A)   Real property.
      (1)   Except as provided in division (A)(7) below, the power of the city
to convey any real property owned by it, including land used for park purposes
and public squares, except real property used in the operation of public
utilities, shall be exercised by resolution, directing the sale at public
auction or by sealed bid of such property and the manner and terms thereof,
except that such property shall not be sold at public auction or by sealed bid
when:
         (a)   Such property is being sold in compliance with the requirements
of federal or state grants or programs;
         (b)   Such property is being conveyed to another public agency; or
         (c)   Such property consists of streets and alleys.
      (2)   The City Council may establish a minimum price for real property at
which bidding shall begin or shall serve as a minimum for a sealed bid.
      (3)   After the passage of the resolution directing the sale, notice of
all proposed sales of property described in division (A)(1) above and the terms
thereof shall be published once each week for three consecutive weeks in a
legal newspaper published in or of general circulation in the city.
      (4)   (a)   If within 30 days after the third publication of the notice a
remonstrance against such sale is signed by registered voters of the city equal
in number to 30% of the registered voters of the city voting at the last
regular municipal election held therein and is filed with the City Council,
such property shall not then, nor within one year thereafter, be sold. If the
date for filing the remonstrance falls upon a Saturday, Sunday or legal
holiday, the signatures shall be collected within the 30-day period, but the
filing shall be considered timely if filed or postmarked on or before the next
business day.
         (b)   Upon the receipt of the remonstrance, the City Council, with the
aid and assistance of the Election Commissioner or County Clerk, shall
determine the validity and sufficiency of signatures on the remonstrance. The
City Council shall deliver the remonstrance to the Election Commissioner or
County Clerk by hand carrier, by use of law enforcement officials, or by
certified mail, return receipt requested.
         (c)   Upon receipt of the remonstrance, the Election Commissioner or
County Clerk shall issue to the City Council a written receipt that the
remonstrance is in the custody of the Election Commissioner or County Clerk.
The Election Commissioner or County Clerk shall compare the signature of each
person signing the remonstrance with the voter registration records to
determine if each signer was a registered voter on or before the date on which
the remonstrance was filed with the City Council. The Election Commissioner or
County Clerk shall also compare the signer’s printed name, street and number or
voting precinct and city or post office address with the voter registration
records to determine whether the signer was a registered voter. The signature
and address shall be presumed to be valid only if the Election Commissioner or
County Clerk determines that the printed name, street and number or voting
precinct and city or post office address matches the registration records and
that the registration was received on or before the date on which the
remonstrance was filed with the City Council. The determinations of the
Election Commissioner or County Clerk may be rebutted by any credible evidence
which the City Council finds sufficient. The express purpose of the comparison
of names and addresses with the voter registration records, in addition to
helping to determine the validity of the remonstrance, the sufficiency of the
remonstrance and the qualifications of the signer, shall be to prevent fraud,
deception and misrepresentation in the remonstrance process.
         (d)   Upon completion of the comparison of names and addresses with
the voter registration records, the Election Commissioner or County Clerk shall
prepare in writing a certification under seal setting forth the name and
address of each signer found not to be a registered voter and the signature
page number and line number where the name is found, and if the reason for the
invalidity of the signature or address is other than the non-registration of
the signer, the Election Commissioner or County Clerk shall set forth the
reason for the invalidity of the signature. If the Election Commissioner or
County Clerk determines that a signer has affixed his or her signature more
than once to the remonstrance and that only one person is registered by that
name, the Election Commissioner or County Clerk shall prepare in writing a
certification under seal setting forth the name of the duplicate signature and
shall count only the earliest dated signature.
         (e)   The Election Commissioner or County Clerk shall certify to the
City Council the number of valid signatures necessary to constitute a valid
remonstrance. The Election Commissioner or County Clerk shall deliver the
remonstrance and the certifications to the City Council within 40 days after
the receipt of the remonstrance from the City Council. The delivery shall be by
hand carrier, by use of law enforcement officials, or by certified mail, return
receipt requested. Not more than 20 signatures on one signature page shall be
counted.
         (f)   The City Council shall, within 30 days after the receipt of the
remonstrance and certifications from the Election Commissioner or County Clerk,
hold a public hearing to review the remonstrance and certifications and receive
testimony regarding them. The City Council shall, following the hearing, vote
on whether or not the remonstrance is valid and shall uphold the remonstrance
if sufficient valid signatures have been received.
      (5)   Real estate now owned or hereafter owned by the city may be
conveyed without consideration to the state for state armory sites or, if
acquired for state armory sites, shall be conveyed strictly in accordance with
the conditions of Neb. RS 18-1001 through 18-1006.
      (6)   Following the passage of the resolution directing a sale,
publishing of the notice of the proposed sale and passing of the 30-day right-
of-remonstrance period, the property shall then be sold. Such sale shall be
confirmed by passage of an ordinance stating the name of the purchaser and
terms of the sale.
      (7)   Divisions (A)(1) through (A)(6) above shall not apply to the sale
of real property if the authorizing resolution directs the sale of real
property, the total fair market value of which is less than $5,000. Following
passage of the resolution directing the sale of the property, notice of the
sale shall be posted in three prominent places within the city for a period of
not less than seven days prior to the sale of the property. The notice shall
give a general description of the property offered for sale and state the terms
and conditions of sale. Confirmation of the sale by passage of an ordinance may
be required.
(Prior Code, § 8-103)
   (B)   Personal property. The power of the city to convey any personal
property owned by it shall be exercised by resolution directing the sale and
the manner and terms thereof. Following passage of the resolution directing the
sale of the property, notice of the sale shall be posted in three prominent
places within the city for a period of not less than seven days prior to the
sale of the property. If the fair market value of the property is greater than
$5,000, notice of the sale shall also be published once in a legal newspaper
published in or of general circulation in the city at least seven days prior to
the sale of the property. The notice shall give a general description of the
property offered for sale and state the terms and conditions of sale.
(Prior Code, § 8-103.01)
(Ord. 396, passed 2-8-1983; Ord. 586, passed 6-14-1994; Ord. 622, passed 3-26-
1996; Ord. 669, passed 8-25-1998; Ord. 746, passed 3-9-2004)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-503, 17-503.01 and 17-503.02
§ 152.21 ACQUISITION OF PROPERTY.
   (A)   Requirements.
      (1)   The city is authorized and empowered to purchase, accept by gift or
devise, purchase real estate upon which to erect and erect a building or
buildings for an auditorium, fire station, municipal building or community
house for housing municipal enterprises and social and recreation purposes, and
other public buildings, and maintain, manage and operate the same for the
benefit of the inhabitants of the city.
      (2)   Except as provided in division (A)(3) below, before any such
purchase can be made or building erected, the question shall be submitted to
the electors of the city at a general municipal election or at an election duly
called for that purpose, or as set forth in Neb. RS 17-954, and be adopted by a
majority of the electors voting on such question.
      (3)   If the funds to be used to finance the purchase or construction of
a building pursuant to this section are available other than through a bond
issue, then either:
         (a)   Notice of the proposed purchase or construction shall be
published in a newspaper of general circulation in the city and no election
shall be required to approve the purchase or construction unless within 30 days
after the publication of the notice, a remonstrance against the purchase or
construction is signed by registered voters of the city equal in number to 15%
of the registered voters of the city voting at the last regular municipal
election held therein and is filed with the City Council. If the date for
filing the remonstrance falls upon a Saturday, Sunday or legal holiday, the
signatures shall be considered timely if filed or postmarked on or before the
next business day. If a remonstrance with the necessary number of qualified
signatures is timely filed, the question shall be submitted to the voters of
the city at a general municipal election or a special election duly called for
that purpose. If the purchase or construction is not approved, the property
involved shall not then, nor within one year following the election, be
purchased or constructed; or
         (b)   The City Council may proceed without providing the notice and
right of remonstrance required in division (A)(3)(a) above if the property can
be purchased below the fair market value as determined by an appraisal, there
is a willing seller, and the purchase price is less than $25,000. The purchase
shall be approved by the City Council after notice and public hearing as
provided in Neb. RS 18-1755.
(Prior Code, § 8-107)
   (B)   Acquisition of real property. When acquiring an interest in real
property by purchase or eminent domain, the city shall do so only after the
City Council has authorized the acquisition by action taken in a public meeting
after notice and public hearing.
(Prior Code, § 8-110)
   (C)   Appraisal. The city shall not purchase, lease-purchase or acquire for
consideration real property having an estimated value of $100,000 or more
unless an appraisal of such property has been performed by a certified real
estate appraiser.
(Prior Code, § 8-111)
(Ord. 383, passed 10-27-1981; Ord. 596, passed 3-14-1995; Ord. 597, passed 3-
14-1995; Ord. 623, passed 3-26-1996)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 13-403, 17-953, 17-953.01 and 18-1755
§ 152.22 PUBLIC WORKS INVOLVING ARCHITECTURE OR ENGINEERING; REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Except as provided in division (B) below, the city shall not engage in
the construction of any public works involving architecture or engineering
unless the plans, specifications and estimates have been prepared and the
construction has been observed by an architect, a professional engineer or a
person under the direct supervision of an architect or professional engineer.
   (B)   Division (A) above shall not apply to the following activities:
      (1)   Any public works project with contemplated expenditures for the
completed project that do not exceed $86,000;
      (2)   Any alteration, renovation or remodeling of a building if the
alteration, renovation or remodeling does not affect architectural or
engineering safety features of the building;
      (3)   Performance by the city of professional services for itself if the
city appoints a City Engineer or employs a full-time person licensed under the
Engineers and Architects Regulation Act, being Neb. RS 81-3401 through 81-3455,
who is in responsible charge of architectural or engineering work;
      (4)   The practice of any other certified trade or legally recognized
profession;
      (5)   Earthmoving and related work associated with soil and water
conservation practices performed on any land owned by the city that is not
subject to a permit from the Department of Natural Resources;
      (6)   The work of employees and agents of the city performing, in
accordance with other requirements of law, their customary duties in the
administration and enforcement of codes, permit programs and land use
regulations and their customary duties in utility and public works
construction, operation and maintenance;
      (7)   Those services ordinarily performed by subordinates under direct
supervision of a professional engineer or those commonly designated as
locomotive, stationary, marine operating engineers, power plant operating
engineers or manufacturers who supervise the operation of or operate machinery
or equipment or who supervise construction within their own plant;
      (8)   The construction of water wells as defined in Neb. RS 46-1212, the
installation of pumps and pumping equipment into water wells and the
decommissioning of water wells, unless such construction, installation or
decommissioning is required by the city to be designed or supervised by an
engineer, or unless legal requirements are imposed upon the city as a part of a
public water supply; and
      (9)   Any other activities described in Neb. RS 81-3449 through 81-3453.
(Prior Code, § 8-112) (Ord. 697, passed 10-10-2000; Ord. 771, passed 3-22-2005)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 81-3423, 81-3445, 81-3449 and 81-3453
§ 152.23 SPECIAL ASSESSMENTS FOR PUBLIC WORKS OR IMPROVEMENTS.
   (A)   Assessment and creation procedure.
      (1)   The City Council may, by ordinance, create a special improvement
district for the purpose of replacing, reconstructing or repairing an existing
water line, sewer line or any other such improvement.
      (2)   Except as provided in Neb. RS 19-2428 through 19-2431, the City
Council shall have power to assess, to the extent of such benefits, the costs
of such improvements upon the properties found especially benefitted thereby,
whether or not such properties were previously assessed for the same general
purpose. In creating such special improvement district, the City Council shall
follow procedures applicable to the creation and assessment of the same type of
improvement district as otherwise provided by law.
(Prior Code, § 8-108)
   (B)   Land adjacent. All cities and villages may create a special
improvement district for the purpose of replacing, reconstructing or repairing
an existing street, alley, water line or sewer line or any other such
improvement. Except as provided in Neb. RS 19-2428 to 19-2431, the City Council
may levy a special assessment, to the extent of such special benefits, for the
costs of such improvements upon the properties found specially benefitted
thereby, whether or not such properties were previously assessed for the same
general purpose. In creating such special improvement district, the City
Council shall follow procedures applicable to the creation and assessment of
the same type of improvement district as otherwise provided by law.
(Neb. RS 18-1751) (Prior Code, § 8-109)
(Ord. 469, passed 9-22-1987; Ord. 470, passed 9-22-1987)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 18-1751 and 19-2427
SIDEWALKS
§ 152.35 REQUIREMENT TO KEEP CLEAN.
   It shall be unlawful for the occupant of any lot or lots or the owner of any
vacant lot or lots within the corporate limits to allow snow, sleet, mud, ice
or other substance to accumulate on the sidewalks or to permit any snow, sleet,
ice, mud or other substance to remain upon the sidewalk. Unless the City
Council has provided otherwise, all sidewalks within the business district
shall be cleaned within five hours after the cessation of a storm, unless the
storm or fall of snow shall have taken place during the night, in which case
the sidewalk shall be cleaned before 9:00 a.m. the following day, and sidewalks
within the residential areas of the city shall be cleaned within 24 hours after
the cessation of the storm.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 152.36 MAINTENANCE.
   Every owner of any lot, lots or piece of land within the corporate limits
shall at all times keep and maintain the sidewalk along and contiguous to said
lot, lots or pieces of land, as the case may be, in good and proper repair, and
in a condition reasonably safe for travel for all travelers thereon. In the
event that the owner or owners of any lot, lots or lands, abutting on any
street, avenue or part thereof shall fail to construct or repair any sidewalk
in front of his, her, or their lot, lots or lands, within the time and in the
manner as directed and required herein after having received due notice to do
so, they shall be liable for all damages or injury occasioned by reason of the
defective or dangerous condition of any sidewalk, and the City Council shall
have power to cause any such sidewalks to be constructed or repaired and assess
the costs thereof against such property. In the event the property owner is a
nonresident of the county in which the property lies, the city shall, before
levying any special assessment against that property, send a copy of any notice
required by law to be published by means of certified mail, return receipt
requested to the last-known address of the nonresident property owner. The
last-known address shall be that address listed on the current tax rolls at the
time such required notice was first published.
(Prior Code, § 8-203)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-557.01
§ 152.37 REPAIR.
   (A)   The city official in charge of sidewalks may require sidewalks of the
city to be repaired. Notice to the owners of property upon which such sidewalks
in disrepair are located shall require within 48 hours from issuance of notice
said owners to make arrangements to have the sidewalk repaired. Said repairs
shall be completed within 21 days after issuance of said notice. No special
assessment shall be levied against the property unless said owner shall neglect
or refuse to repair within the time prescribed and in the event that such owner
fails to repair, the city shall cause the repairs to be made and assess the
property owner the expense of such repairs.
   (B)   In the event the property owner is a nonresident of the county in
which the property lies, the city shall, before levying any special assessment
against that property, send a copy of any notice required by law to be
published by means of certified mail, return receipt requested to the last-
known address of the nonresident property owner. The last-known address shall
be that address listed on the current tax rolls at the time such required
notice was first published.
(Prior Code, § 8-204)
§ 152.38 CONSTRUCTION AT OWNER’S INITIATIVE.
   (A)   Any person desiring to construct, or cause to be constructed, any
sidewalk shall do so only as provided in this section. It shall be unlawful for
any person to construct any sidewalk without first having obtained a permit.
   (B)   The owner shall make application in writing for a permit and file such
application in the office of the City Clerk. The permit shall give a
description of the lot or piece of land along which the sidewalk is to be
constructed. The Street Commissioner shall issue the desired permit unless good
cause appears why the permit should be denied, except that if it is desired to
construct the sidewalk at any other than the regularly prescribed location,
grade or elevation, the Street Commissioner shall submit the application to the
City Council for determination as to whether the permit should be granted or
denied. It shall be unlawful for any person to construct, or cause to be
constructed, such sidewalk at any other location, grade or elevation than so
designated by the city. All sidewalks shall be built and constructed on the
established grade or elevation, and if there is no established grade, then on
the grade or elevation indicated by the Street Commissioner.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 152.39 MUNICIPAL CONSTRUCTION.
   (A)   The City Council may, by resolution, order the construction of a
sidewalk on any lot or piece of ground within the city. Notice of the City
Council’s intention to construct said sidewalk shall be given by the City Clerk
by publication of notice one time in a legal newspaper of general circulation
in the city.
   (B)   A copy of said notice shall be personally served upon the occupant in
possession of such property, or, when personal service is not possible, said
notice shall be posted upon such premises ten days prior to the commencement of
construction. The notice required in this section shall be prepared by the City
Attorney in accordance with the provisions of this section. Such service shall
include a form of return evidencing personal service or posting as herein
required.
   (C)   Said notice shall notify the owner of the premises of the passage of
the resolution ordering him to construct or cause to be constructed a sidewalk
within 30 days after the date of publication and further that if he or she
fails to construct the sidewalk or cause the same to be done within the time
allowed, the city will cause the sidewalk to be constructed and the cost
thereof shall be levied and assessed as a special tax against the premises;
provided, that the notice shall contain the official estimate of the cost of
said construction and no special assessment in excess of this estimate shall be
assessed against the property. In the event the property owner is a nonresident
of the county in which the property lies, the city shall, before levying any
special assessment against that property, send a copy of any notice required by
law to be published by means of certified mail, return receipt requested to the
last-known address of the nonresident property owner. The last-known address
shall be that address listed on the current tax rolls at the time such required
notice was first published.
(Prior Code, § 8-206)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-522 and 17-523
STREETS AND ALLEYS
§ 152.50 IMPROVEMENT DISTRICTS.
   (A)   Petition. If a petition is signed by the owners of the record title
representing more than 60%of the front footage of property directly abutting
upon the streets, alleys, public ways or public grounds proposed to be improved
in an improvement district created pursuant to Neb. RS 17-509 and presented and
filed with the City Clerk, the City Council shall by ordinance create an
improvement district, cause such work to be done or such improvement to be
made, contract for such improvement and levy special assessments on the lots
and parcels of land abutting on or adjacent to such streets or alleys specially
benefitted by such improvement in such district in proportion to such benefits,
except as provided in Neb. RS 19-2428 to 19-2431, to pay the cost of such
improvement. The City Council may deny the formation of the proposed
improvement district when the area has not previously been improved with a
water system, sewer system and grading of streets. If the City Council denies a
requested improvement district formation, it shall state the grounds for such
denial in a written letter to interested parties.
(Neb. RS 17-510)
   (B)   Objections. Whenever the City Council deems it necessary to make the
improvements in Neb. RS 17-509 which are to be funded by a levy of special
assessment on the property specially benefitted, such City Council shall by
ordinance create an improvement district and, after the passage, approval and
publication of such ordinance, shall publish notice of the creation of any such
district for six days in a legal newspaper in or of general circulation in the
city or village if such legal newspaper is a daily newspaper or for two
consecutive weeks if such legal newspaper is a weekly newspaper. If the owners
of the record title representing more than 50% of the front footage of the
property directly abutting on the street or alley to be improved file with the
City Clerk within 20 days after the first publication of such notice written
objections to the creation of such district, such improvement shall not be made
as provided in such ordinance, but such ordinance shall be repealed. If
objections are not filed against the district in the time and manner prescribed
in this section, the City Council shall immediately cause such work to be done
or such improvement to be made, shall contract for the work or improvement and
shall levy special assessments on the lots and parcels of land abutting on or
adjacent to such street or alley specially benefitted in such district in
proportion to such benefits to pay the cost of such improvement.
(Neb. RS 17-511)
   (C)   Deferral.
      (1)   Whenever the City Council of a city creates an improvement district
as specified in §
152.23(B) of this code which includes land adjacent to the city which is within
an agricultural use zone and is used exclusively for agricultural use, the
owners of record title of such adjacent land may apply for a deferral from
special assessments. For purposes of this division (C), the terms AGRICULTURAL
USE and AGRICULTURAL USE ZONE shall have the meaning specified in Neb. RS 77-
1343.
      (2)   Any owner of record title eligible for the deferral granted by this
division (C) shall, to secure such assessment, make application to the City
Council within 90 days after creation of an improvement district as specified
in §
152.23(A) of this code. Any owner of record title who makes application for the
deferral provided by this division (C) shall notify the county’s Register of
Deeds of such application in writing prior to approval by the City Council. The
City Council shall approve the application of any owner of record title upon
determination that the property is within an agricultural use zone and is used
exclusively for agricultural use, and the owner has met the requirements of
this division (C).
      (3)   The deferral provided for in this division (C) shall be terminated
upon any of the following events:
         (a)   Notification by the owner of record title to the City Council to
remove such deferral;
         (b)   Sale or transfer to a new owner who does not make a new
application within 60 days of the sale or transfer, except as provided in
division (C)(3)(c) below;
         (c)   Transfer by reason of death of a former owner to a new owner who
does not make application within 125 days of the transfer;
         (d)   The land is no longer being used as agricultural land; or
         (e)   Change of zoning to other than an agricultural zone.
      (4)   Whenever property which has received a deferral pursuant to this
division (C) becomes disqualified for such deferral, the owner of record title
of such property shall pay to the city an amount equal to:
         (a)   The total amount of special assessments which would have been
assessed against such property, to the extent of special benefits, had such
deferral not been granted; and
         (b)   Interest upon the special assessments not paid each year at the
rate of 6% from the dates at which such assessments would have been payable if
no deferral had been granted.
      (5)   In cases where the deferral provided by this division (C) is
terminated as a result of a sale or transfer described in divisions (C)(3)(b)
or (C)(3)(c) above, the lien for assessments and interest shall attach as of
the day preceding such sale or transfer.
(Prior Code, § 8-313)
(Ord. 405, passed 10-11-1983; Ord. 409, passed 10-11-1983; Ord. 472, passed 9-
22-1987; Ord. 624, passed 3-26-1996)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 19-2428 through 19-2431
§ 152.51 OPENING, WIDENING, IMPROVING OR VACATING.
   (A)   The city shall have power to open, widen or otherwise improve or
vacate any street, avenue, alley or lane within the limits of the city and also
to create, open and improve any new street, avenue, alley or lane. All damages
sustained by the citizens of the city, or by the owners of the property
therein, shall be ascertained in such manner as shall be provided by ordinance.
Whenever any street or alley is vacated, the same shall revert to the owners of
the abutting real estate, one-half on each side thereof and become a part of
such property. When a portion of a street, avenue, alley or lane is vacated
only on one side of the center thereof, the title to such land shall vest in
the owner of the abutting property and become a part of such property. When the
city vacates all or any portion of a street, avenue, alley or lane, the city
shall, within 30 days after the effective date of the vacation, file a
certified copy of the vacating ordinance with the Register of Deeds for the
county in which the vacated property is located to be indexed against all
affected lots.
   (B)   The city shall have power to create, open, widen or extend any street,
avenue, alley, off-street parking area or other public way, or annul, vacate or
discontinue the same.
(Prior Code, § 8-303) (Ord. 721, passed 4-23-2002)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-558 and 17-559
§ 152.52 VACATING PUBLIC WAYS; PROCEDURE.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, SPECIAL DAMAGES shall mean only those
losses or damages or injuries which a property owner suffers that are peculiar
or special or unique to his or her property and which result from the City
Council vacating a street, avenue, alley, lane or similar public way. SPECIAL
DAMAGES shall not mean those losses or damages or injuries that a property
owner suffers that are in common with the rest of the city or public at large,
even though those losses or damages or injuries suffered by the property owner
are greater in degree than the rest of the city or public at large.
   (B)   Whenever the City Council decides that it would be in the best
interests of the city to vacate a street, avenue, alley, lane or similar public
way, the City Council shall comply with the following procedure:
      (1)   Notice. Notice shall be given to all abutting property owners
either by first class mail to their last-known address or, if there is no known
address, then by publishing the notice in a newspaper that is of general
circulation in the city. The content of the notice shall advise the abutting
property owners that the City Council will consider vacating such street,
avenue, alley, lane or similar public way at its next regular meeting or, if a
special meeting is scheduled for such discussion, then the date, time and place
of such meeting.
      (2)   Consent; waiver.
         (a)   The City Council may have all the abutting property owners sign
a form stating that they consent to the action being taken by the City Council
and waive their right of access. The signing of such form shall have no effect
on claims for special damages by the abutting property owners but shall create
the presumption that the City Council’s action was proper.
         (b)   If the abutting property owners do not sign the consent/waiver
form, the City Council may still proceed with vacating the street, avenue,
alley, lane or similar public way under the authority granted by Neb. RS 17-558
and 17-559.
      (3)   Ordinance. The City Council shall pass an ordinance that includes
essentially the following provisions:
         (a)   A declaration that the action is expedient for the public good
or in the best interests of the city;
         (b)   A statement that the city will have an easement for maintaining
all utilities; and
         (c)   A method or procedure for ascertaining special damages to
abutting property owners.
   (C)   The Mayor shall appoint three or five or seven disinterested residents
of the city to a special commission to ascertain the amount of special damages
that the abutting property owners are entitled to receive and which resulted
from the City Council vacating the street, avenue, alley, lane or similar
public way. The appointees of the special commission shall be approved by the
City Council. Only special damages shall be awarded to the abutting property
owners.
   (D)   In determining the amount of compensation to award the abutting
property owners as special damages, the commission shall use the following
rule: An abutting property owner is entitled to recover as compensation the
difference between the value of the property immediately before and immediately
after the vacating of such street, avenue, alley, lane or similar public way.
If no difference in value exists, the abutting property owner is entitled to no
compensation.
(Prior Code, § 8-315) (Ord. 462, passed 10-14-1986; Ord. 722, passed 4-23-2002)
§ 152.53 CROSSINGS.
   The City Council may order and cause to be constructed, under the
supervision of the Street Commissioner, those street, avenue and alley
crossings as the City Council deems necessary. When a petition for the
construction of any such crossings is filed by an interested resident in the
office of the City Clerk, the City Clerk shall refer the application to the
Street Commissioner, who shall investigate and make a recommendation to the
City Council. Action by the City Council on the application, whether the
application is approved or rejected, shall be considered final.
§ 152.54 NAMES AND NUMBERS.
   The City Council may at any time, by ordinance, rename any street or provide
a name for any new street. Buildings used for residence or business purposes
and located along those streets shall retain those numbers as the City Council
may require. It shall be the duty of the Street Commissioner, upon the erection
of any new building, to assign the proper numbers to the building and give
notice to the owner and occupant of the same.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 152.55 DRIVEWAY APPROACHES.
   (A)   The Street Commissioner may require the owner of property served by a
driveway approach constructed or maintained upon the street right-of-way to
repair or replace any such driveway approach which is cracked, broken or
otherwise deteriorated to the extent that it is causing or is likely to cause
damage to or interfere with any street structure including pavement or
sidewalks.
   (B)   The City Clerk shall give the property owner notice by registered
letter or certified mail, directed to the last-known address of such owner or
the agent of such owner, directing the repair or replacement of such driveway
approach. If within 30 days of mailing such notice the property owner fails or
neglects to cause such repairs or replacements to be made, the Street
Commissioner may cause such work to be done and assess the cost upon the
property served by such approach.
(Prior Code, § 8-314) (Ord. 433, passed 11-13-1984)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 18-1748
§ 152.56 EXCAVATION.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to make an excavation in any street or
streets for any purpose whatsoever unless a written permit is issued by the
Street Commissioner authorizing those excavations.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 152.57 DRIVING STAKES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to drive any peg or stake of any kind
into the pavement in any street or alley without first procuring the written
consent of the Street Commissioner.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 152.58 MIXING CONCRETE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to mix any concrete or plastering
material directly on the street pavement for any reason whatsoever.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 152.59 HARMFUL LIQUIDS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to place or permit to leak in the gutter
of any street any waste gasoline, kerosene or high lubricating oils, which
damage or act as a solvent upon the streets.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 152.60 EAVE AND GUTTER SPOUTS.
   It is hereby declared unlawful for any person to erect or maintain any
dwelling house or business building within the limits of the city where the
said dwelling or building abuts on any sidewalk or street without providing
proper guttering and eave spouts to receive the waste waters that collect on
the said sidewalks and streets. All eave spouts erected on any dwelling house
or business building shall be constructed to drain into the alleys or shall be
buried beneath the sidewalks and drain into the streets where it is found to be
impossible to drain said eave spouts into the alley.
(Prior Code, § 8-308)
§ 152.61 HEAVY EQUIPMENT.
   (A)   It shall hereafter be unlawful for any person or persons to move or
operate heavy equipment across any curb, gutter, bridge, culvert, sidewalk,
crosswalk or crossing on any unpaved street without first having protected such
curb, gutter, bridge, culvert, sidewalks, crosswalk or crossing with heavy
plank sufficient in strength to warrant against the breaking or damaging of
such curb, gutter, bridge, culvert, sidewalk, crosswalk or crossing. Hereafter,
it shall be unlawful to run, drive, move, operate or convey over or across any
paved street a vehicle, machine or implement with sharp discs or sharp wheels
that bear upon said pavement; with wheels having cutting edges; with wheels
having lugs, any protruding parts, or bolts thereon that extend beyond a plain
tire so as to cut, mark, mar, indent or otherwise injure or damage any
pavement, gutter or curb; provided, that where heavy vehicles, structures and
machines move along paved or unpaved streets the Chief of Police is hereby
authorized and empowered to choose the route over which the moving of such
vehicles, structures or machines will be permitted and allowed.
   (B)   Nothing in this section shall be construed to apply to pneumatic tires
with metal or metal-type studs not exceeding five-sixteenths of an inch in
diameter, inclusive of the stud-casting, with an average protrusion beyond the
tread surface of not more than seven sixty-fourths of an inch between October 1
and April 15; provided, that school buses and emergency vehicles shall be
permitted to use metal or metal-type studs all year; it shall be permissible to
use farm machinery with tires having protuberances which will not injure the
streets; and it shall be permissible to use tire chains of reasonable
proportions upon any vehicle when required for safety because of snow, ice or
other condition tending to cause a vehicle to slide or skid.
(Prior Code, § 8-309)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 60-6,250
§ 152.62 CONSTRUCTION ASSESSMENT.
   (A)   To defray the costs and expenses of street improvements, as may be
authorized by law, the City Council shall have power and authority to levy and
collect special taxes and assessments upon the lots and pieces of ground
adjacent to, abutting upon, or especially benefitting from, the street, avenue,
alley or sidewalk in whole or in part opened, widened, curbed, curbed and
guttered, graded, paved, repaired, graveled, macadamized, parked, extended,
constructed or otherwise improved or repaired. The City Council sitting as the
Board of Equalization shall review all such improvements in accordance with the
procedure provided by law.
   (B)   All special assessments shall be made by the City Council at a regular
or special meeting by resolution, taking into account the benefits derived or
injuries sustained in consequence of such improvements and the amount charged
against same. The vote shall be recorded in the minutes. Notice of the time of
holding such meeting and the purpose for which it is to be held shall be
published in some legal newspaper published, or of general circulation, in the
city, at least four weeks before the same shall be held.
   (C)   In lieu of such aforementioned notice, personal service may be had
upon the persons owning or occupying the property to be assessed. Such
assessments shall be known as “special assessments for improvements” and with
the cost of notice shall be levied and collected as a special tax in addition
to the taxes for general revenue purposes, subject to the same penalties and
collected in like manner as other municipal taxes and shall be certified to the
County Clerk by the City Clerk forthwith after the date of levy, for collection
by the County Treasurer unless otherwise specified. After it shall become
delinquent said assessment shall draw interest at the legal interest rate per
annum. In the event the property owner is a nonresident of the county in which
the property lies, the city shall, before levying any special assessment
against that property, send a copy of any notice required by law to be
published by means of certified mail, return receipt requested to the last-
known address of the nonresident property owner. The last-known address shall
be that address listed on the current tax rolls at the time such required
notice was first published.
(Prior Code, § 8-311)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-511 and 17-524
CHAPTER 153: TREES
Section
   
153.01   Definitions
   
153.02   Street tree species to be planted
   
153.03   Distances and clearances for planting
   
153.04   Public tree care
   
153.05   Permits required
   
153.06   Compensatory payments
   
153.07   Topping
   
153.08   Clearance over streets and walkways
   
153.09   Dead or diseased tree removal on private property
   
153.10   Interference with Tree Board
   
153.11   Removal of stumps
   
153.12   Arborist license and bond
   
153.13   Review by City Council
§ 153.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   COMMUNITY FOREST MANAGER. The official public employee representative of the
Tree Board responsible for administration of the community forestry program.
   PARK TREES. Trees, shrubs, bushes and all other woody vegetation in public
parks.
   PUBLIC COMMUNITY FOREST. All street and park trees and other trees owned by
the city as a total resource.
   STREET TREES. Trees, shrubs, bushes and all other woody vegetation on land
lying between the property lines on either side of all streets and avenues
within the city.
(Prior Code, § 8-501) (Ord. 685, passed 4-11-2000)
§ 153.02 STREET TREE SPECIES TO BE PLANTED.
   (A)   The city shall maintain an extensive list of recommended trees for
planting in public areas. The purpose of this listing will be to maintain
diversity in the total tree population. This list shall be available to
residents of the city upon request to aid in the selection of trees for private
and public properties.
   (B)   The list of recommended trees shall be updated periodically to reflect
new developments or species that will affect the population of the community
forest.
(Prior Code, § 8-502) (Ord. 685, passed 4-11-2000)
§ 153.03 DISTANCES AND CLEARANCES FOR PLANTING.
   (A)   Street trees may be planted in the tree lawn where there is more than
six feet between the edge of the sidewalk and the curb of the street. Street
trees shall be planted no closer than three feet from a sidewalk, driveway or
street.
   (B)   No street tree shall be planted closer than 35 feet from any street
corner, measured from the point of the nearest intersection of curb or curb
lines.
   (C)   No street tree shall be planted closer than ten feet from any
fireplug.
   (D)   Special permission must be obtained from the Community Forest Manager
when planting street trees within ten feet of any point on a line on the ground
immediately below any overhead utility wire.
(Prior Code, § 8-503) (Ord. 685, passed 4-11-2000)
§ 153.04 PUBLIC TREE CARE.
   (A)   The city shall have the right to plant, prune, maintain and remove
trees, plants, shrubs within the right-of-way or bounds of all streets, alleys,
lanes, squares and public grounds, as may be necessary to insure the public
safety.
   (B)   The city may remove or cause or order to be removed, any tree or part
thereof which is in an unsafe condition or which by reason of its nature is
injurious to electric power lines or other public improvements or is seriously
affected with any fatal disease.
   (C)   The abutting property owners shall have the right to perform normal
tree care on all street trees.
(Prior Code, § 8-504) (Ord. 685, passed 4-11-2000)
§ 153.05 PERMITS REQUIRED.
   No person shall plant a street tree without first obtaining a permit from
the Community Forest Manager; there will be no fee for such permit.
(Prior Code, § 8-505) (Ord. 685, passed 4-11-2000)
§ 153.06 COMPENSATORY PAYMENTS.
   No person shall remove any public tree without replacing such tree with a
tree or trees of equivalent dollar value in the vicinity of the removed tree.
The value of trees shall be determined by the Community Forest Manager in
accordance with regulations considering the species, location, size and
condition of trees adopted by the Tree Board. If no suitable location exists in
the vicinity of the tree removed or if the replacement tree is of lesser value,
the person causing the tree to be removed shall make a compensatory payment to
the city equal to the difference in value between the tree removed and any
replacement tree. Such compensatory payment shall be paid into a fund
established by the City Clerk and used solely for the purpose of enhancing the
community forest.
(Prior Code, § 8-506) (Ord. 685, passed 4-11-2000)
§ 153.07 TOPPING.
   It shall be unlawful as a normal practice for any person, firm or city
department to top any street tree, park tree or other tree on public property.
TOPPING, ROUNDING OFF or POLLARDING is defined as the systematic cutting back
of limbs within the tree’s crown to such a degree as to remove the normal
canopy and disfigure the tree. Trees severely damaged by storms or other
causes, or certain trees under utility wires or other obstructions where other
pruning practices are impractical, may be exempted from this section at the
determination of the Tree Board or the Community Forest Manager.
(Prior Code, § 8-507) (Ord. 685, passed 4-11-2000) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 153.08 CLEARANCE OVER STREETS AND WALKWAYS.
   Clearance over streets and walkways shall be the responsibility of the
abutting property owner. A clearance of eight feet must be maintained over
walkways and a clearance of 12 feet must be maintained over streets and alleys.
Property owners are responsible for trees on their own property as well as
trees on the public way that abuts their property.
(Prior Code, § 8-508) (Ord. 685, passed 4-11-2000)
§ 153.09 DEAD OR DISEASED TREE REMOVAL ON PRIVATE PROPERTY.
   The city shall have the right to cause the removal of any dead or diseased
trees on private property within the city, when such trees constitute a hazard
to life and property, or harbor insects or disease which constitute a potential
threat to other trees within the city. The Tree Board will notify in writing
the owners of such trees. Removal shall be done by said owners at their expense
within 60 days after the date of service of notice. In the event of failure to
comply with such provisions, the city shall have the authority to remove such
trees and charge the cost of removal on the owner’s property tax notice.
(Prior Code, § 8-509) (Ord. 685, passed 4-11-2000)
§ 153.10 INTERFERENCE WITH TREE BOARD.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to prevent, delay or interfere
with the Tree Board or any of its representatives or agents, while engaging in
and about the planting, cultivating, mulching, pruning, spraying or removing of
any trees with the public community forest.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to prevent, delay or interfere
with access to private property by the city or its representative in the legal
performance of any section of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 8-510) (Ord. 685, passed 4-11-2000) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 153.11 REMOVAL OF STUMPS.
   All stumps of street and park trees shall be removed below the surface of
the ground so that the top of the stump shall not project above the surface of
the ground.
(Prior Code, § 8-511) (Ord. 685, passed 4-11-2000)
§ 153.12 ARBORIST LICENSE AND BOND.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person or firm to engage in the business
or occupation of pruning, treating or removing street or park trees within the
city without first applying for a license. No license shall be required of any
public service company or city employee doing such work in the pursuit of their
public service endeavors.
   (B)   Before any license shall be issued, each applicant shall first file
evidence of possession of liability insurance in the minimum amount of $50,000
for bodily injury and $100,000 property damage indemnifying the city or any
person injured or damaged resulting from the pursuit of such endeavors as
herein described.
(Prior Code, § 8-512) (Ord. 685, passed 4-11-2000) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 153.13 REVIEW BY CITY COUNCIL.
   The City Council shall have the right to review the conduct, acts and
decisions of the Tree Board. Any person may appeal from any ruling or order of
the Tree Board to the City Council who may hear the matter and make final
decision.
(Prior Code, § 8-513) (Ord. 685, passed 4-11-2000)
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
   Table
      
I.   STREET VACATIONS
TABLE I: STREET VACATIONS
 
Ord. Date   Description
No.  Passed
            (A)   Vacating a portion of S. Harlan Avenue between South Depot Street to E.
877  5-28-  Ash Street; lying between abutting Lots 616 through 620 and 627 through 632 to
     2019   the west and abutting Lots 7 through 12 and Irregular Lot 6 (SE1/4SE1/4) to the
            east.
            (B)   Vacating a portion of E. Hickory Street between S. Kearney Avenue and S.
          Harlan Avenue; lying between abutting Lots 620 and 621 to the north and abutting
            Lots 627 and 638 to the south.
     7-26-  Vacating East Ash Street between South Kearney Avenue on the west and previously
902  2022   vacated South Harlan Avenue on the east, with title reverting to the abutting
            property owners.
           
 
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to Nebraska Revised Statutes
References to Prior Code
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO NEBRASKA REVISED STATUTES
Neb. RS Cites Code Section
Neb. RS Cites                     Code Section
3-501 through 3-514               31.21
3-501 et seq.                     33.52
9-201 et seq.                     112.02,
                                  112.03
9-301 et seq.                     112.03
9-401 et seq.                     112.03
9-601 et seq.                     112.03
9-642.01                          112.03
9-646                             112.04
10-101 through 10-143             33.10
10-606 through 10-612             33.10
Chapter 11, Article 1             31.61
11-101                            30.001
11-104                            30.001
11-105                            30.001
11-109                            30.001
11-110                            30.001
11-111                            30.001
11-112                            30.001
11-113                            30.001
11-114                            30.001
11-115                            30.001
11-116                            30.001
11-117                            30.001
11-118                            30.001
12-301 through 12-403             95.01
12-403                            95.02
13-327                            151.16
13-403                            152.21
13-504                            33.29
13-505                            33.29
13-506                            33.30,
                                  33.35
13-508                            33.31
13-509.01                         33.28
13-509.02                         33.28
13-510                            33.34
13-511                            33.35
13-518 through 13-522             33.35
13-519                            32.04
13-606                            33.01
13-801                            33.52
13-801 et seq.                    31.62
13-903                            33.04
13-1802                           31.62
13-2001                           34.30
13-2501                           33.52
13-2501 et seq.                   31.62
16-318(3)                         30.038
16-714 through 16-716             33.08
16-901 to 16-905                  151.15
16-902(1)                         151.15
17-103                            30.017
17-104                            30.017,
                                  30.018 
17-105                            30.063
17-106                            30.063
17-107                            30.035,
                                  31.63
17-108                            30.002
17-108.02                         30.020,
                                  30.036
17-110 through 17-117             30.015
17-118                            30.041
17-119                            30.044
                                  31.18,
17-121                            92.01,
                                  92.02
17-124                            30.041
17-130 through 17-132             150.035
17-134                            110.15
17-142                            130.18,
                                  150.001
17-145                            53.10
17-147                            30.042,
                                  31.35
17-148                            30.016
17-405 through 17-426             11.02
17-502                            11.03
17-503                            152.20
17-503.01                         152.20
17-503.02                         152.20
                                  10.99,
17-505                            30.042,
                                  34.01
17-509                            152.50
17-510                            152.50
17-511                            152.50,
                                  152.62
17-522                            152.39
17-523                            152.39
17-524                            152.62
17-525                            110.15
                                  90.26,
17-526                            90.30,
                                  90.31
17-531                            52.06
17-534                            52.06
17-536                            52.15
                                  52.13,
17-537                            52.16,
                                  52.17
17-538                            52.12
17-541                            30.035,
                                  30.045
17-542                            52.08–
                                  52.11
                                  91.25,
17-549                            91.44,
                                  91.45
                                  91.22–
17-550                            91.24,
                                  150.035
17-555                            130.18,
                                  130.19
                                  91.26,
17-556                            91.44,
                                  91.45,
                                  130.38
17-557                            130.18
17-557.01                         152.06,
                                  152.36
17-558                            152.51,
                                  152.52
17-559                            152.51,
                                  152.52
17-562                            110.15
17-563                            92.20
17-567                            152.02
17-568                            30.043
17-568.01                         30.043,
                                  33.02
17-568.02                         33.02
17-574                            53.02,
                                  53.14
17-602                            32.03
17-604                            30.001,
                                  30.002
17-605                            30.037
17-606                            30.037,
                                  30.038
17-606(2)                         30.038
17-607                            33.07
17-608                            33.09
17-609                            33.09
17-610                            30.039
17-611                            30.002
17-612                            30.002
                                  33.02,
                                  34.03,
17-613                            34.05,
                                  34.06,
                                  34.07
                                  10.15,
17-614                            34.03,
                                  34.04,
                                  34.08
17-614(3)                         34.04
17-615                            34.06
17-616                            34.04
17-701                            33.25
17-702                            33.06,
                                  33.50
17-706                            33.32
17-708                            33.27
17-710                            33.05
17-711                            33.03
17-714                            33.04
17-715                            33.04
17-718                            31.35
17-720                            33.08
17-919                            30.043
                                  53.02,
17-925.01                         53.09,
                                  53.15
17-925.02                         53.07
17-938                            95.04
17-941                            95.03
17-948                            93.01,
                                  93.15
17-948 through 17-952             93.01
                                  93.01,
17-949                            93.16–
                                  93.18
17-951                            93.01,
                                  93.15
17-952                            93.01,
                                  93.15
17-953                            152.21
17-953 et seq.                    31.35
17-953.01                         152.21
17-954                            152.21
17-966                            31.19
17-1001                           150.021,
                                  150.035
17-1001 to 17-1004                151.15
                                  11.01,
                                  11.02,
17-1002                           151.17,
                                  151.19,
                                  151.20
17-1002(1)                        151.15
                                  11.01,
17-1003                           11.02,
                                  151.16,
                                  151.18
18-132                            10.16,
                                  150.021
18-305 through 18-312             30.002
18-412                            34.32
18-412.01                         33.02
18-412.02                         34.32
18-503                            53.04,
                                  53.05
18-1001 through 18-1006           152.20
18-1214                           33.53
18-1216                           33.11
18-1701                           30.037
                                  10.99,
                                  91.15,
18-1720                           92.16,
                                  92.17,
                                  150.051,
                                  150.055
18-1722                           10.99,
                                  150.055
18-1722.01                        150.052,
                                  150.055
18-1736                           71.30,
                                  71.31
                                  71.31,
18-1737                           71.32,
                                  71.38
18-1738                           71.39
18-1738.01                        71.39
18-1741.01                        71.30,
                                  71.39
18-1741.04                        71.39
18-1741.06                        71.39
18-1743                           150.037
18-1748                           53.06,
                                  152.55
18-1751                           152.23
18-1752                           51.05–
                                  51.08
18-1755                           152.21
18-1756                           33.02
18-1801 through 18-1805           33.10
18-2101 et seq.                   33.52
18-2102.01                        31.23
18-2102.01 et seq.                31.23
18-2501 through 18-2511           34.20
18-2501 through 18-2531           34.99
18-2512                           34.21
18-2513                           34.21
18-2516                           34.23
18-2517                           34.24
18-2518                           34.24
18-2519                           34.25
18-2520                           34.26
18-2521                           34.27
18-2522                           34.28
18-2523 through 18-2526           34.29
18-2527                           34.30
18-2528                           34.30
18-2529 through 18-2531           34.31
18-2532 through 18-2535           34.99
18-2536                           34.32
18-2537                           34.32
18-2801 et seq.                   33.25,
                                  33.29
                                  30.043,
18-3301                           151.18–
                                  151.20
18-3304                           151.17
18-3306                           151.20
18-3307                           151.18
18-3315                           151.22,
                                  151.99
19-613                            30.020
19-710                            92.19
19-901 through 19-914             31.17
19-901 through 19-915             31.17
                                  151.19,
19-902                            151.20,
                                  151.36
19-904                            151.20
19-905                            34.30
19-908 through 19-910             31.17
19-912                            31.17
                                  151.15,
                                  151.16,
19-916                            151.17,
                                  151.19–
                                  151.21
19-925 through 19-929             31.16
19-1101                           30.038
19-1102                           30.037
19-1103                           30.038
19-1301                           33.06
19-1302                           33.06
19-1303                           33.06
19-1304                           33.06
19-1305                           52.06
19-2101 through 19-2106           51.20
19-2105                           110.16
19-2106                           110.16
19-2402                           151.16
19-2427                           152.23
19-2428 through 19-2431           152.23,
                                  152.50
19-2701                           53.14
19-2901 through 19-2909           33.01
19-3101                           30.021
19-3301 et seq.                   33.52
19-3701                           34.07
20-203                            90.25,
                                  90.33
23-114.02                         151.16
23-122                            30.037
23-1506                           151.20
23-1824                           95.07
25-505.01                         32.10
25-510.02                         34.22
25-1801                           50.01
25-21,149 through 25-21,164       34.22
25-21,275 through 25-21,279       50.01
28-109                            90.33
Ch. 28, Art. 3                    111.22
28-311.02                         130.56
28-311.03                         130.56
Ch. 28, Art. 4                    111.22
28-431                            92.18
28-514                            95.12
28-515 through 28-515.02          50.04
28-519                            95.12
28-520                            90.25,
                                  90.33
28-521                            90.25,
                                  90.33
28-523                            93.02,
                                  130.01
28-609                            31.42
Ch. 28, Art. 7                    111.22
Ch. 28, Art. 8                    111.22
28-903                            130.35
28-906                            90.27,
                                  130.36
                                  91.02,
28-908                            91.04,
                                  91.06
Ch. 28, Art. 10                   111.22
28-1004                           90.01
28-1005                           90.12
28-1008                           90.01,
                                  90.33
28-1009                           90.13
28-1012                           90.13
Ch. 28, Art. 11                   111.22
Ch. 28, Art. 12                   111.22
                                  91.44,
28-1213                           91.45,
                                  91.60
28-1213 to 28-1239                91.60
28-1229                           91.44,
                                  91.45
28-1233                           91.44,
                                  91.45
28-1233(3)                        91.44,
                                  91.45
28-1239.01                        91.60
28-1241                           91.60
28-1246                           91.62
28-1249                           91.62
28-1322                           130.20
28-1422                           110.17
28-1423                           110.17
28-1465                           31.62
28-1466                           31.62
28-1472                           31.62
29-215                            31.62
29-422                            70.53
29-424                            70.53
29-426                            71.15
30-2223                           95.07
30-2413                           95.07
31-134                            130.19
32-101                            Ch. 32
                                  32.01,
32-101 et seq.                    32.04,
                                  33.06,
                                  33.52
32-110                            32.03
32-115                            32.03
32-404                            32.01,
                                  32.05
32-405                            32.04,
                                  32.10
32-556                            32.01
32-557                            32.06
32-559                            32.04
32-560                            30.019,
                                  30.021
32-561                            30.019
32-562                            32.10
32-563                            30.020
32-567 to 32-570                  32.10
32-568                            31.63
32-568(4)                         30.019
32-569                            30.019
32-574                            32.10
32-606                            32.07
32-607                            32.07
32-608                            32.08,
                                  32.09
32-615                            32.09
32-616                            32.09
32-617                            32.09
32-618                            32.09
32-621                            32.09
32-622                            32.07
32-625                            32.07
32-625(2)                         32.09
32-627                            32.07,
                                  32.09
32-628                            32.09
32-628 through 32-631             33.52
32-629                            32.09,
                                  32.10
32-630                            32.09,
                                  32.10
32-710                            32.09
32-802                            32.02,
                                  33.52
32-918                            32.11
32-952 through 32-959             32.04
32-1202                           32.04
32-1301                           32.10
32-1302                           32.10
32-1303                           32.10
32-1304                           32.10
32-1305                           32.10
32-1306                           32.10
32-1307                           32.10
32-1308                           32.10
32-1309                           32.10
32-1524                           32.11
32-1525                           32.11
33-139.01                         31.37
35-102                            30.042
35-106                            110.18
35-108                            30.042,
                                  31.37
37-1254.01                        31.62
37-1254.02                        31.62
Ch. 39                            72.99
39-301                            130.18
39-302                            130.18
39-311                            70.40
39-1311                           151.16
39-1311.05                        151.16
39-2512                           30.044
43-3340                           95.07
44-4301 through 44-4339           30.003
44-4303                           30.003
46-1212                           152.22
48-1503                           33.02
49-801(16)                        10.05
49-14,103.01 through 49-14,103.03 30.002
51-201                            33.52,
                                  94.01
51-201 through 51-219             94.02
51-201.01                         94.05
51-202                            31.15
51-204                            31.15
51-205                            94.02
51-206                            94.08
51-207                            94.02
51-209                            94.01
51-210                            94.06
                                  94.02,
51-211                            94.05,
                                  94.06,
                                  94.09
51-212                            94.05
51-213                            94.03
51-214                            94.10
51-215                            33.06,
                                  94.11
51-216                            33.06,
                                  94.07
51-501                            33.52
52-601.01 to 52-605               92.18
53-1                              112.03
                                  111.01,
                                  111.04,
                                  111.20,
                                  111.21,
53-101 et seq.                    111.23,
                                  111.24,
                                  111.27,
                                  111.30,
                                  111.31,
                                  111.32
53-101.01                         111.27
53-103                            111.03
53-103.01 through 53-103.49       111.01
53-116.01                         111.24
53-118                            111.50
53-123.04(2)                      110.02
53-123.04(4)                      110.02
53-123.04(5)                      110.02
53-123.12                         111.23
53-123.15                         110.02
                                  110.02,
53-124                            111.23,
                                  111.28
53-124.01                         110.02,
                                  111.23
53-124.12                         111.28
53-124.15                         111.45
53-124.17                         111.23
53-125                            111.22
53-129                            111.23
53-131                            111.23
53-132                            111.23
53-133                            111.23,
                                  111.45
                                  111.23,
53-134                            111.26,
                                  111.27
53-134.03                         111.23,
                                  111.50
53-134.04                         111.32
53-135                            111.25
53-135.01                         111.23
53-148                            111.29
53-167.02                         111.51
53-167.03                         111.51
53-168.06                         111.20,
                                  111.27
53-175                            111.21
53-177                            111.45
53-177.01                         111.45
53-178                            111.46
53-179                            111.49
53-180                            111.02
53-180.02                         111.03
53-183                            111.47
53-184                            111.48
53-186                            130.15
53-186(2)                         111.04,
                                  130.15
53-186.01                         111.04
53-194.03                         111.21
53-1,101                          111.30
53-1,102                          111.31
53-1,115                          111.32
53-1,121                          111.05
54-601                            90.30
54-602                            90.30
54-603                            90.26
54-605                            90.27
54-606                            90.01,
                                  90.30
54-617                            90.25,
                                  90.33
54-618                            90.33
54-619                            90.33
54-620                            90.33
54-621                            90.33
54-622.01                         90.33
54-623                            90.33
Ch. 60                            72.99
60-169                            92.17
60-301                            92.18
60-301 et seq.                    70.24,
                                  70.25
60-302                            70.24,
                                  70.25
60-320                            70.25
60-323                            70.24,
                                  71.09
60-329 through 60-339             33.53
60-376                            70.25,
                                  92.18
60-399                            70.24
60-484                            70.24
60-605                            70.01
60-605 et seq.                    70.01
60-606 through 60-676             70.01
                                  70.16–
                                  70.22,
                                  70.46,
                                  70.48,
                                  70.53,
60-680                            71.01–
                                  71.03,
                                  71.07,
                                  71.08,
                                  71.10,
                                  71.16
60-681                            70.15
60-683                            70.48
60-699                            72.21
60-1901                           92.18
60-1902                           92.18
60-1903                           92.18
60-1903.01                        92.18
60-1903.02                        92.18
60-1904                           92.18
60-1905                           92.18
60-1906                           92.18
60-1907                           92.18
60-1908                           92.18
60-1909                           92.18
60-1911                           92.18
60-2401.1                         71.15
60-2402                           71.15
60-2410                           92.18
60-3,113.06                       71.31,
                                  71.32
60-4,126                          72.16
60-4,163                          31.62
60-4,164                          31.62
60-4,182                          70.45
60-4,186                          70.24
60-6,114                          71.13
60-6,119 through 60-6,121         70.21,
                                  70.22
60-6,127                          70.41
60-6,129                          70.23,
                                  70.41
60-6,142                          70.52
60-6,159                          70.19
60-6,160                          70.19
60-6,165                          71.16
60-6,166                          70.46,
                                  91.05
                                  71.01,
60-6,167                          71.02,
                                  71.08
60-6,184                          91.07
60-6,186                          70.43
60-6,190                          70.43
60-6,192                          70.44
60-6,196                          31.62,
                                  130.17
60-6,196(1)(b)                    130.17
60-6,196(1)(c)                    130.17
60-6,197                          31.62,
                                  130.17
60-6,201                          130.17
60-6,203                          130.17
60-6,211.01                       31.62,
                                  130.17
60-6,211.02                       31.62,
                                  130.17
60-6,211.08                       111.04,
                                  130.15
60-6,212                          70.50
60-6,219                          70.26
60-6,220                          70.26
60-6,222                          70.48
60-6,224                          70.26
60-6,235                          70.26
60-6,244                          70.26
60-6,250                          152.61
60-6,265                          70.49
60-6,266                          70.50
60-6,267                          70.49
60-6,267 through 60-6,269         70.50
60-6,268                          70.49
60-6,272                          70.99
60-6,278 through 60-6,282         70.51
60-6,285                          70.26
60-6,286                          70.47
60-6,347                          72.01,
                                  72.02
60-6,355                          72.15
60-6,356                          72.16
60-6,357                          72.15,
                                  72.17
60-6,358                          72.15,
                                  72.18
60-6,359                          72.19
60-6,360                          72.20
60-6,361                          72.21
60-6,362                          72.99
60-6,371                          70.47
60-6,498.01 through 60-6,498.04   130.17
70-504                            34.32
70-624.04                         30.002
70-650.01                         34.32
70-1601 through 70-1615           50.04
70-1602                           52.11
70-1602 et seq.                   50.02
70-1605                           52.11
70-1606                           52.11
71-423                            111.05
71-603.01                         95.07
71-605                            95.07
71-1555 et seq.                   151.36
71-1557                           151.36
71-1572 through 71-15,168         31.20
71-1572 et seq.                   31.20
71-1576                           31.20
71-1637                           33.52
71-4401                           90.01,
                                  90.27
71-4412                           90.26
71-4603                           92.18
71-20,121                         95.07
74-1323                           110.19
76-704 through 76-724             94.06
77-1343                           152.50
77-1601                           33.51
77-1606                           33.51,
                                  33.52
77-1632                           33.51
77-2201                           30.038
77-2201 through 77-2215           30.038
77-2202                           30.038
77-2209                           30.038
77-2210                           30.038
77-2337                           33.06
77-2341                           33.09
77-2362                           33.07
77-2365.01                        33.07,
                                  33.08
77-2366                           33.07,
                                  33.08
77-2386                           33.07
77-3442                           33.52,
                                  93.01
77-3442 through 77-3444           33.52
77-3443                           33.52
77-3444                           32.04,
                                  33.52
80-202                            33.52
80-203 through 80-205             34.32
81-145 through 81-162             33.02
81-501.01 to 81-531               30.042
81-506                            30.042,
                                  31.45
81-512                            30.042
81-520.01                         91.27
81-829.65                         31.62
81-1438                           30.035
81-1444                           31.61
81-1501 through 81-1532           51.23
81-1517                           51.23
81-1519                           51.23
81-3401 through 81-3455           152.22
81-3423                           152.22
81-3445                           152.22
81-3449                           152.22
81-3449 through 81-3453           152.22
81-3453                           152.22
84-712 through 84-712.09          30.037
84-712(2)                         30.037
84-1407 et seq.                   30.067
84-1408                           30.061
84-1409                           30.060
84-1410                           30.066,
                                  30.067
                                  30.061,
84-1411                           30.062,
                                  30.064,
                                  30.065
84-1411(7)                        30.061
84-1412                           30.068
84-1413                           30.070,
                                  30.072
                                  
 
REFERENCES TO PRIOR CODE
Prior Code 2022 Code
Prior Code 2022 Code
1-101      30.015
1-103      30.017
1-104      30.018
1-105      30.019
1-107      30.020
1-108      30.021
1-201      30.035
1-202      30.036
1-203      30.037
1-204      30.038
1-209      30.041
1-210      30.042
1-211      30.043
1-214      30.045
1-215      30.046
1-216      30.047
1-217      30.048
1-218      30.049
1-401      11.03
1-601      34.01
1-606      34.05
1-608      34.07
1-609      34.08
1-801      33.25
1-802      33.29
1-803      33.30
1-804      33.31
1-804.01   33.28
1-806      33.32
1-808      33.27
1-809      33.02
1-810      33.01
1-812      33.03
1-813      33.34
1-817      33.07
1-818      33.09
1-820      33.53
1-821      33.11
1-822      33.51
1-823      33.52
1-824      33.35
1-825      33.08
1-902      30.002
1-903      30.002
1-1001     34.20
1-1002     34.21
1-1003     34.22
1-1004     34.23
1-1005     34.24
1-1006     34.24
1-1007     34.25
1-1008     34.26
1-1009     34.27
1-1010     34.28
1-1011     34.29
1-1012     34.30
1-1013     34.31
1-1014     34.99
1-1015     34.32
1-1101     30.003
1-1201     10.99
2-101      31.01
2-201      31.15
2-202      31.16
2-203      31.17
2-204      31.18
2-205      31.19
2-206      31.20
2-207      31.20
2-208      31.20
2-209      31.20
2-210      31.20
2-211      31.20
2-212      31.21
2-213      31.22
2-214      31.23
2-303      31.37
2-307      31.41
2-308      31.42
2-309      31.43
2-402      31.61
2-403      31.62
2-404      31.63
3-101      52.06
3-102      52.01
3-103      52.07
3-104      52.08
3-105      52.09
3-108      52.12
3-109      52.13
3-110      52.14
3-111      52.15
3-112      52.16
3-113      52.17
3-114      52.18
3-115      52.19
3-116      52.20
3-117      52.35
3-118      52.36
3-119      52.37
3-120      52.38
3-121      52.39
3-122      52.40
3-123      52.41
3-124      52.42
3-125      52.43
3-126      52.44
3-127      52.02
3-128      52.03
3-129      52.99
3-130      52.04
3-131      52.05
3-132      52.55
3-133      52.56
3-134      52.57
3-135      52.58
3-136      52.99
3-137      52.59
3-201      53.02
3-202      53.01
3-203      53.03
3-204      53.04
3-205      53.05
3-206      53.06
3-207      53.07
3-209      53.09
3-210      53.10
3-211      53.11
3-212      53.12
3-213      53.13
3-214      53.14
3-215      53.15
3-216      53.16
3-217      53.17
3-318      130.17
3-601      93.15
3-602      93.16
3-603      93.17
3-604      93.18
3-701      94.01
3-703      94.02
3-705      94.04
3-706      94.05
3-707      94.06
3-708      94.07
3-709      94.08
3-710      94.09
3-711      94.03
3-712      94.10
3-713      94.11
3-801      95.01
3-802      95.02
3-803      95.03
3-804      95.04
3-805      95.05
3-806      95.06
3-807      95.07
3-808      95.08
3-809      95.09
3-810      95.10
3-811      95.11
3-812      95.12
3-813      95.13
3-901      51.20
3-902      51.21
3-903      51.22
3-904      51.23
3-1001     50.01
3-1002     50.02
3-1003     50.03
3-1003     50.99
3-1004     50.04
4-201      51.01
4-202      51.02
4-203      51.03
4-204      51.04
4-205      51.05
4-206      51.06
4-207      51.07
4-208      51.08
4-209      51.99
4-302      91.15
4-303      92.16
4-304      92.17
4-305      92.18
4-306      92.19
5-101      70.01
5-201      70.15
5-202      70.16
5-203      70.17
5-204      70.18
5-205      70.19
5-206      70.19
5-207      70.20
5-208      70.21
5-209      70.22
5-210      70.23
5-211      70.24
5-212      70.25
5-213      70.26
5-301      70.40
5-302      70.41
5-303      70.41
5-304      70.42
5-305      70.43
5-306      Ch. 73, Schd. I
5-307      70.44
5-308      70.45
5-309      70.46
5-310      70.47
5-311      70.48
5-312      70.48
5-313      70.48
5-315      70.49
5-316      70.50
5-317      70.51
5-318      70.52
5-401      70.53
5-402      70.53
5-403      70.53
5-501      72.01,
           72.02
5-502      72.03
5-601      71.01
5-602      71.02
5-603      71.03
5-605      71.07
5-608      71.08
5-609      71.08
5-610      71.09
5-611      71.10
5-612      Ch. 74, Schd. I
5-613      71.10
5-614      71.11
5-616      71.13
5-617      71.14
5-617.01   Ch. 74, Schd. II
5-618      Ch. 74, Schd. II
5-619      71.15
5-620      71.16
5-621      71.31
5-622      71.32
5-623      71.30
5-624      71.33
5-625      71.34
5-626      71.35
5-627      71.36
5-628      71.37
5-629      71.38
5-629.01   71.39
5-630      71.50
5-631      71.51
5-632      71.51
5-633      71.99
5-634      71.52
5-635      71.53
5-636      71.54
5-701      72.15
5-702      72.16
5-703      72.17
5-704      72.18
5-705      72.19
5-706      72.20
5-707      72.21
5-708      72.22
5-709      72.22
6-101      90.26
6-102      90.26
6-103      90.26
6-104      90.01
6-106      90.27
6-107      90.27
6-108      90.27
6-109      90.27
6-110      90.27
6-115      90.32
6-116      90.25
6-201      90.04
6-202      90.05
6-203      90.06
6-204      90.07
6-205      90.08
6-206      90.09
6-207      90.10
6-208      90.11
6-209      90.12
6-210      90.12
6-211      90.12
6-212      90.01
6-213      90.13
6-214      90.13
6-301      130.35
6-302      130.36
6-303      130.01
6-304      130.16
6-305      130.15
6-308      130.20
6-309      130.55
6-312      130.02
6-316      130.40
6-319      130.17
6-320      130.56
7-101      91.01,
           91.03
7-102      91.02
7-104      91.04
7-105      91.05
7-106      91.06
7-107      91.07
7-108      91.08
7-202      91.21
7-203      91.22
7-207      91.23
7-208      91.24
7-209      91.25
7-210      91.26
7-211      91.27
7-301      91.45
7-401      91.60
7-403      91.62
7-501      91.44
8-101      152.01
8-103      152.08
8-103.01   152.08
8-107      152.21
8-108      152.23
8-109      152.23
8-110      152.21
8-111      152.21
8-112      152.22
8-201      152.06
8-203      152.36
8-204      152.37
8-206      152.39
8-303      152.51
8-308      152.60
8-309      152.61
8-311      152.62
8-313      152.50
8-314      152.55
8-315      152.52
8-501      153.01
8-502      153.02
8-503      153.03
8-504      153.04
8-505      153.05
8-506      153.06
8-507      153.07
8-508      153.08
8-509      153.09
8-510      153.10
8-511      153.11
8-512      153.12
8-513      153.13
9-101      150.035
9-103      150.037
9-406      150.055
9-801      150.021
10-108     111.25
10-109     111.23
10-113     111.02
10-116     111.48
10-119     111.03
10-120     111.04
10-121     111.20
10-122     111.05
10-123     111.32
10-124     111.24
10-125     111.28
10-126     111.26
10-127     111.27
10-128     111.51
10-201     110.15
10-301     112.01
10-304     112.02
10-305     112.03
10-306     112.04
10-401     110.01
10-402     110.18
10-501     110.16,
           110.99
10-601     110.19
10-801     110.17
10-901     113.01
10-902     113.02
10-903     113.20
10-904     113.21
10-905     113.22
10-906     113.23
10-907     113.24
10-908     113.25
10-909     113.26
10-910     113.27
10-911     113.40
10-912     113.41
10-913     113.42
10-914     113.43
10-915     113.44
10-916     113.45,
           113.99
10-917     113.46
10-918     113.47
10-919     113.48
10-920     113.49
10-921     113.50
10-922     113.51
10-923     113.52
10-924     113.03
10-925     113.04
10-926     113.05
11-101     11.01
11-102     11.02
11-201.01  151.16
11-202     151.17
11-205     151.18
11-206     151.19
11-207     151.20
11-208     151.21
11-301     151.01
11-401     151.35
11-402     151.36
11-501     151.02
11-601     151.03
11-602     151.03
11-603     151.03
11-701     151.22,
           151.99
           
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
887      - -         91.62
                     91.40–
888      - -         91.43,
                     91.99
262      4-23-1968   151.35
318      9-27-1977   130.15
321      9-27-1977   130.40
324      9-27-1977   30.015
325      9-27-1977   30.018
326      9-27-1977   30.019
332      9-27-1977   33.02
333      9-27-1977   92.16
335      9-27-1977   90.32
346      7-24-1979   Ch. 74, Schd. II
357      11-25-1980  31.19
358      11-25-1980  30.015
359      11-25-1980  91.27
366      11-25-1980  151.03
368      1-27-1981   52.11
370      3-10-1981   51.20–
                     51.22
372      5-26-1981   52.10
378      10-27-1981  31.15
379      10-27-1981  72.01,
                     72.02
380      10-27-1981  71.15
381      10-27-1981  90.32
383      10-27-1981  152.21
385      10-27-1981  111.05
386      1-12-1982   111.24
387      1-26-1982   30.002
393      2-8-1983    30.002
394      2-8-1983    31.20
395      2-8-1983    31.20
396      2-8-1983    152.20
397      2-8-1983    151.20
399      4-26-1983   92.18
401      10-11-1983  30.043
404      10-11-1983  30.002
405      10-11-1983  152.50
406      10-11-1983  111.25
408      10-11-1983  50.01
409      10-11-1983  152.50
410      10-11-1983  70.44
411      10-11-1983  33.02
412      10-11-1983  151.19,
                     151.20
249      11-8-1983   34.99
413      11-22-1983  30.002
416      4-10-1984   110.16,
                     110.99
421      11-13-1984  30.019
422      11-13-1984  30.036
424      11-13-1984  33.29
425      11-13-1984  33.01
426      11-13-1984  30.002
427      11-13-1984  53.06
429      11-13-1984  50.02
430      11-13-1984  71.16
432      11-13-1984  112.01
433      11-13-1984  152.55
434      2-12-1985   52.20
435      2-12-1985   53.17
437      2-12-1985   52.11
436      2-26-1985   52.10
538      5-14-1985   91.15
443      9-24-1985   31.37
444      9-24-1985   92.19
445      9-24-1985   70.49
446      9-24-1985   70.50
447      9-24-1985   111.20
448      9-24-1985   110.19
361      11-25-1985  111.22
362      11-25-1985  111.02
363      11-25-1985  111.20
364      11-25-1985  111.05
365      11-25-1985  111.32
450      3-11-1986   30.002
455      6-10-1986   92.18
456      6-10-1986   130.40
458      10-14-1986  34.05
459      10-14-1986  95.13
460      10-14-1986  31.61
462      10-14-1986  30.002,
                     152.52
464      5-12-1987   51.21
468      9-22-1987   30.003
469      9-22-1987   152.23
470      9-22-1987   152.23
472      9-22-1987   152.50
                     72.15–
473      9-22-1987   72.22,
                     72.99
480      5-24-1988   51.20
482      10-25-1988  30.002
483      10-25-1988  33.53
484      10-25-1988  31.21
485      10-25-1988  51.05–
                     51.08
486      10-25-1988  70.51
487      10-25-1988  70.52
488      10-25-1988  71.16
490      10-25-1988  91.60
494      10-25-1988  111.28
496      1-10-1989   90.04–
                     90.11
489      10-25-1989  90.01,
                     90.12
501      11-1-1989   33.53
500      11-28-1989  33.09
502      11-28-1989  70.23
                     71.30–
503      11-28-1989  71.36,
                     71.38
504      11-28-1989  72.16
505      11-28-1989  90.25
507      11-28-1989  111.26
508      11-28-1989  111.27
509      11-28-1989  91.44
510      11-28-1989  151.03
511      12-12-1989  52.10
512      12-12-1989  53.08
                     51.01–
514      12-12-1989  51.04,
                     51.09,
                     51.99
520      10-9-1990   52.11
521      10-9-1990   53.09
524      1-8-1991    30.020
525      1-8-1991    30.019
526      1-8-1991    30.036
527      1-8-1991    70.49
528      1-8-1991    90.01,
                     90.13
529      1-8-1991    90.01,
                     90.12
530      1-8-1991    150.055
532      1-22-1991   90.26
536      1-14-1992   50.03,
                     50.99
537      3-24-1992   70.24
538      3-24-1992   111.48
                     71.30–
540      3-24-1992   71.36,
                     71.38
541      3-24-1992   111.28
544      6-9-1992    90.26
                     52.02–
                     52.05,
545      6-23-1992   52.35–
                     52.44,
                     52.99
547      10-27-1992  51.09
552      3-9-1993    34.30
553      3-9-1993    71.35
554      3-9-1993    71.38
                     71.50–
555      4-13-1993   71.54,
                     71.99
561      11-9-1993   90.11
566      6-14-1994   33.29
567      6-14-1994   33.31
568      6-14-1994   33.32
569      6-14-1994   31.16
570      6-14-1994   70.01
571      6-14-1994   70.24
572      6-14-1994   70.51
573      6-14-1994   72.16
574      6-14-1994   71.01
575      6-14-1994   71.31
576      6-14-1994   71.32
577      6-14-1994   71.30
578      6-14-1994   71.36
579      6-14-1994   71.38
580      6-14-1994   71.39
581      6-14-1994   130.17
582      6-14-1994   130.17
583      6-14-1994   130.56
584      6-14-1994   91.44
585      6-14-1994   91.45
586      6-14-1994   152.20
587      6-14-1994   111.51
589      2-14-1995   52.10
592      3-14-1995   33.28
593      3-14-1995   31.62
595      3-14-1995   91.27
596      3-14-1995   152.21
597      3-14-1995   152.21
598      3-14-1995   111.28
606      3-26-1996   33.25
607      3-26-1996   33.31
608      3-26-1996   33.32
609      3-26-1996   50.04
611      3-26-1996   70.24
612      3-26-1996   70.25
613      3-26-1996   70.26
614      3-26-1996   71.31
615      3-26-1996   71.33
616      3-26-1996   71.34
617      3-26-1996   71.35
618      3-26-1996   71.36
619      3-26-1996   71.37
620      3-26-1996   71.38
621      3-26-1996   71.30
622      3-26-1996   152.20
623      3-26-1996   152.21
624      3-26-1996   152.50
625      3-26-1996   111.20
629      9-24-1996   52.10
635      7-22-1997   30.035
636      7-22-1997   34.01
638      7-22-1997   34.05
639      7-22-1997   34.07
640      7-22-1997   34.08
642      7-22-1997   33.29
643      7-22-1997   33.31
644      7-22-1997   33.11
645      7-22-1997   33.51
646      7-22-1997   31.18
647      7-22-1997   50.02
648      7-22-1997   71.31
649      7-22-1997   71.32
650      7-22-1997   71.30
651      7-22-1997   71.33
652      7-22-1997   71.34
653      7-22-1997   71.35
654      7-22-1997   71.36
655      7-22-1997   71.37
656      7-22-1997   71.39
657      7-22-1997   71.38
658      7-22-1997   111.28
665      4-28-1998   52.10
667      8-25-1998   33.02
668      8-25-1998   31.62
669      8-25-1998   152.20
670      8-25-1998   110.17
675      3-23-1999   71.31
676      3-23-1999   151.36
                     31.22,
685      4-11-2000   153.01–
                     153.13
687      10-10-2000  111.28
688      10-10-2000  111.04
689      10-10-2000  111.22
691      10-10-2000  33.51
692      10-10-2000  33.52
693      10-10-2000  33.34,
                     33.35
694      10-10-2000  92.18
695      10-10-2000  130.15
696      10-10-2000  31.20
697      10-10-2000  152.22
                     10.99,
698      10-10-2000  151.22,
                     151.99
699      3-13-2001   33.29
700      3-13-2001   34.30
                     52.55–
703      3-12-2002   52.58,
                     52.99
704      4-23-2002   52.59
705      4-23-2002   30.019
706      4-23-2002   30.038
707      4-23-2002   31.15
708      4-23-2002   33.07
709      4-23-2002   33.08
710      4-23-2002   33.35
711      4-23-2002   71.30
712      4-23-2002   71.31
713      4-23-2002   71.32
714      4-23-2002   71.33
715      4-23-2002   71.34
716      4-23-2002   71.35
717      4-23-2002   71.36
718      4-23-2002   71.37
719      4-23-2002   71.38
720      4-23-2002   94.01–
                     94.11
721      4-23-2002   152.51
722      4-23-2002   152.52
723      4-23-2002   111.20
724      4-23-2002   130.17
725      4-23-2002   111.03
726      4-23-2002   151.16
728      4-23-2002   151.17
729      4-23-2002   151.21
732      4-8-2003    Ch. 74, Schd. II
735      4-22-2003   30.021
736      4-22-2003   33.07
740      3-9-2004    31.37
741      3-9-2004    31.62
744      3-9-2004    33.07
745      3-9-2004    72.15
746      3-9-2004    152.20
749      3-9-2004    150.037
                     113.01–
                     113.05,
                     113.20–
751      3-23-2004   113.27,
                     113.40–
                     113.52,
                     113.99
753      4-27-2004   90.32
756      8-24-2004   52.10
757      8-24-2004   53.08
760      12-14-2004  112.03
763      1-11-2005   112.04
764      1-25-2005   31.23
765      3-22-2005   31.17
768      3-22-2005   70.49
769      3-22-2005   94.03
770      3-22-2005   91.62
771      3-22-2005   152.22
772      3-22-2005   111.23
773      3-22-2005   111.24
774      3-22-2005   111.25
775      3-22-2005   111.28
776      3-22-2005   111.32
                     91.20,
783      11-8-2005   150.015–
                     150.022,
                     150.053
813      5-22-2012   92.20
821      6-24-2014   70.99,
                     Ch. 73, Schd. II
825      4-26-2016   Ch. 74, Schd. I
877      5-28-2019   TSO Table I
881      11-12-2019  130.37
886      6-23-2020   91.61
                     51.09–
897      10-1-2021   52.11,
                     53.08
899      10-1-2021   51.09,
                     53.08
895      10-12-2021  90.02
901      6-28-2022   90.03
902      7-26-2022   TSO Table I
906      8-22-2023   91.27
907      9-12-2023   92.16
909      9-26-2023   51.09
910      10-24-2023  90.26
911      10-24-2023  130.18
912      10-24-2023  90.14
913      10-24-2023  70.27
                     51.20,
914      6-14-2024   51.23,
                     51.24,
                     51.99
917      2-11-2025   30.035
                    
 
 
