HENDERSON, NEBRASKA
CODE OF ORDINANCES
2024 S-2 Supplement contains:
Local legislation current through Ord. 458, passed 9-10-2024
 
Published by:
AMERICAN LEGAL PUBLISHING
525 Vine Street, Ste. 310
Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
1-800-445-5588 www.amlegal.com
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
   Chapter
      
10.   GENERAL CODE CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
      
11.   CITY STANDARDS
CHAPTER 10: GENERAL CODE CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
Section
   
10.01   Title of code
   
10.02   Interpretation
   
10.03   Application to future ordinances
   
10.04   Captions
   
10.05   Definitions
   
10.06   Rules of interpretation
   
10.07   Severability
   
10.08   Reference to other sections
   
10.09   Reference to offices
   
10.10   Errors and omissions
   
10.11   Official time
   
10.12   Reasonable time
   
10.13   Ordinances repealed
   
10.14   Ordinances unaffected
   
10.15   Repeal or modification of ordinance
   
10.16   Section histories; statutory references
   
10.17   Local changes to this code of ordinances
   
10.18   Code adoption
 
   
10.99   General penalty
§ 10.01 TITLE OF CODE.
   This codification of ordinances shall be designated as the City of Henderson
Code of Ordinances, and may be so cited.
§ 10.02 INTERPRETATION.
   Unless otherwise provided herein, or by law or implication required, the
same rules of construction, definition and application shall govern the
interpretation of this code as those governing the interpretation of state law.
§ 10.03 APPLICATION TO FUTURE ORDINANCES.
   All provisions of Title I compatible with future legislation shall apply to
ordinances hereafter adopted amending or supplementing this code unless
otherwise specifically provided.
§ 10.04 CAPTIONS.
   Headings and captions used in this code other than the title, chapter and
section numbers are employed for reference purposes only and shall not be
deemed a part of the text of any section.
§ 10.05 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   General rule. Words and phrases shall be taken in their plain, or
ordinary and usual sense. However, technical words and phrases having a
peculiar and appropriate meaning in law shall be understood according to their
technical import.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this code, the following definitions
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      CITY, MUNICIPAL CORPORATION or MUNICIPALITY. The City of Henderson.
      CITY COUNCIL or GOVERNING BODY. The legislative body of the City of
Henderson.
      CODE, THIS CODE or THIS CODE OF ORDINANCES. This Henderson City Code as
modified by amendment, revision and adoption of new titles, chapters or
sections.
      COUNTY. York County.
      MAY. The act referred to is permissive.
      MONTH. A calendar month.
      OATH. Includes an affirmation in all cases in which, by law, an
affirmation may be substituted for an oath, and in such cases the words SWEAR
and SWORN shall be equivalent to the words AFFIRM and AFFIRMED.
      OFFICER, OFFICE, EMPLOYEE, COMMISSION or DEPARTMENT. An officer, office,
employee, commission or department of this city unless the context clearly
requires otherwise.
      PERSON. Includes bodies politic and corporate, societies, communities,
the public generally, individuals, partnerships, limited liability companies,
joint-stock companies and associations.
(Neb. RS 49-801(16))
      PRECEDING or FOLLOWING. Next before or next after, respectively.
      SHALL. The act referred to is mandatory.
      SIGNATURE or SUBSCRIPTION. Includes a mark when the person cannot write.
      STATE. The State of Nebraska.
      SUBCHAPTER. A division of a chapter, designated in this code by a heading
in the chapter analysis and a capitalized heading in the body of the chapter,
setting apart a group of sections related by the subject matter of the heading.
Not all chapters have SUBCHAPTERS.
      WRITTEN. Any representation of words, letters or figures, whether by
printing or otherwise.
      YEAR. A calendar year, unless otherwise expressed.
§ 10.06 RULES OF INTERPRETATION.
   The construction of all ordinances of this city shall be by the following
rules, unless that construction is plainly repugnant to the intent of the Mayor
and City Council or of the context of the same ordinance.
   (A)   AND or OR. Either conjunction shall include the other as if written
“and/or,” if the sense requires it.
   (B)   Acts by assistants. When a statute or ordinance requires an act to be
done which, by law, an agent or deputy as well may do as the principal, the
requisition shall be satisfied by the performance of the act by an authorized
agent or deputy.
   (C)   Gender; singular and plural; tenses. Words denoting the masculine
gender shall be deemed to include the feminine and neuter genders; words in the
singular shall include the plural, and words in the plural shall include the
singular; the use of a verb in the present tense shall include the future, if
applicable.
   (D)   General term. A general term following specific enumeration of terms
is not to be limited to the class enumerated unless expressly so limited.
§ 10.07 SEVERABILITY.
   If any provision of this code as now or later amended or its application to
any person or circumstance is held invalid, the invalidity does not affect
other provisions that can be given effect without the invalid provision or
application.
§ 10.08 REFERENCE TO OTHER SECTIONS.
   Whenever a section refers to another section hereof, that reference shall
extend and apply to the section referred to as subsequently amended, revised,
recodified or renumbered unless the subject matter is materially altered by the
amendment or revision.
§ 10.09 REFERENCE TO OFFICES.
   Reference to a public office or officer shall be deemed to apply to any
office, officer or employee of this city exercising the powers, duties or
functions contemplated in the provision, irrespective of any transfer of
functions or change in the official title of the functionary.
§ 10.10 ERRORS AND OMISSIONS.
   If a manifest error is discovered, consisting of the misspelling of any
words; the omission of any word or words necessary to express the intention of
the provisions affected; the use of a word or words to which no meaning can be
attached; or the use of a word or words when another word or words was clearly
intended to express the intent, the spelling shall be corrected and the word or
words supplied, omitted or substituted as will conform with the manifest
intention, and the provisions shall have the same effect as though the correct
words were contained in the text as originally published. No alteration shall
be made or permitted if any question exists regarding the nature or extent of
the error.
§ 10.11 OFFICIAL TIME.
   The official time, as established by applicable state/federal laws, shall be
the official time within this city for the transaction of all city business.
§ 10.12 REASONABLE TIME.
   (A)   In all cases where an ordinance requires an act to be done in a
reasonable time or requires reasonable notice to be given, REASONABLE TIME OR
NOTICE shall be deemed to mean the time which is necessary for a prompt
performance of the act or the giving of the notice.
   (B)   The time within which an act is to be done, as herein provided, shall
be computed by excluding the first day and including the last. If the last day
is Sunday, it shall be excluded.
§ 10.13 ORDINANCES REPEALED.
   This code contains all of the provisions of a general nature pertaining to
the subjects enumerated and embraced in this code. All prior ordinances
pertaining to the subjects treated by this code are repealed, except that
nothing shall affect any rights acquired under, actions involving, or fines,
penalties, forfeitures or liabilities incurred pursuant to those ordinances
prior to repeal.
§ 10.14 ORDINANCES UNAFFECTED.
   (A)   All ordinances of a temporary or special nature and all other
ordinances pertaining to subjects not embraced in this code, including
ordinances specified in this section, shall remain in full force and effect
unless repealed expressly or by necessary implication:
      (1)   Vacating or setting the boundaries of streets, alleys or other
public places;
      (2)   Annexing or detaching territory;
      (3)   Granting or accepting easements, plats or dedication of land to
public use;
      (4)   Providing for the acquisition or conveyance of real or personal
property;
      (5)   Authorizing or directing public improvements to be made;
      (6)   Levying taxes or special assessments;
      (7)   Appropriating money;
      (8)   Granting franchises or special licenses; or
      (9)   Providing for the issuance of bonds or other instruments of
indebtedness.
   (B)   All ordinances codified in this code shall remain in full force and
effect unless repealed expressly.
§ 10.15 REPEAL OR MODIFICATION OF ORDINANCE.
   (A)   Whenever any ordinance or part of an ordinance is repealed or modified
by a subsequent ordinance, the ordinance or part of an ordinance thus repealed
or modified shall continue in force until the publication of the ordinance
repealing or modifying it to give effect thereto.
   (B)   No suit, proceedings, right, liability, fine, forfeiture or penalty
instituted, created, given, secured or accrued under any ordinance previous to
its repeal shall in any way be affected, released or discharged, but may be
prosecuted, enjoyed and recovered as fully as if the ordinance had continued in
force, unless it is otherwise expressly provided.
   (C)   When any ordinance repealing a former ordinance, clause or provision
is itself repealed, the repeal shall not be construed to revive the former
ordinance, clause or provision, unless it is expressly provided.
Statutory reference:
   Requirements for amendments and revisions, see Neb. RS 17-614
§ 10.16 SECTION HISTORIES; STATUTORY REFERENCES.
   (A)   A statutory cite included in the history indicates that the text of
the section reads substantially the same as the statute. Example: (Neb. RS 18-
132)
   (B)   A statutory cite set forth as a “statutory reference“ following the
text of the section indicates that the reader should refer to that statute for
further information. Example:
      § 39.01 PUBLIC RECORDS AVAILABLE.
         This municipality shall make available to any person for inspection or
      copying all public records, unless otherwise exempted by state law.
      Statutory reference:
         Inspection of public records, see Neb. RS 84-712 et seq.
§ 10.17 LOCAL CHANGES TO THIS CODE OF ORDINANCES.
   Any provision of this code of ordinances may be repealed, modified or
superseded by an ordinance passed by the City Council.
§ 10.18 CODE ADOPTION.
   Pursuant to Neb. RS 17-613 and 17-614 (Supp. 2021) the city hereby revises
all of the general and permanent ordinances of the city by publishing said
general ordinances in book form as the Henderson Municipal Code which shall
revise all the general and permanent ordinances of the city.
(Ord. 443, passed 7-12-2022)
§ 10.99 GENERAL PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who violates any of the provisions of this city code,
unless otherwise specifically provided herein, shall be deemed guilty of an
offense and upon conviction thereof shall be fined in any sum not exceeding
$500. A new violation shall be deemed to have been committed every 24 hours of
failure to comply with the provisions of this code.
   (B)   (1)   Whenever a nuisance exists as defined in Title IX of this code,
the city may proceed by a suit in equity to enjoin and abate the same, in the
manner provided by law.
      (2)   Whenever, in any action, it is established that a nuisance exists,
the court may, together with the fine or penalty imposed, enter an order of
abatement as a part of the judgment in the case.
Statutory reference:
   Authority to abate nuisances, see Neb. RS 18-1720 and 18-1722
   Authority to impose fines, see Neb. RS 17-505
CHAPTER 11: CITY STANDARDS
Section
   
11.01   Seal; official corporate
§ 11.01 SEAL; OFFICIAL CORPORATE.
   The official Corporate Seal of the municipality shall be kept in the office
of the Municipal Clerk, and shall bear the following inscription, “The City of
Henderson, York County, Nebraska, Seal.” The Municipal Clerk shall affix an
impression of the said official seal to all warrants, licenses, permits,
ordinances and all other official papers issued by order of the governing body
and countersigned by the Municipal Clerk.
(1999 Code, § 1-401)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-502
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
   Chapter
      
30.   OFFICIALS AND EMPLOYEES
      
31.   MEETINGS
      
32.   ORDINANCES, RESOLUTIONS AND MOTIONS
      
33.   ELECTIONS
      
34.   TAX AND FINANCE
      
35.   CITY ORGANIZATIONS
CHAPTER 30: OFFICIALS AND EMPLOYEES
Section
Elected Officials
   
30.01   Mayor; selection and duties
   
30.02   Council; acting President
   
30.03   City Council; selection and duties
   
30.04   Council; organization
   
30.05   Elected officials; vacancy
   
30.06   Mayor; vacancy
   
30.07   Transfer of office
Appointed Officials
   
30.20   Appointment; removal
   
30.21   Merger of offices
   
30.22   Clerk-Treasurer position created
   
30.23   Municipal Clerk
   
30.24   Municipal Treasurer
   
30.25   Treasurer’s monthly report
   
30.26   Treasurer’s annual report
   
30.27   Municipal Attorney
   
30.28   Municipal Physician
   
30.29   Municipal Police Chief
   
30.30   Municipal Engineer
   
30.31   Special Engineer
   
30.32   Merger of Water, Sewer, Street, Parks and Recreation Commissioner’s
duties
   
30.33   Municipal Water and Sewer Commissioner
   
30.34   Municipal Street Commissioner
   
30.35   Municipal Parks Commissioner
   
30.36   Municipal Recreation Commissioner
   
30.37   Utilities Superintendent
   
30.38   Pool Administrator
   
30.39   Zoning Administrator
   
30.40   Fiscal Agent
Bonds and Oaths
   
30.50   Bonds; form
   
30.51   Municipal officials
Policies and Procedures
   
30.65   Sexual harassment policy
ELECTED OFFICIALS
§ 30.01 MAYOR; SELECTION AND DUTIES.
   The Mayor of the municipality shall have the general and immediate control
over all property, and officials, whether elected or appointed, of the
municipality. He or she shall preside at all meetings of the City Council, and
may vote when his or her vote shall be decisive and the Council is equally
divided on any pending matter, legislation or transaction and the Mayor shall,
for the purpose of such vote, be deemed to be a member of the Council. His or
her signature must appear on the Municipal Clerk’s minutes of all meetings, and
he or she must sign all resolutions which have been passed, and warrants for
the payment of money when ordered by the City Council; provided, any ordinance
vetoed by the Mayor may be passed over his or her veto by a two-thirds vote by
the members of the City Council, but if the Mayor neglects or refuses to sign
any ordinance, and returns it to the Council with his or her objections in
writing at the next regular Council meeting, the same shall become a law
without his or her signature. He or she shall from time to time communicate to
the Council such information and recommendations as, in his or her opinion, may
improve the municipality. He or she may require at reasonable intervals any
municipal official to exhibit his or her accounts and make reports to the
Council on any subject pertaining to his or her office. He or she shall have
the power to remit fines or pardon any offense arising under the ordinances of
the municipality. He or she may remove at any time an appointed police officer
of the municipality. His or her territorial authority shall extend over all
places within five miles of the corporate limits of the municipality for the
enforcement of any health ordinance, and one-half mile in all matters vested in
him or her except taxation. He or she shall also have such other duties as the
City Council may by resolution confer upon him or her, or in any other matters
which the laws of the state repose in him or her; he or she shall be elected at
the municipal election, and shall serve a four-year term of office.
(1999 Code, § 1-101)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-110 through 17-117
§ 30.02 COUNCIL; ACTING PRESIDENT.
   The City Council shall elect one of its own body each year who shall be
styled the President of the Council, and who shall preside at all meetings of
the City Council in the absence of the Mayor. In the absence of the Mayor, and
the President of the Council, the City Council shall elect one of its own body
to occupy his or her place temporarily, who shall be styled Acting President of
the Council. Both the President of the Council and the Acting President of the
Council, when occupying the position of the Mayor, shall have the same
privileges as the other members of the City Council, and all acts of the
President of the Council, or Acting President of the Council, while so acting,
shall be as binding upon the City Council, and upon the municipality as if done
by the elected Mayor.
(1999 Code, § 1-102)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-148
§ 30.03 CITY COUNCIL; SELECTION AND DUTIES.
   The members of the City Council shall be elected and serve for a four-year
term. The City Council shall be the legislative division of the municipal
government, and shall perform such duties, and have such powers as may be
authorized by law. The City Council shall maintain the peace, regulate
business, protect the public health and safety, and assess such taxes and fees
as are necessary and appropriate in the exercise of these functions.
(1999 Code, § 1-103)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-103, 17-104
§ 30.04 COUNCIL; ORGANIZATION.
   City Council members of this municipality shall take office, and commence
their duties on the first regular meeting in December following their election.
The newly elected Council members who have qualified as prescribed by law,
together with the members of the City Council holding over, shall assemble in a
regular meeting at the hour and place hereinafter prescribed and perfect the
reorganization of the City Council as herein provided, and all appointive
offices in which the terms of incumbents are expired shall be filled by
appointment. After the said meeting has been called to order, the Municipal
Clerk shall report to the City Council the names of all City Council members-
elect who have qualified for their respective offices, and this report shall be
spread upon the minutes of the meeting preceding the roll call. Each ward of
the municipality shall be represented by at least two Council members. No
person shall be eligible who is not at the time of his or her election an
actual resident of the ward for which he or she is qualified and should any
City Council member move from the ward from which he or she was elected, his or
her office shall thereby become vacant.
(1999 Code, § 1-104)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-104
§ 30.05 ELECTED OFFICIALS; VACANCY.
   (A)   Vacancies in city elected offices shall be filled by the Mayor and
City Council for the balance of the unexpired term, except as provided in this
section. Notice of a vacancy, except a vacancy resulting from the death of the
incumbent, shall be in writing and presented to the City Council at a regular
or special meeting and shall appear as a part of the minutes of such meeting.
   (B)   The City Council shall at once give public notice of the vacancy by
causing to be published in a newspaper of general circulation within the city
or by posting in three public places in the city the office vacated and the
length of the unexpired term.
   (C)   The Mayor shall, within four weeks after the meeting at which such
notice has been presented, or upon the death of the incumbent, call a special
meeting of the City Council or place the issue of filling such vacancy on the
agenda at the next regular meeting, at which time the Mayor shall submit the
name of a qualified elector to fill the vacancy for the balance of the
unexpired term.
   (D)   No officer who is removed at a recall election or resigns after the
initiation of the recall process shall be appointed to fill the vacancy
resulting from his or her removal or the removal of any other member of the
City Council during the remainder of his or her term of office.
   (E)   Upon a majority vote of approval by the City Council, the vacancy
shall be filled. If a majority vote is not reached, the nomination shall be
rejected and the Mayor shall at the next regular meeting submit the name of
another qualified elector. If the vote on the nominee fails to carry by
majority vote, the Mayor shall continue at such meeting to submit the names of
qualified electors and the City Council shall continue to vote upon such
nominations until the vacancy is filled.
   (F)   The Mayor shall cast his or her vote only in case of a tie vote of the
City Council.
   (G)   All City Council members shall cast a ballot for or against each
nominee.
   (H)   Any member of the City Council who has been appointed to fill a
vacancy or the City Council shall have the same rights, including voting, as if
such person were elected.
   (I)   The Mayor and City Council may, in lieu of filling a vacancy in a city
office as provided above in this section, call a special municipal election to
fill such vacancy.
   (J)   If there are vacancies in the offices of a majority of the members of
the City Council, there shall be a special municipal election conducted by the
Secretary of State to fill such vacancies.
(1999 Code, § 1-105)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 32-568, 32-509
§ 30.06 MAYOR; VACANCY.
   (A)   Whenever a vacancy occurs in the office of Mayor, or in case of his or
her disability or absence, the President of the Council shall exercise the
office of Mayor for the unexpired term until such vacancy is filled or such
disability is removed, or in case of temporary absence, until the Mayor
returns.
   (B)   When the successful candidate for Mayor shall be prevented from
assuming office, the incumbent Mayor shall not be entitled to hold over the
term, but such office shall automatically become vacant and the President of
the Council shall exercise the office of Mayor until such vacancy is filled.
   (C)   If the President of the Council shall for any cause assume the office
of Mayor for the remainder of the unexpired term, there shall be a vacancy on
the City Council which shall be filled as provided in §
30.05.
(1999 Code, § 1-106)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-107, 17-115
§ 30.07 TRANSFER OF OFFICE.
   At the commencement of their terms, the newly elected City Council and the
Mayor shall be provided with all property, records, papers and monies belonging
to the outgoing City Council and Mayor.
(1999 Code, § 1-107)
APPOINTED OFFICIALS
§ 30.20 APPOINTMENT; REMOVAL.
   (A)   The Mayor, with the consent of the City Council, may appoint such
officers as shall be required by ordinance or otherwise required by law. The
Mayor, by and with the consent of the City Council, shall appoint such a number
of regular police officers as may be necessary. The City Council may establish
and provide for the appointment of members of a law enforcement reserve force
as provided by law.
   (B)   All police officers and other appointed officials may be removed at
any time by the Mayor, except that if the municipality has a Municipal Water
Commissioner, he or she may at any time, for sufficient cause, be removed from
office by a two-thirds vote of the City Council.
(1999 Code, § 1-201)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-107, 17-541, 81-1438
§ 30.21 MERGER OF OFFICES.
   The governing body may, at its discretion, by ordinance combine and merge
any elective or appointive office or employment or any combination of duties of
any such offices or employments, except Mayor and Council member, with any
other elective or appointive office or employment so that one or more of such
offices or employments or any combination of duties of any such offices or
employments may be held by the same officer or employee at the same time. The
offices or employments so merged and combined shall always be construed to be
separate and the effect of the combination or merger shall be limited to a
consolidation of official duties only. The salary or compensation of the
officer or employee holding the merged or combined offices or employments or
offices and employments shall not be in excess of the maximum amount provided
by law for the salary or compensation of the office, offices, employment or
employments so merged and combined. For purposes of this section, volunteer
firefighters and ambulance drivers shall not be considered officers.
(1999 Code, § 1-202)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-108.02
§ 30.22 CLERK-TREASURER POSITION CREATED.
   The appointive offices of Municipal Clerk and Municipal Treasurer are hereby
combined and merged in accordance with the authority granted to the governing
body by §
30.21.
(1999 Code, § 1-203)
§ 30.23 MUNICIPAL CLERK.
   (A)   The Municipal Clerk shall attend the meetings of the governing body,
and keep a correct journal of the proceedings of that body. He or she shall
keep a record of all outstanding bonds against the municipality and when any
bonds are sold, purchased, paid or canceled, said record shall show the fact.
He or she shall make, at the end of the fiscal year, a report of the business
of the municipality transacted through his or her office for the year. That
record shall describe particularly the bonds issued, and sold during the year,
and the terms of the sale with each, and every item, and expense thereof. He or
she shall file all official bonds after the same shall have been properly
executed, and approved. He or she shall make the proper certificate of passage
which shall be attached to original copies of all bond ordinances hereafter
enacted by the governing body.
   (B)   The Municipal Clerk shall issue, and sign all licenses, permits and
occupation tax receipts authorized by law, and required by the municipal
ordinances. He or she shall collect all occupation taxes, and license money
except where some other municipal officer is specifically charged with that
duty. He or she shall keep a register of all licenses granted in the
municipality, and the purpose for which they have been issued.
   (C)   The Municipal Clerk shall permit no records, public papers or other
documents of the municipality kept, and preserved in his or her office to be
taken therefrom, except by such officers of the municipality as may be entitled
to the use of the same, but only upon their leaving a receipt therefor. He or
she shall keep all the records of his or her office, including a record of all
licenses issued by him or her in a blank book with a proper index. He or she
shall include as part of his or her records all petitions under which the
governing body shall order public work to be done at the expense of the
property fronting thereon, together with references to all resolutions, and
ordinances relating to the same. He or she shall endorse the date, and hour of
filing upon every paper, or document so filed in his or her office. All such
filings made by him or her shall be properly docketed. Included in his or her
records shall be all standard codes, amendments thereto and other documents
incorporated by reference, and arranged in triplicate in a manner convenient
for reference. He or she shall keep an accurate, and complete account of the
appropriation of the several funds, draw, sign and attest all warrants ordered
for the payment of money on the particular fund from which the same is payable.
At the end of each month, he or she shall then make a report of the amounts
appropriated to the various funds, and the amount of the warrants drawn
thereon. Nothing herein shall be construed to prevent any citizen, official or
other person from examining any public records at all reasonable times.
   (D)   The Municipal Clerk shall deliver all warrants, ordinances and
resolutions under his or her charge to the Mayor for his or her signature. He
or she shall also deliver to officers, employees and committees all
resolutions, and communications which are directed at said officers, employees
or committees. With the seal of the municipality, he or she shall duly attest
the Mayor’s signature to all ordinances, deeds and papers required to be
attested to when ordered to do so by the governing body. Within 30 days after
any meeting of the governing body, the Municipal Clerk shall prepare, and
publish the official proceedings of the governing body in a legal newspaper of
general circulation in the municipality, and which was duly designated as such
by the governing body. Said publication shall set forth a statement of the
proceedings thereof and shall also include the amount of each claim allowed,
the purpose of the claim, and the name of the claimant, except that the
aggregate amount of all payroll claims may be included as one item. Between
July 15 and August 15 of each year, the employee job titles and the current
annual, monthly or hourly salaries corresponding to such job titles shall be
published. Each job title published shall be descriptive and indicative of the
duties and functions of the position. The charge for such publication shall not
exceed the rates provided by the statutes of the state. Said publication shall
be charged against the General Fund. He or she shall then keep in a book with a
proper index, copies of all notices required to be published, or posted by the
Municipal Clerk by order of the governing body, or under the ordinances of the
municipality. To each of the file copies of said notices shall be attached the
printer’s affidavit of publication, if the said notices are required to be
published, or the Municipal Clerk’s certificate under seal where the same are
required to be posted only.
   (E)   The Municipal Clerk shall receive all objections to creation of paving
districts, and other street improvements. He or she shall receive the claims of
any person against the municipality, and in the event that the said claim is
disallowed in part, or in whole, the Municipal Clerk shall notify such
claimant, his or her agent, or attorney by letter within five days after such
disallowance, and the Municipal Clerk shall then prepare transcripts on appeals
of any disallowance of a claim in all proper cases.
   (F)   The Municipal Clerk may charge a reasonable fee for certified copies
of any record in his or her office as set by resolution of the governing body.
He or she shall destroy municipal records under the direction of the State
Records Board pursuant to Neb. RS 84-1201 through 84-1220; provided, the
governing body shall not have the authority to destroy the minutes of the
Municipal Clerk, the permanent ordinances, and resolution books, or any other
records classified as permanent by the State Records Board.
(1999 Code, § 1-204)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-605, 19-1102, 19-1104, 84-1201 through
84-1220, 84-712
§ 30.24 MUNICIPAL TREASURER.
   The Municipal Treasurer shall be the custodian of all moneys belonging to
the municipality. He or she shall keep all money belonging to the municipality
separate, and distinct from his or her own money. He or she shall keep a
separate account of each fund or appropriation, and the debits, and credits
belonging thereto. He or she shall issue duplicate receipts for all moneys
received by him or her for the municipality. He or she shall give to every
person paying money into the Municipal Treasury, a receipt therefor, specifying
the date of payment, and the account paid. One of the receipts shall be filed
with his or her monthly report, and the last copy of the said receipt shall be
kept on file in his or her office. His or her books, and accounts shall always
be open for inspection by any citizen of the municipality whenever any
municipal fiscal record, audit, warrant, voucher, invoice, purchase order,
requisition, payroll check, receipt or other record of receipt, cash or
expenditure involving public funds is involved. He or she shall cancel all
bonds, coupons, warrants and other evidences of debt against the municipality,
whenever paid by him or her, by writing, or stamping on the face thereof, “Paid
by the Municipal Treasurer,” with the date of payment written or stamped
thereon. He or she shall collect all special taxes, allocate special
assessments to the several owners, and shall obtain from the County Treasurer a
monthly report as to the collection of delinquent taxes. The Treasurer’s daily
cash book shall be footed and balanced daily, and he or she shall adopt such
bookkeeping methods as the governing body shall prescribe. He or she shall
invest and collect all money owned by, or owed to, the municipality as directed
by the governing body.
(1999 Code, § 1-205)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-606 through 17-609, 84-712
§ 30.25 TREASURER’S MONTHLY REPORT.
   The Municipal Treasurer shall, at the end of each and every month, and such
other times as the governing body may deem necessary, render an account to the
governing body under oath showing the financial state of the municipality at
that date, the amount of money remaining in each fund and the amount paid
therefrom, and the balance of money remaining in the Treasury. He or she shall
accompany the said account with a statement of all receipts, and disbursements,
together with all warrants redeemed, and paid by him or her. He or she shall
also produce depository evidence that all municipal money is in a solvent, and
going bank in the name of the municipality. If the Municipal Treasurer shall
neglect, or fail for the space of ten days from the end of each and every month
to render his or her accounts as aforesaid, the governing body shall, by
resolution, declare the office vacant, and appoint some person to fill the
vacancy. The Municipal Treasurer shall be present at each regular meeting of
the governing body at which time he or she shall read, and file his or her
monthly report.
(1999 Code, § 1-206)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-606
§ 30.26 TREASURER’S ANNUAL REPORT.
   The Municipal Treasurer shall publish in a legal newspaper having general
circulation within the municipality, within 60 days following August 1 of each
year, a report of the activities of his or her office which said report shall
show in detail. Said report shall include all receipts, disbursements, warrants
outstanding and the debit, or credit balance of the municipality.
(1999 Code, § 1-207)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 19-1101
§ 30.27 MUNICIPAL ATTORNEY.
   The Municipal Attorney is the municipality’s legal advisor, and as such he
or she shall commence, prosecute and defend all suits on behalf of the
municipality. When requested by the governing body, he or she shall attend
meetings of the governing body, and shall advise any municipal official in all
matters of law in which the interests of the municipality may be involved. He
or she shall draft such ordinances, bonds, contracts and other writings as may
be required in the administration of the affairs of the municipality. He or she
shall advise in writing to all such instruments (bonds, contracts and
documents) as to whether, or not, the document is in legal and proper form. He
or she shall prepare complaints, attend and prosecute violations of the
municipal ordinances when directed to do so by the governing body. Without
direction, he or she shall appear, and prosecute all cases for violation of the
municipal ordinances that have been appealed to, and are pending in any higher
court. He or she shall also examine, when requested to do so by the governing
body, the ordinance records, and advise, and assist the Municipal Clerk as much
as may be necessary to the end that each procedural step will be taken in the
passage of each ordinance to insure that they will be valid, and subsisting
local laws in so far as their passage, and approval are concerned. The
governing body shall have the right to compensate the Municipal Attorney for
legal services on such terms as the governing body and the Municipal Attorney
may agree, and to employ any additional legal assistance as may be necessary
out of the funds of the municipality.
(1999 Code, § 1-208)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-610
§ 30.28 MUNICIPAL PHYSICIAN.
   The Municipal Physician shall be a member of the Board of Health of the
municipality, and perform the duties devolving upon him or her as the medical
advisor of the said board. For the purpose of making examinations of the
sanitary conditions of the property, and the state of health of the inhabitants
therein, he or she shall have the right at all reasonable hours to go upon, and
enter all premises, buildings or other structures in the municipality. He or
she shall perform such other duties as may be required of him or her by the
laws of the state, and the ordinances of the municipality. When ordered to do
so by the governing body he or she shall disinfect, or fumigate the premises,
or persons in or about the premises, when the premises are quarantined, and to
call upon indigent sick persons, and perform other professional services at the
direction of the governing body. The Municipal Physician shall receive as
compensation for his or her services such sum as the governing body may from
time to time set. He or she shall receive no compensation for his or her
services as a member of the Municipal Board of Health.
(1999 Code, § 1-209)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-121
§ 30.29 MUNICIPAL POLICE CHIEF.
   The Municipal Police Chief shall have the power to arrest all offenders
against the laws of the state or city, in the same manner as the Sheriff. He or
she shall act as the Municipal Health Inspector, except when the municipality
appoints another person to serve in this position. He or she shall make all
necessary reports required by the municipal ordinances or laws of the state.
(1999 Code, § 1-210)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-107, 17-121
§ 30.30 MUNICIPAL ENGINEER.
   The Municipal Engineer shall make all surveys, estimates and calculations
necessary to be made for the establishment of any public utilities, and the
costs of labor and materials therefor. He or she shall accurately make all
plats, sections and maps as may be necessary under the direction of the
governing body. Upon request, he or she shall make estimates of the cost of
labor and material which may be done or furnished by contract with the
municipality, and make all surveys, estimates and calculations necessary to be
made for the establishment of grades, building of culverts, sewers, electric
light system, waterworks, power plant, public heating system, bridges, curbing
and gutters and the improvement of streets and erection and repair of
buildings, and shall perform such other duties as the governing body may
require.
(1999 Code, § 1-211)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-150, 17-405, 17-568.01, 17-919, 81-839
§ 30.31 SPECIAL ENGINEER.
   (A)   The governing body may employ a Special Engineer to make or assist the
Municipal Engineer in making any particular estimate, survey or other work.
   (B)   The Special Engineer shall make a record of the minutes of his or her
surveys and all other work done for the municipality. He or she shall, when
directed by the governing body, accurately make all plats, sections, profiles
and maps as may be necessary in the judgment of the governing body. He or she
shall, upon request of the governing body, make estimates of the costs of labor
and material which may be done or furnished by contract with the municipality,
and make all surveys, estimates and calculations necessary for the
establishment of grades, bridges, building of culverts, sewers, electric light
system, waterworks, power plant, public heating system, curbing and gutters,
and the improvement of streets and erection and repair of buildings, and shall
perform such other duties as the governing body may require.
   (C)   All records of the Special Engineer shall be public records which
shall belong to the municipality, and shall be turned over to his or her
successor.
(1999 Code, § 1-212)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-405, 17-568, 17-568.01, 17-919
§ 30.32 MERGER OF WATER, SEWER, STREET, PARKS AND RECREATION COMMISSIONER’S
DUTIES.
   The duties of the Water Commissioner, Sewer Commissioner, Street
Commissioner, Parks Commissioner and Recreation Commissioner shall be merged in
the same person for the consolidation of official duties and said person shall
hold the title of Utilities Superintendent as described in §
30.37.
§ 30.33 MUNICIPAL WATER AND SEWER COMMISSIONER.
   The Municipal Water Commissioner shall be a Council member who is appointed
each December by the Mayor to coordinate with the Utilities Superintendent to
assist with the economic operation and management for the water and sewer
departments, as described in §
30.37(E) and (F).
§ 30.34 MUNICIPAL STREET COMMISSIONER.
   The Municipal Street Commissioner shall be a Council member who is appointed
each December by the Mayor to coordinate with the Utilities Superintendent to
assist with the economic operation and management for the Street Department, as
described in §
30.37(G).
§ 30.35 MUNICIPAL PARKS COMMISSIONER.
   The Municipal Parks Commissioner shall be a Council member who is appointed
each December by the Mayor to coordinate with the Utilities Superintendent to
assist with the economic operation and management for the Parks Department, as
described in §
30.37(H).
§ 30.36 MUNICIPAL RECREATION COMMISSIONER.
   The Municipal Recreation Commissioner shall be a Council member who is
appointed each December by the Mayor to coordinate with the Pool Administrator
and Recreation Department Committee to assist with the economic operation and
management for the swimming pool and recreation department, as described in §
30.37(I) and (J).
§ 30.37 UTILITIES SUPERINTENDENT.
   (A)   Creation of office. There is hereby established the position of the
position of Utilities Superintendent. Except as otherwise provided herein, the
Utilities Superintendent shall have administrative supervision and direction
over all city utility departments, including, but not limited to, the Water,
Sewer, Street, Parks, Recreation Departments, with additional oversite
responsibilities for other departments as determined by the Mayor with advice
and consent from the City Council.
   (B)   Qualifications.
      (1)   The Utilities Superintendent need not be a resident of the city at
the time of his or her appointment but shall reside within ten miles of the
city limits within such reasonable time as the Council and Mayor may allow.
      (2)   The Utilities Superintendent shall possess all necessary licenses
and/or certifications required by law in order to manage the Water, Wastewater,
Street and Park Departments, and for any other departments designated by the
Mayor and Council. In the event that the Utilities Superintendent lacks any
necessary licenses, certifications and/or credentialing, he or she shall obtain
said certifications in a timely manner after hire as allowable by law, but
under no circumstances more than one year after hire, or be able to employ the
properly licensed, certified and/or credentialed personnel within the
parameters of the department budget(s).
   (C)   Compensation. The Utilities Superintendent shall receive compensation
and allowances as the Mayor and Council may prescribe.
   (D)   General. A Utilities Superintendent shall be appointed in the event
that there is more than one municipal department and the governing body
determines that it is in the best interest of the municipality to appoint one
official to have the immediate control over all the said municipal departments.
The Utilities Superintendent may be removed at any time by a majority vote of
the governing body. Any vacancy occurring in the said office by death,
resignation or removal may be filled in the manner herein provided for the
appointment of all municipal officials. The Utilities Superintendent’s duties
over the following departments shall be as stated herein.
   (E)   Water Department. He or she shall have general supervision and control
over the municipal water system and shall be responsible for its economic
operation and prudent management with the coordination of the Water
Commissioner. He or she shall be responsible for assuring that the day-to-day
operations of the water system for which the Utilities Superintendent has
responsibility are performing adequately and in such a manner as deemed by the
Mayor and Council to be in the best interest of the city. Included in the said
water system shall be the water system, the pump house, all machinery and
appliances used in connection with producing and distributing water to
inhabitants of the municipality. All actions, decisions and procedures of the
Utilities Superintendent shall be subject to the general directives and control
of the governing body. The Utilities Superintendent shall have the general
control and supervisory authority over all employees of the water system which
the governing body may from time to time hire to operate and maintain the said
system. He or she shall make a detailed report to the governing body at least
once every six months of the condition of the said water system of all mains,
pipes, hydrants, reservoirs and machinery and such improvements, repairs and
extension thereof as he or she may think proper. This report shall show the
amount of receipts and expenditures on account thereof for the preceding six
months.
   (F)   Sewer Department. He or she shall have general supervision and control
over the municipal sewer system and shall be responsible for its economic
operation and prudent management with the coordination of the Sewer
Commissioner. He or she shall be responsible for assuring that the day-to-day
operations of the sewer system for which the Utilities Superintendent has
responsibility are performing adequately and in such a manner as deemed by the
Mayor and Council to be in the best interest of the city. All actions,
decisions and procedures of the Utilities Superintendent shall be subject to
the general directives and control of the governing body. The Utilities
Superintendent shall have the general control and supervisory authority over
all employees of the sewer system which the governing body may from time to
time hire to operate and maintain the said system. He or she shall make a
detailed report to the governing body at least once every six months of the
condition of the said sewer system of all mains, pipes, treatment facilities
and machinery and such improvements, repairs and extension thereof as he or she
may think proper. This report shall show the amount of receipts and
expenditures on account thereof for the preceding six months.
   (G)   Street Department. The Utilities Superintendent shall have general
supervision and control over the municipal street system and shall be
responsible for all work on the streets, sidewalks, culverts and alleys of the
municipality with the coordination of the Street Commissioner. The Utilities
Superintendent shall perform such other duties as the governing body may
require. It shall be his or her responsibility to see that gutters and drains
therein function properly and that the same are kept in good repair. He or she
shall, at the request of the governing body, make a detailed report to the
governing body on the condition of the streets, sidewalks, culverts and alleys
of the municipalities and shall direct his or her attention to such
improvements, repairs, extensions, additions and additional employees as he or
she may believe are needed to maintain a satisfactory street system in the
municipality along with an estimate of the cost thereof. He or she shall have
other duties as the governing body may direct.
   (H)   Parks Department. The Utilities Superintendent shall have general
supervision and control over the Parks Department and shall be responsible for
its economic operation and prudent management with the coordination of the
Parks Commissioner. He or she shall be responsible for assuring that the day-
to-day operations of the parks for which the Utilities Superintendent has
responsibility are adequately performed and in such a manner as deemed by the
Mayor and Council to be in the best interest of the city. All actions,
decisions and procedures of the Utilities Superintendent shall be subject to
the general directives and control of the governing body. The Utilities
Superintendent shall have general control and supervisory control over all
employees of the Parks Department, which the governing body may from time to
time hire to operate and maintain said system. He or she shall make a detailed
report to the governing body prior to budget time and following the end of the
park season.
   (I)   Swimming pool. The Utilities Superintendent shall have general
supervision and control over the day-to-day mechanical operations of the
swimming pool for which the Utilities Superintendent has responsibility are
performing adequately and in such a manner as deemed by the Mayor and Council
to be in the best interest of the city. The Utilities Superintendent shall
communicate on a daily basis with the Pool Administrator on the mechanical
operations and assist the Pool Administrator as needed.
   (J)   Recreation Department. The Utilities Superintendent shall have general
supervision and control over the day-to-day operations and maintenance of, but
not limited to, the ballfields, swimming pool, tennis court and sand volleyball
court. He or she coordinate all actions, decisions and procedures with the
Recreation Department Committee and shall be subject to the general directives
and control of the governing body. The Utilities Superintendent shall have
general control and supervisory control over all employees of the Recreation
Department, which the governing body may from time to time hire to operate and
maintain said system.
   (K)   Powers and duties. In the performance of his or her role as Utilities
Superintendent, the Utilities Superintendent shall have the following duties
and powers.
      (1)   He or she shall have the power, subject to provisions of applicable
law, and with guidance and direction of the Mayor, to employ, discipline and
remove all non-elected employees of the city departments over which this
position has oversite responsibilities.
      (2)   He or she shall insure the enforcement of all state, federal and
local laws and ordinances within the city and within its extraterritorial
jurisdiction insofar as is necessary to perform duties related to the Water,
Wastewater, Tree and Grass Landfill, Waste, Street, Recreation and Park
Departments, and any other departments set forth by the Mayor with advice and
consent of the City Council.
      (3)   He or she shall be required to possess all required licenses and/or
certificates necessary to carry out the requirements of each department for
which he or she is responsible, and/or hire, engage, or otherwise procure the
necessary employee(s) with said licenses and/or certificates.
      (4)   He or she shall be responsible for preparation and management of
the budget for each of the departments for which he or she is responsible, and
shall be expected to manage the departments adequately within the bounds of
said budgets.
      (5)   He or she shall be responsible for assuring that the day-to-day
operations of each of the departments for which the Utilities Superintendent
has responsibility are performing adequately and in such a manner as is deemed
by the Mayor and Council to be in the best interests of the city.
      (6)   He or she shall be responsible for attending the scheduled meetings
of the City Council and presenting reports as to the activities of each
department for which the Utilities Superintendent has supervisory
responsibility when requested by the Mayor and/or City Council.
      (7)   He or she shall perform any other duties and exercise such other
powers as the Mayor and Council may from time to time assign.
   (L)   Appointment and removal.
      (1)   The position of Utilities Superintendent shall be filled by
appointment of the Mayor with consent of the majority of the City Council.
      (2)   He or she shall serve for periods of one year for a term
corresponding with the terms of the other appointed officials of the city.
      (3)   He or she may be removed at any time upon notice given by the Mayor
and with approval of a majority of the City Council.
§ 30.38 POOL ADMINISTRATOR.
   The Mayor may appoint a Pool Administrator, by and with the consent of the
City Council.
(1999 Code, §1-218)
§ 30.39 ZONING ADMINISTRATOR.
   The Mayor may appoint a Zoning Administrator, by and with the consent of the
City Council. In the absence of a specific appointment by the Mayor, the
Municipal Clerk is hereby designated as the Zoning Administrator.
(1999 Code, §1-217)
§ 30.40 FISCAL AGENT.
   The Mayor may appoint a Fiscal Agent, by and with the consent of the City
Council.
(1999 Code, §1-219)
BONDS AND OATHS
§ 30.50 BONDS; FORM.
   (A)   Required of certain officers. Each of the following officers of the
municipality, as well as those officers elsewhere required by law, shall,
before entering upon the duties of each of their offices respectively, execute
a bond, conditioned that he or she will faithfully and impartially perform and
discharge the duties of his or her office in accordance with general law and
the ordinances of the municipality. Said bonds shall be executed with a
corporate surety approved by the state and shall be given in penal sums as
follows, to-wit: Municipal Clerk-Treasurer, in the minimum amount of $10,000;
Chief of Police, $1,000; each police officer, $1,000. The Mayor and City
Council may also require bond of any other officer or employee in such sum as
they may by resolution designate. No bond shall be deemed to be given or
complete until the approval thereof as to form and substance by the Municipal
Attorney in writing thereon is indorsed on the bond and until the approval of
the corporate surety thereon is indorsed in writing on said instrument by the
Mayor and Municipal Clerk pursuant to action of the City Council. Official
bonds shall be approved by motion of the City Council. Official bonds shall be
filed with the Municipal Clerk and recorded in his or her office, except that
of the Municipal Clerk which shall be filed with the Mayor, and shall be for
the benefit of the municipality and for any and all persons injured by a breach
of the conditions thereof; provided, the premium on any official bond required
to be given, where corporate surety bond is required, given and approved, may
be paid for out of the general fund or other proper municipal fund; and
provided further, the Mayor and City Council may require Municipal Treasurer,
if they deem it advisable, to give additional bond, the penalty in which shall
never exceed double the average amount of money passing through his or her
hands at any one time.
   (B)   Insufficient sureties. Should the sureties on the official bond of any
officer of the municipality, in the opinion of the Mayor and City Council,
become insufficient, the Mayor and City Council may by resolution fix a
reasonable time within which such officer may give a new bond or additional
sureties as directed by such resolution, and should such official fail, refuse
or neglect to give such new bond or sureties within the time prescribed by said
resolution to the satisfaction and approval of said Mayor and City Council,
then the office shall by such failure or neglect become vacant and it shall be
the duty of the Mayor by and with the consent of the City Council to appoint a
competent and qualified person to fill such office.
   (C)   Municipal officers. No member of the City Council or other officer of
the municipality shall be accepted as surety on any officers bond or upon any
contractor’s bond or license or appeal bond or any bond given to the
municipality under any circumstances.
(1999 Code, § 1-301)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 11-103 through 11-118, 17-604
§ 30.51 MUNICIPAL OFFICIALS.
   All officials of the municipality, whether elected or appointed, except when
a different oath is specifically provided herein, shall, before entering upon
their respective duties, take and subscribe the following oath which shall be
endorsed upon their respective bonds:
“I _____________________ do solemnly swear that I will support the Constitution
of the United States and the Constitution of the State of Nebraska, against all
enemies foreign and domestic; that I will bear true faith and allegiance to the
same; that I take this obligation freely, and without mental reservation, or
for the purpose of evasion; and that I will faithfully and impartially perform
the duties of the office of ____________________ according to law, and to the
best of my ability. And I do further swear that I do not advocate, nor am I a
member of any political party or organization that advocates the overthrow of
the government of the United States or of this State by force, or violence; and
that during such time as I am in this position I will not advocate, nor become
a member of any political party or organization that advocates the overthrow of
the government of the United States or of this State by force or violence. So
help me God.”
(1999 Code, § 1-302)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 11-101
POLICIES AND PROCEDURES
§ 30.65 SEXUAL HARASSMENT POLICY.
   (A)   It is the policy of the city to maintain a work environment free of
inappropriate and disrespectful conduct and communication of a sexual nature.
No employee may sexually harass another. Anyone who violates this policy will
be subject to disciplinary action up to and including discharge. A manager or
supervisor who is aware of sexual harassment and fails to take corrective
action will be subject to discipline including discharge.
   (B)   Sexual harassment refers to behavior which is not welcome, is
offensive, and interferes with work performance. Unwelcome sexual advances,
requests for sexual favors, and other verbal or physical conduct of a sexual
nature constitute harassment when:
      (1)   Submission to conduct is made explicitly or implicitly a term or
condition of an individual’s employment;
      (2)   Submission to or rejection of such conduct by an individual is used
as a basis for employment decisions affecting such individual; or
      (3)   Such conduct has the purpose or effect of unreasonably interfering
with an individual’s work performance or creating an intimidating, hostile or
offensive working environment.
   (C)   Any employee who believes he or she has been subject to sexual
harassment should promptly notify his or her immediate supervisor, or if that
is not appropriate, the Mayor or City Attorney. An investigation will be
conducted and appropriate action will be taken when necessary to assure
compliance with the policy.
   (D)   An employee who complains pursuant to this policy will not suffer
retaliation as a result. Complaints made which are knowingly false will result
in discipline.
(1999 Code, § 1-1001)
CHAPTER 31: MEETINGS
Section
   
31.01   Open meetings
   
31.02   Change in office
   
31.03   Annual organization meeting
   
31.04   Regular meeting
   
31.05   Special meetings
§ 31.01 OPEN MEETINGS.
   The Nebraska Open Meetings Act, Neb. RS 84-1400 et seq., shall be followed
for all public meetings as provided by the Act.
§ 31.02 CHANGE IN OFFICE.
   The change in office shall be made as follows: The Mayor and Council shall
meet on the first regular meeting date in December of each year in which a
municipal election is held and the outgoing officers and the outgoing members
of the Council shall present their reports, and upon the old Council having
completed its business up to the said time, the outgoing members of the Council
shall surrender their offices to the incoming members, and the outgoing
officers shall thereupon each surrender to his or her successor in office all
property, records, papers and moneys, belonging to the same.
(1999 Code, § 1-511)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-107.02(9)
§ 31.03 ANNUAL ORGANIZATION MEETING.
   (A)   Generally. The newly elected City Council shall convene at the regular
place of meeting in the municipality on the second Tuesday in December in each
year at 7:30 p.m. and proceed to organize themselves for the ensuing year. The
Mayor shall call the meeting to order. The City Council shall then proceed to
examine the credentials of their new members and other elective officers of the
municipality to see that each has been duly and properly elected and to see
that such oaths and bonds have been given as are required.
   (B)   President of Council. After ascertaining that all members and officers
are duly qualified, the City Council shall then elect one of its own body who
shall be styled as President of the Council.
   (C)   Appointive officers. The Mayor shall nominate his or her candidates
for appointive offices, board members and municipal employees; and said
officers, board members and city employees shall hold office until their
successors are duly appointed and qualified.
   (D)   Assuming office. It is hereby made the duty of each and every member
of the City Council of the municipality, or their successors in office and of
each officer hereafter elected to any office, to qualify prior to the second
Tuesday in December following his or her election, and at 7:30 p.m. upon the
second Tuesday in December following his or her election, each officer elected
at the municipal election shall take possession of his or her office. All
appointive officers shall qualify within two weeks following their appointment.
(1999 Code, § 1-512)
§ 31.04 REGULAR MEETING.
   (A)   The meetings of the City Council shall be held in the meeting place of
the municipality. Regular meetings shall be held on the second Tuesday of each
month at the hour of 7:30 p.m. at the City Hall Council Chambers.
   (B)   A majority of all the members elected to the City Council shall
constitute a quorum for the transaction of any business, but a fewer number may
adjourn from time to time and compel the attendance of absent members. Unless a
greater vote is required by law, an affirmative vote of at least one-half of
the elected members shall be required for the transaction of any business.
(1999 Code, § 1-513)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-105
§ 31.05 SPECIAL MEETINGS.
   (A)   Special meetings may be called by the Mayor, or by three members of
the City Council, the object of which shall be submitted to the Council in
writing. The call and object, as well as the disposition thereof, shall be
entered upon the journal by the Municipal Clerk. On filing the call for a
special meeting, the Municipal Clerk shall notify the Council members of the
special meeting, stating the time and its purpose. Notice of a special meeting
need not be given to a Council member known to be out of the state, or
physically unable to be present. A majority of the members of the City Council
shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of business, but a smaller number
may adjourn from day to day and compel the attendance of the absent members.
Whether a quorum is present or not, all absent members shall be sent for and
compelled to attend.
   (B)   At the hour appointed for the meeting, the Municipal Clerk shall
proceed to call the roll of members and announce whether a quorum is present.
If a quorum is present, the Council shall be called to order by the Mayor, if
present, or if absent, by the President of the Council. In the absence of both
the Mayor and the President of the Council, the City Council members shall
elect a President pro tempore. All ordinances passed at any special meeting
shall comply with procedures set forth in Chapter 32 of this code of
ordinances.
(1999 Code, § 1-514)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-106
CHAPTER 32: ORDINANCES, RESOLUTIONS AND MOTIONS
Section
   
32.01   Grant of power
   
32.02   Introduction
   
32.03   Procedure
   
32.04   Style
   
32.05   Title
   
32.06   Bylaws; reading; passage
   
32.07   Publication or posting
   
32.08   Certificate of publication or posting
   
32.09   Effective date; emergency ordinances
   
32.10   Amendments and revisions
§ 32.01 GRANT OF POWER.
   The governing body may make all ordinances, bylaws, rules, regulations and
resolutions, not inconsistent with the laws of the state, as may be expedient
for maintaining the peace, good government and welfare of the municipality and
its trade, commerce and manufactories.
(1999 Code, § 1-601)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-505
§ 32.02 INTRODUCTION.
   Ordinances, resolutions and other matters or subjects requiring action by
the Council may be introduced and sponsored by any member of the Council and by
no other person; provided, that the Mayor or city attorney may present
ordinances, resolutions and other matters or subjects to the Council and any
Council member may assume sponsorship thereof by introducing the same and
moving its adoption; otherwise, such matters shall not be considered by the
Council.
§ 32.03 PROCEDURE.
   Resolutions and motions shall be introduced in one of the methods prescribed
for the introduction of ordinances. After their introduction, they shall be
fully and distinctly read one time in the presence and hearing of a majority of
the members elected to the governing body. The issue raised by the resolution
or motion shall be disposed of in accordance with the usage of parliamentary
law adopted for the guidance of the governing body. A majority vote shall be
required to pass any resolution or motion. The vote on any resolution or motion
shall be by roll call vote.
(1999 Code, § 1-603)
§ 32.04 STYLE.
   The style of all municipal ordinances shall be: “Be it ordained by the Mayor
and Council of the City of Henderson, Nebraska.”
(1999 Code, § 1-604)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-613
§ 32.05 TITLE.
   No ordinance shall contain a subject which is not clearly expressed in the
title.
(1999 Code, § 1-605)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-614
§ 32.06 BYLAWS; READING; PASSAGE.
   Ordinances of a general or permanent nature shall be read by title on three
different days unless three-fourths of the governing body vote to suspend this
requirement, except that such requirement shall not be suspended for any
ordinance for the annexation of territory. In case such requirement is
suspended, the ordinance shall be read by title and then moved for final
passage. Three-fourths of the governing body may require a reading of any
ordinance in full before enactment under either procedure set out in this
section. All ordinances and resolutions or orders for the appropriation or
payment of money shall require for their passage or adoption the concurrence of
a majority of all members elected to the governing body. On the passage or
adoption of every bylaw or ordinance, and every resolution or order to enter
into a contract by the governing body, the yeas and nays shall be called and
recorded. To pass or adopt any bylaw, ordinance or any such resolution or
order, a concurrence of a majority of the whole number of members elected to
the governing body shall be required. All appointments of the officers by the
governing body shall be made viva voce; and the concurrence of a like majority
shall be required, and the names of those, and for whom they voted, on the vote
resulting in an appointment, shall be recorded. The requirements of a roll call
or viva voce vote shall be satisfied by a municipality which utilizes an
electronic voting device which allows the yeas and nays of each member of the
governing body to be readily seen by the public.
(1999 Code, § 1-606)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-614, 17-616
§ 32.07 PUBLICATION OR POSTING.
   All ordinances of a general nature shall, before they take effect, be
published one time, within 15 days after they are passed:
   (A)   In some newspaper published in the municipality or, if no paper is
published in the municipality, then by posting a written or printed copy in
each of three public places in the municipality; or
   (B)   In book or pamphlet form.
(1999 Code, § 1-607)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-613
§ 32.08 CERTIFICATE OF PUBLICATION OR POSTING.
   The passage, approval and publication or posting of an ordinance shall be
sufficiently proved by a certificate under the Seal of the municipality from
the Municipal Clerk showing that the ordinance was passed and approved, and
when and in what paper the ordinance was published, or when and by whom and
where the ordinance was posted.
(1999 Code, § 1-608)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-613, 17-615
§ 32.09 EFFECTIVE DATE; EMERGENCY ORDINANCES.
   (A)   Except as provided in division (B) below, an ordinance for the
government of the municipality which has been adopted by the governing body
without submission to the voters of the municipality shall not go into effect
until 15 days after the passage of the ordinance.
   (B)   (1)   In the case of riot, infectious or contagious diseases, or other
impending danger, failure of a public utility, or any other emergency requiring
its immediate operation, an ordinance shall take effect upon the proclamation
of the Mayor and the posting thereof in at least three of the most public
places in the municipality.
      (2)   Such emergency ordinance shall recite the emergency, be passed by a
three-fourths vote of the governing body, and be entered of record on the
Municipal Clerk’s minutes.
(1999 Code, § 1-609)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-613, 19-3701
§ 32.10 AMENDMENTS AND REVISIONS.
   No ordinance or section thereof shall be revised or amended unless the new
ordinance contains the entire ordinance or section as revised or amended and
the ordinance or section so amended is repealed, except that an ordinance
revising all the ordinances of the municipality and modifications to zoning or
building districts may be adopted as otherwise provided by law.
(1999 Code, § 1-610)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-614
CHAPTER 33: ELECTIONS
Section
   
33.01   Generally
   
33.02   Officers; certification
   
33.03   Term qualifications
   
33.04   Partisan ballot; when allowed; requirements
§ 33.01 GENERALLY.
   All municipal issues and offices shall be combined on the statewide primary
and general election ballots whenever possible. The issuance of separate
ballots shall be avoided in a statewide election if municipal offices or issues
can reasonably be combined with the non-partisan ballot and state law does not
require otherwise. When the municipality holds an election in conjunction with
the statewide primary or general election, the election shall be held as
provided in the Election Act. Any other election by the municipality shall be
held as provided in the Election Act unless otherwise provided by Neb. RS 19-
3001 to 19-3052.
(1999 Code, § 1-701)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 32-404(1), 32-556
§ 33.02 OFFICERS; CERTIFICATION.
   All municipal elections involving the election of officers shall be held in
accordance with the Election Act and in conjunction with the statewide general
election. No later than January 5 of each even-numbered year, the governing
body shall certify to the Secretary of State, the Election Commissioner, or the
County Clerk, the name of the municipality, the number of officers to be
elected, the length of the terms of office, the vacancies to be filled by
election and length of remaining term, and the number of votes to be cast by a
registered voter for each office.
(1999 Code, § 1-702)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-202, 32-404(2), 32-556
§ 33.03 TERMS QUALIFICATIONS.
   (A)   Commencing with the primary election in 1976 and every two years
thereafter, all elected officers of the municipality shall be nominated at the
statewide primary election and elected at the statewide general election. All
elected officers of the municipality shall serve for terms of four years or
until their successors are elected and qualified.
   (B)   The Mayor shall be a resident and registered voter of the
municipality.
   (C)   There shall be four elected members of the City Council. The members
of the City Council shall be elected from the municipality at large unless the
registered voters of the municipality vote to elect its Council members by
wards. The term of office shall begin on the first regular meeting of the City
Council in December following the statewide general election. No person shall
be eligible to the office of Council member who is not at the time of the
election an actual resident of the ward for which he or she is elected and a
registered voter.
(1999 Code, § 1-703)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-103, 17-104, 32-533, 32-554
§ 33.04 PARTISAN BALLOT; WHEN ALLOWED; REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   All elective city offices shall be nominated and elected on a
nonpartisan basis unless the governing body provides for a partisan ballot by
ordinance.
   (B)   No ordinance providing for nomination and election on a partisan
ballot shall permit affiliation with any party not recognized as a political
party for purposes of the Election Act.
   (C)   Such ordinance providing for nomination and election on a partisan
ballot shall be adopted and effective not less than 60 days prior to the filing
deadline.
(1999 Code, § 1-704)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 32-557
CHAPTER 34: TAX AND FINANCE
Section
   
34.01   Fiscal year
   
34.02   Proposed budget statement filing
   
34.03   Budget hearing
   
34.04   Adopted; budget statement; filing
   
34.05   Budget procedure
   
34.06   Appropriations
   
34.07   General property tax
   
34.08   Expenditures
   
34.09   Contract
   
34.10   Annual audit; financial statements
   
34.11   Claims
   
34.12   Warrants
   
34.13   Transfer of funds
   
34.14   Special Assessment Fund
   
34.15   Sinking funds
   
34.16   Deposit of funds
   
34.17   Investment of funds
   
34.18   Bond issues
   
34.19   Motor vehicle tax
   
34.20   Collection of special assessments; procedure
   
34.21   Property tax levy authority to set
   
34.22   Compensation; municipal officials
   
34.23   Conflict of interest; compensation
§ 34.01 FISCAL YEAR.
   The fiscal year of the municipality and any public utility of the
municipality commences on October 1 and extends through the following September
30 except as provided in the Municipal Proprietary Function Act.
(1999 Code, § 1-801)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-701
§ 34.02 PROPOSED BUDGET STATEMENT FILING.
   (A)   The governing body shall, not later than August 1 of each year on
forms prescribed and furnished by the State Auditor, prepare in writing and
file with the Municipal Clerk a proposed budget statement containing the
following:
      (1)   For the immediate two prior fiscal years, the revenue from all
sources, other than revenue received from taxation, allocated to each of the
several funds and separately stated as to each such source, and for each fund:
The unencumbered cash balance of such fund at the beginning and end of the
year; the amount received by taxation allocated to each fund; and the amount of
actual expenditure for each fund;
      (2)   For the current fiscal year, actual and estimated revenue from all
sources, allocated to each of the several funds and separately stated as to
each such source, and for each fund: the actual unencumbered cash balance
available for such fund at the beginning of the year; the amount received from
taxation allocated to each fund; and the amount of actual and estimated
expenditure, whichever is applicable. Such statement shall contain the cash
reserve for each such fund for each fiscal year and shall note whether or not
such reserve is encumbered. Such cash reserve projections shall be based upon
the actual experience of prior years. The cash reserve shall not exceed 50% of
the total budget adopted for such fund exclusive of capital outlay items;
      (3)   For the immediately ensuing fiscal year, an estimate of revenue
from all sources, other than revenue to be received from taxation, separately
stated as to each such source, to be allocated to each of the several funds,
and for each fund: the actual or estimated unencumbered cash balances,
whichever is applicable, to be available at the beginning of the year; the
amounts proposed to be expended during the year; and the amount of cash
reserve, based on actual experience of prior years, which cash reserve shall
not exceed 50% of the total budget adopted exclusive of capital outlay items;
      (4)   A statement setting out separately the amount sought to be raised
from the levy of a tax on the taxable value of real property:
         (a)   For the purpose of paying the principal or interest on bonds
issued by the governing body; and
         (b)   For all other purposes.
      (5)   A uniform summary of the proposed budget statement which shall
include a separate total for each fund, including each proprietary function
fund included in a separate proprietary budget statement prepared pursuant to
the Municipal Proprietary Function Act, and a grand total of all funds
maintained by the governing body; and
      (6)   A list of the proprietary functions which are not in eluded in the
budget statement if a separate proprietary budget statement has been prepared
for such proprietary functions pursuant to the Municipal Proprietary Function
Act.
   (B)   The actual or estimated unencumbered cash balance of each fund
required to be included in the budget statement by this section shall include
deposits and investments of the municipality as well as any funds held by the
County Treasurer for the municipality and shall be accurately stated on the
proposed budget statement.
   (C)   The estimated expenditures plus the required cash reserve for the
ensuing fiscal year less all estimated and actual unencumbered balances at the
beginning of the year and less the estimated income from all sources other than
taxation shall equal the amount to be received from taxes, and such amount
shall be shown on the proposed budget statement filed pursuant to this section.
The amount to be raised from taxation, as determined above, plus the estimated
revenue from sources other than taxation and the unencumbered balances shall
equal the estimated expenditures, plus the necessary required cash reserve, for
the ensuing year.
(1999 Code, § 1-802)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 13-504, 13-505
§ 34.03 BUDGET HEARING.
   Subsequent to the filing of the proposed budget statement, the governing
body shall publish a proposed budget and conduct a public hearing on the
proposed budget statement. Notice of the place and time of the said hearing, as
well as a copy of the proposed budget, shall be published at least five days
prior to the date set for the hearing in a newspaper of general circulation in
the municipality. After such hearing, the statement shall be adopted, or
amended, and adopted as amended, and a written record shall be made of such
hearing. If the adopted budget statement reflects a change from that shown in
the published proposed budget statement, a summary of such changes shall be
published within 20 days after its adoption.
(1999 Code, § 1-803)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 13-506
§ 34.04 ADOPTED; BUDGET STATEMENT; FILING.
   The governing body shall file with and certify to the levying board on or
before September 20 of each year, and file with the State Auditor, a copy of
the adopted budget statement, together with the amount of tax to be levied,
setting out separately the amount to be levied for the payment of principal or
interest on bonds issued by the governing body and the amount to be levied for
all other purposes. Proof of publication shall be attached to the statements.
The governing body shall not certify any tax that exceeds the maximum levy
prescribed by state law, except that in certifying the amount to be so levied,
allowance may be made for delinquent taxes not exceeding 5% of the amount to be
levied plus the actual percentage of delinquent taxes for the preceding tax
year.
(1999 Code, § 1-804)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 13-508
§ 34.05 BUDGET PROCEDURE.
   The Manual of Instructions for City Budgets, prepared by the Auditor of
Public Accounts, State Capitol, Lincoln, Nebraska 68509 is incorporated by
reference for the purpose of proper budget preparation.
(1999 Code, § 1-805)
§ 34.06 APPROPRIATIONS.
   The governing body shall adopt a budget statement pursuant to the State
Budget Act, to be termed “The Annual Appropriation Bill,” in which are
appropriated such sums of money as may be deemed necessary to defray all
necessary expenses and liabilities of the municipality.
(1999 Code, § 1-806)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-706
§ 34.07 GENERAL PROPERTY TAX.
   (A)   The governing body shall cause to be certified to the County Clerk the
amount of tax to be levied upon the actual value of all the taxable property of
the municipality for the requirements of the adopted budget for the ensuing
year, including all special assessments and taxes.
   (B)   The maximum amount of tax which may be certified and assessed shall
not require a tax levy in excess of the legal maximum as prescribed by state
law.
(1999 Code, § 1-807)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-702
§ 34.08 EXPENDITURES.
   (A)   No municipal official shall have the power to appropriate, issue or
draw any order or warrant on the Municipal Treasury for money, unless the same
has been appropriated or ordered by ordinance.
   (B)   No expenditure for any improvement to be paid for out of the general
fund of the municipality shall exceed in any one year the amount provided for
that improvement in the adopted budget statement.
(1999 Code, § 1-808)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-708
§ 34.09 CONTRACT.
   (A)   The governing body shall before making any contract in excess of
$20,000 as estimated by the Municipal Engineer, for general improvements, such
as water extensions, sewers, public heating system, bridges or work on streets
or any other work or improvement where the cost of such improvement shall be
assessed to the property, advertise for bids. In advertising for bids for any
such work, or for the purchase of such equipment, the governing body may cause
the amount of such estimate to be published therewith.
   (B)   Such advertisement shall be published once each week for three
consecutive weeks in a legal newspaper published in or of general circulation
in the municipality, or by posting a written or printed copy thereof in each of
three public places in the municipality; provided, that in case of a public
emergency resulting from infectious or contagious diseases, destructive
windstorms, floods, snow, an exigency or pressing necessity or unforeseen need
calling for immediate action or remedy to prevent a serious loss of, or serious
injury or damage to life, health or property, or war, estimates of costs and
advertising for bids may be waived in the emergency ordinance when adopted by a
three-fourths vote of the governing body.
   (C)   If, after advertising for bids as provided in this section, the
governing body receives fewer than two bids on a contract for services,
material or labor, or if the bids received by the governing body contain a
price which exceeds the estimated cost of the project, the governing body shall
have the authority to negotiate a contract for services, material or labor in
an attempt to complete the proposed project at a cost commensurate with the
estimate given.
   (D)   If the materials are of such a nature that, in the opinion of the
manufacturer and with the concurrence of the governing body, no cost can be
estimated until the materials have been manufactured or assembled to the
specific qualifications of the purchasing municipality, the governing body may
authorize the manufacture and assemblage of such materials and may thereafter
approve the estimated cost expenditure when it is provided by the manufacturer.
   (E)   The municipal bidding procedure shall be waived when materials or
equipment are purchased at the same price and from the same seller as materials
or equipment which have formerly been obtained pursuant to the state bidding
procedure.
(1999 Code, § 1-809)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-568.01, 17-613
§ 34.10 ANNUAL AUDIT; FINANCIAL STATEMENTS.
   The governing body shall cause an audit of the municipal accounts to be made
by a qualified accountant as expeditiously as possible following the close of
the fiscal year. Such audit shall be made on a cash or accrual method at the
discretion of the governing body. The said audit shall be completed, and the
annual audit report made not later than six months after the close of the
fiscal year. The accountant making the audit shall submit not less than three
copies of the audit report to the governing body. All public utilities or other
enterprises which substantially generate their own revenue shall be audited
separately and the results of such audits shall appear separately in the annual
audit report, and such audits shall be on an accrual basis and shall contain
statements and materials which conform to generally accepted accounting
principles. The audit report shall set forth the financial position and results
of financial operations for each fund or group of accounts of the municipality
as well as an opinion by the accountant with respect to the financial
statements. Two copies of the annual audit report shall be filed with the
Municipal Clerk, and shall become a part of the public records of the Municipal
Clerk’s office, and will at all times thereafter, be open for public
inspection. One copy shall be filed with the Auditor of Public Accounts. Every
governing body that is required herein to submit to an audit of its accounts
shall provide and file with the Municipal Clerk, not later than August 1 of
each year, financial statements showing its actual and budgeted figures for the
most recently completed fiscal year.
(1999 Code, § 1-810)
19-2901 through 19-2909, 13-606
§ 34.11 CLAIMS.
   All claims against the municipality shall be presented to the governing body
in writing with a full account of the items, and no claim or demand shall be
audited or allowed unless presented as provided for in this section. No costs
shall be recovered against the municipality in any action brought against it
for an unliquidated claim which has not been presented to the governing body to
be audited, nor upon claims allowed in part, unless the recovery shall be for a
greater sum than the amount allowed, with the interest due. No order, or
warrant shall be drawn in excess of 85% of the current levy for the purpose for
which it is drawn unless there shall be sufficient money in the Municipal
Treasury for the appropriate fund against which it is to be drawn; provided,
that in the event there exists obligated funds from the federal and/or state
government for the general purpose of such warrant, then such warrant may be
drawn in excess of 85%, but not more than 100% of the current levy for the
purpose for which said warrant is drawn.
(1999 Code, § 1-811)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-714, 17-715
§ 34.12 WARRANTS.
   All warrants drawn upon the Municipal Treasury must be signed by the Mayor
and countersigned by the Municipal Clerk, stating the particular fund to which
the warrant is chargeable, the person to whom it is payable, and the purpose of
the expenditure. No money shall be otherwise paid than upon warrants so drawn.
Each warrant shall specify the amount included in the adopted budget statement
for the fund upon which it is drawn, and the amount already expended of such
fund.
(1999 Code, § 1-812)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-711
§ 34.13 TRANSFER OF FUNDS.
   The governing body may, whenever during the current fiscal year it becomes
apparent due to unforeseen emergencies that there is temporarily insufficient
money in a particular fund to meet the requirements of the adopted budget of
expenditures for that fund, by a majority vote transfer money from other funds
to such fund. No expenditure during any fiscal year shall be made in excess of
the amounts indicated in the adopted budget statement, except as authorized
herein. Whenever during the current fiscal year it becomes apparent that there
are circumstances which could not reasonably have been anticipated at the time
the budget for the current year was adopted such that either the revenue of the
current fiscal year for any fund thereof will be insufficient or additional
expenses will be necessarily incurred, the governing body may propose to
supplement the previously adopted budget statement and shall conduct a public
hearing at which time any taxpayer may appear, or file a written statement
protesting the application for additional money. A written record shall be kept
of all such hearings. Notice of a place, and time for the said hearing shall be
published at least five days prior to the date set for the hearing in a
newspaper of general circulation in the municipality. The published notice
shall set forth the time, and place of the proposed hearing, the amount of
additional money required, the purpose of the required money, a statement
setting forth the reasons why the adopted budget of expenditures cannot be
reduced to meet the need for additional money, and a copy of the summary of the
originally adopted budget previously published. Upon the conclusion of the
public hearing on the proposed supplemental budget, and the approval by the
governing body, the governing body shall file with the County Clerk and the
State Auditor a copy of the supplemental budget, and shall certify the amount
of additional tax to be levied. The governing body may then issue warrants in
payment for expenditures authorized by the adopted supplemental budget. The
said warrants shall be referred to as “registered warrants,” and shall be
repaid during the next fiscal year from funds derived from taxes levied
therefor.
(1999 Code, § 1-813)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 13-510, 13-511
§ 34.14 SPECIAL ASSESSMENT FUND.
   All money received on special tax assessments shall be held by the Municipal
Treasurer as a special fund to be applied to the payment of the improvement for
which the assessment was made, and such money shall be used for no other
purpose unless to reimburse the municipality for money expended for any such
improvement.
(1999 Code, § 1-814)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-710
§ 34.15 SINKING FUNDS.
   (A)   The governing body, subject to the limitations set forth herein, shall
have the power to levy a tax not to exceed that prescribed by state law upon
the assessed value of all taxable property within the municipality for a term
not to exceed that prescribed by state law in addition to the amount of tax
which may be annually levied for the purposes of the adopted budget statement
of the municipality, for the purpose of establishing a sinking fund for the
construction, purchase, improvement, extension or repair of the approved uses
as authorized by state law.
   (B)   To initiate the said sinking fund, the governing body shall declare
its purpose by resolution to submit to the qualified electors of the
municipality the proposition to provide the improvement at the next general
municipal election. The resolution shall set forth the improvement, the
estimated cost, the amount of the annual levy, the number of years required to
provide the required revenue, the name of the sinking fund proposed, and the
proposition as it will appear on the ballot.
   (C)   Notice of the said proposition shall be published in its entirety
three times on successive weeks before the day of the election in a legal
newspaper of general circulation in the municipality.
      (1)   The sinking fund may be established after the election if a
majority, or more of the legal votes were in favor of the establishment of the
fund.
      (2)   The governing body may then proceed to establish the said fund in
conformity with the provisions of the proposition, and applicable state law.
      (3)   The funds received by the Municipal Treasurer shall, as they
accumulate, be immediately invested with the written approval of the governing
body in the manner provided by state law.
   (D)   No sinking fund so established shall be used for any purpose or
purposes contrary to the purpose as it appeared on the ballot unless the
governing body is authorized to do so by 60% of the qualified electors of the
municipality voting at a general election favoring such a change in the use of
the sinking fund.
(1999 Code, § 1-815)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 19-1301 through 19-1304, 77-2337, 77-2339
§ 34.16 DEPOSIT OF FUNDS.
   (A)   The governing body, at its first meeting in each fiscal year, shall
designate one or more banks of approved and responsible standing in which the
Municipal Treasurer shall keep at all times all money held by him or her;
provided, if more than one bank in the municipality meets the requirements for
approved banks as herein defined, the said funds shall be deposited in each of
them, and the Municipal Treasurer shall not give a preference to any one or
more of them in the money he or she shall deposit.
   (B)   A bond shall be required from all banks so selected in a penal sum
which equals the maximum amount on deposit at any time less the amount insured
by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation or a pledge of sufficient assets
of the bank to secure the payment of all such deposits.
(1999 Code, § 1-816)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-607, 77-2362 through 77-2364
§ 34.17 INVESTMENT OF FUNDS.
   Whenever the municipality has accumulated a surplus of any fund in excess of
its current needs or has accumulated a Sinking Fund for the payment of its
bonds and the money in such Sinking Fund exceeds the amount necessary to pay
the principal and interest of any such bonds which become due during the
current year, the governing body may invest any such surplus in certificates of
deposit, in time deposits, and in any securities in which the State Investment
Officer is authorized by law and as provided in the authorized investment
guidelines of the State Investment Council in effect on the date the investment
is made.
(1999 Code, § 1-817)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-608, 17-609, 21-1316.01, 77-2341
§ 34.18 BOND ISSUES.
   The governing body may, after meeting all the requirements of state law,
issue bonds, fund bonds and retire bonds for such purposes as may be permitted
by state law. The governing body shall have the authority to levy special
assessments for the payment of interest and principal on such bonds, and may
spread the payments up to the maximum number of years permitted by state law.
(1999 Code, § 1-818)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 10-201 through 10-411, 10-601 through 10-
614, 12-1001, 17-529.01, 17-529.08, 17-534, 17-905, 17-908, 17-911, 17-939, 17-
958, 17-968, 18-1801 through 18-1805, 23-343.13, 39-836
§ 34.19 MOTOR VEHICLE TAX.
   (A)   The governing body may levy a tax on all motor vehicles owned or used
in the municipality, which tax shall be paid to the County Treasurer of the
county when the registration fees as provided in Neb. RS 60-329 to 60-339 are
paid. Such taxes shall be credited by County Treasurer to the road fund of the
municipality.
   (B)   Such funds shall be used by the municipality for constructing,
resurfacing, maintaining or improving streets, roads alleys, public ways or
parts thereof, for the amortization of bonded indebtedness when created for
such purposes.
(1999 Code, § 1-819)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 18-1214
§ 34.20 COLLECTION OF SPECIAL ASSESSMENTS; PROCEDURE.
   (A)   The municipality shall have the authority to collect the special
assessments which it levies and perform all other necessary functions related
thereto including foreclosure.
   (B)   If the municipality elects to collect its special assessments, notice
that special assessments are due shall be mailed or otherwise delivered to the
last-known address of the person against whom such special assessments are
assessed or to the lending institution or other party responsible for paying
such special assessments. Failure to receive such notice shall not relieve the
taxpayer from any liability to pay such special assessments and any interest or
penalties accrued thereon.
   (C)   A municipality that elects to collect, its special assessments shall:
      (1)   File notice of the assessments and the amount of assessment being
levied for each lot or tract of land to the Register of Deeds; and
      (2)   File a release of assessment upon final payment of each assessment
with the Register of Deeds.
(1999 Code, § 1-820)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 18-1216
§ 34.21 PROPERTY TAX LEVY AUTHORITY TO SET.
   (A)   Upon receipt of the preliminary levy from the County Clerk, the
governing body may either accept or change the amount of the preliminary levy
established by the county. If the amount of the preliminary levy is deemed to
be adequate and sufficient by the governing body, the preliminary levy shall
become the final levy without further action by the governing body. The
governing body may reject the preliminary levy and pass by a majority vote a
resolution or ordinance setting the levy at a different amount prior to October
15. Such resolution or ordinance shall only be passed after the governing body
holds a special public hearing called for such purpose and after notice of the
hearing is published in a newspaper of general circulation within the
municipality at least five days prior to the hearing. Any resolution or
ordinance setting a tax levy under this section shall be forwarded to the
County Clerk and certified.
   (B)   The compensation of any elective official of the municipality shall
not be increased or diminished during the term for which he or she shall have
been elected except when there has been a merger of offices; provided, the
compensation of the members of the governing body, a board or commission may be
increased or diminished at the beginning of the full term of any member whether
or not the terms of one or more members commence and end at different times. No
elected official may be rehired at a greater salary if he or she resigns and
desires to be rehired during the unexpired term of office. He or she may be
rehired after the term of office during which he or she resigned at a greater
salary. All salaries shall be set by ordinance of the governing body and will
be available for public inspection at the office of the Municipal Clerk.
(1999 Code, § 1-821)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-108.02, 17-612, 77-1601.01. 77-1601.02
§ 34.22 COMPENSATION; MUNICIPAL OFFICIALS.
   The compensation of any elective official of the municipality shall not be
increased or diminished during the term for which he or she shall have been
elected except when there has been a merger of offices; provided, the
compensation of the members of the governing body, a board or commission may be
increased or diminished at the beginning of the full term of any member whether
or not the terms of one or more members commence and end at different times. No
elected official may be rehired at a greater salary if he or she resigns and
desires to be rehired during the unexpired term of office. He or she may be
rehired after the term of office during which he or she resigned at a greater
salary. All salaries shall be set by ordinance of the governing body and will
be available for public inspection at the office of the Municipal Clerk.
(1999 Code, § 1-901)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-108.02, 17-612
§ 34.23 CONFLICT OF INTEREST; COMPENSATION.
   (A)   (1)   For purposes of this section, OFFICER shall mean:
         (a)   Any member of any board or commission of the municipality;
         (b)   Any appointed official if such municipal official:
            1.   Serves on a board or commission which spends and administers
its own funds; and
            2.   Is dealing with a contract made by such board or commission.
         (c)   Any elected municipal official.
      (2)   Unless specified otherwise, volunteer firefighters and ambulance
drivers shall not be considered officers for purposes of this section, with
respect to their duties as firefighters and ambulance drivers.
   (B)   No officer of the municipality shall be permitted to benefit from any
contract to which the municipality is a party. The existence of such an
interest in any contract renders the contract voidable by decree of a court of
competent jurisdiction as to any person who entered into the contract or took
assignment thereof with actual knowledge of the prohibited conflict. An action
to have a contract declared void under this section may be brought by the
municipality or by any resident thereof and must be brought within one year
after the contract is signed or assigned. Any such decree may provide for the
reimbursement of any person for the reasonable value of all money, goods,
material, labor or services furnished under the contract, to the extent that
the municipality has benefitted thereby. The prohibition in this section shall
apply only when the officer or his or her parent, spouse or child: has a
business, association with the business involved in the contract, and business
association shall mean a business: in which the individual is a partner limited
liability company member, director or officer; in which the individual or a
member of the individual’s immediate family is a stockholder of a closed
corporation stock worth $1,000 or more at fair market value or which represents
more than 5% equity interest or is a stockholder of publicly traded stock worth
$10,000 or more at fair market value or which represents more than 10% equity
interest; or will receive a direct pecuniary fee or commission as a result of
the contract, except that if such officer is an employee of the business
involved in the contract and has no ownership interest or will not receive a
pecuniary fee such officer shall not be deemed to have an interest within the
meaning of this section.
   (C)   The provisions of this section shall not apply if the interested
officer:
      (1)   Makes a declaration on the record to the governmental body
responsible for approving the contract regarding the nature and extent of his
or her interest, prior to official consideration of the contract;
      (2)   Does not vote on the matter of granting the contract, except that
if the number of members of the Board declaring an interest in the contract
would prevent the Board, with all members present, from securing a quorum on
the issue, then all members may vote on the matter; and
      (3)   Does not act for the municipality as to inspection or performance
under the contract in which he or she has an interest.
   (D)   The receiving of deposits, cashing of checks and buying and selling of
warrants and bonds of indebtedness of any municipality by a financial
institution shall not be considered a contract under the provisions of this
section. The ownership of less than 5% of the outstanding shares of a
corporation shall not constitute an interest within the meaning of this
section. Notwithstanding the provisions of division (C) above, if an officer’s
parent, spouse or child is an employee of the municipality, the officer may
vote on all issues of the contract which are generally applicable to all
employees or all employees within a classification and do not single out his or
her parent, spouse or child for special action. If an officer has the power to
employ personnel and he or she hires his or her parent, spouse or child, such
officer shall disclose the hiring pursuant to division (E) below, except that
if the parent, spouse or child is already employed in the position at the time
the officer takes office and such position does not change, no disclosure need
be made. Notwithstanding any other provision of this section, any contract
entered into with an interested officer shall be subject to applicable
competitive bidding requirements and shall be fair and reasonable to the
municipality.
   (E)   The Municipal Clerk shall maintain, separately from other records, a
ledger containing the information listed in divisions (E)(1) through (E)(5)
below about every contract entered into by the municipality in which an officer
has an interest as specified above for which disclosure is made as provided in
division (C) above; such information shall be kept in the ledger for five years
from the date of the officer’s last day in office and shall include the:
      (1)   Names of the contracting parties;
      (2)   Nature of the interest of the officer in question;
      (3)   Date that the contract was approved by the municipality involved;
      (4)   Amount of the contract; and
      (5)   Basic terms of the contract.
   (F)   The information supplied relative to the contract shall be provided to
the Clerk not later than ten days after the contract has been signed by both
parties. The ledger kept by the Clerk shall be available for public inspection
during the normal working hours of the office in which it is kept.
   (G)   An open account established for the benefit of any municipality or
entity thereof, with a business in which an officer has an interest, shall be
deemed a contract subject to the provisions of this section. The statement
required to be filed pursuant to this section shall be filed within ten days
after such account is opened. Thereafter, the Clerk shall maintain a running
account of all amounts purchased on the open account. Purchases made from petty
cash or a petty cash fund shall not be subject to the provisions of this
section.
   (H)   The municipality may enact ordinances exempting from the provisions of
this section, contracts involving $100 or less in which an officer of such
municipality may have an interest.
   (I)   No officer, including volunteer firefighters and ambulance drivers,
shall receive any pay or perquisites from the municipality other than his or
her salary. The governing body shall not pay or appropriate any money or other
valuable thing to pay a person who is not an officer for the performance of any
act, service or duty, which shall come within the proper scope of the duties of
any officer of the municipality.
(1999 Code, § 1-902)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-611, 18-305 through 18-312, 49-14,103.01
through 49-14,103.03, 70-624.04
CHAPTER 35: CITY ORGANIZATIONS
Section
Generally
   
35.01   Planning Commission
   
35.02   Board of Adjustment
   
35.03   Board of Health
   
35.04   Park Board
   
35.05   Housing Authority Board
   
35.06   Ambulance District Board
   
35.07   Community Development Agency
Police Department
   
35.20   Duties
   
35.21   Arrest jurisdiction
   
35.22   Police officers; discipline or removal from duty; notice and hearing;
determination
GENERALLY
§ 35.01 PLANNING COMMISSION.
   (A)   The City Planning Commission is hereby created.
      (1)   The Planning Commission shall consist of five regular members who
shall represent, insofar as is possible, the different professions or
occupations in the municipality and shall be appointed by the Mayor, by and
with the approval of a majority vote of the members elected to the Council. Two
of the regular members may be residents of the area over which the municipality
is authorized to exercise extraterritorial zoning and subdivision regulation.
When there is a sufficient number of residents in the area over which the
municipality exercises extraterritorial zoning and subdivision regulation, one
regular member of the Commission shall be a resident from such area. If it is
determined by the City Council that a sufficient number of residents reside in
the area subject to extraterritorial zoning or subdivision regulation, and no
such resident is a regular member of the Commission, the first available
vacancy on the Commission shall be filled by the appointment of such an
individual. For purposes of this section, a SUFFICIENT NUMBER OF RESIDENTS
shall mean 500 residents. A number of Commissioners equal to a majority of the
number of regular members appointed to the Commission shall constitute a quorum
for the transaction of any business. All regular members of the Commission
shall serve without compensation and shall hold no other municipal office
except when appointed to serve on the board of adjustment as provided in Neb.
RS 19-908. The term of each regular member shall be three years, except that
approximately one-third of the regular members of the first Commission shall
serve for terms of one year, one-third for terms of two years and one-third for
terms of three years. All regular members shall hold office until their
successors are appointed. Any member may, after a public hearing before the
Council, be removed by the Mayor with the consent of a majority vote of the
members elected to the Council for inefficiency, neglect of duty or malfeasance
in office, or other good and sufficient cause. Vacancies occurring otherwise
than through the expiration of term shall be filed for the unexpired portion of
the term by the Mayor.
      (2)   One alternate member shall be appointed to the Planning Commission
who shall be chosen by the Mayor with the approval of a majority vote of the
elected members of the Council. The alternate member shall serve without
compensation and shall hold no other municipal office. The term of the
alternate member shall be three years, and he or she shall hold office until
his or her successor is appointed and approved. The alternate member may be
removed from office in the same manner as a regular member. If the alternate
member position becomes vacant other than through the expiration of the term,
the vacancy shall be filled for the unexpired portion of the term by the Mayor
with the approval of a majority vote of the elected members of the Council.
      (3)   The Commission shall elect its Chairperson from its members and
create and fill such other of its offices as it may determine. The term of the
Chairperson shall be one year, and he or she shall be eligible for reelection.
The Commission shall hold at least one regular meeting in each calendar
quarter, except the municipal governing body may require the Commission to meet
more frequently and the Chairperson of the Commission may call for a meeting,
when necessary to deal with business pending before the Commission. The
Commission shall adopt rules and regulations for the transaction of business
and shall keep a record of its resolutions, transactions, findings and
determinations, which shall be a public record.
      (4)   The Council may provide the funds, equipment and accommodations
necessary for the work of the Commission, but the expenditures of the
Commission exclusive of gifts, shall be within the amounts appropriated for
that purpose by the Council; and no expenditures nor agreements for
expenditures shall be in excess of such amounts.
      (5)   Except as provided in Neb. RS 19-930 to 19-933, the Planning
Commission shall: make and adopt plans for the physical development of the
municipality including any areas outside its boundaries which in the
commission’s judgment bear relation to the planning of such municipality and
including a comprehensive development plan as defined by Neb. RS 19-903; and
prepare and adopt such implemental means as a capital improvement program,
subdivision regulations, building codes and zoning ordinance in cooperation
with other officials and agencies, public utilities, civic organizations,
educations institutions and citizens with relation to the promulgation and
implementation of the comprehensive development plan and its implemental
programs. The Commission may delegate authority to any such group to conduct
studies and make surveys for the Commission, make preliminary reports on its
findings, and hold public hearings before submitting its final reports. The
City Council shall not take final action on matters relating to the
comprehensive development plan, capital improvements, building codes,
subdivision development, the annexation of territory or zoning until it has
received the recommendation of the Planning Commission. The Planning Commission
shall provide its recommendation to the council within 20 days of the date of
its review of any matter.
   (B)   The Commission may on its own authority make arrangements consistent
with its program, conduct or sponsor special studies or planning work for any
public body or appropriate agency, receive grants, remuneration or
reimbursement for such studies or work, and at its public hearings, summon
witnesses, administer oaths and compel the giving of testimony.
(Ord. 379, passed 2-9-2010)
§ 35.02 BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT.
   (A)   The governing body shall appoint the Board of Adjustment which shall
consist of five regular members, plus one additional member designated as an
alternate, who shall attend and serve only when one of the regular members is
unable to attend for any reason, each to be appointed for a term of three years
and removable for cause by the appointing authority upon written charges and
after public hearings. Vacancies shall be filled for the unexpired term of any
member whose term becomes vacant. One member only of the Board of Adjustment
shall be appointed from the membership of the Planning Commission, and the loss
of membership on the Planning Commission by such member shall also result in
his or her immediate loss of membership on the Board of Adjustment and the
appointment of another Planning Commissioner to the Board of Adjustment. The
first vacancy occurring on the Board of Adjustment shall be filled by the
appointment of a person who resides in the extraterritorial zoning jurisdiction
of the city at such time as more than 200 persons reside within such area.
Thereafter, at all times, at least one member of the Board of Adjustment shall
reside outside the corporate boundaries of the city but within its
extraterritorial zoning jurisdiction.
   (B)   The Board of Adjustment shall adopt rules in accordance with the
provisions of any ordinance adopted pursuant to Neb. RS 19-901 to 19-914.
Meetings of the Board shall be held at the call of the Chairperson and at such
other times as the Board may determine. Such Chairperson, or in his or her
absence the acting Chairperson, may administer oaths and compel the attendance
of witnesses. All meetings of the Board shall be open to the public. The Board
shall keep minutes of its proceedings, showing the vote of each member upon
each question, or, if absent or failing to vote indicating such fact, and shall
keep records of its examinations and other official actions, all of which shall
be immediately filed in the office of the Board and shall be a public record.
(1999 Code, § 2-102)
   (C)   Appeals to the Board of Adjustment may be taken by any person
aggrieved or by any officer, department, board or bureau of the city affected
by any decision of the administrative officer. Such appeal shall be taken by
filing with the officer from whom the appeal is taken and with the Board of
Adjustment a notice of appeal specifying the grounds for the appeal, which
notice must be filed within 20 days of the date of the decision, ruling or
action appealed from. The officer from whom the appeal is taken shall forthwith
transmit to the Board all the papers constituting the record upon which the
action appealed from was taken. An appeal stays all proceedings in furtherance
of the action appealed from, unless the officer from whom the appeal is taken
certifies to the Board of Adjustment, after the notice of appeal shall have
been filed with him or her, that by reason of facts stated in the certificate a
stay would, in his or her opinion, cause imminent peril to life or property. In
such case proceedings shall not be stayed otherwise than by a restraining order
which may be granted by the Board of Adjustment or by a court of record on
application on notice to the officer from whom the appeal is taken and on due
cause shown. The Board of Adjustment shall fix a reasonable time for the
parties in interest, and decide the same within a reasonable time. Upon the
hearing, any party may appear in person or by agent or by attorney.
   (D)   (1)   The Board of Adjustment shall have the following powers:
         (a)   To hear and decide appeals when it is alleged there is error in
any order, requirement, decision or determination made by an administrative
official or agency based on or made in the enforcement of any zoning regulation
or any regulation relating to the location or soundness of structures; except
that, the authority to hear and decide appeals shall not apply to decisions to
grant or deny a conditional use permit or special exception;
         (b)   To hear and decide, in accordance with the provisions of any
zoning regulation, requests for interpretation of any map; and
         (c)   When by reason of exceptional narrowness, shallowness or shape
of a specific piece of property at the time of the enactment of this section,
or by reason of exceptional topographic conditions or other extraordinary and
exceptional situation or condition of such piece of property, the strict
application of any enacted regulation under this section would result in
peculiar and exceptional practical difficulties to or exceptional and undue
hardships upon the owner of such property, to authorize, upon an appeal
relating to the property, a variance from such strict application so as to
relieve such difficulties or hardship, if such relief may be granted without
substantial detriment to the public good and without substantially impairing
the intent and purpose of any ordinance or resolution.
      (2)   No such variance shall be authorized by the board unless it finds
that:
         (a)   The strict application of the zoning regulation would produce
undue hardship;
         (b)   Such hardship is not shared generally by other properties in the
same zoning district and the same vicinity;
         (c)   The authorization of such variance will not be of substantial
detriment to adjacent property and the character of the district will not be
changed by the granting of the variance; and
         (d)   The granting of such variance is based upon reason of
demonstrable and exceptional hardship as distinguished from variations for
purposes of convenience, profit or caprice.
      (3)   No variance shall be authorized unless the Board finds that the
condition or situation of the property concerned or the intended use of the
property is not of so general or recurring a nature as to make reasonably
practicable the formulation of a general regulation to be adopted as an
amendment to the zoning regulations.
      (4)   In exercising the powers granted in this section, the Board may, in
conformity with Neb. RS 19-901 to 19-915, reverse or affirm, wholly or partly,
or may modify the order, requirement, decision or determination appealed from,
and may make such order, requirement, decision or determination as ought to be
made, and to that end shall have all the powers of the officer from whom the
appeal is taken. The concurring vote of four members of the Board shall be
necessary to reverse any order, requirement, decision or determination of any
such administrative official, or to decide in favor of the applicant on any
matter upon which it is required to pass under any such regulation or to effect
any variation in such regulation.
(Ord. 376, passed - -; Ord. 377, passed 2-9-2010; Ord. 378, passed 2-9-2010)
§ 35.03 BOARD OF HEALTH.
   (A)   The governing body shall appoint a Board of Health which shall consist
of five members. The members of the Board shall include the Mayor, who shall
serve as Chairperson, and four other members. One member shall be a physician
or health care provider, if one can be found who is willing to serve. Such
physician or health care provider, if appointed, shall be the Board’s medical
advisor. If the City Manager has appointed a Chief of Police, the Chief of
Police shall serve on the Board as Secretary and quarantine officer. The
members of the Board shall serve, without compensation, a one-year term of
office, unless reappointed, and shall reorganize at the first meeting in
December of each year. No member of the Board of Health shall hold more than
one Board of Health position.
   (B)   The Secretary shall keep full and correct minutes and records of all
meetings and file the same with the Municipal Clerk where they shall be
available for public inspection during office hours. The Board of Health shall
be funded by the governing body from time to time out of the General Fund. A
majority of the Board shall constitute a quorum for the purpose of doing
business. The Board shall meet at such times as the governing body may
designate. Special meetings may be held upon the call of the Chairperson, or
any three members of the Board.
   (C)   The Board shall enact rules and regulations, which shall have the full
force and effect of law, to safeguard the health of the people of the
municipality. The Board shall enforce the rules and regulations and provide
fines and punishments for any violations thereof. It may regulate, suppress and
prevent the occurrence of nuisances and enforce all laws of the state and
ordinances of the municipality relating to nuisances and to matters of
sanitation which affect the health and safety of the people. The Board shall
regularly inspect such premises and businesses as the governing body may
direct. All members of the Board shall be responsible for making such reports
and performing such other duties as the governing body may, from time to time,
designate.
(1999 Code, § 2-103)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-121
§ 35.04 PARK BOARD.
   The Mayor shall, by and with the consent of the City Council, appoint the
Park Board. The Board shall consist of ten members, who shall be resident
freeholders in the municipality. The members of the Board shall serve a one-
year term of office unless reappointed. The Board shall serve without
compensation and may be required, in the discretion of the governing body, to
give a bond in a sum set by resolution of the governing body, and conditioned
upon the faithful performance of their duties. The Board shall organize by
selecting from their number a Chairperson and Secretary. It shall be the duty
of the Secretary to keep the full and correct minutes and records of all
meetings, and to file the same with the Municipal Clerk where they shall be
available for public inspection at any reasonable time. A majority of the Board
members shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of business. The Board
shall meet at such times as the governing body may designate. Special meetings
may be held upon the call of the Chairperson, or any four of the Board members.
It shall be the duty of the Board to take the immediate charge of all parks and
recreational facilities belonging to the municipality. The Board shall
establish appropriate rules and regulations for the management, use and
operation of the same. All employees of the municipality doing work in or for
the municipal park shall be under the supervision and direction of the Board.
All actions of the Board shall be subject to the review and control of the
governing body. The Board shall be responsible for making such reports and
performing such other duties as the governing body may, from time to time,
designate. No member of the governing body shall serve as a member of the Park
Board while serving a term of office as a member of the governing body. No
member of the Park Board shall serve in the capacity of both the Chairperson
and Secretary of the Board.
(1999 Code, § 2-104)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-952
§ 35.05 HOUSING AUTHORITY BOARD.
   The governing body shall appoint five persons who shall constitute the
Housing Authority and such persons shall be called the Commissioners. One
Commissioner shall be appointed each year. Each Commissioner shall serve a
five-year term of office or until his or her successor is duly appointed;
provided, that all vacancies shall be filled for the unexpired terms. The
governing body may appoint one of its members to serve as one of the five
members of such Housing Authority for such term as the governing body may
determine. No person shall serve as a Commissioner unless he or she resides
within the area of operation of that Housing Authority. A certificate of the
appointment or reappointment of any Commissioner shall be filed with the
Municipal Clerk and such certificate shall be conclusive evidence of the proper
appointment of such Commissioner. A Commissioner shall receive no compensation
for his or her services, but he or she shall be entitled to the necessary
expenses, including travel expenses, incurred in discharge of his or her
duties. A majority of Commissioners shall constitute a quorum of the Authority
for the purpose of conducting its business, exercising its powers, and for all
other purposes. Action may be taken by the Authority upon the vote of the
majority of the Commissioners present unless in any case the bylaws of the
Authority shall require a larger number. The Commissioners shall elect a
Chairperson and Vice-Chairperson from among the Commissioners and shall have
the power to employ an executive director who shall serve as ex officio
Secretary of the Authority. The Authority may also employ legal counsel, or it
may call upon the chief law officer of the municipality, for such services as
it may require. It may employ technical experts and such other officers, agents
and employees as it may require and shall determine their qualifications,
duties, compensations and terms of office. The Authority may delegate such
other powers and duties to its agents or employees as it may deem proper.
During his or her tenure, and for one year thereafter, no Commissioner, officer
or employee of the Municipal Housing Authority shall voluntarily acquire any
interest, direct or indirect, in any project or in any property included or
planned to be included in any project, or in any contract or proposed contract
relating to any housing project. If any such Commissioner, officer or employee
involuntarily acquires any such interest, or voluntarily or involuntarily
acquired any such interest prior to appointment or employment as Commissioner,
officer or employee, he or she shall immediately disclose his or her interest
in writing to the Authority, and such disclosure shall be entered upon the
minutes of the Authority, and he or she shall not participate in any action by
the Authority relating to the property or contract in which he or she has any
such interest; provided, that nothing herein shall apply to the acquisition of
any interest in notes or bonds of the Authority issued in connection with any
housing project, or to the execution of agreements by banking institutions for
deposit or handling of funds in connection with a project or to act as trustee
under any trust indenture, or to utility services, the rates for which are
fixed or controlled by a governmental agency. The Mayor may remove a
Commissioner for neglect of duty or misconduct in office in the manner
prescribed hereinafter. The Mayor shall send a notice of removal to such
Commissioner which notice shall contain a statement containing the charges
against him or her. Unless within ten days from the receipt of such notice,
such Commissioner files with the Clerk a request for a hearing before the
governing body, the Commissioner shall be deemed as removed from office. If a
request for a hearing is filed with the Clerk, the governing body of the
municipality shall hold a hearing at which the Commissioner shall have the
right to appear in person or by counsel and the governing body shall determine
whether the removal shall be disapproved or upheld. If the removal is
disapproved, the Commissioner shall continue to hold his or her position. The
Housing Authority shall keep an accurate account of all its activities and of
all its receipts and disbursements and shall make a report to the governing
body on all such information.
(1999 Code, § 2-105)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 71-1524 through 71-1526, 71-1552
§ 35.06 AMBULANCE DISTRICT BOARD.
   Pursuant to the Interlocal Cooperation Act, the city has entered into an
agreement with the Henderson Rural Fire Protection District Board creating the
city’s Ambulance District Board. The Board shall consist of the Mayor and City
Council, and five members of the City Rural Fire Protection District Board. The
City Ambulance District Board shall have the control over the operation and
maintenance of ambulance service to residents of the respective public
agencies.
(1999 Code, § 2-108)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 13-804
§ 35.07 COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT AGENCY.
   (A)   The Mayor and City Council hereby find and determine that it is
necessary and desirable for purposes of providing for the redevelopment and
general welfare of the city that a community development agency be created
pursuant to Neb. RS 18-2101.01.
   (B)   There shall be and there is hereby created in and for the city an
agency to be known as the “Community Development Agency of the City of
Henderson, Nebraska,” which shall consist of the Mayor and City Council, which
agency shall exercise all of the power and authority granted to a community
redevelopment authority in Neb. RS 18-2101 to 18-2144 and 18-2147 to 18-2153,
as amended, and as hereafter amended.
   (C)   The agency hereby created shall function in the same manner as the
Mayor and City Council and shall exercise such powers as are set forth in the
above-described statutes and in the manner as shall be deemed appropriate from
time to time by the Mayor and City Council as the governing body of the city,
and as determined by resolution or ordinance duly adopted by said governing
body from time to time.
(Ord. 333, passed 11-12-2002)
POLICE DEPARTMENT
§ 35.20 DUTIES.
   The Police Department shall consist of the Chief of Police and such further
number of regular police officers as may be duly ordered by resolution of the
governing body. The Chief of Police shall, subject to the direction of the
Mayor, have control and management of all matters relating to the Police
Department, its officers and members, and shall have the custody and control of
all property and books belonging to the department. The Department shall
execute and enforce all laws and also the orders of the Mayor. It shall be the
duty of the Department to protect the rights of persons and property. The
Department shall take notice of all nuisances, impediments, obstructions and
defects in the streets, avenues, alleys, business places and residences of the
municipality. The Department shall execute, or cause to be executed, the
processes issued and shall cause all persons arrested to be brought before the
proper court for trial as speedily as possible. The Chief of Police and all
regular and special policemen shall become thoroughly conversant with the laws
of the municipality, and shall see that the same are strictly enforced and
shall make sworn complaints against any person or persons for violation of the
same.
(1999 Code, § 3-401)
§ 35.21 ARREST JURISDICTION.
   (A)   Every municipal police officer shall have the power and authority to
enforce the laws of this state and the city or otherwise perform the functions
of that office anywhere within his or her primary jurisdiction. PRIMARY
JURISDICTION shall mean the geographic area within territorial limits of the
city.
   (B)   Any municipal police officer who is within this state but beyond the
territorial limits of his or her primary jurisdiction, shall have the power and
authority to enforce the laws of this state or any legal ordinance of the city
or otherwise perform the functions of his or her office, including the
authority to arrest and detain suspects, as if enforcing the laws or performing
the functions within the territorial limits of his or her primary jurisdiction
in the following cases:
      (1)   Any municipal police officer, if in a fresh attempt to apprehend a
person suspected of committing a felony, may follow such person into any other
jurisdiction in this state and there arrest and detain such person and return
such person to the officer’s primary jurisdiction;
      (2)   Any municipal police officer, if in a fresh attempt to apprehend a
person suspected of committing a misdemeanor or a traffic infraction, may
follow such person anywhere in an area within 25 miles of the boundaries of the
officer’s primary jurisdiction and there arrest and detain such person and
return such person to the officer’s primary jurisdiction;
      (3)   Any municipal police officer shall have such enforcement and arrest
and detention authority when responding to a call in which a local, state or
federal law enforcement officer is in need of assistance. A LAW ENFORCEMENT
OFFICER IN NEED OF ASSISTANCE shall mean: a law enforcement officer whose life
is in danger; or a law enforcement officer who needs assistance in making an
arrest and the suspect: will not be apprehended unless immediately arrested;
may cause injury to himself or herself or others or damage to property unless
immediately arrested; or may destroy or conceal evidence of the commission of a
crime: and
      (4)   (a)   If the city, under the provisions of the Interlocal
Cooperation Act, enters into a contract with any other municipality or county
for law enforcement services or joint law enforcement services, law enforcement
personnel may have such enforcement authority within the jurisdiction of each
of the participating political subdivisions if provided for in the agreement.
         (b)   Unless otherwise provided in the agreement, the city shall
provide liability insurance coverage for its own law enforcement personnel as
provided in Neb. RS 13-1802.
(1999 Code, § 3-402)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 29-215
§ 35.22 POLICE OFFICERS; DISCIPLINE OR REMOVAL FROM DUTY; NOTICE AND HEARING;
DETERMINATION.
   (A)   No police officer, including the Chief of Police, shall be
disciplined, suspended, demoted, removed or discharged except upon written
notice stating the reasons for such disciplinary action, suspension, demotion,
removal or discharge. Such notice shall also contain a statement informing the
police officer of his or her right to a hearing before the City Council.
   (B)   Any police officer so disciplined, suspended, demoted, removed or
discharged may, within ten days after being notified by of such disciplinary
action, suspension, demotion, removal or discharge, file with the Municipal
Clerk a written demand for a hearing before the City Council. The City Council
shall set the matter for hearing not less than ten nor more than 20 days after
the filing of the written demand for a hearing. The City Council shall give the
police officer written notice of the hearing not less than seven nor more than
14 days prior to the hearing.
   (C)   At the hearing, the police officer shall have the right to:
      (1)   Respond in person to the charges and to present witnesses and
documentary evidence;
      (2)   Confront and cross-examine available adverse witnesses; and
      (3)   To be represented by counsel.
   (D)   Not later than 30 days following the adjournment of the meeting at
which the hearing was held, the City Council shall vote to uphold, reverse or
modify the disciplinary action, suspension, demotion, removal or discharge. The
failure of the City Council to act within 30 days or the failure of a majority
of the elected Council members to vote to reverse or modify the disciplinary
action, suspension, demotion, removal or discharge shall be construed as a vote
to uphold the disciplinary action, suspension, demotion, removal or discharge.
The decision of the City Council shall be based upon its determination that,
under the facts and evidence presented at the hearing, the challenged
disciplinary action, suspension, demotion, removal or discharge was necessary
for the proper management and the effective operation of the Police Department
in the performance of its duties under the state statutes.
   (E)   Nothing in this section shall be construed to prevent the preemptory
suspension or immediate removal from duty of an officer, pending the hearing
authorized by this section, in cases of gross misconduct, neglect of duty or
disobedience of orders.
(1999 Code, § 3-403)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-107
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
   Chapter
      
50.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
51.   SOLID WASTE
      
52.   WATER
      
53.   SEWER
      
54.   WELLHEAD PROTECTION
CHAPTER 50: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
50.01   Utility bills; billing and collecting
   
50.02   Discontinuance of service; notice procedure
   
50.03   Unauthorized reconnection, prohibited; evidence
   
50.04   Lien
§ 50.01 UTILITY BILLS; BILLING AND COLLECTING.
   Property owners shall be billed jointly for water and sewer service on a bi-
monthly basis starting in February. Utility bills shall be mailed on the first
day of every other month, and shall be due and payable by the tenth day of the
month in which they were mailed. Bills not paid by the fifteenth day of the
month in which they were mailed shall be deemed to be delinquent. Upon being
deemed to be delinquent, as herein defined, the municipality may discontinue
service pursuant to §
50.02. Delinquent utility bills shall be assessed a late charge in the amount
of 10%. Once discontinued, service shall be not recommenced except upon payment
in full of all delinquent charges and upon further payment of a reconnection
fee in the amount of $25. The municipality may also take any action authorized
by law to effect collection of the delinquent charges.
(1999 Code, § 3-301)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-542, 17-925.01, 18-416
§ 50.02 DISCONTINUANCE OF SERVICE; NOTICE PROCEDURE.
   (A)   The municipality shall have the right to discontinue utility services
and remove its properties if the charges for such services are not paid within
seven days after the date that the charges become delinquent. Before any
termination, the municipality shall first give notice by first class mail or in
person to any domestic subscriber whose service is proposed to be terminated.
If notice is given by first class mail, such mail shall be conspicuously marked
as to its importance. Service shall not be discontinued for at least seven
days, weekends and holidays excluded, after notice is sent or given. As to any
subscriber who has previously been identified as a welfare recipient to the
municipality by the Department of Health and Human Services, such notice shall
be by certified mail and notice of such proposed termination shall be given to
the Department of Health and Human Services.
   (B)   The notice shall contain the following information:
      (1)   The reason for the proposed disconnection;
      (2)   A statement of the intention to disconnect unless the domestic
subscriber either pays the bill or reaches an agreement with the municipality
regarding payment of the bill;
      (3)   The date upon which service will be disconnected if the domestic
subscriber does not take appropriate action;
      (4)   The name, address and telephone number of the employee or
department to whom the domestic subscriber may address an inquiry or complaint;
      (5)   The domestic subscriber’s right, prior to the disconnection date,
to request a conference regarding any dispute over such proposed disconnection;
      (6)   A statement that the municipality may not disconnect service
pending the conclusion of the conference;
      (7)   A statement to the effect that disconnection may be postponed or
prevented upon presentation of a duly licensed physician’s certificate which
shall certify that the domestic subscriber or a resident within such
subscriber’s household has an existing illness or handicap which would cause
such subscriber or resident to suffer an immediate and serious health hazard by
the disconnection of the municipality’s service to that household. Such
certificate shall be filed with the municipality within five days of receiving
notice under this section and will prevent the disconnection of the
municipality’s service for a period of 30 days from such filing. Only one
postponement of disconnection shall be allowed under this division (B) for each
incidence of nonpayment of any past-due account;
      (8)   The cost that will be borne by the domestic subscriber for
restoration of service;
      (9)   A statement that the domestic subscriber may arrange with the
municipality for an installment payment plan;
      (10)   A statement to the effect that those domestic subscribers who are
welfare recipients may qualify for assistance in payment of their utility bill
and that they should contact their caseworker in that regard; and
      (11)   Any additional information not inconsistent with this section
which has received prior approval from the governing body.
   (C)   A domestic subscriber may dispute the proposed discontinuance of
service by notifying the municipality with a written statement that sets forth
the reasons for the dispute and the relief requested. If a statement has been
made by the subscriber, a conference shall be held before the municipality may
discontinue services.
   (D)   The procedures adopted by the governing body for resolving utility
bills, three copies of which are on file in the office of the Municipal Clerk,
are hereby incorporated by reference in addition to any amendments thereto and
are made a part of this section as though set out in full.
   (E)   This section shall not apply to any disconnections or interruptions of
services made necessary by the municipality for reasons of repair or
maintenance or to protect the health or safety of the domestic subscriber or of
the general public.
(1999 Code, § 3-302)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 70-1602 et seq.
§ 50.03 UNAUTHORIZED RECONNECTION, PROHIBITED; EVIDENCE.
   (A)   When water service has been disconnected pursuant to Neb. RS 70-1601
to 70-1615, or §
50.02, any person who reconnects such service without the knowledge and consent
of the municipality shall be deemed guilty of an offense.
   (B)   Proof of the existence of any reconnection as provided in this section
shall be taken as prima facie evidence of the guilt of the person in possession
of the premises where such reconnection is proved to exist.
(1999 Code, § 3-303)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 86-329 through 86-331
§ 50.04 LIEN.
   In addition to all other remedies, if a customer shall for any reason remain
indebted to the municipality for utilities service furnished, such amount due,
together with any rents and charges in arrears shall be considered a delinquent
utility rent which is hereby declared to be a lien upon the real estate for
which the same was furnished. The Municipal Clerk shall notify in writing or
cause to be notified in writing, all owners of premises or their agents
whenever their tenants or lessees are 60 days or more delinquent in the payment
of the utilities rent. It shall be the duty of the Municipal Clerk to report to
the governing body a list of all unpaid accounts due for utilities service
together with a description of the premises served. The report shall be
examined, and if approved by the governing body, shall be certified by the
Municipal Clerk to the County Clerk to be collected as a special tax in the
manner provided by law.
(1999 Code, § 3-304)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-538, 17-925.01, 18-503
CHAPTER 51: SOLID WASTE
Section
Health and Sanitation
   
51.01   Board of Health
   
51.02   Enforcement official
Solid Waste Collection
   
51.15   Definitions
   
51.16   Prohibitions
   
51.17   Accumulation; removal
   
51.18   Dead animals or fowl; burial
   
51.19   Public grounds; prohibitions
   
51.20   Service providers; license required
 
   
51.99   Penalty
HEALTH AND SANITATION
§ 51.01 BOARD OF HEALTH.
   For the purpose of promoting the health and safety of the residents of the
municipality, the Board of Health shall, from time to time, adopt such rules
and regulations relative thereto and shall make such inspections, prescribe
such penalties, and make such reports as may be necessary toward that purpose.
(1999 Code, § 4-101)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-121
§ 51.02 ENFORCEMENT OFFICIAL.
   (A)   The Municipal Police Chief, as the Quarantine Officer, shall be the
Chief Health Officer of the municipality.
   (B)   It shall be his or her duty to notify the governing body and the Board
of Health of health nuisances within the municipality and its zoning
jurisdiction.
(1999 Code, § 4-102) Penalty, see §
51.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-121
SOLID WASTE COLLECTION
§ 51.15 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ASHES. The residue from the burning of wood, coal, coke or other combustible
materials.
   BOARD OF HEALTH or BOARD. The Board of Health of the City of Henderson,
Nebraska.
   GARBAGE. Rejected food wastes including waste accumulation of animal, fruit
or vegetable matter used or intended for food or that attend the preparation,
use, cooking, dealing in or storing of meat, fish, fowl, fruit or vegetables,
and dead animals rejected by rendering plants.
   PERSON.  Any person, firm, partnership, association, corporation, company or
organization of any kind.
   REFUSE. All putrescible and nonputrescible solid wastes (except body
wastes), including garbage, rubbish, ashes, street cleanings, dead animals,
abandoned automobiles and solid market and industrial wastes.
   RUBBISH. Nonputrescible solid wastes (excluding ashes), consisting of both
combustible and non-combustible wastes, such as paper, cardboard, tin cans,
yard clippings, wood, glass, bedding, crockery and similar materials.
(1999 Code, § 4-201)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 13-2020, 13-2023
§ 51.16 PROHIBITIONS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person or persons to keep in, on or about
any dwelling house, building or premises in the municipality and within the
corporate limits thereof, any decayed vegetable or animal substance, garbage,
offal or refuse matter or any substance that may be injurious to the public
health or offensive to the residents or in habitants of the vicinity unless the
same is kept in proper receptacles under such specifications and regulations as
proscribed by the Board of Health.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to throw or sweep in the streets, avenues,
alleys, parks or public grounds of the municipality any dirt, paper, nails,
pieces of glass or board, fruit parings or skins, refuse, ashes, waste, rubbish
or garbage of any kind or to place such matter upon any sidewalk or street
crossing or on any driveway or upon the floor, stairway or hallway of any
public building, theater, railway depot or railway platform in the
municipality.
(1999 Code, § 4-202) Penalty, see §
51.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 13-2020, 13-2023, 18-1720
§ 51.17 ACCUMULATION; REMOVAL.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to permit garbage, rubbish, waste or
refuse to collect, as the same might affect the public health, and any person
shall remove the same within 24 hours after being notified to do so by the
Chief of Police, who shall act on behalf of the Board of Health. All persons
shall have the contents of their garbage receptacle or receptacles removed at
least once per week.
(1999 Code, § 4-203) Penalty, see §
51.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 13-2020, 13-2023, 18-1720
§ 51.18 DEAD ANIMALS OR FOWL; BURIAL.
   All dead animals or fowls shall be immediately removed and buried by the
owner of such animals; and, if the owner of such animals cannot be found within
two hours after discovering the same, then, and in that event, said animals
shall be removed and buried at the expense of the municipality; dead animals
shall not be buried within the corporate limits of the municipality, nor within
one mile thereof, nor in or above the course of ground water within one mile
thereof, nor in or above the course of ground water that is used for drinking
purposes by the inhabitants of the municipality.
(1999 Code, § 4-204) Penalty, see §
51.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 13-2020, 13-2023, 18-1720
§ 51.19 PUBLIC GROUNDS; PROHIBITIONS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to place garbage, rubbish, waste or dead
animals or fowls or permit any of the above enumerated articles, which were his
or hers or under his or her control, on any street, avenue, alley, park or
other public ground without the permission of the Chief of Police.
(1999 Code, § 4-205) Penalty, see §
51.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 13-2020, 13-2023, 18-1720
§ 51.20 SERVICE PROVIDERS; LICENSE REQUIRED.
   (A)   License required. No person, firm, partnership, corporation or
association shall for hire or reward collect or transport any garbage, refuse
or commercial or industrial waste within the city without first having obtained
a license therefore as hereinafter provided.
(1999 Code, § 4-206)
   (B)   Application. Application for such license shall be made in writing to
the Municipal Clerk and shall include the address from which such business
shall be conducted and shall be signed by the owner of said business. The
application shall state the make, model and year, and license number for each
motor vehicle to be used by the applicant hereunder. No license shall be
granted until the applicant shall present a receipt for the fee, a certificate
or policy of liability insurance, and a signed agreement as to conditions of
said license, as hereinafter required to the Municipal Clerk.
(1999 Code, § 4-207)
   (C)   Fee. Every person who shall for hire or reward engage in the business
of collecting or transporting garbage, refuse or commercial or industrial waste
or shall offer such service to the public in the city shall pay a license fee
of $100 per year or any fractional part thereof. The license year shall
commence on January 1 and end on December 31 of each year. No license issued
pursuant to this subchapter shall be transferable.
(1999 Code, § 4-208)
   (D)   License approval. Upon filing with the Municipal Clerk of such
application, together with the receipt showing a payment of the license fee as
provided for, the said application shall be considered by the Municipal Clerk.
If the application complies with this subchapter, all required fees have been
paid and it does not appear that any city ordinance or state law will be
violated by the operation, the Municipal Clerk shall issue the license.
(1999 Code, § 4-209)
   (E)   License; copies. The Municipal Clerk shall provide a copy of the
license for each truck to be used. A copy shall be carried in each truck and
securely fastened in a conspicuous place so as to be readily seen at all times.
(1999 Code, § 4-210)
   (F)   Conditions. It shall be unlawful to operate a vehicle hereunder or
permit the same to be operated within the city unless the license holder
complies with the following conditions:
      (1)   Deposit with the Municipal Clerk a policy or a certificate of
liability insurance covering all vehicles of all kinds used hereunder. Said
policy to be issued by an insurance company licensed to do business in the
state in the minimum amount of $500,000;
      (2)   No vehicle of hauler shall operate within the city to collect or
transport garbage or waste other than between the hours of 6:00 a.m. to 8:00
p.m., Monday through Saturday;
      (3)   All federal, state and local regulations for collecting, dumping,
recycling, waste recovery and reduction of waste shall be complied with;
      (4)   All non-hazardous solid waste collected within the municipality by
any hauling service, licensed or unlicensed, for landfill disposal within the
state, shall be delivered only to the transfer station designated by the city
pursuant to resolution adopted by the governing body;
      (5)   The hauler shall keep waste volume records that will be made
available for the municipality to inspect upon demand by the municipality; and
      (6)   No vehicle or hauler shall travel in or through an alley within the
city to collect or transport garbage or waste.
(1999 Code, § 4-211)
   (G)   Suspension or revocation. Licenses granted under this subchapter may
be suspended or revoked at any time by the City Council for any violation of
this subchapter. No license shall be revoked without an opportunity for a
hearing.
(1999 Code, § 4-212)
Penalty, see §
51.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 13-2020, 13-2023
§ 51.99 PENALTY.
   Any person, firm or corporation violating any provision of §§
51.15 through
51.20 shall be guilty of an offense and shall be fined not less than $5 nor
more than $500 for each offense, and a separate offense shall be deemed
committed on each day during or on which a violation occurs or continues.
(1999 Code, § 4-213)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 13-2020, 13-2023
CHAPTER 52: WATER
Section
General Provisions
   
52.01   Operation and funding
   
52.02   Definitions
   
52.03   Property owner’s application
   
52.04   Service to non-residents
   
52.05   Water contract
   
52.06   Installation procedure
   
52.07   Installation expense
   
52.08   Repairs
   
52.09   Fees and collections
   
52.10   Minimum rates
   
52.11   Single premises
   
52.12   Restricted use
   
52.13   Fire hydrants
   
52.14   Mandatory hookup
   
52.15   Pollution
   
52.16   Water service contracts
   
52.17   Inspection
   
52.18   Police reports
   
52.19   Destruction of property
   
52.20   Licensed plumber
Backflow/Backsiphonage Prevention
   
52.35   Statement of purpose
   
52.36   Definitions
   
52.37   Declaration of nuisance
   
52.38   Unlawful connections; new installations and repairs
   
52.39   Prevention devices required
   
52.40   Prevention devices; minimum protection
   
52.41   Installation inspection
   
52.42   Installation expense
   
52.43   Maintenance
   
52.44   Testing
   
52.45   Water Commissioner; authority
   
52.46   Appeals
   
52.47   Abatement of nuisance
   
52.48   Discontinuance of water service
   
52.49   Automatic and underground and residential watering system; installation
and regulation
Outside Watering and Landscape Irrigation
   
52.60   Purpose
   
52.61   Restrictions
   
52.62   Exception
 
   
52.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 52.01 OPERATION AND FUNDING.
   The municipality owns and operates the Municipal Water Department through
the Water Commissioner. The governing body, for the purpose of defraying the
cost of the care, management and maintenance of the Municipal Water Department
may each year levy a tax not exceeding the maximum limit prescribed by state
law, on the actual valuation of all real estate and personal property within
the corporate limits that is subject to taxation. The revenue from the said tax
shall be known as the Water Fund and shall remain in the custody of the
Municipal Treasurer. The Water Commissioner shall have the direct management
and control of the Municipal Water Department and shall faithfully carry out
the duties of his or her office. The Water Commissioner shall have the
authority to adopt rules and regulations for the sanitary and efficient
management of the Water Department subject to the supervision and review of the
governing body. The governing body shall set the rates to be charged for
services rendered by ordinance and shall file a copy of the rates in the office
of the Municipal Clerk for public inspection during office hours.
(1999 Code, § 3-101)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-531, 17-534, 19-1305
§ 52.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   MAIN. Any pipe other than a supply or service pipe that is used for the
purpose of carrying water to, and dispersing the same in the municipality.
   SEPARATE PREMISES. More than one consumer procuring water from the same
service or supply pipe. The second premises may be a separate dwelling,
apartment, building or structure used for a separate business.
   SERVICE PIPE. Any pipe extending from the shut-off, stop box or curb box at
or near the lot line to and beyond the property line of the consumer to the
location on the premises where the water is to be dispersed.
   SUPPLY PIPE. Any pipe tapped into a main and extending from there to a point
at or near the lot line of the consumer’s premises where the shut-off, stop box
or curb cock is located.
(1999 Code, § 3-102)
§ 52.03 PROPERTY OWNER’S APPLICATION.
   Every owner of property desiring water service for such property must make
application therefor to the Municipal Clerk. The Municipal Clerk may require
any applicant to make a service deposit in such amount as has been set by the
governing body and placed on file at the office of the Municipal Clerk. Water
may not be supplied to any house or private service pipe except upon order of
the Municipal Clerk.
(1999 Code, § 3-103)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-537
§ 52.04 SERVICE TO NON-RESIDENTS.
   The Department shall not supply water service to any person outside the
corporate limits without special permission from the governing body; provided,
the entire cost of laying mains, service pipe and supply pipe shall be paid by
the consumer. Nothing herein shall be construed to obligate the municipality to
provide water service to non-residents.
(1999 Code, § 3-104)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 19-2701
§ 52.05 WATER CONTRACT.
   The municipality, through its Water Department, shall furnish water service
to property within its corporate limits if such property abuts a street or
alley in which a commercial main now is or may hereafter be laid. The
municipality may furnish water to property within its corporate limits which
does not abut a street or alley in which a commercial main is now or may
hereafter be laid and may also furnish water service to property situated
outside the corporate limits of the municipality, as and when, according to
law, the governing body may see fit to do so. The rules, regulations and water
rates hereinafter named in this subchapter, shall be considered a part of every
application hereafter made for water service and shall be considered a part of
the contract between every property owner now or hereafter served. Without
further formality, the making of application by the property owner for himself
or herself or the use or consumption of water service by tenants residing on
such property and the furnishing of water service to such property owner and
the municipality, to which said contract both parties are bound. If the
property owner or tenants residing on such property shall violate any of the
provisions of said contract or any reasonable rules and regulations that the
governing body may hereafter adopt, the Water Commissioner, may cut off or
disconnect the water service to the property. No further connection for water
service to said property shall again be made except by order of the Water
Commissioner.
(1999 Code, § 3-105)
§ 52.06 INSTALLATION PROCEDURE.
   (A)   In making excavations in streets, alleys or sidewalks for the purpose
of installing pipe, or making repairs, the paving, stones and earth must be
removed and deposited in a manner that will occasion the least inconvenience to
the public and provide for adequate drainage.
   (B)   No person shall leave an excavation made in the street, alley or
sidewalk open at any time without a barricade, and during the night, warning
lights. After service pipes are laid, the streets, alleys and sidewalks shall
be restored to good condition.
   (C)   If the excavation in any street, alley or sidewalk is left open or
unfinished for a period of 24 hours or more, the Water Commissioner shall have
the duty to finish or correct the work, and all expenses so incurred shall be
charged to the consumer.
   (D)   All installation shall be done under the supervision and strictly in
accordance with the rules, regulations and specifications prescribed for such
installation by the Water Commissioner; provided that the said rules,
regulations and specifications have been reviewed and approved by the governing
body.
(1999 Code, § 3-106) Penalty, see §
52.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-537
§ 52.07 INSTALLATION EXPENSE.
   (A)   Except as provided in division (C) below, in all cases in which
applications for water service are approved, the property owner or the tenant,
as the case may be, shall pay to the municipality a tap fee of $500 for each
connection applied for.
   (B)   The expense of providing water service to the lot line shall be paid
by the municipality. The applicant shall then pay the cost of installation and
pipe from the lot line to the place of dispersement. The applicant shall be
required to pay the expense of procuring the services of a plumber and shall
pay the expense of furnishing and installing pipe, trenching and the necessary
labor to bring water service from the said lot line to the place of
dispersement. If the applicant’s property does not abut a street where a
commercial main is now laid or hereafter laid, the municipality shall, at its
own expense, construct and bring water service from a point at or near the
property line on the street where there is a commercial main to the applicant’s
lot line.
   (C)   Applicants for water service whose property is situated outside of the
corporate limits of the municipality shall pay tap or connection fees in such
sum as the Mayor and City Council shall in such case fix.
(1999 Code, § 3-107) Penalty, see §
52.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-542
§ 52.08 REPAIRS.
   Repairs to the service pipe shall be made by and at the expense of the
customer. All other repairs to the property of the Water Department shall be
made by the municipality.
(1999 Code, § 3-108)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-542
§ 52.09 FEES AND COLLECTIONS.
   The governing body has the power and authority to fix the rates to be paid
by the property owners receiving water service from the Water Department. All
such rates shall be on file for public inspection at the office of the
Municipal Clerk during business hours. The Municipal Clerk shall bill the
property owners and collect the money received by the municipality on the
account of the Water Department. He or she shall faithfully account for, and
pay to the Municipal Treasurer all revenue collected by him or her, taking his
or her receipt therefor in duplicate.
(1999 Code, § 3-109)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-540
§ 52.10 MINIMUM RATES.
   All property owners whose properties are receiving water service shall be
liable for the minimum rate provided by ordinance unless and until the property
owner shall, by written order, direct the Water Commissioner or his or her
designated agent to shut off the water at the stop box, in which case the
property owner shall not be liable thereafter for water service until the water
is turned on again.
(1999 Code, § 3-110)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-542
§ 52.11 SINGLE PREMISES.
   No consumer shall supply water to other families, or allow them to take
water from his or her premises, nor after water is supplied into a building
shall any person make or employ a plumber or other person to make a tap or
connection with the pipe upon the premises for alteration, extension or
attachment without the written permission of the Water Commissioner.
(1999 Code, § 3-111) Penalty, see §
52.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-537
§ 52.12 RESTRICTED USE.
   The governing body or the Water Commissioner may order a reduction in the
use of water or shut off the water on any premises in the event of a water
shortage due to fire or other good and sufficient cause. The municipality shall
not be liable for any damages caused by shutting off the supply of water of any
consumer while the system or any part thereof is undergoing repairs or when
there is a shortage of water due to circumstances over which the municipality
has no control.
(1999 Code, § 3-112) Penalty, see §
52.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-537
§ 52.13 FIRE HYDRANTS.
   All hydrants for the purpose of extinguishing fires are hereby declared to
be public hydrants, and it shall be unlawful for any person other than members
of the Fire Department under the orders of the Fire Chief, or the Assistant
Fire Chief; or members of the Water Department to open or attempt to open any
of the hydrants and draw water from the same, or in any manner to interfere
with the hydrants.
(1999 Code, § 3-113) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.14 MANDATORY HOOKUP.
   All property owners whose property is adjacent or abuts a commercial main
shall be required, upon notice by the governing body, to hook up with the
municipal water system.
(1999 Code, § 3-114) Penalty, see §
52.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-539
§ 52.15 POLLUTION.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to pollute or attempt to pollute any
stream or source of water for the supply of the Municipal Water Department.
(1999 Code, § 3-115) Penalty, see §
52.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-536
§ 52.16 WATER SERVICE CONTRACTS.
   Contracts for water service are not transferable. Any person wishing to
change from one location to another shall make a new application and sign a new
contract. If any consumer shall move from the premises where service is
furnished, or if the said premises is destroyed by fire or other casualty, he
or she shall at once inform the Water Commissioner who shall cause the water
service to be shut off at the said premises. If the consumer should fail to
give such notice, he or she shall be charged for all water used on the said
premises until the Water Commissioner is otherwise advised of such
circumstances.
(1999 Code, § 3-116) Penalty, see §
52.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-537
§ 52.17 INSPECTION.
   The Water Commissioner, or his or her duly authorized agents, shall have
free access, at any reasonable time, to all parts of each premises and building
to, or in which, water is delivered for the purpose of examining the pipes,
fixtures and other portions of the system to ascertain whether there is any
disrepair or unnecessary waste of water.
(1999 Code, § 3-117)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-537
§ 52.18 POLICE REPORTS.
   It shall be the duty of the municipal police to report to the Water
Commissioner all cases of leakage and waste in the use of water and all
violations of the municipal code relating to the Water Department. They shall
have the additional duty of enforcing the observance of all such regulations.
(1999 Code, § 3-118)
§ 52.19 DESTRUCTION OF PROPERTY.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to willfully or carelessly break, injure
or deface any building, machinery, apparatus, fixture, attachment or
appurtenance of the Municipal Water Department. No person may deposit anything
in a stop box or commit any act tending to obstruct or impair the intended use
of any of the above mentioned property without the written permission of the
Water Commissioner.
(1999 Code, § 3-119) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.20 LICENSED PLUMBER.
   It shall be unlawful for any plumber or pipefitter to do any work upon any
of the pipes or appurtenances of the system of waterworks, or to make any
connection with or extension of the supply pipes of any consumer taking water
from the said system until such plumber or pipefitter shall have first procured
a license or permit from the municipality. All plumbing shall be done in the
manner required by the Water Commissioner. The said licensed plumber shall be
at all times subject to the inspection and approval of the Water Commissioner
and it shall be further unlawful to cover or conceal willfully any defective or
unsatisfactory plumbing work.
(1999 Code, § 3-120) Penalty, see §
52.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-537
BACKFLOW/BACKSIPHONAGE PREVENTION
§ 52.35 STATEMENT OF PURPOSE.
   The city hereby finds that backflow and backsiphonage of contaminants into a
public water supply system can be a threat to public health and safety. Direct
or indirect cross-connection within a water distribution system, including
within a water customer’s water distribution system, are among possible
structural arrangements which can result in backflow and backsiphonage. In the
interest of public health and safety, the governing body hereby adopts the
following backflow and backsiphonage prevention program, and cross-connection
control program.
(1999 Code, § 3-121)
§ 52.36 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purposes of §§
52.36 through
52.48, the following definitions shall apply unless the context clearly
indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AIR GAP. Used to prevent either backflow or backsiphonage, an air-gap
separation is the unobstructed vertical distance through the free atmosphere
between the lowest opening from any pipe or faucet supplying water to a tank,
plumbing fixture or other device and the flood level rim of the receptacle.
   ATMOSPHERIC VACUUM BREAKER (NON-PRESSURE TYPE BACKSIPHONAGE PREVENTER). Used
to protect for direct or indirect water connections to all types of polluted or
contaminated liquids where the preventer is not subject to back-pressures and
is installed on the discharge side of the last control valve. This preventer
should not be subjected to continuous flows for periods of more than 12 hours.
   BACKFLOW. The flow of water or other liquids, mixtures or substances into
the water distribution system from other than the intended liquids, mixtures or
substances of the public water supply system.
   BACKSIPHONAGE. The flowing back of water or other liquids, mixtures or
substances into a water distribution system due to negative pressure in the
piping of the water distribution system.
   CROSS-CONNECTION. Any actual or potential connection or structural
arrangement within a water distribution system through which it is possible to
introduce into the public water supply system any water, liquids, mixtures or
substances, other than the intended water, liquids, mixtures or substances of
the public water supply system.
   DOUBLE CHECK-VALVE ASSEMBLY (BACKFLOW PREVENTER). Used as protection for all
direct or indirect water connections through which foreign substances might
enter the system in such concentrations as to constitute a nuisance or be
aesthetically objectionable. Examples are foods, beverages or other substances
which do not constitute a health hazard.
   NON-TOXIC SUBSTANCE. Any substance of a nonpoisonous nature which may create
a moderate or minor hazard to the domestic water system. Hazardous connections
include:
      (1)   Connections to food processing lines, including, but not limited
to, those carrying syrups, lard or beer;
      (2)   Connections to steam and steam boilers where the steam does not
come in contact with toxic substances;
      (3)   McDaniel tees or steam clean-up connections in food plants,
apartment house boilers or pressing boilers where toxic compounds are not used;
and
      (4)   Connections to enclosed circulating systems, such as radiant-
heating systems and refrigerated-water systems where toxic compounds are not
used.
   PRESSURE VACUUM BREAKER (BACKSIPHONAGE PREVENTER).  Used as a protection for
direct or indirect water connections to all types of polluted or contaminated
liquids where the preventer is not subjected to backpressure. This device may
be installed for use under continuous line pressure.
   REDUCED-PRESSURE DE-ICE (BACKFLOW PREVENTER).  Used as a protection for
direct or indirect water connections where the device may be subject to
backpressures from toxic chemicals, sewage or other lethal substances.
   TOXIC SUBSTANCE. Any substance (liquid, solid or gaseous), including raw
sewage and lethal substances, which, when introduced into the water supply
system, creates or may create a danger to the health and well-being of the
consumer. Hazardous connections include flush valve toilet, direct connection
to contaminated vessel or system, and ship water point.
(1999 Code, § 3-122)
§ 52.37 DECLARATION OF NUISANCE.
   Any actual or potential connection or structural arrangement within a water
distribution system through which it is possible to introduce into the public
water supply system any water, liquids, mixtures or substances other than the
intended water, liquids, mixtures or substances of the public water supply
system shall hereby be declared a nuisance.
(1999 Code, § 3-123) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.38 UNLAWFUL CONNECTIONS; NEW INSTALLATIONS AND REPAIRS.
   No installation or repair within the water distribution system, including
the customer’s water distribution system, shall be made in such a manner:
   (A)   A cross-connection shall exist;
   (B)   It will be possible in any manner to allow the flow of any water or
other liquids, mixtures or substances into the water supply system other than
the intended water, liquids, mixtures or substances of the public water supply
system; or
   (C)   It will be possible in any manner to allow the flowing back of water
or other liquids, mixtures or substances into the water supply system due to
negative pressure in the water distribution system.
(1999 Code, § 3-124) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.39 PREVENTION DEVICES REQUIRED.
   (A)   A backflow or backsiphonage prevention device approved by the Water
Commissioner shall be installed, by a plumber, at the customer’s expense in the
customer service pipe when any of the following conditions are found by the
Water Commissioner:
      (1)   Premises having an auxiliary water supply;
      (2)   Premises on which, in the opinion of the Water Commissioner,
substances are handled in a manner as to create an actual or potential hazard
to the public water supply;
      (3)   Premises having existing or potential internal cross-connection;
      (4)   Premises where, in the opinion of the Water Commissioner, it is
impossible or impractical to make a complete cross-connection premises survey;
and
      (5)   Premises having more than one customer service pipe.
   (B)   No backflow or backsiphonage prevention device shall be approved by
the Water Commissioner until the device has been approved by the American
Society of Sanitary Engineers, the American Waterworks Association or the
University of Southern California Testing Laboratories.
(1999 Code, § 3-125) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.40 PREVENTION DEVICES; MINIMUM PROTECTION.
   (A)   When backflow or backsiphonage prevention devices are required by this
code, the prevention devices shall provide a minimum level of protection as
provided in Attachment A, made a part hereof.
   (B)   Provided, however, this shall be a minimum standard of protection.
When, in the opinion of the Water Commissioner, a different level of protection
would be more appropriate, the Water Commissioner shall prescribe the method of
backflow or backsiphonage protection.
(1999 Code, § 3-126) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.41 INSTALLATION INSPECTION.
   (A)   The Water Commissioner, at the expense of the municipality, may
inspect any premises to determine whether a backflow device is required and
what level of protection will be necessary to protect the public health and
safety.
   (B)   In order to inspect a premises, the Water Commissioner shall give
notice setting forth a proposed date and time to the customer at least ten
working days in advance by first class mail, return receipt requested or by
personal contact. If the customer cannot make the premises available for
inspection on that date and time, the customer shall contact the Water
Commissioner to arrange another date and time for inspection. If the Water
Commissioner and the customer cannot agree on a date and time for inspection,
the premises shall be declared impossible or impractical to make a cross-
connection survey, and a backflow or backsiphonage device shall be installed
pursuant to the provisions of this code pertaining to backflow/backsiphonage.
   (C)   All inspections shall be at reasonable times.
(1999 Code, § 3-127) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.42 INSTALLATION EXPENSE.
   All backflow and backsiphonage prevention devices shall be installed at the
customer’s expense, and in such manner that the device shall be accessible.
(1999 Code, § 3-128)
§ 52.43 MAINTENANCE.
   Backflow and backsiphonage prevention devices shall be maintained in good
working condition by the customer at the customer’s expense.
(1999 Code, § 3-129) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.44 TESTING.
   Backflow and backsiphonage prevention devices designed to be tested shall be
tested for proper operation annually or when necessary in the opinion of the
Water Commissioner. Actual testing shall be at the expense of the municipality.
Any required maintenance or repairs shall be at the expense of the customer and
subject to the approval of the Water Commissioner. If testing shall require
entry into the premises, the Commissioner shall give notice setting forth a
proposed date and time to the customer at least ten working days in advance by
first class mail, return receipt requested or by personal contact. If the
customer cannot make the premises available for inspection on that date and
time, the customer shall contact the Water Commissioner to arrange another date
and time.
(1999 Code, § 3-130)
§ 52.45 WATER COMMISSIONER; AUTHORITY.
   (A)   The Water Commissioner shall have the authority to issue any order
consistent with the provisions of this code in order to protect the public
health and safety. Any order of the Water Commissioner shall be in writing and
shall clearly state the nature of the order, compliance requirements and set a
reasonable date by which compliance must be met. All orders will be mailed to
the customer by first class mail, return receipt requested or by personal
service.
   (B)   With the exception of willful or malicious acts, the municipality
shall defend and hold harmless the Water Commissioner for his or her acts and
doings while carrying out or purporting to carry out his or her
responsibilities under §
52.35 through 52.48.
(1999 Code, § 3-131)
§ 52.46 APPEALS.
   In the event that it is claimed that the true intent and meaning of this
code has been wrongfully interpreted by the Water Commissioner; that the time
allowed for compliance with any order of the Water Commissioner is too short;
or that conditions peculiar to a particular premises make it unreasonably
difficult to meet the literal requirements prescribed by this code, the owner
may file a written notice of appeal with the Municipal Clerk within ten days
after the decision or order of the Water Commissioner has been made. The
governing body shall hear all appeals and shall have the power and authority,
when appealed to, to modify the decision or order of the Water Commissioner.
Such a decision shall be final, subject only to any remedy which the aggrieved
party may have at law or equity.
(1999 Code, § 3-132)
§ 52.47 ABATEMENT OF NUISANCE.
   Whenever a nuisance exists as defined in this subchapter, the municipality
may proceed by a suit in equity to enjoin and abate the same, in the manner
provided by law. Whenever, in any action, it is established that a nuisance
exists, the court may, together with the fine or penalty imposed, enter an
order of abatement as a part of the judgment in the case
(1999 Code, § 3-134) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.48 DISCONTINUANCE OF WATER SERVICE.
   In addition to or in lieu of imposition of the sanctions specified by §
52.47, at the option of the municipality, any person who shall violate or
refuse to comply with the enforcement of any of the provisions of §§
52.35 through
52.47, which violation or refusal to comply pertains to premises owned or
occupied by him or her which are supplied with water from a main of the
Municipal Water Department, may have his or her said water service discontinued
by the Water Commissioner. Except in the case of any emergency, the Water
Commissioner shall give ten days’ advance written notice of such proposed
discontinuance to such service. As to any consumer who has previously been
identified as a welfare recipient to the municipality by the Department of
Social Services, such notice shall also be given to the Department of Social
Services. Any consumer given notice under this section shall have the appeal
rights specified in §
52.46. Nevertheless, in the case of an emergency, the Water Commissioner may
temporarily discontinue water service pending outcome of such appeal.
(1999 Code, § 3-135) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.49 AUTOMATIC AND UNDERGROUND AND RESIDENTIAL WATERING SYSTEM; INSTALLATION
AND REGULATION.
   (A)   No owner, occupant, resident or person acting through any owner,
occupant or resident, including the contractor of such person shall install any
underground sprinkler system in such a fashion that any sprinkler head is
located closer than nine inches from the adjoining street, curb, ditch or other
boundary area separating the municipal street from the subject property. It
shall be the duty of the property owner, occupant or resident of the property
to adjust all such sprinkler heads installed as part of an automatic or
underground watering system to adjust such sprinkler heads so as to not
discharge water upon the public street, curb or ditch area.
   (B)   All underground and/or automatic watering systems installed and in use
on the effective date of this section shall be thereafter adjusted and
regulated to prevent discharge of water upon the public street, curb or ditch
area. The duty of such regulation and adjustment of existing water systems
shall be upon the owner, occupant and/or resident.
(1999 Code, § 3-136) Penalty, see §
52.99
OUTSIDE WATERING AND LANDSCAPE IRRIGATION
§ 52.60 PURPOSE.
   Upon the recommendation of the city Water Commissioner, the Mayor is
authorized to implement a water conservation program as set forth in this
chapter pursuant to a public notice to be published in a legal newspaper
distributed in the city and posted in at least three public places in the city.
After the implementation of such water conservation program, it may
subsequently be lifted by the Mayor upon the recommendation of the city Water
Commissioner by publication and posting of such action as described above. Any
decision by the Mayor to implement or to lift the water conservation program
shall be considered by the City Council at the next regular meeting that is
held following the decision to implement or to lift the water conservation
program. Such decision by the Mayor shall continue in full force and effect
only if the Council approves such action.
(Ord. 336, passed 5-13-2003)
§ 52.61 RESTRICTIONS.
   Upon the implementation of a water conservation program by the Mayor after
public notification, the following restrictions on outdoor water usage and
landscape irrigation shall be imposed on all water customers of the city water
supply. No owner, occupant, or user of the city water supply on property
located within the city shall sprinkle or irrigate any grass lawn in the city
except on designated water-use days which shall be as follows:
   (A)   Users of water at street addresses ending with an odd number may water
lawns on Tuesday, Thursday, and Saturday;
   (B)   Users of water at street addresses ending with an even number may
water lawns on Monday, Wednesday, and Friday;
   (C)   No lawn may be sprinkled or irrigated on Sunday.
(Ord. 336, passed 5-13-2003)
§ 52.62 EXCEPTION.
   An owner, occupant, or use of property in the city may submit a written
application to the City Clerk to obtain an exception from the application of
this chapter for the purpose of watering a newly seeded lawn or, if necessary,
to apply water to the lawn to facilitate the application of fertilizer or weed
control. An application for an exception shall be considered and approved or
denied by the Mayor on a case-by-case basis depending on whether the existence
of a hardship is demonstrated by the applicant by the strict enforcement of
this section. The applicant may appeal from the Mayor’s determination to the
Council.
(Ord. 336, passed 5-13-2003)
§ 52.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who shall violate or refuse to comply with the enforcement
of any of the provisions of §§
52.35 through
52.48 shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor, and upon conviction thereof
shall be fined not more than $100 for each offense. A new violation shall be
deemed to have been committed every 24 hours of such failure to comply.
   (B)   The owner, occupant, and user of the property shall be liable for any
violation of §§
52.60 through
52.62, and shall be subject to a penalty of a $50 fine. Upon conviction of a
second offense a violator shall be subjected to a fine of $100. Each day that a
violation occurs shall be deemed a separate offense.
(1999 Code, § 3-133) (Ord. 336, passed 5-13-2003) Penalty, see §
52.99
CHAPTER 53: SEWER
Section
   
53.01   Operation and funding
   
53.02   Definitions
   
53.03   Application for permit
   
53.04   Sewer contract
   
53.05   Rate setting; sewer use charges; use
   
53.06   Classification
   
53.07   Public sewers required
   
53.08   Private sewage disposal
   
53.09   Building sewer installation
   
53.10   Repairs and maintenance
   
53.11   Prohibited discharges; stormwater, surface water, groundwater, cooling
water and process water
   
53.12   Hazardous and prohibited discharges
   
53.13   Grease, oil and sand interceptors; when required
   
53.14   Preliminary treatment or flow equalizing facilities; maintenance by
owner
   
53.15   Control manholes/sampling stations; when required; installation and
maintenance
   
53.16   Control manholes/sampling stations; method
   
53.17   Damage to public sewer works
   
53.18   Inspection and maintenance
 
   
53.99   Penalty
§ 53.01 OPERATION AND FUNDING.
   (A)   The municipality owns and operates the municipal sewer system through
the Sewer Commissioner. The governing body, for the purpose of defraying the
cost of the management and maintenance of the municipal sewer system may each
year levy a tax not exceeding the maximum limit prescribed by state law on the
actual valuation of all real estate and personal property within the corporate
limits that is subject to taxation.
   (B)   The revenue from the said tax shall be known as the Sewer Maintenance
Fund. The Sewer Commissioner shall have the direct management and control of
the Sewer Department and shall faithfully carry out the duties of his or her
office. He or she shall have the authority to adopt rules and regulations for
the sanitary and efficient management of the Department subject to the
supervision and review of the governing body.
(1999 Code, § 3-201)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-149, 17-925.01
§ 53.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BOD (DENOTING BIOCHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND). The quantity of oxygen utilized in
the biochemical oxidation of organic matter under standard laboratory procedure
in five days at 20°C, expressed in milligrams per liter.
   BUILDING DRAIN. That part of the lowest horizontal piping of a drainage
system which receives the discharge from soil, waste and other drainage pipes
inside the walls of the building and conveys it to the building sewer,
beginning five feet (one and one-half meters) outside the inner face of the
building wall.
   BUILDING SEWER. The extension from the building drain to the public sewer or
other place of disposal.
   COMBINED SEWER. A sewer receiving both surface runoff and sewage.
   GARBAGE. Solid wastes from the domestic and commercial preparation, cooking
and dispensing of food, and from the handling, storage and sale of produce.
   INDUSTRIAL WASTES. The liquid wastes from industrial manufacturing
processes, trade or business as distinct from sanitary sewage.
   MUNICIPALITY. The City of Henderson, Nebraska.
   NATURAL OUTLET.  Any outlet into a watercourse, pond, ditch, lake or other
body of surface or groundwater.
   PERSON. Any individual, firm, company, association, society, corporation or
group.
   pH. The logarithm of the reciprocal of the weight of hydrogen ions in grams
per liter of solution.
   PROPERLY SHREDDED GARBAGE. The wastes from the preparation, cooking and
dispensing of food that have been shredded to such a degree that all particles
will be carried freely under the flow conditions normally prevailing in public
sewers, with no particle greater than one-half inch (1.27 centimeters) in any
dimension.
   PUBLIC SEWER. A sewer in which all owners of abutting properties have equal
rights, and is controlled by public.
   SANITARY SEWER.  A sewer which carries sewage and to which storm, surface
and ground waters are not intentionally admitted.
   SEWAGE. A combination of the water-carried wastes from residences, business
buildings, institutions and industrial establishments together with such
ground, surface and storm waters as may be present.
   SEWAGE TREATMENT PLANT. Any arrangement of devices and structures used for
treating sewage.
   SEWAGE WORKS. All facilities for collecting, pumping, treating and disposing
of sewage.
   SEWER. A pipe or conduit for carrying sewage.
   SEWER COMMISSIONER. The Sewer Commissioner of the city, or his or her
authorized deputy, agent or representative.
   SHALL. Mandatory; MAY is permissive.
   SLUG.  Any discharge of water, sewage or industrial waste which in
concentration of any given constituent or in quantity of flow exceeds for any
period of duration longer than 15 minutes more than five times the average 24-
hour concentration or flows during normal operation.
   STORM DRAIN. Sometimes termed STORM SEWER, shall mean a sewer which carries
storm and surface waters and drainage, but excludes sewage and industrial
wastes, other than unpolluted cooling water.
   SUSPENDED SOLIDS. Solids that either float on the surface of, or are in
suspension in water, sewage or other liquids, and are removable by laboratory
filtering.
   WATERCOURSE. A channel in which a flow of water occurs, either continuously
or intermittently.
(1999 Code, § 3-202)
§ 53.03 APPLICATION FOR PERMIT.
   Any property owner wishing to connect with the municipal sewer system shall
make an application therefor to the Municipal Clerk. The Municipal Clerk may
require any applicant to make a service deposit in such amount as has been set
by the governing body and placed on file at the office of the Municipal Clerk.
Sewer service shall not be supplied to any house or building except upon the
order of the Sewer Commissioner or his or her designated agent. The
municipality shall not supply sewer service to any property owner outside the
corporate limits without special permission from the governing body; provided,
that the entire cost of pipe and other installation charges shall be paid by
such property owner. Nothing herein shall be construed to obligate the
municipality to provide sewer service to non-residents.
(1999 Code, § 3-203)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-913
§ 53.04 SEWER CONTRACT.
   The municipality, through the Municipal Sewer Department, shall furnish
sewer service to property within its corporate limits if such property abuts a
street or alley in which a commercial main is now or may hereafter be laid. The
municipality may also furnish sewer service to property situated outside the
corporate limits of the municipality, as and when, according to law, the
governing body may see fit to do so. The rules, regulations and sewer rental
rates hereinafter named in this chapter, shall be considered a part of every
application hereafter made for sewer service and shall be considered a part of
the contract between every property owner now or hereafter served. Without
further formality, the making of the application by a property owner for
himself or herself or the use of sewer service by tenants residing on such
property and the furnishing of sewer service to such property shall constitute
a contract between the property owner and the municipality, to which said
contract both parties are bound. If the property owner, or tenants residing on
such property, shall violate any of the provisions of said contract or any
reasonable rules amid regulations that the governing body may hereafter adopt,
the Sewer Commissioner or his or her designated agent, may cut off or
disconnect the sewer service to the property. No further connection for sewer
service to said property shall again be made except by order of the Sewer
Commissioner or his or her designated agent.
(1999 Code, § 3-204)
§ 53.05 RATE SETTING; SEWER USE CHARGES; USE.
   (A)   All property owners whose properties are receiving sewer service shall
be charged a flat rate for the use of sewer service. Rates shall be set by
ordinance and shall be on file at the office of the Municipal Clerk for public
inspection during office hours. The sewer use charges or rates as established
pursuant hereto shall be reviewed by the Mayor and City Council not less than
annually, and may be revised periodically according to current use, and actual
operation and maintenance cost.
   (B)   Where, in the judgment of the City Council by reason of special
conditions, the application of the sewer use charges established pursuant
hereto would be inequitable or unfair to either the municipality or the user,
or in the cases where the character of the sewage from a consumer is such that
an additional burden is placed upon the sewerage system greater than that
imposed by the average sewage delivered to the sewage disposal plant, a special
rate may be established by ordinance or contract. To assist the City Council in
determining whether or not special conditions exist or additional burdens are
placed upon the sewerage system, the user shall, upon the request of the City
Council, provide access to the user’s sewer lateral at a point where
representative samples may be taken. Strength from the character of this waste
shall be tested and it shall be determined to the satisfaction of the City
Council, at the user’s expense, the strength of the waste and any special
characteristics the waste may have.
   (C)   If any user can show to the satisfaction of the City Council that any
substantial portion of the water consumed by the user is used for such purpose
or purposes that it does not contribute to the sanitary sewerage, that water
shall be disregarded for the purpose of determining the sewer use charges to
the user.
   (D)   Money raised from the sewer use charges shall be used for the
maintenance and operation of the existing system, or to create a reserve fund
for the purpose of future maintenance or construction of a new sewer system for
the municipality. Revenues from such charges shall also be used for the
abatement or reduction of ad valorem taxes being levied or to be levied for the
payment of bonds outstanding or to be issued for the construction of or
additions of such sewerage systems.
(1999 Code, § 3-205)
§ 53.06 CLASSIFICATION.
   The governing body may classify for the purpose of rental fees the customers
of the Municipal Sewer Department; provided, that such classifications are
reasonable and do not discriminate unlawfully against any consumer or group of
consumers.
(1999 Code, § 3-206)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-925.02
§ 53.07 PUBLIC SEWERS REQUIRED.
   (A)   Unlawful deposit of wastes. It shall be unlawful for any person to
place, deposit or permit to be deposited in any unsanitary manner on public or
private property within the municipality or within one mile of the corporate
limits thereof, or in any area under the jurisdiction of said municipality, any
human or animal excrement, garbage or other objectionable waste.
(1999 Code, § 3-207)
   (B)   Unlawful discharge of untreated sewage. It shall be unlawful to
discharge to any natural outlet within the municipality, or within one mile of
the corporate limits thereof, or in any area under the jurisdiction of said
municipality, any sewage or other polluted waters, except where suitable
treatment has been provided in accordance with subsequent provisions of this
chapter.
(1999 Code, § 3-208)
   (C)   Cesspools, privies and septic tanks prohibited. Except as hereinafter
provided, it shall be unlawful to construct or maintain any privy, privy vault,
septic tank, cesspool or other facility intended or used for the disposal of
sewage.
(1999 Code, § 3-209)
   (D)   Mandatory hook-up. The owner of all houses, buildings or properties
used for human employment, recreation or other purposes, situated within the
municipality and abutting on any street, alley or right-of-way in which there
is now located or may in the future be located a public sanitary or combined
sewer of the municipality, is hereby required at his or her expense to install
suitable toilet facilities therein, and to connect such facilities directly
with the proper public sewer in accordance with the provisions of this chapter
within 90 days after date of official notice to do so; provided, that said
public sewer is within 100 feet (30.5 meters) of the property line.
(1999 Code, § 3-210)
Penalty, see §
53.99
§ 53.08 PRIVATE SEWAGE DISPOSAL.
   (A)   When applicable.
      (1)   Where a public sanitary or combined sewer is not available under
the provisions of §
53.07(D), the building sewer shall be connected to a private sewage disposal
system complying with the provisions of this chapter.
      (2)   At such time as a public sewer becomes available to a property
served by a private wastewater disposal system, as provided in §
53.07(D), a direct connection shall be made to the public sewer within 60 days
in compliance with this chapter, and any septic tanks, cesspools and similar
private wastewater disposal facilities shall be cleaned of sludge and filled
with suitable material.
(1999 Code, § 3-211)
   (B)   Permit required, fee. Before commencement of construction of a private
sewage disposal system the owner shall first obtain a written permit signed by
the Sewer Commissioner. The application for such permit shall be made on a form
furnished by the municipality, which the applicant shall supplement by any
plans, specifications and other information as are deemed necessary by the
Sewer Commissioner. A permit and inspection fee of $50 shall be paid to the
municipality at the time the application is filed.
(1999 Code, § 3-212)
   (C)   Permit, when effective; inspections. A permit for a private sewage
disposal system shall not become effective until the installation is completed
to the satisfaction of the Sewer Commissioner. He or she shall be allowed to
inspect the work at any stage of construction and, in any event, the applicant
for the permit shall notify the Sewer Commissioner when the work is ready for
final inspection, and before any underground portions are covered. The
inspection shall be made within 24 hours of the receipt of notice by the Sewer
Commissioner.
(1999 Code, § 3-213)
   (D)   Specifications. The type, capacities, location and layout of a private
sewage disposal system shall comply with all recommendations of the Department
of Health of the state. No permit shall be issued for any private sewage
disposal system employing subsurface soil absorption facilities when the area
of the lot is less than 10,000 square feet. No septic tank or cesspool shall be
permitted to discharge to any natural outlet.
(1999 Code, § 3-214)
   (E)   Maintenance. The owner shall operate and maintain the private sewage
disposal facilities in a sanitary manner at all times, at no expense to the
municipality.
(1999 Code, § 3-215)
   (F)   Additional requirements. No statement contained in divisions (A)
through (E) above shall be construed to interfere with any additional
requirements that may be imposed by the Health Officer.
(1999 Code, § 3-216) Penalty, see §
53.99
§ 53.09 BUILDING SEWER INSTALLATION.
   (A)   Permit required. No unauthorized person shall uncover, make any
connections with or opening into, use, alter or disturb any public sewer or
appurtenance thereof without first obtaining a written permit from the Sewer
Commissioner.
(1999 Code, § 3-217)
   (B)   Classification; permit application, fee. 
      (1)   There shall be two classes of building sewer permits:
         (a)   For residential and commercial service; and
         (b)   For service to establishments producing industrial wastes.
      (2)   In either case, the owner or his or her agent shall make
application on a special form furnished by the municipality. The permit
application shall be supplemented by any plans, specifications or other
information considered pertinent in the judgment of the Sewer Commissioner.
      (3)   A permit and inspection fee of 10% of the tap fee for a residential
or commercial building sewer permit and 10% of the tap fee for an industrial
building sewer permit shall be paid to the municipality at the time the
application is filed.
(1999 Code, § 3-218)
   (C)   Expense. The owner, upon approval of his or her application for sewer
service, shall pay to the Sewer Commissioner a tap fee in the amount of $500
which compensates the municipality for the expense of processing his or her
application and tapping the sewer main. The owner shall then be required to pay
the expense of procuring the materials required as well as the services of a
licensed plumber and shall pay all other costs of installation. The owner shall
indemnify the municipality from any loss or damage that may directly or
indirectly be occasioned by the installation of the building sewer.
(1999 Code, § 3-219)
   (D)   Single premises. A separate and independent building sewer shall be
provided for every building; except where one building stands at the rear of
another on an interior lot and no private sewer is available or can be
constructed to the rear building through an adjoining alley, court yard or
driveway, the building sewer from the front building may be extended to the
rear building and the whole considered as one building sewer, but the
municipality does not and will not assume any obligation or responsibility for
damage caused by or resulting from any such single connection aforementioned.
(1999 Code, § 3-220)
   (E)   Use of existing sewers. Old building sewers may be used in connection
with new buildings only when they are found, on examination and test by the
Sewer Commissioner, to meet all requirements of this chapter.
(1999 Code, § 3-221)
   (F)   Construction codes.
      (1)   The size, slope, alignment, materials of construction of a building
sewer, and the methods to be used in excavating, placing of the pipe, jointing,
testing and backfilling the trench, shall all conform to the requirements of
the building and plumbing code or other applicable rules and regulations of the
municipality. In the absence of code provisions or in amplification thereof,
the materials and procedures set forth in appropriate specifications of the
A.S.T.M. and W.P.C.F. Manual of Practice No. 9 shall apply.
      (2)   Whenever possible, the building sewer shall be brought to the
building at an elevation below the basement floor. In all buildings in which
any building drain is too low to permit gravity flow to the public sewer,
sanitary sewage earned by such building drain shall be lifted by an approved
means and discharged to the building sewer.
      (3)   The connection of the building sewer into the public sewer shall
conform to the requirements of the building and plumbing code or other
applicable rules and regulations of the municipality, or the procedures set
forth in appropriate specifications of the A.S.T.M. and the W.P.C.F. Manual of
Practice No. 9. All such connections shall be made gastight and watertight, and
verified by proper testing. Any deviation from the prescribed procedures and
materials must be approved by the Sewer Commissioner before installation.
(1999 Code, § 3-222)
   (G)   Unlawful connection. No person shall make connection of roof
downspouts. interior and exterior foundation drains, areaway drains or other
sources of surface runoff or groundwater to a building sewer or building drain
which in turn is connected directly or indirectly to a public sanitary sewer.
(1999 Code, § 3-223)
   (H)   Inspections. The applicant for the building sewer permit shall notify
the Sewer Commissioner when the building sewer is ready for inspection and
connection to the public sewer. The connection and testing shall be made under
the supervision of the Sewer Commissioner or his or her representative.
(1999 Code, § 3-224)
   (I)   Excavations. All excavations for building sewer installation shall be
adequately guarded with barricades and lights so as to protect the public from
hazard. Streets, sidewalks, parkways and other public property disturbed in the
course of the work shall be restored in a manner satisfactory to the
municipality.
(1999 Code, § 3-225)
Penalty, see §
53.99
§ 53.10 REPAIRS AND MAINTENANCE.
   The municipality shall repair or replace, as the case may be, all pipe
constituting major sewer mains. It shall be the responsibility of the customer
to repair or replace, all other sewer pipe and appurtenances from the main to
and including the customer’s property. All replacements and repairs made by the
customer shall be done in the manner and with the materials approved by the
Sewer Commissioner; provided, that the same have been previously approved by
the governing body.
(1999 Code, § 3-226) Penalty, see §
53.99
§ 53.11 PROHIBITED DISCHARGES; STORMWATER, SURFACE WATER, GROUNDWATER, COOLING
WATER AND PROCESS WATER.
   (A)   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged any stormwater,
surface water, groundwater, roof runoff, subsurface drainage, including
interior and exterior foundation drains, uncontaminated cooling water or
unpolluted industrial waters to any sanitary sewer.
   (B)   Stormwater and all other unpolluted drainage shall be discharged to
such sewers as are specifically designated as combined sewers or storm sewers,
or to a natural outlet approved by the Sewer Commissioner. Industrial cooling
water or unpolluted process water may be discharged, on approval of the Sewer
Commissioner, to a storm sewer, combined sewer or natural outlet. The
contributor of any identifiable discharge of polluted water to the sanitary
sewer system shall be held responsible for reimbursing the municipality for
such costs. The costs shall be determined by the Sewer Commissioner with the
approval of the governing body.
(1999 Code, § 3-227) Penalty, see §
53.99
§ 53.12 HAZARDOUS AND PROHIBITED DISCHARGES.
   (A)   Flammable, toxic, corrosive and obstructive substances; preliminary
treatment. No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged any of the
following described waters or wastes to any public sewers:
      (1)   Any gasoline, benzene, naphtha, fuel oil or other flammable or
explosive liquid, solid or gas;
      (2)   Any waters or wastes containing toxic or poisonous solids, liquids
or gases in sufficient quantity, either singly or by interaction with other
wastes, to injure or interfere with any waste treatment process, constitute a
hazard to humans or animals, create a public nuisance, or create any hazard in
the receiving waters of the sewage treatment plant, including but not limited
to cyanides in excess of two mg/l as CN in the wastes as discharged to the
public sewer;
      (3)   Any waters or wastes having a pH lower than 5.5, or having any
other corrosive property capable of causing damage or hazard to structures,
equipment and personnel of the sewage works;
      (4)   Solid or viscous substances in quantities or of such size capable
of causing obstruction to the flow in sewers, or other interference with the
proper operation of the sewage facilities such as, but not limited to, ashes,
cinders, sand, mud, straw, shavings, metal, glass, rags, feathers, tar,
plastics, wood, unground garbage, whole blood, paunch manure, hair and
fleshings, entrails and paper dishes, cups, milk containers and the like,
either whole or ground by garbage grinders;
      (5)   Any waters or wastes having:
         (a)   A five-day BOD greater than 300 parts per million by weight;
         (b)   Containing more than 350 parts per million by weight of
suspended solids;
         (c)   Having an average daily flow greater than 2% of the average
sewage flow of the municipality; or
         (d)   A chlorine requirement greater than demanded by normal sewage as
evaluated by the municipality’s consulting engineer shall be subject to the
review of the Sewer Commissioner.
      (6)   Where necessary in the opinion of the Sewer Commissioner, the owner
shall provide, at his or her expense, such preliminary treatment as may be
necessary to:
         (a)   Reduce the biochemical oxygen demand to 300 parts per million by
weight;
         (b)   Reduce the suspended solids to 350 parts per million by weight;
         (c)   Control the quantities and rates of discharge of such waters or
wastes; or
         (d)   Reduce the chlorine requirement to conform with normal sewage.
      (7)   Plans, specifications and other pertinent information relating to
proposed preliminary treatment facilities shall be submitted for the approval
of the Sewer Commissioner and no construction of such facilities shall be
commenced until said approvals are obtained in writing.
(1999 Code, § 3-228)
   (B)   Specific prohibitions as determined by Sewer Commissioner.
      (1)   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged the following
described substances, materials, waters or wastes if it appears likely in the
opinion of the Sewer Commissioner that such wastes can harm either the sewers,
sewage treatment process or equipment, have an adverse effect on the receiving
stream, or can otherwise endanger life, limb, public property or constitute a
nuisance. In forming his or her opinion as to the acceptability of these
wastes, the Sewer Commissioner will give consideration to such factors as the
quantities of subject wastes in relation to flows and velocities in the sewers,
materials of construction of the sewers, nature of the sewage treatment
process, capacity of the sewage treatment plant and other pertinent factors.
      (2)   The substances prohibited are:
         (a)   Any liquid or vapor having a temperature higher than 150°F
(65°C);
         (b)   Any water or waste containing fats, wax, grease or oils, whether
emulsified or not, in excess of 100 mg/l or containing substances which may
solidify or become viscous at temperatures between 32° and 150°F (0° and 65°C);
         (c)   Any garbage that has not been properly shredded. The
installation and operation of any garbage grinder equipped with a motor three-
fourths horsepower (0.76 hp metric) or greater shall be subject to the review
and approval of the Sewer Commissioner;
         (d)   Any waters or wastes containing strong acid iron pickling
wastes, or concentrated plating solutions whether neutralized or not;
         (e)   Any water or wastes containing iron, chromium, copper, zinc and
similar objectionable or toxic substances; or wastes exerting an excessive
chlorine requirement, to such degree that any such material received in the
composite sewage at the sewage treatment works exceeds the limits established
by the Sewer Commissioner for such materials;
         (f)   Any waters or wastes containing phenols or other taste- or odor-
producing substances, in such concentrations exceeding limits which may be
established by the Sewer Commissioner as necessary, after treatment of the
composite sewage, to meet the requirements of state, federal or other public
agencies of jurisdiction for such discharge to the receiving waters;
         (g)   Any radioactive wastes or isotopes of such half-life or
concentration as may exceed limits established by the Sewer Commissioner in
compliance with applicable state or federal regulations;
         (h)   Any waters of wastes having a pH in excess of (9.5);
         (i)   Materials which exert or cause:
            1.   Unusual concentrations of inert suspended solids (such as, but
not limited to, Fuller’s earth, lime slurries and lime residues) or of
dissolved solids, (such as but not limited to, sodium chloride or sodium
sulfate);
            2.   Excessive discoloration (such as, but not limited to, dye
wastes and vegetable tanning solutions);
            3.   Unusual BOD, chemical oxygen demand, or chlorine requirements
in such quantities as to constitute a significant load on the sewage treatment
works; and
            4.   Unusual volume of flow or concentration of wastes constituting
“slugs” as defined herein.
         (j)   Waters or wastes containing substances which are not amenable to
treatment or reduction by the sewage treatment processes employed, or are
amenable to treatment only to such degree that the sewage treatment plant
effluent cannot meet the requirements of other agencies having jurisdiction
over discharge to the receiving waters.
(1999 Code, § 3-229)
   (C)   Rejection, pretreatment, control of discharge rate or use fee
surcharge.
      (1)   If any waters or wastes are discharged, or are proposed to be
discharged to the public sewers, which waters contain the substances or possess
the characteristics enumerated in §
53.12(B), and which in the judgment of the Sewer Commissioner, may have a
deleterious effect upon the sewage works, processes, equipment or receiving
waters, or which otherwise create a hazard to life to constitute a public
nuisance, the Sewer Commissioner may:
         (a)   Reject the wastes;
         (b)   Require pretreatment to an acceptable condition for discharge to
the public sewers;
         (c)   Require control over the quantities and rates of discharge; and/
or
         (d)   Require treating charges payment to cover the added cost of
handling and the wastes not covered by existing taxes or sewer under the
provisions hereof.
      (2)   If the Sewer Commissioner permits the pretreatment or equalization
of waste flows, the design and installation of the plants and equipment shall
be subject to the review and approval of the Sewer Commissioner, and subject to
the requirements of all applicable codes, ordinances and laws.
(1999 Code, § 3-230)
Penalty, see §
53.99
§ 53.13 GREASE, OIL AND SAND INTERCEPTORS; WHEN REQUIRED.
   Grease, oil and sand interceptors shall be provided when, in the opinion of
the Sewer Commissioner, they are necessary for the proper handling of liquid
wastes containing grease in excessive amounts, or any flammable wastes, sand or
other harmful ingredients; except that such interceptors shall not be required
for private living quarters or dwelling units. All interceptors shall be of a
type and capacity approved by the Sewer Commissioner and shall be located as to
be readily and easily accessible for cleaning and inspection. In the
maintaining of these interceptors the owner(s) shall be responsible for the
proper removal and disposal by appropriate means of captured material and shall
maintain records of the dates, and means of disposal which are subject to
review by the Sewer Commissioner. Any removal and hauling of the collected
materials not performed by owner(s) personnel must be performed by currently
licensed waste disposal firms.
(1999 Code, § 3-231) Penalty, see §
53.99
§ 53.14 PRELIMINARY TREATMENT OR FLOW EQUALIZING FACILITIES; MAINTENANCE BY
OWNER.
   Where preliminary treatment or flow-equalizing facilities are provided for
any waters or wastes, they shall be maintained continuously in satisfactory and
effective operation by the owner at his or her expense.
(1999 Code, § 3-232) Penalty, see §
53.99
§ 53.15 CONTROL MANHOLES/SAMPLING STATIONS; WHEN REQUIRED; INSTALLATION AND
MAINTENANCE.
   When required by the Sewer Commissioner, the owner of any property serviced
by a building sewer carrying industrial wastes shall install a suitable control
manhole together with such necessary meters and other appurtenances in the
building sewer to facilitate observation, sampling and measurement of the
wastes. Such manhole, when required, shall be accessibly and safely located,
and shall be constructed in accordance with plans approved by the Sewer
Commissioner. The manhole shall be installed by the owner at his or her
expense, and shall be maintained by him so as to be safe and accessible at all
times.
(1999 Code, § 3-233) Penalty, see §
53.99
§ 53.16 CONTROL MANHOLES/SAMPLING STATIONS; METHOD.
   (A)   All measurements, tests and analyses of the characteristics of waters
and wastes to which reference is made in this chapter, shall be determined in
accordance with the latest edition of Standard Methods for the Examination of
Water and Wastewater, published by the American Public Health Association, and
shall be determined at the control manhole provided, or upon suitable samples
taken at said control manhole. In the event no special manhole has been
required, the control manhole shall be considered to be the nearest downstream
manhole in the public sewer to the point at which the building sewer is
connected. Sampling shall be carried out by customarily accepted methods to
reflect the effect of constituents upon the sewage works and to determine the
existence of hazards to life, limb and property. (The particular analyses
involved will determine whether a 24-hour composite of all outfalls of a
premises is appropriate or whether a grab sample or samples should be taken.
Normally, but not always, BOD and suspended solids analysis are obtained from
24 hour composites of all outfalls whereas pHs are determined from periodic
grab samples.)
   (B)   No statement contained in this section shall be construed as
preventing any special agreement or arrangement between the city and any
industrial waste of unusual strength or character may be accepted by the city
for treatment, subject to payment therefor, by the industrial concern.
(1999 Code, § 3-234) Penalty, see §
53.99
§ 53.17 DAMAGE TO PUBLIC SEWER WORKS.
   No unauthorized person shall maliciously, willfully or negligently break,
damage, destroy, uncover, deface or tamper with any structure, appurtenance or
equipment which is part of the sewage works. Any person violating this
provision shall be subject to immediate arrest under charge of disorderly
conduct.
(1999 Code, § 3-235) Penalty, see §
53.99
§ 53.18 INSPECTION AND MAINTENANCE.
   (A)   The Sewer Commissioner and other duly authorized employees of the city
bearing proper credentials and identification shall be permitted to enter all
properties for the purposes of inspection, observation, measurement, sampling
and testing in accordance with the provisions of this chapter. The
Superintendent or his or her representatives shall have no authority to inquire
into any processes including metallurgical, chemical, oil, refining, ceramic
paper or other industries beyond that point having a direct bearing on the kind
and source of discharge to the sewers or waterways or facilities for waste
treatment.
   (B)   While performing the necessary work on private properties referred to
in §
53.16(A), the Sewer Commissioner or duly authorized employees of the city shall
observe all safety rules applicable to the premises established by the company
and the company shall be held harmless for injury or death to the city
employees and the city shall and demands for personal injury or property damage
asserted against the company and growing out of the gauging and sampling
operation, except as such may be caused by negligence or failure of the company
to maintain safe conditions as required in §
53.15.
   (C)   The Sewer Commissioner and other duly authorized employees of the city
bearing proper credentials and identification shall be permitted to enter all
private properties through which the city holds a duly negotiated easement for
the purposes of, but not limited to, inspection, observation, measurement,
sampling, repair and maintenance of any portion of the sewage works lying
within said easement. All entry and subsequent work, if any, on said easement,
shall be done in full accordance with the terms of the duly negotiated easement
pertaining to the private property involved.
(1999 Code, § 3-236) Penalty, see §
53.99
§ 53.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person found to be violating any provision of this chapter, except
§
53.15 shall be served by the city with written notice stating the nature of the
violation and providing a reasonable time limit for the satisfactory correction
thereof. The offender shall, within the period of time stated in such notice,
permanently cease all violations.
   (B)   Any person who shall continue any violation beyond the time limit
provided in §
53.17(A) shall be guilty of a misdemeanor, and on conviction thereof shall be
fined in the amount not exceeding $100 for each violation. Each 24-hour period
in which any such violation shall continue shall be deemed a separate offense.
   (C)   Any person violating any of the provision of this chapter shall become
liable to the city for any expense, loss or damage occasioned the city by
reason of such violation.
(1999 Code, § 3-237)
CHAPTER 54: WELLHEAD PROTECTION
Section
   
54.01   Definition
   
54.02   Protection of water
§ 54.01 DEFINITION.
   WELLHEAD PROTECTION AREA means the surface and subsurface area surrounding a
public water supply well or wellfield, supplying a public water supply system,
through which contaminants are reasonably likely to move toward and reach such
water well or wellfield.
(Ord. 347, passed 10-12-2004)
§ 54.02 PROTECTION OF WATER.
   The City Council designates a Wellhead Protection Plan for the purpose of
protecting the public water supply system. The boundaries of the wellhead
protection area were adopted by Ord. 341, adopted on 6-8-2004, based on
wellhead protection area map drawn by the State Department of Environmental
Quality in September 2003.
(Ord. 347, passed 10-12-2004)
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
   Chapter
      
70.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
71.   PARKING
      
72.   TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
      
73.   RECREATIONAL VEHICLES
CHAPTER 70: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
70.01   Definitions
   
70.02   Weight limit; truck route
   
70.03   Traffic lane; designation
   
70.04   Arterial streets; designation
   
70.05   U-turns
   
70.06   Crosswalks
   
70.07   Signs, signals
   
70.08   Utility-type vehicles
   
70.09   Engine brakes
 
   
70.99   Penalty
§ 70.01 DEFINITIONS.
   The words and phrases used in this chapter, pertaining to motor vehicles and
traffic regulations, shall be construed as defined in Neb. RS Chapter 60,
Article 6, as now existing or hereafter amended. If not defined in the
designated statutes, the word or phrase shall have its common meaning.
(1999 Code, § 5-101)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 60-606 through 60-676
§ 70.02 WEIGHT LIMIT; TRUCK ROUTE.
   (A)   Statement of purpose. The city finds that traffic from heavy vehicles
causes substantial damage to city streets and results in the deterioration of
said streets at great expense to city taxpayers. It is therefore necessary to
restrict traffic from heavy vehicles to a designated truck route to reduce
deterioration caused to city streets by such vehicles.
   (B)   Street weight limit. It shall be unlawful to operate upon any street
or alley in the city, any truck, truck-tractor, semi-trailer or trailer or
combination thereof having a gross weight of more than 20,000 pounds, other
than as provided below, except that said vehicles may exceed said limitations
if they are being used to deliver goods and/or items to and from residences
and/or businesses in the city.
   (C)   Truck route. Vehicles exceeding the weight limit of 20,000 pounds
prescribed by division (B) above may only be operated upon the streets and
alleys within the city listed in
Chapter 72, Schedule I.
(1999 Code, § 5-104) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.03 TRAFFIC LANE; DESIGNATION.
   The governing body may, by resolution, mark lanes for traffic on street
pavements at such places as it may deem advisable.
(1999 Code, § 5-103)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 60-680
§ 70.04 ARTERIAL STREETS; DESIGNATION.
   The governing body may, by resolution, designate any street or portion
thereof as an arterial street and shall provide for appropriate signs or
markings when such street has been so designated.
(1999 Code, § 5-104)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 60-680
§ 70.05 U-TURNS.
   No vehicle shall be turned so as to proceed in the opposite direction,
except at street intersection. No vehicle shall be turned so as to proceed in
the opposite direction at any intersection where an automatic signal is in
operation, or where a sign is posted indicator that U-turns are prohibited.
(1999 Code, § 5-105) Penalty, see §
70.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 60-680
§ 70.06 CROSSWALKS.
   The governing body may, by resolution, establish and maintain, by
appropriate device markers, or lines upon the street, crosswalks, at
intersection where there is particular danger to pedestrians crossing the
street, and at such other places as it may deem necessary.
(1999 Code, § 5-106)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 60-680
§ 70.07 SIGNS, SIGNALS.
   The governing body may, by resolution, provide for the placing of stop
signs, or other sign signals, standards or mechanical devices in any street or
all under the municipality's jurisdiction for the purpose of regulating, or
prohibiting traffic thereon. Such resolution shall describe the portion of the
street or alley wherein traffic is to be regulated or prohibited; the
regulation or prohibition; the location where such sign, signal, standard or
mechanical device shall be placed; and the hours when such regulation or
prohibition shall be effective. It shall be unlawful for any person fail,
neglect or refuse to comply with such regulation, or prohibition.
(1999 Code, § 5-107) Penalty, see §
70.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 60-6,119 through 60-6,121, 60-680
§ 70.08 UTILITY-TYPE VEHICLES.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      CITY AND UTILITY EMPLOYEES. Include any employee of the city and any
employee of any utility company doing business in the city, to include cable/
telephone, electricity, natural gas, garbage and refuse and any other utility
company that provides similar utility services to residents of the city.
      STREET or HIGHWAY. The entire width between the boundary limits of any
street, road, avenue, boulevard or way which is publicly maintained when any
part thereof is open to the use of the public for purposes of vehicular travel.
      UTILITY-TYPE VEHICLE. Any motorized off-highway vehicle which:
         (a)   Is not less than 48 inches nor more than 74 inches in width;
         (b)   Is not more than 135 inches, including the bumper in length;
         (c)   Has a dry weight of not less than 900 pounds nor more than 2,000
pounds;
         (d)   Travels on four or more low-pressure tires; and
         (e)   Is equipped with a steering wheel and bench or bucket-type
seating designed for at least two people to sit side-by-side. UTILITY-TYPE
VEHICLE does not include golf carts or low-speed vehicles.
   (B)   Utility-type vehicles may be operated on streets and highways within
the corporate limits of the city by city and utility company employees only if
the operator and the vehicle comply with the provisions of this section.
   (C)   A utility-type vehicle may be operated as authorized in division (B)
above when such operation occurs only between the hours of sunrise and sunset.
Any person operating a utility-type vehicle as authorized in division (B) above
shall have a valid Class O operator’s license or a farm permit as provided in
Neb. RS 60-4,126, shall have liability insurance coverage for the utility-type
vehicle while operating the utility-type vehicle on a highway, and shall not
operate such vehicle at a speed in excess of 30 mph. The person operating the
utility-type vehicle shall provide proof of such insurance coverage to any
peace officer requesting such proof within five days of such a request When
operating a utility-type vehicle as authorized in division (B) above, the
headlight and taillight of the vehicle shall be on and the vehicle shall be
equipped with a bicycle safety flag which extends not less than five feet above
ground attached to the rear of such vehicle. The bicycle safety flag shall be
triangular in shape with an area of not less than 30 square inches and shall be
day-glow in color.
   (D)   Utility-type vehicles may be operated without complying with division
(C) above on highways in parades which have been authorized by the state or any
department, board, commission or political subdivision of the state.
   (E)   A utility-type vehicle shall not be operated on any controlled-access
highway with more than two marked traffic lanes, and the crossing of any
controlled-access highway with more than two marked traffic lanes shall not be
permitted. Divisions (B), (C) and (E) through (H) of this section authorize and
apply to operation of a utility-type vehicle only on a highway other than a
controlled-access highway with more than two marked traffic lanes.
   (F)   Subject to division (A) above, the crossing of a highway shall be
permitted by a utility-type vehicle without complying with division (C) above
only if:
      (1)   The crossing is made at an angle of approximately ninety degrees to
the direction of the highway and at a place where no obstruction prevents a
quick and safe crossing;
      (2)   The vehicle is brought to a complete stop before crossing the
shoulder or roadway of the highway;
      (3)   The operator yields the right-of-way to all oncoming traffic that
constitutes an immediate potential hazard;
      (4)   In crossing a divided highway, the crossing is made only at an
intersection of such highway with another highway; and
      (5)   Both the headlight and taillight of the vehicle are on when the
crossing is made.
   (G)   If an accident results in the death of any person or in the injury of
any person which requires the treatment of the person by a physician, the
operator of each utility-type vehicle involved in the accident shall give
notice of the accident in the same manner as provided in Neb. RS 60-699.
   (H)   Every utility-type vehicle shall be equipped with:
      (1)   A brake system maintained in good operating condition;
      (2)   An adequate muffler system in good working condition; and
      (3)   A United States Forest Service qualified spark arrester.
(Ord. 392, passed 7-19-2011) Penalty, see §
70.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 60-624
§ 70.09 ENGINE BRAKES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to use engine brakes when operating any
truck on 17th Street within the corporate limits of the city.
(Ord. 319, passed 10-10-2000) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this traffic code for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person operating a vehicle in violation of §
70.02 shall be deemed guilty of an offense and upon conviction thereof shall be
fined a sum not less than $50, nor more than $100.
(1999 Code, § 5-102)
   (C)   Any person who violates §
70.08 shall be fined not more than $100 for each offense.
(Ord. 392, passed 7-19-2011)
CHAPTER 71: PARKING
Section
   
71.01   Designation
   
71.02   Parking areas
   
71.03   Time limit
   
71.04   Maximum time limit
   
71.05   Snow removal; interference; violation; impoundment
   
71.06   Truck parking; statement of purpose
   
71.07   Truck parking; vehicle length limit
   
71.08   Snow emergencies
 
   
71.99   Penalty
§ 71.01 DESIGNATION.
   The governing body may, by resolution, designate any street, or portion
thereof, where vehicles shall be parked parallel with and adjacent to the curb
or at an angle so as to have the right front wheel at the curb.
(1999 Code, § 5-303) Penalty, see §
71.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 60-6,167, 60-680
§ 71.02 PARKING AREAS.
   (A)   The governing body may, by resolution, set aside any street, alley,
public way or portion thereof where the parking of a particular kind or class
of vehicle shall be prohibited, or where the parking of any vehicle shall be
prohibited.
   (B)   No vehicle prohibited from parking thereon shall stand or be parked
adjacent to the curb of said street, alley, public way or portion thereof,
longer than a period of time necessary to load and unload freight or
passengers.
(1999 Code, § 5-304) Penalty, see §
71.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 60-680
§ 71.03 TIME LIMIT.
   The governing body may, by resolution, entirely prohibit, or fix a time
limit for, the parking and stopping of vehicles on any street, streets or
district designated by such resolution, and the parking, or stopping, of any
vehicle in any such street, streets or district, for a period of time longer
than fixed in such resolution shall constitute a violation of this subchapter.
(1999 Code, § 5-312) Penalty, see §
71.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 60-680
§ 71.04 MAXIMUM TIME LIMIT.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      CONSTRUCTION TRAILERS. A trailer designed to be used by contractors to
hold materials and/or tools for construction projects.
      VEHICLE. Every device in, upon or by which any person or property is or
may be transported or drawn upon a highway except devices moved solely by human
power or used exclusively upon stationary rails or tracks.
   (B)   Parking, maximum time limit.
      (1)   No vehicle shall be continuously parked upon any street, road,
alley or public right-of-way within the city for more than 72 hours
consecutively.
      (2)   Exceptions: this section shall not apply to a construction trailer
parked on a street, alley or right-of-way adjacent to the property in or on
which the owner or possessor of the trailer is performing a construction
related project as long as the owner/possessor of the trailer has obtained
permission from the city’s Police Department to park such construction trailer
at such location.
         (a)   The parking of said construction trailer shall not restrict the
flow of normal traffic more than is necessary.
         (b)   Any construction trailer parked overnight shall be marked by
appropriate posting with proper reflective devices.
(Ord. 373, passed 11-10-2009) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.05 SNOW REMOVAL; INTERFERENCE; VIOLATION; IMPOUNDMENT.
   (A)   The governing body may, by rules and regulations, prohibit the parking
and stopping of vehicles in such streets or districts as they may designate for
the purpose of enabling the Municipal Street Department to expeditiously remove
the snow from the streets; and the parking and stopping of any vehicle in any
street, streets or district during the periods of time set forth in such rules
and regulations issued shall constitute a violation of this section.
   (B)   In addition to any penalty assessed for the violation of this section,
any vehicle parked or left standing in violation of this section or the
provisions of any rules or regulations adopted pursuant hereto, may be
impounded as elsewhere provided in this chapter.
(1999 Code, § 5-314) Penalty, see §
71.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 60-680
§ 71.06 TRUCK PARKING; STATEMENT OF PURPOSE.
   The city finds that the parking of semi-truck cabs, semitrailers, box
delivery trucks and trucks that exceed 20 feet in length or a width of eight
feet (as measured at the widest points of the vehicle, not to include attached
side mirrors) on any street in the city that is adjacent to a residential
property creates a disturbance of the peace and quiet of residential
neighborhoods and poses a traffic hazard to the residents of the city by
reducing visibility to motorists and pedestrians and by reducing available
parking. The parking of such vehicles further results in damage to city streets
and unnecessary expense to repair such damage. The parking of such vehicles on
city streets and alleys in residential areas must be regulated for these
reasons.
(1999 Code, § 5-327) (Ord. 422, passed 3-12-2019; Ord. 426, passed 5-14-2019)
Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.07 TRUCK PARKING; VEHICLE LENGTH LIMIT.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to park or allow to be parked any
semi-truck cab, semitrailer, box delivery truck or any truck that exceeds 20
feet in length or a width of eight feet (as measured at the widest points of
the vehicle, not to include attached side mirrors) on any street in the city
adjacent to property used for residential purposes except to deliver or collect
goods, wares, merchandise or materials, in which event the parking shall not
exceed two hours in a 24-hour period; however, this section shall not apply to
vehicles being used to provide repair, service or moving operations to any
residential property. Parking in areas designated as divisions (A)(1) and (A)
(2) below is permitted for vehicle repair services.
      (1)   Cedar Street between 14th Street and Main Street on the north curb
side;
      (2)   14th Street between Elm and Cedar parked on the west curb side;
      (3)   701 17th Street South of Midwest scale in marked locations; and
      (4)   At such other locations designated by resolution of the governing
body.
   (B)   Vehicles that are prohibited from parking on a residential street in
the city as provided in division (A) above shall be authorized to park in areas
specifically designated by the city for such parking.
   (C)   If any vehicle is found upon any street in violation of this section
and the identity of the operator cannot be determined, then the owner or person
in whose name the vehicle is registered shall be held responsible for the
violation.
(1999 Code, § 5-328) (Ord. 423, passed 3-12-2019; Ord. 427, passed 5-14-2019)
Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.08 SNOW EMERGENCIES.
   (A)   In order to facilitate the movement of traffic and to combat the
hazards of snow and ice on the streets and roads of the municipality, the Mayor
and City Council, in its discretion, may declare a snow or ice emergency
(hereinafter referred to as a "snow emergency"). A snow emergency shall be
defined as any weather condition in which any accumulation of snow greater than
six inches has fallen or is predicted to fall or sleet. Information on the
existence of a snow emergency shall be: community access media, the
municipality's website and any official social media pages for the
municipality, and the Police Department, in addition to posting at City Hall
and post office and information regarding the termination of the emergency
shall be given by the use of the same media.
   (B)   (1)   After any snow emergency is declared, it shall be unlawful, at
any time during the continuance of the emergency, for any person:
         (a)   To park a motor vehicle or to allow that vehicle to remain
parked anywhere on any snow emergency route designated in division (B)(2)
below;
         (b)   The following are designated as snow emergency routes:
            1.   17th Street from Oak Street south to city limits;
            2.   North Main Street from Oak Street to Birch Street;
            3.   Front Street from Main Street to 17th Street;
            4.   Birch Street from North Main Street to 17th Street;
            5.   South Main Street from Birch Street south to city limits;
            6.   Oak Street from North Main Street to 17th Street; and
            7.   16th Street from Front Street north.
      (2)   Continuation of such violation for each successive day shall
constitute a separate offense, and the person or persons allowing or permitting
the continuation of a violation may be punished as provided above for each
separate offense.
   (C)   Parking during a snow storm and snow removal on streets not designated
as snow emergency routes, or on all municipal streets during snow storms in
which a snow emergency has not been declared.
      (1)   During any snow storm (defined as any weather condition in which
any accumulation of snow greater than two inches has fallen or sleet or is
predicted to fall, or in which there has been or is predicted to be any
accumulation of ice) parking shall be regulated on all municipal streets as
follows:
         (a)   17th Street from Oak Street south to city limits;
         (b)   North Main Street from Oak Street to Birch Street;
         (c)   Front Street from Main Street to 17th Street;
         (d)   Birch Street from North Main Street to 17th Street;
         (e)   South Main Street from Birch Street south to city limits;
         (f)   Oak Street from North Main Street to 17th Street; and
         (g)   16th Street from Front Street north.
      (2)   During the initial course of any snow storm, parking shall be
prohibited on the uneven numbered side of all municipal streets (i.e., house
numbers are uneven numbers) until such time as plowing, salting, and/or sanding
is completed on said side of the street.
      (3)   Upon notification from the municipality and until after plowing,
salting, and/or sanding is completed, parking shall be prohibited on the even
numbered side of all municipal streets (i.e., house numbers are even numbers)
until such time as plowing, salting, and/or sanding is completed on said side
of the street.
      (4)   At all times during and after any snow storm, it shall be
prohibited for any person to shovel, push, throw, or plow snow from a sidewalk,
driveway, lot, or any other area into the street.
      (5)   Municipal police are hereby authorized to have any vehicle parked
in violation of this section towed away at the expense of the owner of said
vehicle.
      (6)   There is, upon conviction, hereby imposed a fine not to exceed $100
for any violation of the provisions of this section. The continuation of such
violation for each successive day shall constitute a separate offense, and the
person or persons allowing or permitting the continuation of a violation may be
punished as provided above for each separate offense.
   (D)   If at any time during a period of snow emergency declared under this
section a person shall park a motor vehicle or allow a motor vehicle to remain
parked anywhere along a snow emergency route, the person shall be guilty of a
violation of this section, and upon conviction, shall be fined as set forth in
§
71.99(B).
   (E)   Any person who operates a motor vehicle upon any road or street or
portion thereof listed in division (B)(1)(b), above, which vehicle shall become
stalled upon any of the roads, streets or portions thereof listed above during
a period of emergency declared as provided by this section, if such stalling
shall have been by reason of failure to have such vehicle equipped with the
equipment prescribed in division (C)(4) above, shall be guilty of a violation
of this section, and, upon conviction, shall be fined as set forth in § 71.99
(B), and assessed costs for removal of said vehicle from the road or street.
   (F)   The municipal police are hereby authorized to have any cars parked in
violation of this section towed away at the expense of the owner.
   (G)   In order to assist operators of motor vehicles in determining the
streets affected by this section, there shall be placed, on signs on the roads
and streets designated in division (B)(1)(b), above, signs reading as follows:
SNOW EMERGENCY ROUTE
NO PARKING DURING EMERGENCY
(Ord. 458, passed 9-10-2024)
§ 71.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   A violation of §
71.07 shall be subject to a penalty of up to a $200 fine. Each separate day
that such violation occurs may be charged as a separate offense.
   (B)   Unless another penalty is expressly provided by the Nebraska Vehicle
Code, any person who shall be convicted of violating or failing to comply with
the provisions of §
71.08 before any District Justice shall be punishable by a fine of not more
than $100, together with costs of prosecution and costs for towing and storing
the vehicle(s).
(1999 Code, § 5-329) (Ord. 427, passed 5-14-2019; Ord. 458, passed 9-10-2024)
CHAPTER 72: TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
Schedule
      
I.   Truck route
      
II.   Speed limits
SCHEDULE I. TRUCK ROUTE.
   (A)   Statement of purpose. The city finds that traffic from heavy vehicles
causes substantial damage to city streets and results in the deterioration of
said streets at great expense to city taxpayers. It is therefore necessary to
restrict traffic from heavy vehicles to a designated truck route to reduce
deterioration caused to city streets by such vehicles.
   (B)   Street weight limit. It shall be unlawful to operate upon any street
or alley in the city, any truck, truck-tractor, semi-trailer or trailer or
combination thereof having a gross weight of more than 20,000 pounds, other
than as provided below, except that said vehicles may exceed said limitations
if they are being used to deliver goods and/or items to and from residences
and/or businesses in the city.
   (C)   Truck route. Vehicles exceeding the weight limit of 20,000 pounds
prescribed by division (B) above may only be operated upon the following
streets and alleys within the city:
      (1)   Oak Street from the west end of the city limits to the intersection
of 17th Street;
      (2)   Front Street from the northwest corner of 12th Street to 17th
Street;
      (3)   Cedar Street from the west side of 12th Street to 17th Street;
      (4)   The entire length of Main Street;
      (5)   The paved alleys on each side of Main Street in Blocks Six (6),
Seven (7), Fourteen (14) and Fifteen (15);
      (6)    14th Street from Cedar Street to Front Street;
      (7)   Elm Street from North Main Street to 14th Street;
      (8)   12th Street from Cedar Street to Front Street;
      (9)   Birch Street from the west side of the alley in Block Fifteen (15)
to the east side of the alley in Block Fourteen (14);
      (10)   Hickory Road from the east side of 11th Street to North Main; and
      (11)   Maple Street from the west edge of the city limits to North Main.
   (D)   Unlawful acts. It shall be unlawful to operate a vehicle upon any
street, alley or road within the city that exceeds the weight limit set forth
in division (B) above except on the truck routes designated above. It shall
further be unlawful to operate a vehicle upon the truck route described in
division (C) above that exceeds the total weight of 95,000 pounds. Any person
operating a vehicle within the city shall be required to accompany a law
enforcement officer to a portable scale forthwith upon request by the officer
for the purpose of weighing said vehicle. Any operator who refuses or fails to
immediately accompany said officer upon being directed to do so shall be deemed
to be in violation of this schedule and shall be punished as provided below.
(1999 Code, § 5-102) Penalty, see §
70.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 60-680
SCHEDULE II. SPEED LIMITS.
   (A)   Oak Street. No person shall operate a motor vehicle on Oak Street
between 17th Street and the west corporate limits at a rate of speed greater
than 35 mph. In no instance shall a person drive a vehicle on such portion of
Oak Street at a speed greater than is reasonable and prudent under the
conditions.
(1999 Code, § 5-203)
   (B)   Spur 93A within corporate limits.
      (1)   No person shall operate a motor vehicle on Spur 93A within the
corporate limits at a rate of speed greater than the following:
         (a)   Between Oak Street and East Front Street, 35 mph;
         (b)   Between East Front Street and the half block south past Birch
Street, 25 mph; and
         (c)   Between the half block south past Birch Street to the corporate
limits, 35 mph.
      (2)   In no instance shall a person drive a vehicle on Spur 93A within
the corporate limits at a speed greater than reasonable and prudent under the
conditions.
(1999 Code, § 5-204) Penalty, see §
70.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 60-6,190
CHAPTER 73: RECREATIONAL VEHICLES
Section
Golf Carts
   
73.01   Definitions
   
73.02   License requirements
   
73.03   Crossing highway
   
73.04   Operation on streets within corporate limits
   
73.05   Operation restrictions
   
73.06   Compliance required
All-Terrain Vehicles
   
73.20   Definitions
   
73.21   Operation requirements
   
73.22   Crossing highways
   
73.23   Equipment requirements
   
73.24   Tax-exempt entities
   
73.25   Permits; application fee
 
   
73.99   Penalty
GOLF CARTS
§ 73.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   GOLF CART VEHICLE. As defined by the Nebraska statutes (Neb. RS 60-622.01).
   STREET. A public way for the purposes of vehicular travel in a city or
village and includes the entire area within the right-of-way.
(Neb. RS 60-6,381)
(Ord. 425, passed 4-9-2019)
§ 73.02 LICENSE REQUIREMENTS.
   Any persons operating a golf cart vehicle as authorized by this subchapter
shall be at least 16 years old and shall possess a valid driver’s license
issued by the State of Nebraska or another state. The individual operating the
golf cart vehicle shall have proof of liability insurance coverage for the golf
cart vehicle while operating such vehicle on a street and shall be provided fo
any peace officer requesting such proof.
(Ord. 425, passed 4-9-2019) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.03 CROSSING HIGHWAY.
   The crossing of a highway shall be permitted by a golf cart vehicle only if:
   (A)   The crossing is made at an angle of approximately 90 degrees to the
direction of the highway and at a place where no obstruction prevents a quick
and safe crossing;
   (B)   The golf cart vehicle is brought to a complete stop before crossing
the shoulder or roadway of the highway; and/or
   (C)   The operator yields the right-of-way to all oncoming traffic that
constitutes an immediate potential hazard.
(Ord. 425, passed 4-9-2019) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.04 OPERATION ON STREETS WITHIN CORPORATE LIMITS.
   (A)   Golf cart vehicles may be operated on streets within the corporate
limits of the city, with the exception of North Main Street between Birch
Street and Front Street.
   (B)   Golf cart vehicles may be operated on streets within the corporate
limits of the city only for the following purposes:
      (1)   Most direct route to and from place of storage to golf course;
      (2)   Most direct route to and from owner’s residence to golf course;
      (3)   Most direct route to fuel station from owner’s residence or place
of storage; and/or
      (4)   Most direct route to mechanic shop from owner’s residence or place
of storage.
   (C)   Golf cart vehicles shall not be parked or operated at any time on city
trails/sidewalks, or any street with a posted speed limit above 25 mph, but may
be operated upon such a road in order to cross a portion of the street which
intersects a street with a posted speed limit of or less than 25 mph.
(Ord. 425, passed 4-9-2019) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.05 OPERATION RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   Golf cart vehicles may be operated on the streets within the corporate
limits of the city from one-half hour after sunrise and one-half before sunset.
No person shall operate a golf cart vehicle after daylight hours on the streets
of the city in violation of the Nebraska rules of the road as established by
the Revised Statutes of the state.
   (B)   An operator shall not operate a golf cart vehicle at a speed in excess
of 20 mph.
(Ord. 425, passed 4-9-2019) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.06 COMPLIANCE REQUIRED.
   Golf cart vehicles may be operated on streets within the corporate limits of
the city only if the operator and the vehicle comply with the provisions of
this subchapter.
(Ord. 425, passed 4-9-2019) Penalty, see §
73.99
ALL-TERRAIN VEHICLES
§ 73.20 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ALL-TERRAIN VEHICLE. Any motorized off-highway vehicle which:
      (1)   Is 50 inches or less in width;
      (2)   Has a dry weight of 900 pounds or less;
      (3)   Travels on three or more low-pressure tires;
      (4)   Is designed for operator use only with no passengers or is
specifically designed by the original manufacturer for the operator and one
passenger;
      (5)   Has a seat or saddle designed to be straddled by the operator; and
      (6)   Has handlebars or any other steering assembly for steering control.
   STREET or HIGHWAY. The entire width between the boundary limits of any
street, road, avenue, boulevard or way which is publicly maintained when any
part thereof is open to the use of the public for purposes of vehicular travel.
   UTILITY-TYPE VEHICLE.
      (1)   Any motorized off-highway vehicle which:
         (a)   Is not less than 48 inches, nor more than 74 inches, in width;
         (b)   Is not more than 135 inches, including the bumper in length;
         (c)   Has a dry weight of not less than 900 pounds, nor more than
2,000 pounds;
         (d)   Travels on four or more low-pressure tires; and
         (e)   Is equipped with a steering wheel and bench or bucket-type
seating designed for at least two people to sit side-by-side.
      (2)   UTILITY-TYPE VEHICLE does not include golf carts or low-speed
vehicles.
(Ord. 424, passed 4-9-2019)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 60-624
§ 73.21 OPERATION REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   All-terrain vehicles and utility-type vehicles may be operated on
streets and highways within the corporate limits of the city only if the
operator and the vehicle comply with the provisions of this subchapter.
   (B)   An all-terrain vehicle and utility-type vehicle may be operated as
authorized in division (A) above when such operation occurs only between the
hours of sunrise and sunset. Any person operating an all-terrain vehicle and
utility-type vehicle as authorized in division (A) above shall be at least 21
years of age and have a valid Class O operator’s license, shall have liability
insurance coverage for the all-terrain vehicle and utility-type vehicle while
operating the all-terrain vehicle and utility-type vehicle on a street or
highway, and shall operate such vehicle at posted speed limits and not in
excess of 30 mph. The person operating the all-terrain vehicle and utility-type
vehicle shall provide proof of such insurance coverage to any peace officer
requesting such proof within five days of such a request. When operating an
all-terrain vehicle and utility-type vehicle as authorized in division (A)
above, the headlight and taillight of the vehicle shall be on and the vehicle
shall be equipped with a bicycle safety flag which extends not less than five
feet above ground attached to the rear of such vehicle. The bicycle safety flag
shall be triangular in shape with an area of not less than 30 square inches and
shall be day-glow in color. No farm permits are allowed within corporate
limits.
   (C)   All-terrain vehicles and utility-type vehicles may be operated without
complying with division (B) above on highways in parades which have been
authorized by the state or any department, board, commission or political
subdivision of the state.
   (D)   An all-terrain vehicle and utility-type vehicle shall not be operated
on any controlled-access highway with more than two marked traffic lanes, and
the crossing of any controlled-access highway with more than two marked traffic
lanes shall not be permitted. Divisions (A), (B) (C), (D) and (E) below and §
73.22 authorize and apply to operation of an all-terrain vehicle and utility-
type vehicle only on a highway other than a controlled-access highway with more
than two marked traffic lanes.
   (E)   Use of wireless communication devices are prohibited while operating
all-terrain vehicles or utility-type vehicles.
   (F)   Operation of all-terrain vehicles and utility-type vehicles may be
operated or parked on streets within the corporate limits of the city, with the
exception of North Main Street between Birch Street and Front Street.
(Ord. 424, passed 4-9-2019) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.22 CROSSING HIGHWAY.
   The crossing of a highway shall be permitted by an all-terrain vehicle and
utility-type vehicle without complying with §
73.21(B) only if:
   (A)   The crossing is made at an angle of approximately 90 degrees to the
direction of the highway and at a place where no obstruction prevents a quick
and safe crossing;
   (B)   The vehicle is brought to a complete stop before crossing the shoulder
or roadway of the highway;
   (C)   The operator yields the right-of-way to all oncoming traffic that
constitutes an immediate potential hazard;
   (D)   In crossing a divided highway, the crossing is made only at an
intersection of such highway with another highway;
   (E)   Both the headlight and taillight of the vehicle are on when the
crossing is made; and
   (F)   If an accident results in the death of any person or in the injury of
any person which requires the treatment of the person by a physician, the
operator of each all-terrain vehicle and utility-type vehicle involved in the
accident shall give notice of the accident in the same manner as provided in
Neb. RS 60-699.
(Ord. 424, passed 4-9-2019) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.23 EQUIPMENT REQUIREMENTS.
   Every all-terrain vehicle and utility-type vehicle shall be equipped with:
   (A)   A brake system maintained in good operating condition;
   (B)   An adequate muffler system in good working condition;
   (C)   Rearview mirror; and
   (D)   A United States Forest Service qualified spark arrester.
(Ord. 424, passed 4-9-2019) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.24 TAX-EXEMPT ENTITIES.
   All tax-exempt entities shall follow this subchapter, with the exceptions of
§
73.25.
(Ord. 424, passed 4-9-2019)
§ 73.25 PERMITS; APPLICATION FEE.
   (A)   Any person desiring to operate an all-terrain vehicle or utility-type
vehicle on streets and highways within the corporate limits of the city shall
make written request to the Police Department or person designated by the
Council for a permit allowing such use and shall at all times prominently
display a valid and current identification tag issued by the city on the
utility-type vehicle.
   (B)   (1)   In order to obtain a permit to operate a utility type vehicle
within the corporate limits of the city, an applicant must make an annual
application therefor at the offices of the Police Department or City Hall and
provide the following information:
         (a)   Name and address of the applicant;
         (b)   Proof of insurance for the all-terrain or utility type vehicle
(s) to be operated within the city by the applicant;
         (c)   Valid Class O operator’s license issued by the state; and
         (d)   Year, make, model, color, engine size and vehicle identification
number (VIN) of the utility type vehicle(s) to be operated within the city by
the applicant.
      (2)   Upon compliance with division (B)(1) above, and payment of an
application fee of $20 for permit, which fees may be amended from time to time
by resolution of the City Council, the Police Department or designated person
shall issue the applicant a permit to operate the designated utility-type
vehicle(s) within the corporate limits of the city.
   (C)   Permits to operate the utility-type vehicle shall be valid from the
date of issuance until midnight on December 31 of the year for which the permit
is issued.
(Ord. 424, passed 4-9-2019)
§ 73.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who violates §§
73.01 through
73.06 shall be fined not more than $100 for each offense.
   (B)   Any person who violates §§
73.20 through
73.25 shall be fined not more than $100 for each offense.
(Ord. 424, passed 4-9-2019; Ord. 425, passed 4-9-2019)
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
90.   ANIMALS
      
91.   FIRE PROTECTION AND PREVENTION
      
92.   STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
      
93.   NUISANCES
      
94.   PARKS AND RECREATION
CHAPTER 90: ANIMALS
Section
General Provisions
   
90.01   Definitions
   
90.02   Running at large
   
90.03   Property owner; impoundment
   
90.04   Police; request to take possession
   
90.05   Return to owner
   
90.06   Impoundment; board fees
   
90.07   Owner not found; disposition
   
90.08   Authority to impound
   
90.09   Disposition of unredeemed animals
   
90.10   Disposition of large animals
   
90.11   Slaughterhouses prohibited; exceptions
   
90.12   Rabies; disposition of animals afflicted or exposed
   
90.13   Dead animals; duty to remove
   
90.14   Dead animals; unlawful acts
   
90.15   Prohibition against keeping designated animals
   
90.16   Hen chickens; permit
Dogs
   
90.30   License
   
90.31   License tags
   
90.32   Wrongful licensing
   
90.33   Proclamation
   
90.34   Running at large
   
90.35   Capture impossible
   
90.36   Barking and offensive
   
90.37   Removal of tags
   
90.38   Impounding
   
90.39   Rabies suspected
   
90.40   Harboring dangerous dogs prohibited
   
90.41   Limitation on number of dogs
   
90.42   Disposal of dog waste
Cats
   
90.50   Limitation of number of cats
   
90.51   Definitions
   
90.52   Endorsement of the trap-neuter-return program; permitted acts
 
   
90.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 90.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ANIMAL. Any and all types of animals both domesticated and wild, male and
female, singular and plural.
   AT LARGE. Off the premises of the owner or custodian of the animal or fowl,
and not under the immediate control of the owner or custodian.
   FOWL. Any and all fowl, domesticated and wild, male and female, singular and
plural.
   OWNER. Any person, partnership, or corporation owning, keeping, or harboring
one or more animals. An animal shall be deemed to be harbored if it is fed or
sheltered for three consecutive days or more.
(1999 Code, § 6-201) (Ord. 450, passed 12-13-2022)
§ 90.02 RUNNING AT LARGE.
   No person in charge, custody or control thereof, shall permit any animal or
fowl to go loose or run at large in any of the public ways, or upon the
property of another, in the municipality, or to be tethered or staked out in
such a manner as to allow said animal to reach to or pass into any public way,
or upon the property of another, except in enclosed places on private property
owned or leased by the owner of such animal or fowl.
(1999 Code, § 6-202) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.03 PROPERTY OWNER; IMPOUNDMENT.
   Any person finding any animal or fowl upon his or her property to his or her
injury or annoyance may take up same and remove it to any private or other
animal shelter that will take possession of it. If no such shelter is
available, he or she may hold the animal or fowl in his or her own possession,
and as soon as possible notify the municipal police of this custody, giving a
description of the animal or fowl and the name of the owner if known.
(1999 Code, § 6-203) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.04 POLICE; REQUEST TO TAKE POSSESSION.
   The municipal police, as soon as possible after receiving notice, will
dispatch an officer to appear at the premises and take possession of the animal
or fowl.
(1999 Code, § 6-204)
§ 90.05 RETURN TO OWNER.
   (A)   If the officer has or with reasonable dispatch can obtain the name of
the owner or custodian of the animal or fowl, he or she will return it to the
residence address.
   (B)   (1)   If there is no one at the address, he or she will leave a notice
where the owner or custodian may reclaim the property.
      (2)   He or she will then proceed to the nearest animal hospital or
shelter which will accept the animal or fowl and leave it. He or she will then
serve or have served a citation on the owner or custodian for permitting the
animal or fowl to go at large.
(1999 Code, § 6-205) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.06 IMPOUNDMENT; BOARD FEES.
   The owner or custodian who redeems an animal or fowl from an animal hospital
or shelter shall pay a board fee on a per diem basis in an amount previously
agreed to between the municipality and the owner of the hospital or shelter,
but in no event shall such payment be less than $10.
(1999 Code, § 6-206)
§ 90.07 OWNER NOT FOUND; DISPOSITION.
   Any officer or designated person picking up an animal or fowl and after
reasonable diligence is unable to find who owns or has custody of it, will take
it to the nearest animal hospital or shelter and leave it.
(1999 Code, § 6-207)
§ 90.08 AUTHORITY TO IMPOUND.
   (A)   Any police officer or other person designated by the municipality for
such purpose is authorized to capture and impound any animal or fowl found at
large, impounding to be in accordance with the procedure authorized by this
chapter.
   (B)   In the event capture cannot be effected promptly, the officer or
person is authorized to destroy the animal or fowl.
(1999 Code, § 6-208)
§ 90.09 DISPOSITION OF UNREDEEMED ANIMALS.
   Any animal or fowl not redeemed within 72 hours will be disposed of in such
manner as previously agreed upon between the municipality and owner of the
animal hospital or shelter. The owner of the hospital or shelter is made an
agent of the municipality for this purpose, and his or her actions in this
regard are declared to be for a governmental purpose.
(1999 Code, § 6-209)
§ 90.10 DISPOSITION OF LARGE ANIMALS.
   Should any officer or designated person upon call or upon his or her own
initiative pick up a large animal such as a horse, cow or mule or any other
animal not acceptable by any animal hospital or shelter, he or she is
authorized to call a trucking firm or company. The firm or company will convey
the animal outside the corporate limits to a farm previously arranged by the
municipality to handle such cases. The disposition of the animal in this case
shall be handled in the same manner as though it were in an animal hospital or
shelter.
(1999 Code, § 6-210)
§ 90.11 SLAUGHTERHOUSES PROHIBITED; EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   It is hereby made unlawful for any person, within the corporate limits
of the municipality, to operate or maintain a slaughterhouse; provided, after
slaughter outside the corporate limits, animals may be processed for commercial
purposes or otherwise therein.
   (B)   Fowls may be slaughtered and processed for commercial or other purpose
within the corporate limits of the municipality if the place used or maintained
for such purpose is located at least 30 feet from the street line and is kept
in reasonably sanitary and clean condition.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person so operating or maintaining such
slaughterhouse to allow parts of fowls, carcasses or blood thereof to remain
open and exposed or accumulated in any manner likely to putrefy, or attract
insects, rodents or varmints. Persons so operating or maintaining such
slaughterhouse shall keep such premises clean and shall forthwith remove the
carcasses and remnants of all fowls or blood therein slaughtered and shall
exercise care to avoid noxious odors, offensive sights or conditions.
   (D)   It shall be the duty of the Chief of Police to inspect any such
premises and to make such requirements as to health, sanitation and cleanliness
as are reasonably designed to promote the public health and comfort.
(1999 Code, § 6-211) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.12 RABIES; DISPOSITION OF ANIMALS AFFLICTED OR EXPOSED.
   Animals suspected of having rabies, or those that have bitten a person shall
be isolated for a period of 14 days, or until a clinical diagnosis of rabies
has been made. Animals bitten or suspected of having been bitten by a rabid
animal shall either be destroyed, or be kept segregated under veterinary
control for the incubation period of the disease or until released from
segregation by veterinary authority.
(1999 Code, § 6-212)
§ 90.13 DEAD ANIMALS; DUTY TO REMOVE.
   If any animals shall die in the possession of any person in the
municipality, it shall be the duty of such person to cause the same to be at
once removed without the limits of the municipality and buried or otherwise
disposed of. Such burial or disposition shall be at a place prescribed by and
under the direction of the Board of Health. In case the owner or person having
charge of any such animal shall neglect or refuse to remove such dead animal
within ten hours after its death, then and in that event the Board of Health
shall provide for the removal of the dead animal, at the expense of such owner
or person having charge of the same, such expenditure to be recovered in a
civil action. Whenever the owner or other person having charge of any dead
animals cannot be found, it shall be the duty of the Board of Health to cause
such animal to be removed and buried at the expense of the municipality.
(1999 Code, § 6-213)
§ 90.14 DEAD ANIMALS; UNLAWFUL ACTS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to deposit or bury, on any of the
streets or alleys or other places within the corporate limits of the
municipality or within one mile thereof, or cause to be buried, any carcass of
any dead animal of any kind; and it shall be unlawful for the owner or person
having possession of any animal that shall die, to suffer the carcass of any
such animal to remain within the corporate limits of the municipality or within
one mile thereof, for more than ten hours after the death of said animal,
except under the direction of the Board of Health as provided in the preceding
section. And, in no event shall such dead animal be used as food for other
animals or humans.
(1999 Code, § 6-214) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.15 PROHIBITION AGAINST KEEPING DESIGNATED ANIMALS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person or persons to keep any cattle, hogs,
horses, goats, rabbits, roosters, ducks, geese, turkeys, other fowl (with
exception of hen chickens) or other animals in any pen, shed or yard within the
city and its territorial jurisdiction, and the keeping of any of the above-
mentioned animals except where otherwise permitted by this code, shall
constitute a nuisance, and shall, upon conviction, be punished as provided in
this code.
(Ord. 412, passed 1-9-2018) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.16 HEN CHICKENS; PERMIT.
   Hen chickens may be kept within the city and its territorial jurisdiction
subject to the following requirements.
   (A)   No more than six hen chickens may be kept on any single zoning lot.
   (B)   Hen chickens may only be kept on lots within the single-family zoning
district.
   (C)   Hen chickens may not be kept on any vacant or uninhabited tract of
land.
   (D)   No roosters may be kept or possessed within the city or its
territorial jurisdiction.
   (E)   Hen chickens shall be kept within a covered enclosure during non-
daylight hours. The covered enclosure or coop shall contain at least four
square feet of floor area per fenced chicken. Hen chickens shall be kept in
either a covered enclosure or a fenced enclosure during all daylight hours. The
fenced enclosure shall provide at least ten square feet of open area per hen
chicken. No coop shall exceed 120 square feet of floor area, and no coop shall
exceed six feet in height.
   (F)   Hen chickens must be kept on the rear yard of the property. Rear yard
means that portion of the lot between the rear of the dwelling and the rear lot
line.
   (G)   The covered enclosure or fenced enclosure may not be located within
ten feet of the property line of any adjacent property. No covered enclosure or
fenced enclosure shall be located within 40 feet of any residential structure
located on any other property.
   (H)   All enclosures for keeping hen chickens shall be so constructed and
maintained as to prevent rats, mice and other rodents from existing underneath
or within the enclosure.
   (I)   Any person who shall keep hen chickens shall be required to obtain an
application for a permit to house hen chickens before hen chickens may be
placed or brought upon any property. The application and a permit fee of $30
may be filed at the office of the city clerk who shall refer the application to
the Zoning Administrator for review. Upon review, if a building permit
application is necessary, the building permit application and fee shall be
filed according to §
150.021 prior to the approval of the application for a permit to house hen
chickens.
   (J)   All feed and materials used to maintain the hen chickens shall be
protected so as to prevent rats, mice and other rodents from gaining access
with the feed and/or materials.
   (K)   It shall be unlawful for any person who possesses, keeps or harbors
hen chickens to allow hen chickens to run at large.
   (L)   No hen chicken may be slaughtered outside of an enclosed structure.
(Ord. 413, passed 1-9-2018) Penalty, see §
90.99
DOGS
§ 90.30 LICENSE.
   Any person who shall own, keep or harbor a dog over the age of three months
within the municipality shall within 30 days after acquisition of the said dog
acquire a license for each such dog annually by or before May 1 of each year.
The said tax shall be delinquent from and after June 1; provided, the possessor
of any dog brought into or harbored within the corporate limits subsequent to
May 1 of any year, shall be liable for the payment of the dog tax levied herein
and such tax shall be delinquent if not paid within ten days thereafter.
Licenses shall be issued by the Municipal Clerk upon the payment of a license
fee as set by resolution of the governing body. Said license shall not be
transferable and no refund will be allowed in case of death, sale or other
disposition of the licensed dog. The owner shall state at the time the
application is made and upon printed forms provided for such purpose, his or
her name and address and the name, breed, color and sex of each dog owned and
kept by him or her. A certificate that the dog has had a rabies shot, effective
for the ensuing year of the license, shall be presented when the license is
applied for and no license or tag shall be issued until the certificate is
shown.
(1999 Code, § 6-101) Penalty, see §
90.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-526, 54-603, 71-4412
§ 90.31 LICENSE TAGS.
   (A)   (1)   Upon the payment of the license fee, the Municipal Clerk shall
issue to the owner of a dog a license certificate and a metallic tag for each
dog so licensed.
      (2)   The metallic tags shall be properly attached to the collar or
harness of all dogs so licensed and shall entitle the owner to keep or harbor
the said dog until April 30 following such licensing.
   (B)   (1)   In the event that a license tag is lost and upon satisfactory
evidence that the original plate or tag was issued in accordance with the
provisions herein, the Municipal Clerk shall issue a duplicate or new tag for
the balance of the year for which the license tax has been paid and shall
charge and collect a fee set by resolution of the governing body for each
duplicate or new tag so issued.
      (2)   All license fees and collections shall be immediately credited to
the General Fund.
      (3)   It shall be the duty of the Municipal Clerk to issue tags of a
suitable design that are different in appearance each year.
(1999 Code, § 6-102)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-526, 54-603
§ 90.32 WRONGFUL LICENSING.
   It shall be unlawful for the owner, keeper or harborer of any dog to permit
or allow such dog to wear any license, metallic tag or other municipal
identification than that issued by the Municipal Clerk for dogs, nor shall the
owner, keeper or harborer wrongfully and knowingly license an unspayed female
dog with a license prescribed for a male or spayed female dog.
(1999 Code, § 6-103) Penalty, see §
90.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-526, 54-603
§ 90.33 PROCLAMATION.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of the governing body, whenever in its opinion
the danger to the public safety from rabid dogs is great or imminent, to issue
a proclamation ordering all persons owning, keeping or harboring any dog to
muzzle the same, or to confine it for a period of not less than 30 days or more
than 90 days from the date of such proclamation, or until such danger is
passed. The dogs may be harbored by any good and sufficient means in a house,
garage or yard on the premises wherein the said owner may reside.
   (B)   Upon issuing the proclamation, it shall be the duty of all persons
owning, keeping or harboring any dog to confine the same as herein provided.
(1999 Code, § 6-105) Penalty, see §
90.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-526
§ 90.34 RUNNING AT LARGE.
   (A)   No person who owns, harbors, keeps or maintains any dog shall permit
such dog to be off the premises where the dog is owned, kept, harbored or
maintained or to otherwise run at large unless the dog is under the control of
a competent person.
   (B)   Any dog shall be deemed to be running at large unless it is securely
chained or tied on a leash or kept in a pen or within doors in a building, or
is on the premises where it is owned, kept, harbored or maintained.
(Ord. 417, passed 11-13-2018) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.35 CAPTURE IMPOSSIBLE.
   The municipal police shall have the authority to kill any animals showing
vicious tendencies, or characteristics of rabies which make capture impossible
because of the danger involved.
(1999 Code, § 6-107)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 54-605
§ 90.36 BARKING AND OFFENSIVE.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to own, keep or harbor any dog
which by loud, continued or frequent barking, howling or yelping shall annoy or
disturb any neighborhood, or person, or which habitually barks at or chases
pedestrians, drivers or owners of horses or vehicles while they are on any
public sidewalks, streets or alleys in the municipality.
   (B)   Upon the written complaint of two or more affected persons from
different households, filed within any 30-day period with the Municipal Clerk,
that any dog owned by the person named in the complaint is an annoyance or
disturbance, or otherwise violates the provisions of this section, the
municipal police shall investigate the complaint and, if in their opinion the
situation warrants, shall notify the owner to silence and restrain such dog.
   (C)   The provisions of this section shall not be construed to apply to the
municipal dog shelter.
(1999 Code, § 6-110) Penalty, see §
90.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-526
§ 90.37 REMOVAL OF TAGS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to remove or cause to be removed, the
collar, harness or metallic tag from any licensed dog without the consent of
the owner, keeper or possessor thereof.
(1999 Code, § 6-112) Penalty, see §
90.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-526
§ 90.38 IMPOUNDING.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of the municipal police to capture, secure and
remove in a humane manner to the municipal animal shelter any dog violating any
of the provisions of this chapter. The dogs so impounded shall be treated in a
humane manner and shall be provided with a sufficient supply of food and fresh
water each day. Each impounded dog shall be kept and maintained at the pound
for a period of not less than three days after public notice has been given
unless reclaimed earlier by the owner. Notice of impoundment of all animals,
including any significant marks or identifications, shall be posted at the
office of the Municipal Clerk within 24 hours after impoundment as public
notification of such impoundment.
   (B)   Any dog may be reclaimed by its owner during the period of impoundment
by payment of a general impoundment fee and daily board fee as set by
resolution of the governing body and on file in the office of the Municipal
Clerk. The owner shall then be required to comply with the licensing and rabies
vaccination requirements within 72 hours after release.
   (C)   If the dog is not claimed at the end of required waiting period after
public notice has been given the municipal police may dispose of the dog in
accordance with the applicable rules and regulations pertaining to the same;
provided, that if, in the judgment of the municipal police, a suitable home can
be found for any such dog within the municipality, the said dog shall be turned
over to that person and the new owner shall then be required to pay all fees
and meet all licensing and vaccinating requirements provided in this chapter.
   (D)   (1)   The municipality shall acquire legal title to any unlicensed dog
impounded in the animal shelter for a period longer than the required waiting
period after giving notice.
      (2)   All dogs shall be destroyed and buried in the summary and humane
manner as prescribed by the Board of Health unless a suitable home can be found
for such dog.
(1999 Code, § 6-113) Penalty, see §
90.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-548, 71-4408
§ 90.39 RABIES SUSPECTED.
   Any dog suspected of being afflicted with rabies, or any dog not vaccinated
in accordance with the provisions of this chapter which has bitten any person
and caused an abrasion of the skin, shall be seized and impounded under the
supervision of the Board of Health for a period of not less than ten days. If
upon examination by a veterinarian, the dog has no clinical signs of rabies at
the end of such impoundment, it may be released to the owner, or, in the case
of an unlicensed dog, it shall be disposed of in accordance with the provisions
herein. If the owner of the said dog has proof of vaccination, it shall be
confined by the owner or some other responsible person for a period of at least
ten days, at which time the dog shall be examined by a licensed veterinarian.
If no signs of rabies are observed, the dog may be released from confinement.
(1999 Code, § 6-114)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 71-4406
§ 90.40 HARBORING DANGEROUS DOGS PROHIBITED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to own, harbor, keep, maintain or
possess any dog or have under his or her control, any dog of dangerous, vicious
or fierce propensities or tendencies within the limits of the city, or to keep
or harbor any dog that has previously engaged in any behavior that qualifies
such a dog for determination as a dangerous or vicious dog as provided by this
section.
   (B)   No person who owns, harbors, keeps or maintains any dog of dangerous,
vicious or fierce propensities shall permit such dog to be off the premises
where the dog is owned, kept, harbored or maintained or to otherwise run at
large. Any dog shall be deemed to be running at large when it is off the
premises where it is owned, kept, harbored or maintained unless it is securely
chained or tied on a leash or kept in a pen or within doors in a building.
   (C)   If any dog bites or attempts to bite any person then such dog shall be
conclusively presumed to be a dangerous dog and a dog of dangerous propensities
and tendencies, except as provided in division (E) below.
   (D)   If any dog attacks or attempts to attack any other dog or other animal
while such dog is at large, or chases a person in an aggressive manner while
the dog is at large, then the dog shall be conclusively presumed to be a
vicious dog and to have vicious propensities and tendencies.
   (E)   If any dog has previously been determined to be a vicious or dangerous
dog in any other jurisdiction under a similar statute or ordinance, then such
dog shall be deemed to be a dangerous dog under this section.
   (F)   No dog may be declared dangerous or vicious that inflicts injury or
damage on a person committing a willful trespass or other tort, or crime, or
attempting to commit such trespass, tort or crime upon premises occupied by the
owner of the dog. No dog may be declared dangerous or vicious for taking any
action to defend or protect a human being or itself from an unjustified attack
or assault by another animal or person, in any prosecution under this section
in which it is claimed that the exception created by this division (F) exists,
such claim shall be an affirmative defense, and the person charged with the
violation of this section shall have the burden to prove the existence of facts
supporting this claim by a preponderance of the evidence.
   (G)   If a dog is determined to be a dangerous or vicious dog under this
section, and such dog has not previously been determined to be a dangerous or
vicious dog under this section or any other similar ordinance or statute, then
upon conviction under this section, the court may order the Police Department
to dispose of the dangerous dog in an expeditious and humane manner, or it may
require the owner or person in possession or control of such dog to remove the
dog from the city limits. In the event that the dog has previously been
determined to be a dangerous or vicious dog under this section or any other
similar ordinance or statute, then the court shall order the Police Department
to dispose of the dangerous dog in an expeditious and humane manner or it shall
require the owner or person in possession or control of such dog to permanently
remove the dog from the city limits.
   (H)   Any officer or agent of the Police Department may immediately
confiscate a dog of dangerous, vicious or fierce propensities that is found to
be in violation of this section, and upon confiscation and placement of such
dog by an officer or agent of the Police Department, the owner shall be
responsible for the reasonable costs incurred for the care of such dog
confiscated or for the destruction of any dangerous dog that has been
confiscated or destroyed pursuant to this section. The court is further
authorized to order any individual who is convicted for a violation of this
section to pay the reasonable costs incurred for the care of the dangerous dog
that has been confiscated or for the costs of the destruction of such dangerous
dog.
(Ord. 420, passed 11-13-2018) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.41 LIMITATION ON NUMBER OF DOGS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful and a public nuisance for any person to own,
keep, harbor or maintain more than three dogs over the age of three months
within the city.
   (B)   The maximum limitation imposed by this section shall not apply to any
person who owns, keeps, harbors or maintains more than three dogs over six
months of age at the time of the adoption of this section. In the event that
one of the dogs that are owned, kept, harbored or maintained by such person
shall die, become lost, be sold or given away, such animal may not be replaced
if it would cause the number of dogs owned, kept, harbored or maintained by
such person to exceed three.
(Ord. 342, passed 6-8-2004) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.42 DISPOSAL OF DOG WASTE.
   (A)   Any person having custody or control of any dog shall have the
responsibility for the disposal of feces or manure of the dog in a sanitary
manner. The provisions of this section shall not apply to law enforcement
officers while using the dog to perform law enforcement functions or rescue
activity.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any dog to discharge feces or manure on
public property or private property of another unless it is promptly removed by
the person having custody or control of the dog and placed in an appropriate
garbage or refuse container on public property or on private property with the
consent of the owner of such private property.
   (C)   Upon the violation of this section by a dog, any person who has
custody of such dog shall be punished as provided by this code.
(Ord. 350, passed 12-14-2004) Penalty, see §
90.99
CATS
§ 90.50 LIMITATION OF NUMBER OF CATS.
   (A)   The maximum number of indoor/outdoor or outdoor cats for any person to
own, keep, harbor, or maintain is no more than four cats over the age of three
months within the city.
   (B)   The maximum limitation imposed by this section shall not apply to any
person who owns, keeps, harbors or maintains more than four cats over three
months of age at the time of the adoption of this chapter. In the event that
one of the cats that are owned, kept, harbored or maintained by such person
shall die, become lost, be sold or given away, such animal may not be replaced
if it would cause the number of cats owned, kept, harbored or maintained by
such person to exceed four.
(Ord. 456, passed 8-13-2024)
§ 90.51 DEFINITIONS.
   For purposes of this subchapter, the following terms shall have the
following meanings.
   COMMUNITY CAT. A member of the domestic species Felis Catus and shall mean a
free-roaming cat who may be cared for by one or more residents of the immediate
area who is/are known or unknown; a community cat may or may not be feral.
Community cats are not wildlife.
   COMMUNITY CAT CAREGIVER. A person who, in accordance with and pursuant to a
policy of trap-neuter-return, provides care or medical care to a community cat,
while not being considered the owner, harborer, controller, or keeper of a
community cat.
   EAR TIPPING. The removal of the distal one-quarter of a community cat's left
ear, which is approximately three-eights-inch, or one centimeter, in an adult
and proportionally smaller in a kitten. This procedure is performed under
sterile conditions while the cat is under anesthesia, in compliance with any
applicable federal or state law, and under the supervision of a licensed
veterinarian. Ear tips are designed to identify a community cat as being
sterilized and lawfully vaccinated for rabies.
   FERAL CAT. A cat that is not socialized towards humans, is born in the wild,
is the offspring of an owned cat or is a formerly owned cat that has been
abandoned.
   TRAP-NEUTER-RETURN. The process of humanely trapping, sterilizing,
vaccinating for rabies, ear tipping, and returning community cats to their
original location.
(Ord. 456, passed 8-13-2024)
§ 90.52 ENDORSEMENT OF THE TRAP-NEUTER-RETURN PROGRAM; PERMITTED ACTS.
   (A)   To determine the preferred approach for managing the cat population by
endorsing the trap, neuter and return program consisting of trapping,
sterilizing, vaccinating for rabies, ear tipping, and returning cats to their
original location is an effective and humane way to manage the population of
cats within Henderson; and
   (B)   Permitted acts. The following actions shall be permitted in Henderson
as part of trap-neuter-return:
      (1)   Trapping, for the sole purpose of sterilizing, vaccinating for
rabies, and ear tipping community cats, in compliance with any applicable
federal or state law, and under the supervision of a licensed veterinarian,
where applicable.
      (2)   An ear tipped cat received by local shelters will be returned to
the location where trapped unless veterinary care is required. A trapped ear
tipped cat will be released on site unless veterinary care is required.
      (3)   Community cat caregivers are empowered to reclaim impounded
community cats without proof of ownership solely for the purpose of carrying
out trap-neuter-return and/or returning ear tipped community cats to their
original locations.
      (4)   A person who returns a community cat to its original location while
conducting trap-neuter-return is not deemed to have abandoned the cat.
      (5)   Trap-neuter-return shall be the preferred disposition for impounded
community cats. Animal control and the local shelter are authorized and
encouraged to conduct trap-neuter-return or to direct impounded community cats
to a trap-neuter-return program.
(Ord. 456, passed 8-13-2024)
§ 90.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Anyone permitting a dog to run at large (§
90.34) shall be subject to a minimum fine of $5 and a maximum fine of $100, and
in addition shall be liable for the payment of all fees and expenses incurred
in the impoundment of such dog, which fees and expenses shall be imposed as a
part of the penalty for the violation of this section.
   (C)   Any person who violates §
90.40 shall be punished by a fine of not more than $100, plus the costs of
placement and/or destruction of the dog and may further be ordered to pay
restitution to any person for medical expenses or veterinary expenses, along
with restitution for the value of any damage incurred by any person as a result
of the actions of such dangerous dog.
(Ord. 417, passed 11-13-2018; Ord. 420, passed 11-13-2018)
CHAPTER 91: FIRE PROTECTION AND PREVENTION
Section
Fire Provisions
   
91.01   Fires prohibited; exceptions
   
91.02   New construction and additions
   
91.03   Building requirements
   
91.04   Minor repairs
   
91.05   Roofing
   
91.06   Moving combustible buildings
   
91.07   Temporary permits
   
91.08   Bond
   
91.09   Barricades and lights
   
91.10   Damaged buildings or structures
   
91.11   Damaged buildings or structures; time limitation
   
91.12   Damaged buildings or structures; violation
   
91.13   Removal by city
Fireworks
   
91.25   Sales, discharge
   
91.26   Article in transit
   
91.27   Independence Day
   
91.28   Other exceptions
Fire
   
91.40   Chimneys; construction
   
91.41   Fires outside fire limits
   
91.42   Fires in pavement, sidewalk, gutter, driveway or curb
   
91.43   Stoves, burning crank case drainings or crude oil prohibited
Fire Safety
   
91.55   Exits; chairs in aisles
   
91.56   False fire alarm prohibited
   
91.57   Adoption of Fire Prevention Code
   
91.58   Deletions from Fire Prevention Code adopted
   
91.59   Storage of gasoline and other flammable liquids in or at individual
residences
 
   
91.99   Penalty
FIRE PROVISIONS
§ 91.01 FIRES PROHIBITED; EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   No person, firm or corporation shall burn any rubbish, brush, wood,
trash, leaves, papers or other combustible material of any sort out of doors
anywhere in the municipality.
   (B)   This section does not prohibit outdoor fires for cooking, recreation
or ceremonial purposes.
   (C)   This section does not prohibit burning any material in an incinerator
complying with all applicable laws of this state and approved by the Chief of
Police.
(1999 Code, § 7-101) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.02 NEW CONSTRUCTION AND ADDITIONS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, persons, company or corporation to
build, erect, construct or cause to be built, erected or constructed any wooden
or other combustible building or part thereof or to enlarge any such building,
or to build any addition thereto within the fire limits.
(1999 Code, § 7-102) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.03 BUILDING REQUIREMENTS.
   Every building hereafter erected or enlarged within the fire limits shall be
enclosed on all sides with walls constructed wholly of stone, well-burned
brick, terra cotta, steel, concrete or equivalent incombustible materials;
provided, roofs and dormer windows on said masonry buildings may be constructed
with wood joists but said roofs and dormer windows shall, in all cases, be
covered with non-combustible material, with tin, iron, slate, tile or fireproof
roof; and provided further, incombustible materials may be construed to include
wood when applied to floors in any building within the fire limits. All
cornices shall be of incombustible material.
(1999 Code, § 7-103) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.04 MINOR REPAIRS.
   Minor repairs on existing wooden or ironclad structures, such as to stop
leaky shingle roofs, siding on existing warehouses or storage sheds, where the
work might be fairly construed as patching or covering small areas on the
outside or inside of combustible buildings, shall not require fireproof
materials.
(1999 Code, § 7-104) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.05 ROOFING.
   When combustible buildings are permitted to be roofed or reroofed in the
fire limits, roof covering over all combustible roof construction shall be
either of the following kinds: Composition roofings bearing the label and laid
in the manner provided by the Underwriters Laboratory. Inc., for Class A and B;
concrete slab or concrete tile, slate, clay, tile or asphalt.
(1999 Code, § 7-105) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.06 MOVING COMBUSTIBLE BUILDINGS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, persons, company or corporation to move
in, on or place upon any lot or parcel of ground within the fire limits, any
wooden or combustible building or structure, or of any part thereof, which had
been built, erected or constructed elsewhere, or to remove any such building or
structure or part thereof from one part of the same lot to another part thereof
within said fire limits.
(1999 Code, § 7-106) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.07 TEMPORARY PERMITS.
   Upon application in writing from the owner or agent, permission may be
granted by a two-thirds vote of the members required to be elected to the
Council for a temporary removal of said combustible building to such a location
in the street or other place within said fire limits as said Council shall
specify, when the owner of any such building desires immediately to construct
on its former site a building of non-combustible material and shall immediately
after the completion of said non-combustible building, move said combustible
building outside of the fire limits.
(1999 Code, § 7-107) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.08 BOND.
   Before any such permits shall be issued, the owner or agent desiring the
same shall furnish the city with a good and sufficient bond conditioned to save
the city harmless from any liability occasioned by such removal.
(1999 Code, § 7-108) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.09 BARRICADES AND LIGHTS.
   It shall be the duty of the owner, tenant, lessee or contractor, and of all
or any of them, during the construction of any building or improvement upon or
near the line of any public street, highway, alley or sidewalk, to have all
excavations or exposures of any kind protected and guarded by suitable guards
or barricades by day, and by warning red lights at night. In case of the
failure, neglect or refusal of said persons, or any of them, to erect such
guards and keep the street highway, or sidewalk well and securely guarded, it
shall be lawful for the Street Commissioner or any police officer of city
forthwith to stop all work upon said buildings and improvements until guards
are erected and kept in the manner aforesaid.
(1999 Code, § 7-110) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.10 DAMAGED BUILDINGS OR STRUCTURES.
   Whenever any wooden or any non-combustible building stands within said fire
limits and it shall be damaged by fire or other casualty to the extent of 50%
or more of its value (exclusive of foundation), it shall not be repaired or
rebuilt, but shall be taken down and removed.
(1999 Code, § 7-111) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.11 DAMAGED BUILDINGS OR STRUCTURES; TIME LIMITATION.
   The building so damaged shall be removed within 60 days from the date of the
casualty causing the damage.
(1999 Code, § 7-112) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.12 DAMAGED BUILDINGS OR STRUCTURES; VIOLATION.
   It shall be unlawful for any person in, persons, company corporation to
repair or rebuild any such damaged building or structure or for any owner
thereof to fail to remove any such damage building or structure and to protect
and guard the public from injury or damage arising out of such excavation or
open basement remaining, if any, within 30 days after notice to do so from the
Mayor and City Council.
(1999 Code, § 7-113) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.13 REMOVAL BY CITY.
   If such owner fails or neglects to remove said building or structure, and to
protect and guard the public from injury damage arising out of such excavation
or open basement remaining, if any, as commanded by said notice, the Chief of
Police, upon motion of the Council, shall remove said building or structure and
shall protect and guard said excavation or open basement, if any, and shall
report the cost and expense thereof to the City Attorney who shall collect such
cost and expense from said owner by civil suit or otherwise in the name of the
city.
(1999 Code, § 7-114) Penalty, see §
91.99
FIREWORKS
§ 91.25 SALE, DISCHARGE.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful, except as provided by state law for any person
to discharge, set off, ignite or explode, or cause to be exploded within the
municipality any fireworks other than permissible fireworks as defined by state
law.
   (B)   Permissible fireworks may only be ignited or exploded within the
municipality beginning on June 24 and ending on July 4. Such fireworks may only
be ignited or exploded on such days between the hours of 8:00 a.m. and 10:00
p.m. with the exception of Sundays being between the hours of 12:00 p.m. and
10:00 p.m. and July 4 being between the hours of 8:00 a.m. and 11:00 p.m.
Should July 3 or 4 fall on a Sunday, the hours shall be between 12:00 p.m. and
11:00 p.m.
   (C)   Upon paying the occupation tax set forth in this code, any person may
display, sell or offer for sale any permissible firework during the period
beginning on June 24 and ending on July 4, between the hours of 8:00 a.m. and
10:30 p.m. providing said person keeps, stores, displays, sells and offer for
sale, said articles in a fireproof building with sufficient parking accessible
in close proximity to said building.
(Ord. 391, passed 6-28-2011) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.26 ARTICLE IN TRANSIT.
   Nothing herein shall apply to the possession of pyrotechnics which are in
transportation to points outside of the city; nor shall it apply to the
possession or transportation of such pyrotechnics held by wholesale dealers for
sale and shipment in unbroken packages to points or places outside the city, if
the same be stored, shipped and transported in accordance with the rules and
requirements established by the bureau of fire prevention of the city.
(1999 Code, § 7-202) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.27 INDEPENDENCE DAY.
   The foregoing prohibitions shall not apply to pyrotechnic displays on
Independence Day or at other public celebrations or festival occasions within
any of the parks in the city, if such display be given from a place or point
within said park fenced or roped off, so that any member of the public in said
park cannot approach within 100 feet of the pyrotechnics used or within 100
feet of the point where said pyrotechnics are ignited or set off, and no person
shall be allowed within such enclosure, except person who are actually engaged
in and authorized to handle the giving or putting on of such pyrotechnic
displays; provided, no such displays shall be given, even in compliance
herewith, unless the person or persons sponsoring such display shall have first
applied to and secured a permit in writing from the Mayor and Council to do so;
and provided further, each application shall first be approved by the Chief of
the Fire Department in writing before granted, and, if granted, said permit
shall provide, among other things that said display shall are under the direct
supervision and control of said Chief with regard to all details affecting the
fire and safety hazards.
(1999 Code, § 7-203) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.28 OTHER EXCEPTIONS.
   Nothing herein shall apply to the sale, storage or use of flash light
composition by photographers or dealer in photographic supplies.
(1999 Code, § 7-204) Penalty, see §
91.99
FIRE
§ 91.40 CHIMNEYS; CONSTRUCTION.
   It is hereby declared unlawful for any person, firm or corporation within
the corporate limits of the city to enter, or cause to be entered any stovepipe
into an outlet other than a brick chimney constructed with what is known as
flue lining, well-burned clay or terra cotta pipe, nor shall any person run a
stovepipe through any partition, floor or roof except through a ventilator in
said partition, floor or roof. All chimneys hereafter constructed in the city
shall be lined continuously on the inside with such materials as hereinbefore
provided, shall be made smooth on the inside from the bottom of the flue or
from the throat of the fireplace, if the flue starts from the latter, and shall
be carried up continuously to the extreme height of the flue. The ends of all
lining pipes shall be made to fit close together; the pipe shall be built in as
the flue or flues are carried up and shall extend at least six inches above the
cap of the chimney. Each flue shall be enclosed on all sides with not less than
four inches of solid brickwork properly banded together, and the widths or
brickwork between the lined flues on the inside of the chimney shall be four
inches in thickness. All chimneys, flues and fireplaces shall be kept at all
times clean and free from accumulation of soot, ashes and cinders, and in good
and proper repair.
(1999 Code, § 7-301) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.41 FIRES OUTSIDE FIRE LIMITS.
   The burning of straw, hay, leaves, brush, paper or shavings in the open air
outside said fire limits when the same shall be done without damage to the
public or any property, is hereby permitted and allowed, but any such burning
shall be done while said fire is attended by the person setting out the same
and between the hours of 7:00 a.m. and 9:00 p.m., and said fire shall be
located at least 20 feet from any building.
(1999 Code, § 7-302) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.42 FIRES IN PAVEMENT, SIDEWALK, GUTTER, DRIVEWAY OR CURB.
   Under no circumstances shall any person set out any fire on any pavement or
near any sidewalk, gutter, driveway or curb, now built or hereafter to be
built, within the corporate limits of the city.
(1999 Code, § 7-303) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.43 STOVES, BURNING CRANK CASE DRAININGS OR CRUDE OIL PROHIBITED.
   No homemade oil burning stove or device that burns crank case drainings or
crude oil shall be permitted or allowed to be burned or operated within the
corporate limits of the city.
(1999 Code, § 7-304) Penalty, see §
91.99
FIRE SAFETY
§ 91.55 EXITS; CHAIRS IN AISLES.
   (A)   It shall hereafter be unlawful for any person, firm, association or
corporation, or their agents, who have control or use of any opera house, hall,
church or other building resorted to by the people of the city, for worship,
amusement or for public assemblages, to fail to provide such opera house, hall,
church or other building with suitable, ample and sufficient means of exit and
entrance.
   (B)   No chairs or seats of any description shall be placed or allowed to
remain in the aisle or aisles of said buildings during the time when any
meeting or entertainment is in progress.
(1999 Code, § 7-401) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.56 FALSE FIRE ALARM PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person intentionally to and without reasonable
cause to raise any false alarm of fire.
(1999 Code, § 7-402) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.57 ADOPTION OF FIRE PREVENTION CODE.
   There is hereby adopted by the city for the purpose of prescribing
regulations governing conditions hazardous to life and property from fire or
explosion, that certain code known as the Fire Prevention Code, Abbreviated
Edition, recommended by the National Board of Fire Underwriters, being
particularly the 1970 edition thereof, and the whole thereof, of which code not
less than three copies have been and now are filed in the office of the City
Clerk and the same are hereby adopted and incorporated as fully as if set out
at length herein, and from the date on which this section shall take effect,
the provisions thereof shall be controlling within the limits of the city.
(1999 Code, § 7-403) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.58 DELETIONS FROM FIRE PREVENTION CODE ADOPTED.
   The Fire Prevention Code, Abbreviated Edition, hereby adopted is amended and
changed in the following respects: Article 6, Fireworks, of the Fire Prevention
Code, Abbreviated Edition, hereby adopted, is deleted in its entirety. For
regulations concerning fireworks, see §
91.25.
(1999 Code, § 7-404)
§ 91.59 STORAGE OF GASOLINE AND OTHER FLAMMABLE LIQUIDS IN OR AT INDIVIDUAL
RESIDENCES.
   (A)   The Fire Prevention Code, abbreviated addition, as adopted herein, and
provisions therein to the contrary notwithstanding, no person shall store in or
about his or her residence within the corporate limits of the city any quantity
of gasoline or other flammable liquid in excess of five U.S. gallons.
   (B)   For purposes of this section, storage IN OR ABOUT A RESIDENCE shall
include all storage whether above or below ground, in the open or in buildings,
cabinets or sheds.
   (C)   The prohibition set forth in this section shall not apply to storage
within any tank or container manufactured and a permanent part of any motorized
vehicle owned by the residence, and the limitation placed upon the residence of
the city by this section shall be in addition to the amount stored within such
vehicles on the premises owned or occupied by the resident.
   (D)   Furthermore this provision shall not apply to the storage of heating
and cooking oils and fuels stored in tanks and containers and connected with
the appliances for which said fuels are stored.
(1999 Code, § 7-405) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   There is hereby imposed a payment of a penalty of $10 per day for each
and every day such combustible building is allowed to remain on its temporary
site after the completion of the non-combustible building.
(1999 Code, § 7-109)
   (C)   Any person who shall violate or refuse to comply with the enforcement
of any of the provisions of this chapter, set forth at full length herein or
incorporated by reference shall be deemed guilty of an offense and upon
conviction thereof, shall be fined not more than $100 for each offense. A new
violation shall be deemed to have been committed every 24 hours of such failure
to comply.
(1999 Code, § 7-501)
CHAPTER 92: STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
Section
Municipal Property
   
92.001   Definition
   
92.002   Maintenance and control
   
92.003   Sale and conveyance
   
92.004   Acquisition of real property
   
92.005   Acquisition of property; appraisal
Sidewalks
   
92.020   New construction
   
92.021   Repair
   
92.022   Plans and specifications
   
92.023   Construction by property owners; permit and survey required
   
92.024   Municipal construction
   
92.025   Improvements; other procedures
   
92.026   Construction materials
   
92.027   Assessment sheets
   
92.028   Crosswalks
   
92.029   Overhanging branches; special assessments
   
92.030   Removal of snow, ice and other encroachments
   
92.031   Police duties
   
92.032   Openings
   
92.033   Street Commissioner; absence of City Engineer; duties
Streets
   
92.045   Building materials and equipment
   
92.046   Root obstructions
   
92.047   Private curbs
   
92.048   Eaves and gutter spouts
   
92.049   Plowing up streets
   
92.050   Gasoline pumps
   
92.051   Harmful liquids
   
92.052   Mixing concrete
   
92.053   Manholes
   
92.054   Stake marks
   
92.055   Heavy equipment
   
92.056   Grades established
   
92.057   Grading
   
92.058   Repair
   
92.059   Improvements
   
92.060   Excavations
   
92.061   Pipes and conduits
   
92.062   Paving construction, notice; permit required; underground connections;
assessments
   
92.063   Driveways and aprons; permission required; notice
   
92.064   Curb cuts
   
92.065   Refilling excavations
   
92.066   Valley gutters; markings
   
92.067   Driving over newly laid pavement
   
92.068   Excavations; barricades required
   
92.069   Surplus material removed
   
92.070   Depositing refuse
   
92.071   Mailboxes
   
92.072   Fence construction in residential districts
Trees and Plantings
   
92.085   Planting by owner requirements
   
92.086   Space between curb line and lot line
   
92.087   Additional parking
   
92.088   Street Commissioner; absence of City Engineer; duties
 
   
92.999   Penalty
MUNICIPAL PROPERTY
§ 92.001 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definition shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   SIDEWALK SPACE. The portion of a street between curb lines and adjacent
property lines.
(1999 Code, § 8-101)
§ 92.002 MAINTENANCE AND CONTROL.
   The governing body shall have the care, supervision and control of all
public highways, bridges, streets, alleys, public squares and commons within
the municipality, and shall cause the same to be kept open and in repair, and
free from nuisances.
(1999 Code, § 8-102)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-567
§ 92.003 SALE AND CONVEYANCE.
   (A)   (1)   Except as provided in division (D) below, the power of the
municipality to convey any real and personal property owned by it, including
land used for park purposes and public squares, except real property used in
the operation of public utilities, shall be exercised by resolution, directing
the sale at public auction or by sealed bid of such real and personal property
and the manner and terms thereof, except that such real and personal property
shall not be sold at public auction or by sealed bid when:
         (a)   Such property is being sold in compliance with the requirements
of federal or state grants or programs;
         (b)   Such property is being conveyed to another public agency; or
         (c)   Such property consists of streets and alleys.
      (2)   The governing body may establish a minimum price for such real and
personal property at which bidding shall begin or shall serve as a minimum for
a sealed bid.
   (B)   After the passage of the resolution directing the sale, notice of all
proposed sales of real and personal property described in division (A) above,
and the terms thereof, shall be published once each week for three consecutive
weeks in a legal newspaper published in or of general circulation in the
municipality; provided, if a remonstrance against such sale, signed by
registered voters thereof equal in number to 30% of the registered voters of
the municipality voting at the last regular municipal election held therein, be
filed with the governing body within 30 days after the third publication of the
notice, such property shall not then, nor within one year thereafter, be sold.
If the date for filing the remonstrance falls upon a Saturday, Sunday or legal
holiday, the signatures shall be collected within the 30-day period, but the
filing shall be considered timely if filed or postmarked on or before the next
business day. Real estate now owned or hereafter owned by the municipality may
be conveyed without consideration to the state for state armory sites or, if
acquired for state armory sites, such property shall be conveyed strictly in
accordance with the conditions of Neb. RS 18-1001 to 18-1006.
   (C)   Following: passage of the resolution directing a sale; publishing of
the notice of the proposed sale; and passing of the 30-day right of
remonstrance period, the property shall then be sold. Such sale shall be
confirmed by passage of an ordinance stating the name of the purchaser and
terms of the sale. The Municipal Clerk shall upon passage of such ordinance
certify the name of the purchaser to the Register of Deeds of the county in
which the property is located.
   (D)   This section shall not apply to the sale of real and personal property
if the authorizing resolution directs the sale of an item or items of real and
personal property the total fair market value of which is less than $5,000.
Following passage of the resolution directing the sale of the property, notice
of the sale shall be posted in three prominent places within the municipality
for a period of not less than seven days prior to the sale of the property.
Confirmation of the sale by passage of an ordinance may be required.
(1999 Code, § 8-103)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-503, 17-503.01
§ 92.004 ACQUISITION OF REAL PROPERTY.
   When acquiring an interest in real property by purchase or eminent domain,
the municipality shall do so only after the governing body has authorized the
acquisition by action taken in a public meeting after notice and public
hearing.
(1999 Code, § 8-104)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 18-1755
§ 92.005 ACQUISITION OF PROPERTY; APPRAISAL.
   The municipality shall not purchase, lease-purchase or acquire for
consideration real property having an estimated value of $100,000 or more
unless an appraisal of such property has been performed by a certified real
estate appraiser.
(1999 Code, § 8-105) Penalty, see §
92.999
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 13-403
SIDEWALKS
§ 92.020 NEW CONSTRUCTION.
   (A)   A majority of the City Council may, by resolution, order the
construction of a sidewalk on any lot or piece of ground in the municipality.
The notice of the governing body’s intention to construct said sidewalk shall
be given by the Municipal Clerk by publication of notice one time in a legal
newspaper published in and of general circulation in the municipality. A copy
of the notice so published shall also either be served upon the occupant in
possession of the property involved or shall be posted upon such premises ten
days prior to the commencement of construction. The notice required in this
section shall be prepared by the City Attorney in accordance with the
provisions thereof and shall have included therein a form of return evidencing
personal service or posting as therein required.
   (B)   The notice shall notify the owner of the premises of the passage of
the resolution that he or she will have 30 days from and after the day of
publication within which to construct the sidewalk so ordered or cause the same
to be done, and further, that if he or she fails to construct the sidewalk, or
cause the same to be done within 30 days after the day of the publication of
said notice, that then and in that case the municipality shall cause the
sidewalk to be constructed and that the cost thereof will be levied and
assessed as a special lax against the premises; provided, the notice shall
contain the engineer’s estimate of the cost of said work and no special
assessment in excess of the amount of the estimate shall be assessed against
the property.
(1999 Code, § 8-201) Penalty, see §
92.999
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-522
§ 92.021 REPAIR.
   (A)   The Street Commissioner or the City Council may require sidewalks of
the municipality to be repaired. The Street Commissioner may give oral notice
to the owner of the premises upon which any sidewalk is to be repaired. Such
notice will notify the owner of the premises to repair the sidewalk required to
be repaired within 48 hours from the giving of such notice. No special
assessment shall be levied against the property on the basis of the oral notice
provided herein.
   (B)   If any owner shall neglect or refuse, or shall have failed to repair,
replace or reconstruct any sidewalk within the time prescribed for giving oral
notice, the City Council shall follow the procedure set forth for new sidewalk
construction, giving the notice as required therein and assessing the expenses
of construction as stated.
(1999 Code, § 8-202) Penalty, see §
92.999
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-522
§ 92.022 PLANS AND SPECIFICATIONS.
   All sidewalks hereafter laid, constructed or reconstructed along any street
or avenue in the municipality shall be built in conformity with such plans and
specifications as may be approved by the Street Commissioner.
(1999 Code, § 8-203)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-522
§ 92.023 CONSTRUCTION BY PROPERTY OWNERS; PERMIT AND SURVEY REQUIRED.
   (A)   Any person desiring to construct or cause to be constructed any
sidewalk shall do so as herein provided. It shall be unlawful for any person to
construct any sidewalk without having first obtained a permit and survey.
   (B)   Applications for the permit shall be made in writing to and filed in
the office of the Municipal Clerk for reference to the Street Commissioner, and
accompanied with a survey fee of $5 for the service of the City Engineer in
making a survey and setting stakes for grade or elevation. The permit shall
give a description of the lot or piece of land along which it is desired to
construct the sidewalk. The Street Commissioner shall issue the permit unless
good cause shall appear why the permit should be denied; provided, that if it
is desired to construct the sidewalk at any other than the regularly prescribed
location, grade or elevation, the Street Commissioner shall submit the
application to the governing body, who shall determine whether the permit shall
be granted or denied. When a permit is issued for the construction of a
sidewalk, the City Engineer, or other engineer employed by the municipality,
shall make a survey and set stakes indicating the location, grade and elevation
of the sidewalk, and it shall be unlawful for any person to construct or cause
to be constructed such sidewalk at any other location, grade or elevation than
so designated.
   (C)   All sidewalks shall be built and constructed on the established grade,
or elevation, or if there be no established grade, then on the grade or
elevation indicated by the City Engineer, The survey shall be made and stakes
set by the City Engineer within ten days after being directed so to do.
(1999 Code, § 8-204) Penalty, see §
92.999
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-522
§ 92.024 MUNICIPAL CONSTRUCTION.
   (A)   Whenever the municipality shall construct, widen, replace or
reconstruct any sidewalk, notice prepared by the City Attorney, specifying the
work to be done and calling for bids for doing the work and furnishing the
necessary material and labor shall be published in at least one issue of a
legal newspaper published in and of general circulation in the municipality;
provided, bids so invited shall be filed in the office of the Municipal Clerk
within ten days after date of first publication.
   (B)   Bids shall be opened at the next regular or special meeting of the
City Council. The City Council shall award the work to the lowest responsible
bidder.
(1999 Code, § 8-205)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-522
§ 92.025 IMPROVEMENTS; OTHER PROCEDURES.
   Permanent or temporary sidewalk improvements may also be made by the
municipality by the creation of improvement districts as authorized by the laws
of the state.
(1999 Code, § 8-206)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-522 through 17-524
§ 92.026 CONSTRUCTION MATERIALS.
   All sidewalks or repair of same shall be constructed of concrete, glass,
iron or a combination of such materials and in conformity with such
specifications as approved by the City Engineer. The City Engineer may reject
the use of any materials that do not comply with such requirements and
specifications, or any material that is lacking in quality, and it shall be
unlawful to construct any sidewalks from any material so rejected.
(1999 Code, § 8-207) Penalty, see §
92.999
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-522
§ 92.027 ASSESSMENT SHEETS.
   (A)   The City Engineer shall certify to the City Council a detailed
schedule of all sidewalks laid, widened or rebuilt and the cost of same from
which the City Council may be aided in determining the amount to be assessed as
a special assessment against each lot or piece of ground.
   (B)   The City Engineer shall certify such other facts as may be necessary
to enable the City Council to make the proper special assessment; and he or she
shall also certify to the City Council the acceptance of any sidewalk so
improved or what other action he or she has taken with reference to the
sidewalk.
   (C)   The City Engineer shall allocate the cost of sidewalk improvements to
the adjoining lots or parcels of land and prepare all necessary data for
assessment sheets.
(1999 Code, § 8-208) Penalty, see §
92.999
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-522
§ 92.028 CROSSWALKS.
   (A)   All crosswalks over streets which connect with or join sidewalks or
sidewalk spaces at the end of blocks or elsewhere shall be built and maintained
by the municipality.
   (B)   Such crosswalks shall be of the same material and built in the same
general manner as sidewalks but of such width as the City Engineer shall in
each case determine and of such elevation as to allow free drainage of the
surface water in its usual and natural course.
(1999 Code, § 8-209) Penalty, see §
92.999
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-522
§ 92.029 OVERHANGING BRANCHES; SPECIAL ASSESSMENTS.
   The owner or occupants of any lot, piece or parcel of ground abutting or
adjacent to any sidewalk, street, alley or right-of-way over which extend the
branches of any tree, shall at all times keep the branches or limbs thereof
trimmed to the height of at least 15 feet above the surface of the sidewalk,
street, alley or right-of-way. Whenever the limbs or branches of any tree
extend over a sidewalk, street or alley contrary to the provisions of this
section, the Chief of Police shall give the owner or occupants notice to comply
with the requirements of this section by personal service or certified mail. If
no person can be found within the city to whom such notice can be given, the
Chief of Police shall post a copy of such notice on the premises. Within five
days after receipt of such notice, or posting of such notice, if the owner or
occupant of the premises so notified, does net submit a written request to the
City Clerk for a hearing with the City Council regarding such notice or fails
to comply with the notice, the city may have such work done and may levy and
assess the costs and expenses of the work upon the premises so benefitted in
the same manner as other special taxes for improvements are levied and
assessed. The city may also recover such costs and expenses by civil suit.
(Ord. 328, passed 11-13-2001) Penalty, see §
92.999
§ 92.030 REMOVAL OF SNOW, ICE AND OTHER ENCROACHMENTS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the occupant of any lot or lots or the owner
of any vacant lot or lots within the corporate limits of the municipality, to
allow snow, sleet, mud, ice or other substance to accumulate on the sidewalk
contiguous thereto, or to permit any hard trodden snow, sleet, ice, mud or
other substance to remain upon said sidewalk; but such sidewalk shall be
cleaned within five hours after the cessation of the storm; provided, if the
storm or fall of snow shall have taken place in the night time, the sidewalk
shall be cleaned before 8:30 a.m. the following day.
   (B)   The Street Commissioner is responsible for seeing that sidewalks
contiguous to any lot or lots within the corporate limits of the municipality
are free from snow, sleet, mud, ice or other substance. In the event that any
of said substances be found on the sidewalks, notice in writing shall be given
to the owner or occupant of the premises contiguous to the sidewalk to remove
the substance. If the person owning or occupying such premises be unknown or
cannot be found, then said notice shall be given by posting a copy thereupon
the premises.
   (C)   In the event any owner or occupant shall fail to remove the substance
after having received notice as provided herein, then the Street Commissioner
or other agent of the municipality shall remove the substance and the expense
charged against the property and the owner thereof and may be recovered by
proper action in the name of the municipality or chargeable against the
property as a special assessment.
   (D)   The cost of removal assessed against the property shall be cumulative
and in addition to the penalty hereinafter provided for any violation of the
provisions of this chapter.
(1999 Code, § 8-211) Penalty, see §
92.999
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-557
§ 92.031 POLICE DUTIES.
   It shall be the duty of all police officers to take note of all defects in
sidewalks and to report such defects to the Street Commissioner who shall take
appropriate action to remedy such defects.
(1999 Code, § 8-212)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-555
§ 92.032 OPENINGS.
   (A)   No sidewalk shall contain any opening or gratings nor shall there be
constructed any stairway, open cellarway or open basement way except as
provided herein. No part of any sidewalk shall be taken for private use by
lowering or cutting down the sidewalk next to any building built with or near
the lot line.
   (B)   If such building is not accessible to vehicles at any other point, an
open space of not more than four feet may be left next to the building provided
such area be protected by a strong iron railing. Entrance stairs and steps
shall not be more than four feet wide and guarded by sufficient railings.
   (C)   All existing stairways, open cellarways or open basement ways or open
entrances thereto in sidewalks, pavements or streets, may be permitted to
remain from and after the passage and approval and publication of this code, if
the person owning or using such opening in the sidewalk or street shall satisfy
the Street Commissioner and the City Attorney that the same is properly
protected by a balustrade or coping of durable material; and provided further,
in addition to said protection. the owner or user may be required to furnish
the city with a bond in the amount of not exceeding $2,000 for benefit of any
person who shall have suffered any injury or damage by reason of the use of
said opening, grating, stairway, cellarway or open basement way.
(1999 Code, § 8-213) Penalty, see §
92.999
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-522
§ 92.033 STREET COMMISSIONER; ABSENCE OF CITY ENGINEER; DUTIES.
   If there be no duly qualified and acting City Engineer in the municipality,
the Street Commissioner shall perform all the duties required of the City
Engineer with relation to any sidewalk improvement contemplated by this
chapter.
(1999 Code, § 8-214)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-604
  STREETS
§ 92.045 BUILDING MATERIALS AND EQUIPMENT.
   (A)   Persons engaged in the erection, construction, reconstruction,
wrecking or repairing of any building or the construction or repair of any
sidewalk along any street, may occupy the public space with building materials
and equipment as provided herein. Such persons shall make written application
to the Street Commissioner to so occupy the public space desired.
   (B)   No permit for the occupancy of the sidewalk space and more than one-
third of the roadway of the public space adjacent to the real estate on which a
building is to be constructed, erected, reconstructed, wrecked or repaired
shall be granted; and provided further, a suitable passageway for pedestrians
shall be maintained within the public space included in the permit, which
passageway shall be protected and lighted in the manner required by the Street
Commissioner.
(1999 Code, § 8-301) Penalty, see §
92.999
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-557
§ 92.046 ROOT OBSTRUCTIONS.
   Trees and shrubs growing upon the lot line partially on public ground and
partially upon the abutting property, or wholly upon the abutting property, but
so close to the lot line as to interfere with the making of any public
improvement, or so that the roots thereof interfere with any sewer or drain,
street or sidewalk, may be removed by the Street Commissioner pursuant to
procedure set forth in this Code relating to overhanging branches, trees,
shrubbery and bushes.
(1999 Code, § 8-302) Penalty, see §
92.999
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-557
§ 92.047 PRIVATE CURBS.
   It shall hereafter be unlawful for any person to construct, build or place
or cause to be constructed, built or placed any curbing of cement, concrete,
iron, stone, brick or other similar substance across the space where a crossing
is or may hereafter be placed, except on plans approved by Street Commissioner
and then by a three-fourths vote of all the members required to be elected by
the City Council and approved by the Mayor and placed under the direction of
the said Street Commissioner.
(1999 Code, § 8-303) Penalty, see §
92.999
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-555
§ 92.048 EAVES AND GUTTER SPOUTS.
   (A)   It is hereby declared unlawful for any person to erect or maintain any
dwelling house or business building within the corporate limits of the
municipality, where the dwelling or building abuts on any sidewalk or street
without providing proper guttering and cave spouts to receive the waste waters
that drip on the streets and sidewalks of the municipality. It shall be the
duty of every person erecting or maintaining any dwelling house, or business
building within the municipality that abuts on any sidewalk or street, to
provide suitable guttering and cave spouts to receive the waste waters that
drip on any sidewalk or street.
   (B)   All eave spouts erected on any dwelling house or business building
within the municipality, shall be constructed to drain properly.
(1999 Code, § 8-304) Penalty, see §
92.999
§ 92.049 PLOWING UP STREETS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to plow up any of the public highways,
streets or alleys of the municipality.
(1999 Code, § 8-305) Penalty, see §
92.999
§ 92.050 GASOLINE PUMPS.
   No gasoline pump shall hereafter be constructed, located or installed in the
sidewalk space along any street within the municipality, and the construction,
location or installation of any gasoline pump or any storage tank connected
therewith beyond the building line or lot line or the servicing of any motor
vehicle while standing beyond the building line or lot line of any portion of
any street is hereby prohibited.
(1999 Code, § 8-306) Penalty, see §
92.999
§ 92.051 HARMFUL LIQUIDS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to place or permit to leak in the gutter
or upon any street pavement in the city, any waste gasoline, kerosene, high
lubricating oils or other liquids which harm or deteriorate the pavement.
(1999 Code, § 8-307) Penalty, see §
92.999
§ 92.052 MIXING CONCRETE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to mix any concrete or plastering
materials directly on the pavement or to use the pavement as a mixing board for
such materials.
(1999 Code, § 8-308) Penalty, see §
92.999
§ 92.053 MANHOLES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to use any manhole in the streets and
alleys of the municipality for anchorage or for any purpose other than that for
which it was built. No person except the Sewer Commissioner or his or her duly
authorized agents, shall enter or open any such manhole.
(1999 Code, § 8-309) Penalty, see §
92.999
§ 92.054 STAKE MARKS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to break, remove or destroy any stone or
stake, landmark or corner that marks any street, block, lot or public ground,
except by proper authority.
(1999 Code, § 8-310) Penalty, see §
92.999
§ 92.055 HEAVY EQUIPMENT.
   It shall hereafter be unlawful for any person or person to move or operate
heavy equipment across any curb, gutter, bridge, culvert, sidewalk, crosswalk
or crossing on any unpaved street without first having protected such curb,
gutter, bridge, culvert, sidewalks, crosswalk or crossing with heavy plank
sufficient in strength to warrant against the breaking or damaging of such
curb, gutter, bridge, culvert, sidewalk, crosswalk or crossing. Hereafter, it
shall be unlawful to run, drive, move, operate or convey over or across any
paved street a vehicle, machine or implement with sharp discs or sharp wheels
that bear upon said pavement; with wheels having cutting edges; with wheels
having lugs, any protruding parts, or bolts thereon that extend beyond a plain
tire so as to cut, mark, mar, indent or otherwise injure or damage any
pavement, gutter or curb; provided, where heavy vehicles, structures and
machines move along paved or unpaved streets the municipal police are hereby
authorized and empowered to choose the route over which the moving of such
vehicles, structures or machines will be permitted and allowed. Nothing in this
section shall be construed to apply to pneumatic tires with metal or metal-type
studs not exceeding five-sixteenths of an inch in diameter inclusive of the
stud-casting with an average protrusion beyond the tread surface of not more
than seven sixty-fourths of an inch between November 1, and March 15; provided,
that school buses and emergency vehicles shall be permitted to use metal or
metal-type studs all year; it shall be permissible to use farm machinery with
tires having protuberances which will not injure the streets. It shall be
permissible to use a rubber tired crane with a fixed load when such vehicle
will be transported on a state highway or on any road within the corporate
limits of the municipality; provided, the municipality has authorized a one-day
permit for the transportation of the crane and specified the route to be used
and the hours during which the crane can be transported, such vehicle is
escorted by another vehicle or vehicles assigned by the municipality, and such
vehicle's gross weight does not exceed the limits set out in Neb. RS 60-6,294
(10). It shall be permissible to use tire chains of reasonable proportions upon
any vehicle when required for safety because of snow, ice or other condition
tending to cause a vehicle to slide or skid.
(1999 Code, § 8-311) Penalty, see §
92.999
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 60-6,250
§ 92.056 GRADES ESTABLISHED.
   The grades for curb lines heretofore established for the city are hereby
incorporated by reference in this section the same as though spread at large
herein.
(1999 Code, § 8-312)
§ 92.057 GRADING.
   The municipality may provide for the grading of any street, avenue or alley
only upon the affirmative vote of two-thirds of the City Council.
(1999 Code, § 8-313)
§ 92.058 REPAIR.
   The municipality may provide at any time for the repair of any street,
avenue or alley. Where the municipality does not have sufficient funds to
purchase equipment to maintain and keep the streets in repair, the municipality
may then contract with the county for such services. The municipality shall
have the power to levy a tax according to law for the purpose of grading and
repair.
(1999 Code, § 8-314)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-508, 17-508.01, 17-508.02
§ 92.059 IMPROVEMENTS.
   All street improvements, including the levy of a tax for the payment
thereof, shall be in accordance with the applicable provisions of the laws of
the state relating thereto.
(1999 Code, § 8-315)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-509
§ 92.060 EXCAVATIONS.
   (A)   No person other than the Street Commissioner or employees under
supervision of the Street Commissioner or plumbers working under construction
permits, shall excavate or open any street, alley or other public grounds in
the municipality except as herein provided. Such work will not be begun without
first obtaining a permit to do so through the Municipal Clerk.
   (B)   No permit shall be issued until a bond or a policy of public liability
insurance is filed in the office of the Municipal Clerk in the sum of $1,000,
unless a bond or policy of insurance in a greater amount be required by other
provisions of this code, executed by an approved corporate surety, conditioned
that such person, persons or corporation will indemnify and keep the
municipality harmless from any and all liability from accidents and injuries
caused by the opening of the street.
(1999 Code, § 8-316) Penalty, see §
92.999
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-567
§ 92.061 PIPES AND CONDUITS.
   No water pipe, underground electric line or telephone conduit shall be laid
in the same trench with the sewer pipe in any street, alley or public grounds
in the municipality, or nearer than three feet to any sewer pipe. No
underground electric line shall be laid in the same trench with any water pipe,
sewer pipe or telephone conduit in any street, alley or public grounds or
nearer than three feet to any such pipes or conduits.
(1999 Code, § 8-317) Penalty, see §
92.999
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-567
§ 92.062 PAVING CONSTRUCTION, NOTICE; PERMIT REQUIRED; UNDERGROUND CONNECTIONS;
ASSESSMENTS.
   (A)   Whenever a street or alley or a part thereof is to be put under
contract for paving or repaving, the Municipal Clerk shall notify the owners in
fee simple of real estate abutting said street or alley, and their tenants or
lessees, and also all telephone companies, all gas companies and all sewer
service patrons by publication or otherwise of the purpose of the municipality
to pave. The notice herein required shall be published one time in a legal
newspaper published in and of general circulation in the municipality at least
20 days prior to the beginning of the operation by the party having the work
under construction; and the notice shall state at what date construction must
be made and excavation completed.
   (B)   After such date, permits for excavation will not be issued nor will
excavation be allowed until after the completion of the pavement in such street
or alley and after the formal and final acceptance thereof by the proper
officials of the municipality.
   (C)   All sewer construction shall be assessed as a special assessment
against the property served. All gas and telephone connections shall be
constructed at the expense of the public service company using the same. All
water connections shall be constructed at the expense of the municipality and
may be allocated to intersection cost in the paving district.
   (D)   All gasoline pumps or storage tanks in connection therewith located
upon or under any street, shall be removed from the street area at the expense
of the owner of such pumps or tanks or of his or her lessee or agent as the
case may be.
(1999 Code, § 8-318) Penalty, see §
92.999
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-567
§ 92.063 DRIVEWAYS AND APRONS; PERMISSION REQUIRED; NOTICE.
   (A)   It shall be and is hereby declared unlawful for any person or persons
to construct or cause to be constructed in the municipality, any driveway or
apron over the curb and corner of the streets and avenues without specific
permission from the Zoning Administrator.
   (B)   On all streets to be hereafter curbed and guttered and paved, it shall
be the duty of the Zoning Administrator to notify, in writing, all parties
desiring driveways into their premises to furnish him or her with the width and
location of such driveway. The cost of all such driveways in excess of the cost
of the continuous gutter and curb may be charged against the lots or real
estate so benefitted by their use when special assessments for such work shall
be made.
(1999 Code, § 8-319) (Ord. 332, passed 2-20-2002) Penalty, see §
92.999
§ 92.064 CURB CUTS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to cut into any paving, curb or sidewalk
for any purpose whatsoever without first having obtained a written permit from
the Zoning Administrator thereafter.
(1999 Code, § 8-320) (Ord. 332, passed 2-20-2002) Penalty, see §
92.999
§ 92.065 REFILLING EXCAVATIONS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to make an excavation in any street or
streets of the municipality for any purpose whatsoever, if and when permitted
and allowed, without thoroughly tamping and refilling the same in such manner
as the City Engineer shall prescribe and direct.
(1999 Code, § 8-321) Penalty, see §
92.999
§ 92.066 VALLEY GUTTERS; MARKINGS.
   (A)   Valley gutters now or hereafter constructed may be permitted to remain
in street areas between curb lines if necessary from an engineering standpoint
to facilitate the carving away of surface water in its natural course.
   (B)   The governing body shall, by appropriate sign or standard, give the
driving public notice of the presence of said valley gutters if it is deemed
necessary to insure the maintenance of the street or streets on which they are
established, in reasonably safe condition for public travel.
(1999 Code, § 8-322) Penalty, see §
92.999
§ 92.067 DRIVING OVER NEWLY LAID PAVEMENT.
   No person shall ride or drive any animal or vehicle over or across any
pavement newly laid or repaired, across or around which there has been placed a
barricade, or at or near which there is a person or sign warning persons
against riding or driving over such pavement.
(1999 Code, § 8-323) Penalty, see §
92.999
§ 92.068 EXCAVATIONS; BARRICADES REQUIRED.
   Excavation in streets and alleys shall be made in such manner as to impede
travel as little as possible. Red lights shall be maintained on all unfinished
work, at night, from dark until sunrise, and sufficient barricades shall be in
place at all times until the work is completed, to prevent any persons from
injury, in coming upon or crossing such work.
(1999 Code, § 8-324) Penalty, see §
92.999
§ 92.069 SURPLUS MATERIAL REMOVED.
   After completion of any job or work all surplus material must be removed at
once from the streets and alleys.
(1999 Code, § 8-325) Penalty, see §
92.999
§ 92.070 DEPOSITING REFUSE.
   It shall be unlawful for any persons to deposit any trash, refuse, straw,
hay, ashes or carcass in any street or alley and it shall be the duty of the
Street Commissioner to at once notify any person so offending and aside from
any penal liability it shall be the duty of such person to at once remove such
refuse or other matter so deposited, and whenever unable to comply with the
removal of such matter and the cleaning of the street or alley it shall be the
duty of the Street Commissioner to remove and clean up same at the expense of
the municipality.
(1999 Code, § 8-326) Penalty, see §
92.999
§ 92.071 MAILBOXES.
   (A)   A building permit must be obtained before any mailbox may be erected.
   (B)   All mailboxes shall be positioned at a height of not less than 40
inches nor more than 42 inches from the bottom of the mailbox to the street
surface.
   (C)   The face of the mailbox shall be located not less than six inches nor
more than 12 inches from the outside edge of the curb of the street.
   (D)   The mailbox shall be constructed of light steel, aluminum or plastic
that meets the U.S. Postal Service requirements.
   (E)   The mailbox shall not be set or anchored in concrete.
   (F)   The mailbox post shall be constructed of a single four-inch by four-
inch wood post, a four and one-half-inch diameter wood post, or a two-inch
diameter standard strength steel pipe.
   (G)   The mailbox post shall be placed no more than two feet into the ground
and shall not be fitted with an anchor plate.
   (H)   The mailbox shall be securely attached to the post to prevent the
mailbox from being separated from the post as a result of incidental contact.
   (I)   No more than two boxes shall be mounted on a single support structure.
   (J)   The city is authorized to remove any mailboxes or posts that do not
meet the requirements of this chapter. Prior to removal, the owner or occupant
of the premises will be given at least five days written notice to bring the
mailbox and/or post into compliance with the requirements of this chapter. If
modifications and/or a replacement of the mailbox and/or post have not been
made as required, then the city may proceed with the removal of the post and/or
mailbox at the owner/occupant’s expense.
   (K)   The city is not responsible for damage to any mailbox or post by city
employees to mailboxes and/or posts that have not been installed in conformance
with the requirements of this section. The city shall not be liable to replace
mailbox and/or posts or repair the same resulting from damage by city employees
or equipment even though the post/mailbox has been correctly installed in
excess of $50 to repair or replace such mailbox/post.
   (L)   Mailboxes that are placed within a brick housing shall be of the same
height required in division (B) above.
   (M)   The front of the brickhousing surrounding the mailbox shall be located
not less than six inches nor more than 12 inches from the outside edge of the
curb.
   (N)   All brick mailboxes shall be required to have a concrete footer
located three feet below the ground surface.
(Ord. 365, passed 4-8-2008) Penalty, see §
92.999
§ 92.072 FENCE CONSTRUCTION IN RESIDENTIAL DISTRICTS.
   (A)   All fences constructed in the residential districts shall be erected
and conform to all requirements listed below and all other applicable city
ordinances and codes.
   (B)   The materials and construction plans used must be approved by the
Building Inspector And/or Zoning Administrator.
      (1)   Before constructing any fence, an application for such construction
must first be submitted to the Zoning Administrator and a permit for the fence
construction issued by the Zoning Administrator. The application must show the
existing buildings and the new fence with measurements made from the lot line.
      (2)   All fences must be installed entirely on the owner’s property and
shall not be attached to the adjacent neighbor’s garage or building.
      (3)   Fences are permitted along a rear or side property line or portion
of a rear or side property line as follows.
         (a)   Fences not in excess of six feet in height as measured above the
natural grade may be of any style.
         (b)   Fences in excess of six feet in height are prohibited.
      (4)   Electric fences and barbed wire fences are prohibited.
      (5)   Fences shall display a finished face toward adjacent streets and
properties.
      (6)   Any enclosing structure intended to serve exclusively as a dog run
shall conform to the setback requirements for an accessory use or structure in
residential districts.
      (7)   A chain link fence or other substantially open fence not used as a
site barrier, privacy screen, windbreak or dog run, shall not exceed four feet
in height.
      (8)   At least one unlocked gate or fence opening of a minimum of three
feet in width shall be provided in each yard to permit emergency entrance from
the street.
      (9)   (a)   Front yard. Fences within the front yard shall not exceed
three feet in height.
         (b)   Rear yard. Fences within the rear yard shall not exceed six feet
in height.
         (c)   Side yards. Fences within side yards shall not exceed six feet
in height, except that fences within the exterior side yard of a corner lot,
adjacent to the street shall not exceed three feet in height.
      (10)   All fences shall be maintained in good condition so as not to
become unsightly, unsafe, a nuisance or detrimental to the surrounding area.
      (11)   All fences shall be at least 12 feet from the curb on the edge of
the street and at least one foot from the edge of a sidewalk or walk way.
      (12)   All building materials and construction plans must be approved by
the Zoning Administrator and/or Building Inspector.
      (13)   No exceptions to these requirements shall be permitted unless a
variance is obtained.
(Ord. 343, passed 6-8-2004) Penalty, see §
92.999
TREES AND PLANTINGS
§ 92.085 PLANTING BY OWNER REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Any person may plant shade or ornamental trees adjacent to the streets
of the municipality, if he or she shall make application in writing with the
Municipal Clerk addressed to the Mayor and City Council so to do and if
permitted, allowed or directed to do so by the City Council's resolution; and
the terms of such resolution shall be strictly followed.
   (B)   It shall be the duty of the person about to plant trees adjacent to
any street to call upon the Zoning Administrator who shall properly mark the
line on which the trees may be planted.
(1999 Code, § 8-401) Penalty, see §
92.999
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 18-801 through 18-807
§ 92.086 SPACE BETWEEN CURB LINE AND LOT LINE.
   It shall be the duty of any owner or occupant of any lot abutting upon any
street or avenue in the municipality, to keep the space between lot line and
curb line on the street or avenue free and clear of all weeds, rubbish or other
obstructions. Every such owner or occupant may improve such space and cultivate
it as a lawn, with grass, ornamental shrubbery and flowers; and when such space
is so improved and cultivated, it shall be unlawful for any person to lead,
ride or drive any animal or vehicle upon such space, or, in any manner, to
injure or deface the lawn, shrubbery or flowers so planted or cultivated
thereon.
(1999 Code, § 8-402) Penalty, see §
92.999
§ 92.087 ADDITIONAL PARKING.
   The Mayor and City Council may, by ordinance or resolution, order or permit
the parking or improvement for lawn, flowers or shrubbery of any other or
further portions of any street or avenue in the municipality, which shall not
be, in their judgment, necessarily required for actual travel; and, when so
parked, planted or improved, it shall be unlawful for any person to lead, ride
or drive any animal or vehicle upon, or, in any manner, to injure or deface the
portion of the street so parked or improved.
(1999 Code, § 8-403)
§ 92.088 STREET COMMISSIONER; ABSENCE OF CITY ENGINEER; DUTIES.
   If there be no duly qualified and acting City Engineer in the municipality,
the Street Commissioner shall perform all the duties which this chapter
requires of the City Engineer.
(1999 Code, § 8-404)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-604
§ 92.999 PENALTY.
   Any person who shall violate or refuse to comply with the enforcement of any
of the provisions of this chapter, set forth at full length herein or
incorporated by reference shall be deemed guilty of an offense and upon
conviction thereof, shall be fined not more than $100 for each offense. A new
violation shall be deemed to have been committed every 24 hours of such failure
to comply.
(1999 Code, § 8-501)
CHAPTER 93: NUISANCES
Section
   
93.01   Generally defined
   
93.02   Specifically defined
   
93.03   Abatement procedure
   
93.04   Dead or diseased trees
   
93.05   Lawn maintenance regulation
   
93.06   Jurisdiction
 
   
93.99   Penalty
§ 93.01 GENERALLY DEFINED.
   A nuisance consists in doing any unlawful act, or omitting to perform a
duty, or suffering or permitting any condition or thing to be or exist, which
act, omission, condition or thing either:
   (A)   Injures or endangers the comfort, repose, health or safety of others;
   (B)   Offends decency;
   (C)   Is offensive to the senses;
   (D)   Unlawfully interferes with, obstructs, tends to obstruct or renders
dangerous for passage any stream, public park, parkway, square, street or
highway in the municipality;
   (E)   In any way renders other persons insecure in life or the use of
property; or
   (F)   Essentially interferes with the comfortable enjoyment of life and
property, or tends to depreciate the value of the property of others.
(1999 Code, § 4-301) Penalty, see §
93.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 18-1720
§ 93.02 SPECIFICALLY DEFINED.
   The maintaining, using, placing, depositing, leaving or permitting of any of
the following specific acts, omissions, places, conditions and things are
hereby declared to be nuisances:
   (A)   Any odorous, putrid, unsound or unwholesome grain, meat, hides, skins,
feathers, vegetable matter or the whole or any part of any dead animal, fish or
fowl;
   (B)   Privies, vaults, cesspools, dumps, pits or like places which are not
securely protected from flies or rats, or which are foul or malodorous;
   (C)   Filthy, littered or trash-covered cellars, houseyards, barnyards,
stable-yards, factory-yards, mill yards, vacant areas in rear of stores,
granaries, vacant lots, houses, buildings or premises;
   (D)   Animal manure in any quantity which is not securely protected from
flies and the elements, or which is kept or handled in violation of any
ordinance of the municipality;
   (E)   Liquid household waste, human excreta, garbage, butchers trimmings and
offal, parts of fish or any waste vegetable or animal matter in any quantity;
provided, nothing herein contained shall prevent the temporary retention of
waste in receptacles in a manner provided by the Health Officer of the
municipality, nor the dumping of non-putrefying waste in a place and manner
approved by the Health Officer;
   (F)   Tin cans, bottles, glass, cans, ashes, small pieces of scrap iron,
wire metal articles, bric-a-brac, broken stone or cement, broken crockery,
broken glass, broken plaster and all trash or abandoned material, unless the
same be kept in covered bins or galvanized iron receptacles;
   (G)   Trash, litter, rags, accumulations of barrels, boxes, crates, packing
crates, mattresses, bedding, excelsior, packing hay, straw or other packing
material, lumber not neatly piled, scrap iron, tin or other metal not neatly
piled, old automobiles or parts thereof, or any other waste materials when any
of said articles or materials create a condition in which flies or rats may
breed or multiply, or which may be a fire danger or which are so unsightly as
to depreciate property values in the vicinity thereof;
   (H)   Any unsightly building, billboard or other structure, or any old,
abandoned or partially destroyed building or structure or any building or
structure commenced and left unfinished, which said buildings, billboards or
other structures are either a fire hazard, a menace to the public health or
safety, or are so unsightly as to depreciate the value of property in the
vicinity thereof;
   (I)   All places used or maintained as junk yards, or dumping grounds, or
for the wrecking and dissembling of automobiles, trucks, tractors or machinery
of any kind, or for the storing or leaving of worn-out, wrecked or abandoned
automobiles, trucks, tractors or machinery of any kind, or of any of the parts
thereof, or for the storing or leaving of any machinery or equipment used by
contractors or builders or by other persons, which said places are kept or
maintained so as to essentially interfere with the comfortable enjoyment of
life or property by others, or which are so unsightly as to tend to depreciate
property values in the vicinity thereof;
   (J)   Stagnant water permitted or maintained on any lot or piece of ground;
   (K)   Stockyards, granaries, mills, pig pens, cattle pens, chicken pens or
any other place, building or enclosure, in which animals or fowls of any kind
are confined or on which are stored tankage or any other animal or vegetable
matter, or on which any animal or vegetable matter, including grain is being
processed, when said places in which said animals are confined, or said
premises on which said vegetable or animal matter is located, are maintained
and kept in such a manner that foul and noxious odors are permitted to emanate
therefrom, to the annoyance of inhabitants of the municipality, or are
maintained and kept in such a manner as to be injurious to the public health;
or
   (L)   All other things specifically designated as nuisances elsewhere in
this code.
(1999 Code, § 4-302) Penalty, see §
93.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 18-1720
§ 93.03 ABATEMENT PROCEDURE.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of every owner or occupant of real estate in the
municipality to keep such real estate free of public nuisances. Upon
determination by the Police Chief that said owner or occupant has failed to
keep such real estate free of public nuisances, notice to abate and remove such
nuisance and notice of the right to a hearing before the governing body and the
manner in which it may be requested shall be given to said owner or occupant,
or said owner's or occupant's duly authorized agent, by personal service or
certified mail. Such notice shall describe the condition as found by the Police
Chief and state that said condition has been declared a public nuisance, and
that the condition must be remedied at once. Within ten days after the receipt
or such notice, if the owner or occupant of real estate does not request a
hearing or fails to comply with the order to abate and remove the nuisance, the
municipality shall have such work done and may levy and assess the costs and
expenses of the work upon the real estate so benefitted in the same manner as
other special taxes for improvements are levied and assessed.
   (B)   If said owner or occupant requests in writing a hearing with the
governing body, the governing body shall fix a time and place at which a
hearing will be held. Notice of the hearing shall be given by personal service
or certified mail and require the owner or occupant to appear before the
governing body to show cause why such condition should not be found to be a
public nuisance and remedied. Such notice shall be given not less than seven,
nor more than 14 days before the time of the hearing.
      (1)   Upon the date fixed for the hearing and pursuant to the notice, the
governing body shall hear all objections made by the owner or occupant and
shall hear evidence submitted by the Police Chief.
      (2)   If after consideration of all the evidence, the governing body
shall find that the said condition is a public nuisance, it shall, by
resolution, order and direct the owner or occupant to remedy the said public
nuisance at once.
      (3)   Should the owner or occupant refuse or neglect to promptly comply
with the order of the governing body, the governing body shall proceed to cause
the abatement of the described public nuisance and may levy and assess the
costs and expenses of the work upon the real estate so benefitted in the same
manner as other special taxes for improvements are levied and assessed.
(1999 Code, § 4-303) Penalty, see §
93.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 18-1720
§ 93.04 DEAD OR DISEASED TREES.
   (A)   It is hereby declared a nuisance for a property owner to permit, allow
or maintain any dead or diseased trees within the right-of-way of streets
within the corporate limits of the municipality.
   (B)   It is hereby declared a nuisance for a property owner to permit, allow
or maintain any dead or diseased trees on private property within the corporate
limits of the municipality. For the purpose of carrying out the provisions of
this section, the municipal police shall have the authority to enter upon
private property to inspect the trees thereon.
   (C)   Notice to abate and remove such nuisance and notice of the right to a
hearing and the manner in which it may be requested shall be given to each
owner or owner's duly authorized agent and to the occupant, if any, by personal
service or certified mail. Within 30 days after the receipt of such notice, if
the owner or occupant of the lot or piece of ground does not request a hearing
or fails to comply with the order to abate and remove the nuisance, the
municipality may have such work done and may levy and assess all or any portion
of the costs and expenses of the work upon the lot or piece of ground so
benefitted in the same manner as other special taxes for improvements are
levied or assessed.
(1999 Code, § 4-304) Penalty, see §
93.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-555, 18-1720, 28-1321
§ 93.05 LAWN MAINTENANCE REGULATION.
   (A)   All property owners shall maintain grass lawns located on property
within the city so that the grass and/or weeds growing on said lawns does not
exceed a height of six inches.
   (B)   Upon the failure of such owner, lessee or occupant, or other person
having control of such property, to cut and maintain the lawn on any property
located within the municipality as required in division (A) above, then and in
that event, the Municipal Clerk may, after five days notice by personal service
upon the owner, lessee, occupant or person in control of said property or by
leaving said notice affixed to said property, cause said lawn to be cut and
cleared of grass and/or other weeds so as to comply with this section. The
costs thereof shall be assessed against such real estate pursuant to a
resolution by the City Council. Such assessments, when assessed as provided
shall then be certified by the Municipal Clerk and delivered to the County
Treasurer and shall be collected in the manner provided by law for the
collection of general real estate taxes. Such assessment shall be a lien upon
such real estate from the date of assessment and shall draw interest pursuant
to law from said date until paid.
(1999 Code, § 4-305) Penalty, see §
93.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 18-1720
§ 93.06 JURISDICTION.
   The Mayor and Chief of Police of the municipality are directed to enforce
this municipal code against all nuisances. The jurisdiction of the Mayor, Chief
of Police and court shall extend to, and the territorial application of this
chapter shall include, all territory adjacent to the limits of the municipality
within two miles thereof and all territory within the corporate limits.
(1999 Code, § 4-306)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 18-1720
§ 93.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   General penalty. 
      (1)   Any person who shall violate or refuse to comply with the
enforcement of any of the provisions of this chapter, set forth at full length
herein or incorporated by reference shall be deemed guilty of an offense and
upon conviction thereof, shall be fined not more than $100 for each offense.
      (2)   A new violation shall be deemed to have been committed every 24
hours of such failure to comply.
(1999 Code, § 4-401)
   (B)   Abatement of nuisance.
      (1)   Whenever a nuisance exists as defined in this chapter, the
municipality may proceed by a suit in equity to enjoin and abate the same, in
the manner provided by law.
      (2)   Whenever, in any action, it is established that a nuisance exists,
the court may together with the fine or penalty imposed, enter an order of
abatement as a part of the judgment in the case.
(1999 Code, § 4-402)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 18-1720, 18-1722
CHAPTER 94: PARKS AND RECREATION
Section
Parks Generally
   
94.01   Operation and funding
Swimming Pool
   
94.15   Operation and funding
   
94.16   Rules and regulations
   
94.17   Admission charge
   
94.18   Rentals
PARKS GENERALLY
§ 94.01 OPERATION AND FUNDING.
   The municipality owns and operates the municipal parks and other
recreational areas through the Park Board. The governing body, for the purpose
of defraying the cost of the care, management and maintenance of the municipal
park may each year levy a tax not exceeding the maximum limit prescribed by
state law, on the actual valuation of all real estate and personal property
within the corporate limits that is subject to taxation. The revenue from the
said tax shall be known as the Park Fund and shall remain in the custody of the
Municipal Treasurer. The Board shall have the authority to adopt rules and
regulations for the efficient management of the municipal parks and other
recreational areas of the municipality. The Board shall not enter into a
contract of any nature which involves an expenditure of funds, except for
ordinary operating expenses, unless the contract has been approved by
resolution of the majority of the members of the governing body prior to the
contractual agreement.
(1999 Code, § 3-501)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-948 through 17-952
SWIMMING POOL
§ 94.15 OPERATION AND FUNDING.
   (A)   The municipality owns and manages the municipal swimming pool. The
governing body, for the purpose of defraying the cost of the management,
maintenance and improvements of the swimming pool may each year levy a tax not
exceeding the maximum limit prescribed by state law, on the actual valuation of
all real estate and personal property within the municipality that is subject
to taxation. The revenue from the said tax shall be known as the swimming pool
fund and shall include all gifts, grants, deeds of conveyance, bequests or
other valuable income-producing personal property and real estate from any
source for the purpose of endowing the swimming pool.
   (B)   The Swimming Pool Fund shall at all times be in the custody of the
Municipal Treasurer. The Pool Administrator shall manage the swimming pool. All
actions by the Pool Administrator shall be under the supervision and control of
the governing body.
(1999 Code, § 3-601)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-948, 17-951, 17-952
§ 94.16 RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   (A)   The Pool Administrator shall have the power and authority to enact
bylaws, rules and regulations for the protection of those using the swimming
pool and for the efficient management thereof.
   (B)   The Pool Administrator may provide suitable penalties for the
violation of such bylaws, rules and regulations subject to the review and
supervision of the governing body.
(1999 Code, § 3-602)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-949
§ 94.17 ADMISSION CHARGE.
   (A)   The governing body may, for the purpose of defraying the expenses
involved in maintaining, improving, managing and beautifying the swimming pool,
make a reasonable admission charge for the use by any person of the municipal
swimming pool.
   (B)   The said charges shall be on file at the office of the Municipal Clerk
and shall also be posted in a conspicuous place at the municipal swimming pool
for public inspection.
   (C)   Such rates may be structured for classes of persons in a reasonable
manner; provided, that nothing herein shall be construed to permit or allow
discrimination on the basis of race, creed, color or national origin in the
classification of persons for admission charges.
(1999 Code, § 3-603)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-949
§ 94.18 RENTALS.
   The Pool Administrator shall have the authority to rent the municipal
swimming pool to such organizations and other persons as he or she may in his
or her discretion see fit, subject to the review of the governing body. The
governing body shall prescribe rules and regulations for such rentals and shall
require an appropriate number of qualified lifeguards to be in attendance
during the rental period. Such fees and other costs shall be on file at the
office of the Municipal Clerk and posted in a conspicuous place at the
municipal swimming pool.
(1999 Code, § 3-604)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-949
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
110.   ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
      
111.   DIRECT SELLERS
      
112.   TRAILERS AND MOBILE HOME COURTS
      
113.   JUNK AND SECONDHAND DEALERS
      
114.   SHORT-TERM RENTAL UNITS
CHAPTER 110: ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
Section
   
110.01   Criteria and standards
   
110.02   Standards weighed
   
110.03   Requirements and conditions
   
110.04   Notice of hearing
   
110.05   Hearing procedure
   
110.06   Liquor application; municipal examination
 
   
110.99   Penalty
§ 110.01 CRITERIA AND STANDARDS.
   At the hearing held by the governing body of any applicant for a retail
liquor license, for the upgrading of a license to sell alcoholic liquor, or for
the expansion or change in location of the premises, the governing body shall
consider the following criteria and standards in making its decision:
   (A)   The adequacy of existing law enforcement;
   (B)   The recommendation of the Police Department, the County Sheriff's
Office, or any other law enforcement agency;
   (C)   Existing motor vehicle and pedestrian traffic flow in the vicinity of
the proposed premises, potential traffic and parking problems, and the
proximity and availability of on- and off-street parking;
   (D)   Sanitation or sanitary conditions on or about the proposed licensed
premises;
   (E)   The existence of a citizens’ protest and any other evidence in support
of or in opposition to the application;
   (F)   The existing population of the city and its projected growth;
   (G)   The existing liquor licenses, the class of such license, and the
distance and time of travel to such licenses;
   (H)   The nature and needs of the neighborhood or community where the
proposed premises are located as well as its projected growth;
   (I)   Whether the type of business or activity proposed to be operated in
conjunction with the proposed license is and will be consistent with the public
interest;
   (J)   The quality and management ability of the applicant, as well as the
background information of the applicants established by information contained
in the records of the State Liquor Control Commission and any investigation
conducted by any law enforcement agency;
   (K)   Past compliance and ability to comply in the future with state laws
and liquor regulations and city ordinances and regulations;
   (L)   If the application is for an on-sale license, whether it is adjunct to
a legitimate food service operation as evidenced by percent of gross income
allocated to food and liquor, and the type and extent of kitchen facilities;
   (M)   The suppression of facts or the providing of non-factual information
by the applicant or its representatives to the governing body or its employees
in regard to the license application or liquor investigations;
   (N)   Whether the application will provide an improvement to the
neighborhood, a betterment to the city, or a true increase in service to the
public; and
   (O)   Zoning restrictions and the city zoning and land use policies.
(1999 Code, § 10-601)
§ 110.02 STANDARDS WEIGHED.
   The standards specified in §
110.01 are not necessarily of equal value that can be computed in a
mathematical formula. Rather, they are standards which can be weighed and
cumulated positively and negatively. When applicable, the term APPLICANTS as
used in this chapter is synonymous with LICENSE.
(1999 Code, § 10-602)
§ 110.03 REQUIREMENTS AND CONDITIONS.
   The governing body may fix certain requirements and prescribe certain
conditions upon a license when it is granted or permitted to continue in full
force and effect, whether such requirements or conditions are imposed at a
formal hearing, by a written notice or in a written stipulation, and such
requirements or conditions shall be deemed to be a part of the license as
though fully endorsed therein; and any violation or breach of any requirement
or condition is prohibited.
(1999 Code, § 10-603)
§ 110.04 NOTICE OF HEARING.
   Notice of a hearing held pursuant to Neb. RS 53-134, shall be given to the
applicant by the Municipal Clerk and shall contain the date, time and location
of the hearing. Two or more proceedings which are legally or factually related
may be heard and considered together unless any party thereto makes a showing
sufficient to satisfy the governing body that prejudice would result therefrom.
(1999 Code, § 10-604)
§ 110.05 HEARING PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Hearings will be informal and conducted by the Mayor who will act as
Chairperson. The intent is an inquiry into the facts, not an adversary action.
   (B)   The governing body shall not be bound by the strict rules of evidence,
and shall have full authority to control the procedures of the hearing
including the admission or exclusion of testimony or other evidence. The
governing body may admit and give probative effect to evidence which possesses
probative value commonly accepted by reasonably prudent individuals in the
conduct of their affairs. The Chairperson may limit testimony where it appears
incompetent, irrelevant or unduly repetitious.
   (C)   The order of proceedings is as follows:
      (1)   Presentation of evidence, witnesses and arguments on behalf of the
applicant;
      (2)   Cross-examination by the members of the governing body and
Municipal Attorney and opposition to the applicant;
      (3)   Presentations of evidence, witnesses and arguments by those in
opposition to the applicant;
      (4)   Cross-examination by the members of the governing body and
Municipal Attorney and by the applicant;
      (5)   Rebuttal evidence by both parties; and
      (6)   Summation by both parties.
   (D)   In all cases, the burden of proof and persuasion shall be on the party
filing the application.
   (E)   Any member of the governing body may question any witnesses, call
witnesses or request information.
   (F)   All witnesses shall be sworn.
   (G)   The governing body may make further inquiry and investigation
following the hearing.
(1999 Code, § 10-605)
§ 110.06 LIQUOR APPLICATION; MUNICIPAL EXAMINATION.
   (A)   Any person or persons desiring to obtain a license to sell alcoholic
liquors at retail shall file with the State Liquor Control Commission. The
Commission shall then notify the Municipal Clerk by registered or certified
mail. The governing body shall then meet and determine the desirability of the
application and report its recommendation for approval or denial of the
application in writing to the State Liquor Control Commission within 45 days of
receipt from the State Liquor Control Commission.
   (B)   The governing body may examine, or cause to be examined, under oath,
any applicant; examine, or cause to be examined, the books and records of any
such applicant; hear testimony; and take proof for its information in the
performance of its duties.
   (C)   For the purpose of obtaining any of the information desired, the
governing body may authorize the Municipal Clerk or the Municipal Attorney to
act on its behalf.
   (D)   The governing body shall fix a time and place at which a hearing will
be held.
   (E)   Notice of the time and place of such hearing shall be published in a
legal newspaper in, or of general circulation in, the municipality one time not
less than seven nor more than 14 days before the time of the hearing. Such
notice shall include, but not be limited to, a statement that all persons
desiring to give evidence before the governing body in support of or in protest
against the issuance of such license may do so at the time of the hearing. Such
hearing shall be held not more than 21 days after the receipt of notice from
the Commission.
   (F)   After such hearing, the governing body shall cause to be entered in
the minute record of its proceedings a resolution recommending either issuance
or refusal of such license. The Municipal Clerk shall thereupon mail to the
Commission by first class mail, postage prepaid, a copy of the resolution which
shall state the cost of the published notice.
(1999 Code, § 10-606)
§ 110.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Generally. Any person who shall violate or refuse to comply with the
enforcement of any of the provisions of this chapter, set forth at full length
herein or incorporated by reference shall be deemed guilty of an offense and
upon conviction thereof, shall be fined not more than $100 for each offense. A
new violation shall be deemed to have been committed every 24 hours of such
failure to comply.
(1999 Code, § 10-701)
   (B)   Abatement of nuisance.
      (1)   Whenever a nuisance exists as defined in this chapter, the
municipality may proceed by a suit in equity to enjoin and abate the same, in
the manner provided by law.
      (2)   Whenever, in any action, it is established that a nuisance exists,
the court may together with the fine or penalty imposed, enter an order of
abatement as a part of the judgment in the case.
(1999 Code, § 10-702)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 18-1720, 18-1722
CHAPTER 111: DIRECT SELLERS
Section
   
111.01   Registration request
   
111.02   Definitions
   
111.03   Exemptions
   
111.04   Registration; information required
   
111.05   Registration; additional information
   
111.06   Investigation; refusal of registration
   
111.07   Appeal from refusal
   
111.08   Prohibitions
   
111.09   Disclosure requirements
   
111.10   Records
   
111.11   Revocation of registration
 
   
111.99   Penalty
§ 111.01 REGISTRATION REQUEST.
   It shall be unlawful for any direct seller to engage in direct sales within
the municipality without being registered for that purpose as provided herein.
Each individual who acts as a direct seller shall be required to register as
required herein.
(1999 Code, § 10-101) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CHARITABLE ORGANIZATION. Includes any benevolent philanthropic, or patriotic
person, partnership association or corporation, or one purporting to be such.
   CLERK. The Municipal Clerk.
   DIRECT SELLER. Any individual who, for himself or herself, or for a
partnership, association or corporation, sells goods and/or services, or takes
sales orders for the later delivery of goods and/or services, at any location
other than the permanent business place or residence of said individual,
partnership, association or corporation, and shall include, hut not be limited
to, peddlers, solicitors and transient merchants. The sale of goods and/or
services includes donations required by the DIRECT SELLER for the retention of
goods and/or services by a donor or prospective customer.
   GOODS. Includes personal property of any kind, and shall include goods
provided incidental to services offered or sold.
   SERVICES. Includes labor and professional services of any kind and shall
include services provided incidental to goods offered or sold.
(1999 Code, § 10-102)
§ 111.03 EXEMPTIONS.
   The following shall be exempt from all provisions of this chapter:
   (A)   Any person delivering newspapers, fuel, dairy products or bakery goods
to regular customers on established routes;
   (B)   Any person selling goods at wholesale to dealers in such goods;
   (C)   Any person selling agricultural products which such person has grown;
   (D)   Any person who has an established place of business where the goods
being sold are offered for sale on a regular basis, and in which the buyer has
initiated contact with, and specifically requested a home visit by, said
person;
   (E)   Any person who has had, or one who represents a company which has had,
a prior business transaction, such as a prior sale or credit arrangement, with
the prospective customer; and
   (F)   Any person holding a sale required by statute or by order of any court
and any person conducting a bona fide auction sale pursuant to law.
(1999 Code, § 10-103)
§ 111.04 REGISTRATION; INFORMATION REQUIRED.
   (A)   Applicants for registration must complete and return to the Chief of
Police a registration form furnished by the Chief of Police which shall require
the following information:
      (1)   Name, permanent address and telephone number, and temporary
address, if any;
      (2)   Age, height, weight, color of hair and eyes;
      (3)   Name, address and telephone number of the person, firm, association
or corporation that the direct seller represents or is employed by, or whose
merchandise is being sold;
      (4)   Temporary address and telephone number from which business will be
conducted, if any;
      (5)   Nature of business to be conducted and a brief description of the
goods and/or services offered;
      (6)   Proposed method of delivery of goods, if applicable;
      (7)   Make, model and license number of any vehicle to be used by
applicant in the conduct of his or her business;
      (8)   The last three previous cities, villages or towns, where applicant
conducted similar business;
      (9)   Place where applicant can be contacted for at least seven days
after leaving the municipality; and
      (10)   Statement as to whether applicant has been convicted of any crime
or ordinance violation related to applicant’s transient merchant business
within the last five years, the nature of the offense, and the place of
conviction.
   (B)   The Chief of Police may authorize his or her assistant to act on his
or her behalf to perform the duties and functions set forth in this chapter.
(1999 Code, § 10-104)
§ 111.05 REGISTRATION; ADDITIONAL INFORMATION.
   (A)   Each applicant shall present to the Chief of Police for examination a
driver’s license or some other proof of identity as may be reasonably required.
   (B)   At the time the registration is returned, the applicant shall pay a
fee, based upon the duration he or she desires to engage in business in the
municipality, as follows:
      (1)   Per day: $20; and
      (2)   Per week: $100.
   (C)   Upon payment of said fee, the Chief of Police shall register the
applicant as a direct seller and date of entry. Said registration shall be
valid for a period of one year from the date of entry, subject to subsequent
refusal as provided in §
111.06.
(1999 Code, § 10-105)
§ 111.06 INVESTIGATION; REFUSAL OF REGISTRATION.
   (A)   Upon receipt of each application, the Chief of Police may make and
complete an investigation of the statements made in such registration.
   (B)   The Chief of Police shall refuse to register the applicant if it is
determined, pursuant to the investigation, that:
      (1)   The application contains any material omission or materially
inaccurate statement;
      (2)   Complaints of a material nature have been received and proven
against the applicant by authorities in any of the three previous cities,
villages or towns in which the applicant conducted similar business;
      (3)   The applicant was convicted of a crime, statutory violation or
ordinance violation within the last five years, the nature of which is directly
related to the applicant’s fitness to engage in direct selling; or
      (4)   The applicant failed to comply with any applicable provision of §
111.05.
(1999 Code, § 10-106)
§ 111.07 APPEAL FROM REFUSAL.
   Any person denied registration may appeal to the City Council by appearing
before the City Council at its next regular meeting.
(1999 Code, § 10-107)
§ 111.08 PROHIBITIONS.
   The following regulations shall govern the conduct of registrants under this
chapter.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any direct seller to call at any dwelling or
other place where a sign is displayed bearing the words “No Peddlers,” “No
Solicitors” or words of similar meaning, to call at the rear door of any
dwelling place, or to remain on any premises after being asked to leave by the
owner, occupant or other person having authority over such premises.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for a direct seller to misrepresent or make
false, deceptive or misleading statements concerning the quality, quantity or
character of any goods offered for sale, the purpose of his or her visit, his
or her identity or the identity of the organization he or she represents. A
charitable organization direct seller shall specifically disclose what portion
of the sale price of goods being offered will actually be used for the
charitable purpose for which the organization is soliciting. Said portion shall
be expressed as a percentage of the sale price of the goods.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any direct seller to impede the free use of
sidewalks and streets by pedestrians and vehicles. Where sales are made from
vehicles, all traffic and parking regulations shall be observed.
   (D)   It shall be unlawful for any direct seller to make any loud noises or
use any sound amplifying device to attract customers if the noise produced is
capable of being plainly heard outside a 100-foot radius of the source.
   (E)   It shall be unlawful for any direct seller to allow rubbish or litter
to accumulate in or around the area in which he or she is conducting business.
(1999 Code, § 10-108)
§ 111.09 DISCLOSURE REQUIREMENTS.
   The following requirements shall govern the conduct of registrants.
   (A)   After the initial greeting and before any other statement is made to a
prospective customer, a direct seller shall expressly disclose his or her name,
the name of the company or organization he or she is affiliated with, if any,
and the identity of goods or services he or she offers to sell.
   (B)   If any sale of goods is made by a direct seller, or any sales order
for the later delivery of goods is taken by the seller, the buyer shall have
the right to cancel said transaction when such right is provided by state law.
   (C)   If the direct seller takes a sales order for the later delivery of
goods, he or she shall, at the time the order is taken, provide the buyer with
a written statement containing the terms of the agreement, the amount paid in
advance whether full, partial or no advance payment is made, the name, address
and telephone number of the seller, the delivery or performance date and
whether a guarantee or warranty is provided and, if so, the terms thereof.
(1999 Code, § 10-109)
§ 111.10 RECORDS.
   The Chief of Police shall note all violations of this chapter on the record
of the registrant convicted.
(1999 Code, § 10-110)
§ 111.11 REVOCATION OF REGISTRATION.
   The registration of a direct seller may be revoked by the Mayor for any
violation of this chapter.
(1999 Code, § 10-111)
§ 111.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Generally. Any person who shall violate or refuse to comply with the
enforcement of any of the provisions of this chapter, set forth at full length
herein or incorporated by reference shall be deemed guilty of an offense and
upon conviction thereof, shall be fined not more than $100 for each offense. A
new violation shall be deemed to have been committed every 24 hours of such
failure to comply.
(1999 Code, § 10-701)
   (B)   Abatement of nuisance.
      (1)   Whenever a nuisance exists as defined in this chapter, the
municipality may proceed by a suit in equity to enjoin and abate the same, in
the manner provided by law.
      (2)   Whenever, in any action, it is established that a nuisance exists,
the court may together with the fine or penalty imposed, enter an order of
abatement as a part of the judgment in the case.
(1999 Code, § 10-702)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 18-1720, 18-1722
CHAPTER 112: TRAILERS AND MOBILE HOME COURTS
Section
   
112.01   Definitions
   
112.02   Temporary permit
   
112.03   Trailers on private property
   
112.04   Permit for trailer and public camp
   
112.05   Application for, term of and issuance of permit; fee and bond
   
112.06   Revocation or suspension of permit; transfer of permit
   
112.07   Posting permit; service and inspection charge; caretaker; register
required
   
112.08   Responsibility of permittees
   
112.09   Ground area
   
112.10   Drainage; water supply; sanitary conditions and lighting
   
112.11   Removal of wheels or similar devices; animals at large; inflammable
liquids
 
   
112.99   Penalty
§ 112.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   PUBLIC CAMP. Includes any park, court, camp, place, area or tract of land,
upon which are located, or which is designed, maintained or intended for the
purpose of supplying location or accommodations for, two or more camping
parties using or erecting for use any house, cabin, tent, camping outfit,
automobile, auto trailer or other enclosure for living or sleeping purposes, by
day, week or month, whether a charge is made therefore or not, and having a
common use of any part thereof or any convenience thereon.
   TO CAMP. Includes the using or erecting, placing or locating, for the use of
a house, cabin, tent, camping outfit, automobile, auto trailer or other
enclosure for living or sleeping purposes.
   TRAILER. Includes any vehicle or structure so designed, and constructed in
such manner, as will permit occupancy thereof as living or sleeping quarters
for one or more persons or the conduct of any business or profession,
occupation or trade, or used as a selling or advertising device, and so
designated that it is or may be mounted on wheels and used as a conveyance on
highways or municipal streets propelled or drawn by its own or other motive
power.
   UNIT or UNIT SPACE. Includes the ground space as actually set aside herein
and by a public camp for occupancy by and use in connection with any single
cabin, camp car, trailer or other enclosure for living or sleeping purposes.
(1999 Code, § 10-201)
§ 112.02 TEMPORARY PERMIT.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to place a trailer, camp car or any
similar enclosure used for living or sleeping purposes, or to camp upon any
land or premises within the municipality at a duly registered and approved
trailer park or public camp without first having secured permission to do so
from the Mayor and City Council. Application for such permission shall be made
in writing to the Municipal Clerk and shall be accompanied by written
permission from the owner of the property upon which such person proposes to
camp and place a trailer. The grant of such permission shall be discretionary
with the governing body taking into consideration the location of the premises,
available sanitary facilities and the general welfare and safety of the public;
provided, that in no event shall such person be granted permission to exceed
seven days and such permit may not be renewed or extended.
(1999 Code, § 10-202) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.03 TRAILERS ON PRIVATE PROPERTY.
   It shall be unlawful for the owner or lessee of private property not
designated as a public camp to permit the owner or occupant or occupants of any
cabin car, camp car, trailer or any similar enclosure used for living or
sleeping purposes to park the same and camp on such private property unless a
permit is first obtained under the provisions of §
112.02.
(1999 Code, § 10-203) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.04 PERMIT FOR TRAILER AND PUBLIC CAMP.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to open, conduct, establish and maintain
any place of ground for the purpose of a trailer or public camp unless a permit
to do so shall have first been issued by the Mayor and City Council.
(1999 Code, § 10-204) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.05 APPLICATION FOR, TERMS OF AND ISSUANCE OF PERMIT; FEE AND BOND.
   Application for a permit for a trailer or public camp shall be made in
writing to the Municipal Clerk setting forth the name and residence of the
applicant; the name and residence of the person who will be in direct control
and management thereof; a plat of said property location showing the location
and size of the grounds proposed to be used for such trailer and public camp
and showing the number and location of each unit and unit space and space
between units; water service available upon said grounds, toilet, sanitary and
electric facilities and the type of building or buildings to be erected
thereon. Before a permit for such trailer or public camp is issued, the Mayor
and City Council or their duly authorized agent shall investigate the premises
in question and determine if the Municipal Code has been and will be complied
with, with respect to toilet, sanitary and electric facilities and if in other
respects such camp will not be detrimental in any way to the public interest
and the governing body may in its discretion reject any proposed camp site. If
the governing body grants such permit, it shall direct the Municipal Clerk to
issue such permit upon the payment of a permit fee in the amount of $20, which
fee shall be paid annually and all permits issued shall expire on April 30
following date of issuance unless sooner revoked.
(1999 Code, § 10-205) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.06 REVOCATION OR SUSPENSION OF PERMIT; TRANSFER OF PERMIT.
   Any permit granted hereunder shall be subject to revocation or suspension in
the following manner: the Mayor and City Council shall cause a notice to be
personally served on the person holding said permit setting forth wherein
permittee has failed to comply with this chapter citing him or her to appear
before the governing body at a date set forth in said notice to show cause why
his or her permit should not be revoked or suspended and said permittee shall
have the right to appear with counsel and introduce such evidence as he or she
may desire. Any permit issued hereunder may be transferred without the payment
of additional permit fee upon written application to the governing body by the
holder thereof, and approval of such body obtained.
(1999 Code, § 10-206) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.07 POSTING PERMIT; SERVICE AND INSPECTION CHARGE; CARETAKER; REGISTER
REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any permittee hereunder to fail to post in a
conspicuous place in his or her trailer or public camp the permit issued to him
or her hereunder. The Mayor and City Council may, in their discretion, fix and
determine a service and inspection charge on camps hereunder and if such is
fixed, each permittee hereunder shall be responsible to pay same to the
Municipal Clerk and if he or she fails to do so, any permit hereunder can be
revoked or suspended as hereinbefore provided for. A caretaker shall be
provided at all times for each premises licensed hereunder, said caretaker to
be responsible to enforce all regulations hereunder and all other ordinances of
the municipality, said caretaker also to maintain a register of all persons
using any camp licensed hereunder setting forth each person’s name, address and
registration number of automobile and time and place of issuance, said register
to be open to inspection by the municipal authorities at any time.
(1999 Code, § 10-207) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.08 RESPONSIBILITY OF PERMITTEES.
   Each permittee hereunder shall maintain licensed premises in a clean
condition and in a state of good repair and abide by all the rules, ordinances
and regulations of the municipality at any time adopted.
(1999 Code, § 10-208) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.09 GROUND AREA.
   Every trailer and camp ground licensed hereunder shall be laid out with an
available unit space of not less than 1,600 square feet for each camp car,
trailer or other facility. No greater number of trailers or mobile homes shall
be allowed in such camp ground than there are available spaces therein and each
camp car, trailer or cabin shall be arranged in neat appearing rows as set
forth in plat to be furnished by applicant, which plat shall show a space of
not less than 30 feet in width from unit line to unit line, which space shall
have unobstructed access to a public street or alley. No camping or trailer
unit or facility shall be placed nearer to any unit lot line than five feet.
(1999 Code, § 10-209) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.10 DRAINAGE; WATER SUPPLY; SANITARY CONDITIONS AND LIGHTING.
   Every public camp or trailer park hereunder shall be located on a well
drained area, properly graded for draining. Same shall have an adequate water
supply and shall have faucets located at intervals set by the Mayor and
Council, each such public camp or trailer park shall have adequate and sanitary
toilet facilities and conditions, the rules and regulations concerning same to
be set by the governing body as each separate application for permit hereunder
is made, such regulations also to apply to all garbage and refuse disposal
including sanitary sewage conditions, the governing body, in its discretion, to
have the right and authority to require condition of any such camp and trailer
facility to hook-up to the municipal sanitary sewer system. Each public or
trailer camp hereunder shall adequate lighting, the governing body to have the
right and authority to set forth and enforce regulations to be set by them
concerning such lighting facilities.
(1999 Code, § 10-210) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.11 REMOVAL OF WHEELS OR SIMILAR DEVICES; ANIMALS AT LARGE; INFLAMMABLE
LIQUIDS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person owning or operating a public camp
and trailer facility to allow any occupant thereof to remove the wheels of any
camp car and trailer and to otherwise permanently fix such car and trailer to
the ground in a manner that would prevent the ready removal of same and to in
any way alter any camp car or trailer in such a way as to convert it into a
permanent dwelling.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to permit any animal to run at
large in any such public or trailer camp.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person to have within, or in proximity
to, any camp car, trailer or cabin any quantity of gasoline or inflammable
liquids, except in containers or facilities as approved by the governing body.
(1999 Code, § 10-211) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Generally. Any person who shall violate or refuse to comply with the
enforcement of any of the provisions of this chapter, set forth at full length
herein or incorporated by reference shall be deemed guilty of an offense and
upon conviction thereof, shall be fined not more than $100 for each offense. A
new violation shall be deemed to have been committed every 24 hours of such
failure to comply.
(1999 Code, § 10-701)
   (B)   Abatement of nuisance.
      (1)   Whenever a nuisance exists as defined in this chapter, the
municipality may proceed by a suit in equity to enjoin and abate the same, in
the manner provided by law.
      (2)   Whenever, in any action, it is established that a nuisance exists,
the court may together with the fine or penalty imposed, enter an order of
abatement as a part of the judgment in the case.
(1999 Code, § 10-702)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 18-1720, 18-1722
CHAPTER 113: JUNK AND SECONDHAND DEALERS
Section
   
113.01   Definitions
   
113.02   License required
   
113.03   License application; contents
   
113.04   License; authority of City Council
   
113.05   License, conditions
   
113.06   Occupation tax
   
113.07   License, expiration
   
113.08   License, revocation; not transferable
   
113.09   Business conducted within enclosure
   
113.10   Advertising
   
113.11   Storage of junk
   
113.12   Unusable junk
   
113.13   Oil and grease, disposition
   
113.14   Weeds
   
113.15   Fire hazards
   
113.16   Junk collectors or secondhand dealer; applicability of chapter
   
113.17   License required
   
113.18   Filing
   
113.19   Bond
   
113.20   Record of purchase
   
113.21   Reports required; when due; contents
   
113.22   Purchased goods to be held; duration
   
113.23   Purchases restricted; when
 
   
113.99   Penalty
§ 113.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   JUNK COLLECTOR. Any person going from place to place, or house to house,
collecting or buying iron, copper, brass and zinc scraps, rags, bottles or old
paper, and selling the same to a junk dealer.
   JUNK DEALER. Includes any person engaged in the business of buying, selling,
receiving, collecting or dealing in metal scraps, scrap iron, metals of any
kind and in any form, bottles, rags and used tires; the dismantling or taking
apart of automobiles, other than for repair, or the wrecking of automobiles;
the storage of automobiles unfit for operation; the storage of automobile
bodies and parts thereof; the storage of automobiles or parts thereof kept for
salvage; the storage of scraps from automobiles; and/or the storage or iron,
metals or junk.
   JUNK YARD. Any place in the municipality where or from which any person
shall conduct, engage in and/or carry on the business of junk dealer as herein
defined.
   SECONDHAND DEALER. Any person engaged in the business of buying, selling,
receiving or dealing in secondhand jewelry, and secondhand goods, wares or
merchandise; provided, however, that this definition shall not apply to any
person who conducts a business primarily for the sale of new and unused goods,
wares and merchandise, that is, where that is the main feature or object of
said business, and accepts used merchandise for trade allowance only, and only
as a mere incident of the said business of selling new and unused goods, wares
and merchandise.
(1999 Code, § 10-301)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-505
§ 113.02 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to engage in or carry on the business of
junk dealer and/or conduct, operate or maintain a junk yard within the
municipality without first having obtained a written license from the City
Council for the same.
(1999 Code, § 10-302) Penalty, see §
113.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-505
§ 113.03 LICENSE APPLICATION; CONTENTS.
   Application for such license shall be in writing, and filed with the
Municipal Clerk, and shall set forth the name and address of the applicant; the
exact location of the existing establishment, or of the proposed establishment,
as the case may be; the exact nature of the business conducted, or to be
conducted, as the case may be; whether the business is conducted, and if not
yet established shall be conducted, inside of a building or outside of a
building, or partly within and partly without a building; the dimensions and
character of the building used or to be used, if such be the case; the plan of
operation; and such other information as may be required by the City Council.
(1999 Code, § 10-303)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-505
§ 113.04 LICENSE; AUTHORITY OF CITY COUNCIL.
   (A)   Such license for a proposed establishment shall be granted or denied
by the City Council after such investigation as it may deem necessary, having
in mind the location of the proposed establishment and the public welfare
affected by the operation of said proposed establishment.
   (B)   Such license for an existing establishment shall be granted or denied
by the City Council, after such investigation as it may deem necessary and
having in mind whether or not applicant for the same has complied with all the
requirements herein provided respecting the operation of junk yards and the
conduct and business of carrying on the business of junk dealer.
(1999 Code, § 10-304)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-505
§ 113.05 LICENSE, CONDITIONS.
   No license for any establishment not in existence at the time this chapter
becomes effective shall be granted by the City Council unless it shall be found
that the proposed location of said proposed junk yard or place where the
business of junk dealer is to be conducted or carried on is such that it shall
not be detrimental to the public health, safety or welfare and shall comply
with all the ordinances of the municipality.
(1999 Code, § 10-305)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-505
§ 113.06 OCCUPATION TAX.
   If the City Council grants such license to any such applicant, it shall
thereupon direct the Municipal Clerk to issue such license upon the prepayment
of the required occupation tax to the Municipal Treasurer.
(1999 Code, § 10-306)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-525
§ 113.07 LICENSE, EXPIRATION.
   All licenses granted hereunder shall expire on April 30 following the date
of issuance of same.
(1999 Code, § 10-307)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-505
§ 113.08 LICENSE, REVOCATION; NOT TRANSFERABLE.
   It shall be a condition of any of such licenses granted that they may be
revoked at any time by the City Council for violation of any of the provisions
of this chapter, or any other ordinance of the municipality, and such license
shall not be assignable or transferable.
(1999 Code, § 10-308) Penalty, see §
113.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-505
§ 113.09 BUSINESS CONDUCTED WITHIN ENCLOSURE.
   (A)   Unless the business of a junk dealer or the operation of a junk yard
is wholly conducted inside a building, the premises on which the same is
conducted or operated shall be entirely enclosed with a tight, closed fence of
wood, or some other suitable material approved by the Building Inspector, at
least eight feet in height, and gates or doors in said fence shall be closed at
all times, except when open for actual admittance of persons or material.
   (B)   Such fence shall be kept painted at all times.
   (C)   The provisions of this section shall apply to all junk yards within
the corporate limits, save and except such junk yards as are now in existence.
(1999 Code, § 10-309)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-505
§ 113.10 ADVERTISING.
   No signs, posters or advertising material of any nature whatsoever shall be
placed, painted or maintained on any such fence at any time; except, that the
name of the business carried on the premises enclosed by said fence may be
painted thereon.
(1999 Code, § 10-310) Penalty, see §
113.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-505
§ 113.11 STORAGE OF JUNK.
   On any premises where the business of junk dealer or the operations of a
junk yard is carried on outside of a building, the junk and material shall not
be stored or piled higher than the fence surrounding the same.
(1999 Code, § 10-311) Penalty, see §
113.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-505
§ 113.12 UNUSABLE JUNK.
   (A)   The licensee shall remove from the premises used by him or her, at
least once each week, all scraps and parts of dismantled automobiles not usable
or salable.
   (B)   Such licensee shall also store all inflammable materials so as to
reduce the fire hazard as much as possible, and in conformity with the orders
of the Fire Department.
(1999 Code, § 10-312) Penalty, see §
113.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-505
§ 113.13 OIL AND GREASE, DISPOSITION.
   In dismantling motor vehicles on premises used by him or her, the licensee
shall drain all oil and grease from the same into a receptacle capable of
holding the same and shall remove the accumulations of such grease and oil at
least once each week.
(1999 Code, § 10-313) Penalty, see §
113.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-505
§ 113.14 WEEDS.
   The licensee shall keep all weeds and vegetation on the premises used by him
or her, cut down to a height not to exceed 12 inches at all times, and after
cutting such weeds or vegetation, he or she shall remove the trash from such
cutting from such premises forthwith.
(1999 Code, § 10-314) Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.15 FIRE HAZARDS.
   (A)   The licensee shall keep the premises used and occupied by him or her,
free of paper and similar trash at all times, so as to reduce the fire hazard.
   (B)   Such licensee shall strictly comply with all orders of the Fire
Department respecting accumulating of trash and other inflammable materials.
(1999 Code, § 10-315) Penalty, see §
113.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-505
§ 113.16 JUNK COLLECTORS OR SECONDHAND DEALER; APPLICABILITY OF CHAPTER.
   Sections
113.10 through
113.15 shall not apply to any person licensed as a junk collector or secondhand
dealer.
(1999 Code, § 10-316)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-505
§ 113.17 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   Any person desiring to engage in the business of junk collector or
secondhand dealer shall procure a license in the same manner as is provided for
in §§
113.02 through
113.08, and furnish bond as hereinafter provided.
(1999 Code, § 10-317) Penalty, see §
113.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-505
§ 113.18 FILING.
   Every person desiring to be licensed as a junk collector or secondhand
dealer, under the provisions of this chapter, shall first file with the
Municipal Clerk a bond with a corporate surety authorized to do business in the
state, running to the municipality, approved by the City Council, in the sum of
$500, conditioned upon the faithful observance of the ordinances of the
municipality, and the proper conduct of said business in accordance with the
provisions of this chapter, and further conditioned for the payment to the
person of any damages such person may suffer by reason of the improper conduct
of such business.
(1999 Code, § 10-318) Penalty, see §
113.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-505
§ 113.19 BOND.
   Every person desiring to be licensed as a junk dealer under the provisions
of this chapter shall first file with the Municipal Clerk a bond with a
corporate surety, duly authorized to do business in the state, running to the
municipality, in the sum of $1,000 conditioned upon the faithful performance of
the ordinances of the municipality, and the proper conduct of said business in
accordance with the provisions of this chapter, and further conditioned for the
payment to any person of any damages such person may suffer by reason of the
said improper conduct of such business, which surety and bond shall first be
approved by the City Council.
(1999 Code, § 10-319) Penalty, see §
113.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-505
§ 113.20 RECORD OF PURCHASE.
   All licensees, under the provisions of this chapter shall keep a written
record containing an accurate account or description of goods, articles and
things purchased by them, the amount of money paid therefor, the time the same
is received, the name, residence and description of the person selling the
same, which written record, as well as the article purchased, shall be at all
reasonable times open to the inspection of the Police Department.
(1999 Code, § 10-320) Penalty, see §
113.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 69-204
§ 113.21 REPORTS REQUIRED; WHEN DUE; CONTENTS.
   It shall be the duty of every licensee hereunder to make out and deliver to
the Chief of Police a written report once each week of all personal property
purchased or received by him or her, since filing his or her last report,
including a statement of the time it was received or purchased, the name and
address of the person or persons who delivered the same, or from whom the same
was purchased; provided, that said licensee shall not be required to furnish
such description of any property purchased from a manufacturer or wholesale
dealer having an establishment or place of business, or any goods purchased at
open sale from any bankrupt stock or purchased at the store or place of
business of any person.
(1999 Code, § 10-321) Penalty, see §
113.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 69-205
§ 113.22 PURCHASED GOODS TO BE HELD; DURATION.
   No personal property received or purchased at his or her place of business
by any junk dealer or secondhand dealer shall be sold from the place of
business of such person for a space of 24 hours after the copy and statement
required by §
113.20 shall be have been delivered as therein required.
(1999 Code, § 10-322) Penalty, see §
113.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-505
§ 113.23 PURCHASES RESTRICTED; WHEN.
   No person licensed under this chapter shall take or purchase any personal
property of any kind, or thing of value, from any minor, and no person licensed
under this chapter shall knowingly receive or purchase any personal property of
any kind from any person not being the owner thereof, or from any intoxicated
person.
(1999 Code, § 10-323) Penalty, see §
113.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-505
§ 113.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Generally. Any person who shall violate or refuse to comply with the
enforcement of any of the provisions of this chapter, set forth at full length
herein or incorporated by reference shall be deemed guilty of an offense and
upon conviction thereof, shall be fined not more than $100 for each offense. A
new violation shall be deemed to have been committed every 24 hours of such
failure to comply.
(1999 Code, § 10-701)
   (B)   Abatement of nuisance.
      (1)   Whenever a nuisance exists as defined in this chapter, the
municipality may proceed by a suit in equity to enjoin and abate the same, in
the manner provided by law.
      (2)   Whenever, in any action, it is established that a nuisance exists,
the court may together with the fine or penalty imposed, enter an order of
abatement as a part of the judgment in the case.
(1999 Code, § 10-702)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 18-1720, 18-1722
CHAPTER 114: SHORT-TERM RENTAL UNITS
Section
   
114.01   Purpose and findings
   
114.02   Short-term rental units; requirements; license fee; prohibited conduct
 
   
114.99   Penalty
§ 114.01 PURPOSE AND FINDINGS.
   The City Council is aware that properties in the city are being used as
short-term rental units, and that it is important to regulate such properties
to ensure that the properties maintain proper health and sanitation, comply
with applicable fire and building codes, prevent excessive noise and not engage
in behavior that is offensive to surrounding properties. The purpose of this
chapter is to protect the public's health and safety, and the chapter is
necessary to ensure such protection.
(Ord. 457, passed 8-13-2024)
§ 114.02 SHORT-TERM RENTAL UNITS; REQUIREMENTS; LICENSE FEE; PROHIBITED
CONDUCT.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to make available or advertise a
short-term rental unit for rent or lease within the corporate limits of the
City of Henderson unless such person holds a valid license therefore.
   (B)   Any owner or manager of a short-term rental unit is required to submit
an application for a license to the City Clerk and to obtain a license from the
Clerk.
   (C)   A fee of $100 shall be paid to the Clerk at the time the application
is submitted and annually thereafter in January.
   (D)   It shall be unlawful to rent or advertise a short-term rental unit to
be occupied by more than the number of person calculated as the total number of
sleeping areas on the licensed premises multiplied by two, up to a maximum of
12 persons.
   (E)   The application shall state the following information:
      (1)   The name and address of the property owner and any manager of the
short-term rental unit.
      (2)   The address of the short-term rental unit.
      (3)   The name, address and telephone number of any person who may be
contacted immediately in case of an emergency or other issues that may arise
with the short-term rental unit.
   (F)   The applicant shall certify to the Clerk that the short-term rental
unit meets the following minimum safety and welfare standards, and the unit
shall comply with such standards at all times:
      (1)   The unit shall be located in a primary residential structure.
      (2)   The unit may not consist of a portion of a multi-family dwelling
unit to mean a portion of a duplex, townhouse or single-family attached unit.
      (3)   The property may not be used to hold or conduct parties or large
gatherings.
      (4)   The unit may not be used to conduct any illegal activity in
violation of any state or federal law, or city ordinance.
      (5)   The property must be properly maintained to include the exterior
structure and grounds.
      (6)   The property must comply with all applicable fire, building, health
and sanitation codes.
      (7)   The property must comply with all applicable zoning laws.
      (8)   Excessive noise and loud music is prohibited.
(Ord. 457, passed 8-13-2024)
§ 114.99 PENALTY.
   Any person who violates any of the provisions of this chapter shall be
subject to a fine of up to $100. Each day that a violation of this chapter
exists shall constitute a separate offense. Any violation of this chapter may
also result in the suspension and/or revocation of the license by the City
Council. A violation of this chapter may be referred to the City Council, and
written notice of the violation and the hearing to be held before the Council
shall be provided to the owner and/or manager at least ten days prior to the
hearing. Upon finding a violation of this chapter after hearing, the Council
shall have the authority to revoke and/or suspend the license.
(Ord. 457, passed 8-13-2024)
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
   Chapter
      
130.   GENERAL OFFENSES
      
131.   SEXUAL PREDATOR RESIDENCY RESTRICTIONS
CHAPTER 130: GENERAL OFFENSES
Section
   
130.01   Disturbing the peace
   
130.02   Maintaining a nuisance
   
130.03   Prohibited fences
   
130.04   Appliances in yard
   
130.05   Weeds, litter, stagnant water
   
130.06   Vulgar language
   
130.07   Window-peeping
   
130.08   Unnecessary noises
   
130.09   Discharge of firearms
   
130.10   Slingshots, air guns, BB guns
   
130.11   Disorderly conduct
   
130.12   Obstruction of public ways
   
130.13   Abandoned automobiles
   
130.14   Unlicensed or inoperable vehicles and storage containers
 
   
130.99   Penalty
§ 130.01 DISTURBING THE PEACE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to intentionally disturb the peace and
quiet of any person, family or neighborhood.
(1999 Code, § 6-301) Penalty, see §
130.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 28-1322
§ 130.02 MAINTAINING A NUISANCE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to erect, keep up or continue and
maintain any nuisance to the injury of any part of the citizens of the
municipality.
(1999 Code, § 6-302) Penalty, see §
130.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 18-1720, 28-1321
§ 130.03 PROHIBITED FENCES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to erect, or cause to be erected, and
maintain any barbed wire or electric fence within the corporate limits, where
such fence abuts a public sidewalk, street or alley.
(1999 Code, § 6-303) Penalty, see §
130.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 18-1720, 28-1321, 39-705
§ 130.04 APPLIANCES IN YARD.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to permit a refrigerator, icebox,
freezer or any other dangerous appliance to be in the open and accessible to
children whether on private or public property unless he or she shall first
remove all doors and make the same reasonably safe.
(1999 Code, § 6-304) Penalty, see §
130.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 18-1720, 28-1321
§ 130.05 WEEDS, LITTER, STAGNANT WATER.
   (A)   Lots or pieces of ground within the municipality shall be drained or
filled so as to prevent stagnant water or any other nuisance accumulating
thereon.
   (B)   The owner or occupant of any lot or piece of ground within the
municipality shall keep the lot or piece of ground and the adjoining street and
alleys free of any growth of six inches or more in height of weeds, grasses or
worthless vegetation.
   (C)   The throwing, depositing or accumulation of litter on any lot or piece
of ground within the municipality is prohibited; provided, that grass, leaves
and worthless vegetation may be used as a ground mulch or in a compost pile.
   (D)   It is hereby declared to be a nuisance to permit or maintain any
growth of six inches or more in height of weeds, grasses or worthless
vegetation or to litter or cause litter to be deposited or remain thereon
except in proper receptacles.
   (E)   Any owner or occupant of a lot or piece of ground shall, upon
conviction of violating this section, be guilty of an offense.
   (F)   Notice to abate and remove such nuisance shall be given to each owner
or owner’s duly authorized agent and to the occupant, if any, by personal
service or certified mail.
      (1)   (a)   Within five days after receipt of such notice, if the owner
or occupant of the lot or piece of ground does not request a hearing with the
municipality or fails to comply with the order to abate and remove the
nuisance, the municipality may have such work done.
         (b)   The costs and expenses of any such work shall be paid by the
owner.
      (2)   If unpaid for two months after such work is done, the municipality
may either:
         (a)   Levy and assess the costs and expenses of the work upon the lot
or piece of ground so benefitted in the same manner as other special taxes for
improvements are levied and assessed; or
         (b)   Recover in a civil action the costs and expenses of the work
upon the lot or piece of ground and the adjoining streets and alleys.
   (G)   For purposes of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      LITTER. Includes, but is not limited to:
         (a)   Trash, rubbish, refuse, garbage, paper, rags and ashes;
         (b)   Wood, plaster, cement, brick or stone building rubble;
         (c)   Grass, leaves and worthless vegetation;
         (d)   Offal and dead animals; and
         (e)   Any machine or machines, vehicle or vehicles, or parts of a
machine or vehicle which have lost their identity, character, utility or
serviceability as such through deterioration, dismantling or the ravages of
time, are inoperative or unable to perform their intended functions, or are
cast off, discarded or thrown away or left as waste, wreckage or junk.
      WEEDS. Include, but are not limited to, bindweed (convolvulus arvensis),
puncture vine (tribulus terrestris), leafy spurge (euphorbia esula), Canada
thistle (cirsium arvense), perennial peppergrass (lepidium draba), Russian
knapweed (centaurea picris), Johnson grass (sorghum halepense), nodding or musk
thistle, quack grass (agropyron repens), perennial sow thistle (sonchus
arvensis), horse nettle (solanum carolinense), bull thistle (cirsium
lanceolatum), buckthorn (rhamnus sp.) (tourn), hemp plant (canabis sativa) and
ragweed (ambrosiaceae).
(1999 Code, § 6-305) Penalty, see §
130.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-563, 18-1720
§ 130.06 VULGAR LANGUAGE.
   No person in the municipality shall use vulgar, profane or indecent language
on any public street or other public place or in any public dance hall, club
dance, skating rink or place of business open to patronage.
(1999 Code, § 6-306) Penalty, see §
130.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-505
§ 130.07 WINDOW-PEEPING.
   No person in the municipality shall look, peer or peep into, or be found
loitering around or within view of any window within a building occupied as the
residence of another with the intent of watching or looking through said window
to observe any person undressed or in the act of undressing.
(1999 Code, § 6-307) Penalty, see §
130.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-505
§ 130.08 UNNECESSARY NOISES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to make, continue or cause to be made or
continued any loud, unnecessary or unusual noise which either annoys, disturbs,
injures or endangers the comfort, repose, health, peace or safety of others,
within the corporate limits of the municipality.
(1999 Code, § 6-308) Penalty, see §
130.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-505
§ 130.09 DISCHARGE OF FIREARMS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, except an officer of the law in the
discharge of his or her official duty, to fire or discharge any gun, pistol or
other fowling piece within the municipality; provided, nothing herein shall be
construed to apply to officially sanctioned public celebrations if the persons
so discharging firearms have written permission from the governing body.
(1999 Code, § 6-309) Penalty, see §
130.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-556
§ 130.10 SLINGSHOTS, AIR GUNS, BB GUNS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to discharge a slingshot, air gun, BB
gun or the like loaded with rock or other dangerous missiles at any time or
under any circumstances within the municipality.
(1999 Code, § 6-310) Penalty, see §
130.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-556
§ 130.11 DISORDERLY CONDUCT.
   (A)   Prohibited behavior. A person shall be guilty of disorderly conduct
if, with the intent to cause public alarm, nuisance or danger or recklessly
creating a risk thereof, he or she willfully does any one or more of the
following acts:
      (1)   Engages in fighting or threatening or in violent or tumultuous
behavior;
      (2)   Makes unreasonable noise or offensively coarse utterance, gesture
or display, or addresses abusive or threatening language to any person
including any law enforcement officer and any official or employee of the
municipality who is engaged in the lawful performance of his or her duties.
Words merely causing displeasure, annoyance or resentment or language that is
otherwise protected by the 1st Amendment to the U.S. Constitution are not
prohibited;
      (3)   Urinates or defecates in a public place or on private premises open
to or visible to the public; provided, this prohibition shall not apply to
urinating or defecating in any restroom facility in a manner for which that
facility was designed; and/or
      (4)   Shines or directs a laser light beam on any law enforcement officer
who is engaged in the lawful performance of his or her duties.
   (B)   Exemptions. This section shall not be construed or applied to prohibit
the right to lawful assembly, picketing, public speaking or other lawful means
of expressing public opinion that is protected by the 1st Amendment to the U.S.
Constitution.
§ 130.12 OBSTRUCTION OF PUBLIC WAYS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to erect, maintain or suffer to remain
on any street or public sidewalk a stand, wagon, display or other obstruction
inconvenient to, or inconsistent with, the public use of the same.
(1999 Code, § 6-313) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.13 ABANDONED AUTOMOBILES.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to abandon any automobile on the municipal
streets, highways, alleys, parks or other property. An automobile shall be
deemed to be abandoned if left unattended:
      (1)   With no number plates affixed thereto, for more than six hours on
any public property;
      (2)   For more than 24 hours on any public property, except a portion
thereof on which parking is legally permitted;
      (3)   For more than 48 hours, after the parking of such vehicle shall
have become illegal, if left on a portion of a public property on which parking
is legally permitted; or
      (4)   For more than seven days on private property if left initially
without permission of the owner, or after permission of the owner shall be
terminated.
   (B)   The title to any automobile so abandoned which at the time of such
abandonment, has no number plates of the current year affixed and is of a
wholesale value, taking into consideration the condition of such vehicle, of
$100 or less, shall immediately vest in the municipality.
      (1)   In the event the automobile is licensed for the current year or is
of a wholesale value of over $100, the municipal police shall make a reasonable
effort to contact the owner of the said automobile by sending a notice to the
registered owner, if known; by sending an inquiry to the county it is
registered in, if the owner is unknown; or by contacting the Director of Motor
Vehicles, if the car is without license plates and the owner is unknown.
      (2)   If notified by the Director of Motor Vehicles that a lien or
mortgage exists on said vehicle, notice shall also be sent to the lien holder
or mortgagee.
      (3)   Any person claiming such vehicle shall be required to pay the cost
of removal and storage of such vehicle.
      (4)   If the owner, lien holder or mortgagee, is known and does not claim
the automobile within five days after the date when the notice was mailed, or
upon receiving word from the Director of Motor Vehicles that the owner is
unknown, title will immediately vest in the municipality and the automobile may
be sold.
      (5)   Any proceeds from the sale of the automobile less any expenses
incurred by the municipality in such sale shall be held without interest for
the benefit of the owner of such vehicle for a period of two years. If not
claimed within such period of time, the proceeds shall then be paid into the
General Fund.
   (C)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      PUBLIC PROPERTY. Any public right-of-way, street, highway, alley, park or
other state, county or municipally-owned property.
      PRIVATE PROPERTY shall mean any privately-owned property which is not
included within the definition of public property.
   (D)   Any person who abandons an automobile as herein-before defined shall
be deemed to be guilty of an offense.
(1999 Code, § 6-315) Penalty, see §
130.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 60-1901 through 60-1911
§ 130.14 UNLICENSED OR INOPERABLE VEHICLES AND STORAGE CONTAINERS.
   (A)   No person in charge or control of any property within the city, other
than city property, whether as owner, tenant, occupant, lessee or otherwise,
shall allow any partially dismantled, inoperable, wrecked, junked or discarded
vehicle or any unlicensed vehicle to remain on any private or public property
for any length of time. This section shall not apply to a vehicle in an
enclosed building or to a vehicle in an appropriate storage place or depository
maintained in a lawful place and manner by the city.
   (B)   No person shall place or permit to be placed or remain on any property
within the city a freight shipping container to include any steel container
designed or constructed for shipping and/or storage larger than 144 cubic feet
in size, except for containers placed on premises for temporary storage during
periods of construction authorized by a building permit for such construction.
   (C)   Any vehicle or freight shipping container allowed to remain on
property in violation of this section shall constitute a nuisance and shall be
abated, and any person violating this section shall be guilty of an offense.
(1999 Code, § 6-316) (Ord. 344, passed 6-8-2004) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Generally. Any person who shall violate or refuse to comply with the
enforcement of any of the provisions of this chapter, set forth at full length
herein or incorporated by reference shall be deemed guilty of an offense and
upon conviction thereof, shall be fined not more than $100 for each offense. A
new violation shall be deemed to have been committed every 24 hours of such
failure to comply.
(1999 Code, § 6-401)
   (B)   Abatement of nuisance.
      (1)   Whenever a nuisance exists as defined in this chapter, the
municipality may proceed by a suit in equity to enjoin and abate the same, in
the manner provided by law.
      (2)   Whenever, in any action, it is established that a nuisance exists,
the court may together with the fine or penalty imposed, enter an order of
abatement as a part of the judgment in the case.
(1999 Code, § 6-402)
   (C)   Restitution; when allowed. A sentencing court may order a person
convicted of an offense under this chapter to make restitution for the actual
physical injury or property damage or loss sustained by the victim as a direct
result of the offense for which the person has been convicted. With the consent
of the parties, the court may order restitution for the actual physical injury
or property damage or loss sustained by the victim of an uncharged offense or
an offense dismissed pursuant to plea negotiations.
(1999 Code, § 6-403)
   (D)   Disorderly conduct. Any person who violates §
130.11 shall be punished by a fine of not more than $100.
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 18-1720, 18-1722, 29-2280
CHAPTER 131: SEXUAL PREDATOR RESIDENCY RESTRICTIONS
Section
   
131.01   Findings and intent
   
131.02   Definitions
   
131.03   Prohibitions
   
131.04   Exceptions
 
   
131.99   Penalty
§ 131.01 FINDINGS AND INTENT.
   (A)   The state legislature has found that certain sex offenders present a
high risk to commit repeat offenses and has enabled municipalities to restrict
such persons’ place of residency as provided in the Sexual Predator Residency
Restriction Act.
   (B)   Sex offenders who prey on children and who are high risks to repeat
such acts present an extreme threat to public safety. The cost of sex offender
victimization to these children and to society at large, while incalculable, is
exorbitant.
   (C)   It is the intent of this chapter to serve the city’s compelling
interest to promote, protect and improve the health, safety and welfare of the
citizens of the city by creating certain areas around locations where children
regularly congregate in concentrated numbers where certain sexual predators
cannot reside.
(Ord. 356, passed 6-13-2006)
§ 131.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CHILD CARE FACILITY. A facility licensed pursuant to the Child Care
Licensing Act.
   RESIDE. To sleep, live or dwell at a place, which may include more than one
location, and may be mobile or transitory.
   RESIDENCE. A place where an individual sleeps, lives or dwells, which may
include more than one location, and may be mobile or transitory.
   SCHOOL. A public, private, denominational or parochial school which meets
the requirements for state accreditation or approval.
   SEX OFFENDER. An individual who has been convicted of a crime listed in Neb.
RS 29-4003 and who is required to register as a sex offender pursuant to the
Sex Offender Registration Act.
   SEXUAL PREDATOR. An individual who is required to register under the Sex
Offender Registration Act, who has been classified as Level 3 because of a high
risk of recidivism as determined by the State Patrol under Neb. RS 29-4013, and
who has victimized a person 18 years of age or younger.
(Ord. 356, passed 6-13-2006)
§ 131.03 PROHIBITIONS.
   (A)   Prohibited location of residence. It is unlawful for any sexual
predator to reside within 500 feet from a school or child care facility.
   (B)   Measure of distance. For purposes of determining the minimum distance
separation, the distance shall be measured by following a straight line from
the outer property line of the residence to the nearest outer boundary line of
the school or child care facility.
(Ord. 356, passed 6-13-2006) Penalty, see §
131.99
§ 131.04 EXCEPTIONS.
   This chapter shall not apply to a sexual predator who:
   (A)   Resides within a prison or correctional or treatment facility operated
by the state or a political subdivision;
   (B)   Established a residence before July 1, 2006, and has not moved from
that residence; or
   (C)   Established a residence after July 1, 2006, and the school or child
care facility triggering the restriction was established after the initial date
of the sexual predator’s residence at that location.
(Ord. 356, passed 6-13-2006)
§ 131.99 PENALTY.
   A person who violates this chapter shall be punished by a jail sentence not
to exceed six months and/or a fine not to exceed $1,000.
(Ord. 356, passed 6-13-2006)
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
   Chapter
      
150.   BUILDING REGULATIONS
      
151.   FLOOD HAZARD AREAS
      
152.   ADDITIONS AND CITY LIMITS
      
153.   SUBDIVISIONS
      
154.   COMPREHENSIVE DEVELOPMENT PLAN
      
155.   ZONING CODE
CHAPTER 150: BUILDING REGULATIONS
Section
Building Inspector
   
150.001   Power and authority
   
150.002   Right of entry
   
150.003   Permit card
   
150.004   Time of inspection
   
150.005   Appeal from decision
Building Permits
   
150.020   Permit required
   
150.021   Application; approval of requirement; issuance
   
150.022   Fees; certificate of satisfactory construction
   
150.023   Permit limitations
   
150.024   Work without required permit; violation
Building Code
   
150.035   Adoption; subsequent editions; conflicts; definitions
   
150.036   International Codes
Plumbing and Drainlaying
   
150.050   Plumbing Inspector; office created
   
150.051   Registration and license required
   
150.052   Application for registration
   
150.053   License issuance
   
150.054   Annual registration required; renewal
   
150.055   Registration fees
   
150.056   License record; licenses non-transferable
   
150.057   License revocation
   
150.058   Non-residence; scope; reapplication; fees; application of subchapter
   
150.059   Permit required
   
150.060   Permit application; fees
   
150.061   Permit issuance
   
150.062   Minor repairs
   
150.063   Inspection and certificate
   
150.064   National Plumbing Code; adopted and incorporated by reference
   
150.065   Civil liability
   
150.066   Prohibition of lead pipes, solder and flux
Building Moving
   
150.080   Definitions
   
150.081   Permit required
   
150.082   Application; form; contents; fee
   
150.083   Interference with utilities; notice required
   
150.084   Duties of permittee
   
150.085   No general license granted
Unsafe Buildings
   
150.100   Definition
   
150.101   Prohibition
   
150.102   Determination and notice
   
150.103   Hearing and appeal
   
150.104   Emergency
   
150.105   Special assessments
BUILDING INSPECTOR
§ 150.001 POWER AND AUTHORITY.
   (A)   The Building Inspector shall be the municipal official who shall have
the duty of enforcing all building and housing regulations as herewith
prescribed. He or she shall inspect all buildings repaired, altered, built or
moved in the municipality as often as necessary to ensure compliance with all
municipal ordinances. He or she shall have the power and authority to order all
work stopped on any construction, alteration or relocation which violates any
provisions prescribed herein. He or she shall issue permission to continue any
construction, alteration or relocation when he or she is satisfied that no
provision will be violated. If the stop order is an oral one, it shall be
followed by a written stop order within one hour. Such written order may be
served by any municipal police officer.
   (B)   In the event that the governing body fails to appoint a Building
Inspector, the Chief of Police shall be the Building Inspector ex officio.
(1999 Code, § 9-101) (Ord. 323, passed 10-9-2001)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-604
§ 150.002 RIGHT OF ENTRY.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to refuse to allow the Building
Inspector entry into any building or structure where the work of construction,
alteration, repair or relocation is taking place for the purpose of making
official inspections at any reasonable hour.
(1999 Code, § 9-102)
§ 150.003 PERMIT CARD.
   Upon the issuance of a building permit, the Building Inspector shall furnish
to the applicant a permit card which shall be a distinctive color and shall
contain the nature of the work, the location of the building, the number of the
permit, and the date of issuance. The said card shall be prominently displayed
on the principal frontage of the building site close to or upon the building or
structure and shall so remain until the final inspection has been made.
(1999 Code, § 9-103)
§ 150.004 TIME OF INSPECTION.
   (A)   The Building Inspector, upon notification from the permit holder or
his or her agent, shall make the following inspections of the building or
structure and shall either approve that portion of the construction as
completed, or shall notify the permit holder, or his or her agent that the work
fails to comply with the requirements of the Municipal Code.
   (B)   (1)   Foundation inspection shall be made after trenches are excavated
and the necessary forms erected; frame inspection shall be made after the roof,
framing, fire-blocking and backing is in place and all pipes, chimneys and
vents are complete; and final inspection shall be made after the building is
completed and ready for occupancy.
      (2)   It shall be unlawful for any person to do work, or cause work to be
done beyond the point indicated in each successive inspection without the
written approval of the Building Inspector.
(1999 Code, § 9-104)
§ 150.005 APPEAL FROM DECISION.
   In the event it is claimed that the true intent and meaning of this chapter
has been wrongly interpreted by the Building Inspector; that the time allowed
for compliance with any order of the Building Inspector is too short; or that
conditions peculiar to a particular building make it unreasonably difficult to
meet the literal requirements prescribed by this chapter and the Building
Inspector, the owner, his or her agent, or the occupant may file a notice of
appeal within ten days after the decision or order of the Building Inspector
has been made. The governing body shall hear all appeals and shall have the
power and authority, when appealed to, to modify the decision or order of the
Building Inspector. Such a decision shall be final, subject only to any remedy
which the aggrieved person may have at law or equity. Applications for review
shall be in writing and shall state the reasons why the variance should be
made. A variance shall be granted only where it is evident that reasonable
safety and sanitation is assured and may include conditions not generally
specified by this code to achieve that end. A copy of any variance so granted
shall be sent to both the Building Inspector and the applicant.
(1999 Code, § 9-105)
BUILDING PERMITS
§ 150.020 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   Any person or persons intending to construct, relocate or demolish a
building or other structure, including the installation of a water heat pump to
such building or structure, within the corporate limits of the municipality
shall before proceeding with said work, or commencing any excavation in
connection therewith, file in the office of the Municipal Clerk or other agent
designated by the Mayor and City Council, a written application designating the
kind of building, structure or addition, or character which he or she intends
to erect or make, materials of which the same is to be composed, and the legal
description and location of the real estate, the part or portion of the real
estate to be occupied by the building or improvement, the approximate cost
thereof, the public utilities, municipal or otherwise, proposed to be connected
with and available for use by the occupants or users of said building or
structure, and a detailed description of the type of construction and material
used therein, and especially each chimney, smokestack, flue and fireplace to be
erected or constructed in connection therewith, together with any additional
plans and specifications as may be required by the Mayor and City Council and
shall obtain a permit therefor as hereinafter provided.
(1999 Code, § 9-201) (Ord. 329, passed 1-8-2002)
§ 150.021 APPLICATION; APPROVAL OF REQUIREMENTS; ISSUANCE.
   An application for a building permit shall be filed in the office of the
Municipal Clerk or other agent designated by the Mayor and City Council, who
shall refer it to the Building Inspector. He or she shall thereupon make due
investigation, and if he or she finds that the proposed work will conform to
the statutes of the state and the ordinances and regulations of the
municipality, and that no good cause of any nature exists why said work should
not be done, the Building Inspector shall thereupon approve said application
and make due return thereof to the office of the Municipal Clerk. The Municipal
Clerk, if the application conforms to the provisions of this section and to all
other ordinances of the municipality, shall, at the expiration of 72 hours
thereafter, issue the permit unless protest is filed as herein provided, if
said application for building permit concerns a building, structure or addition
which is located outside the fire limits. The Building Inspector, before a
building permit shall issue, shall by endorsement in writing on said
application find that said construction, improvement or repair conforms to the
building regulations, the requirements of the ordinances of the municipality
regulating fire hazards, non-combustible building construction, electrical
construction and wiring, and also that proper applications for light, water and
sewer connections for the building proposed to be constructed or repaired are
on file in the office of the Municipal Clerk or that such utilities are already
connected to said building, as the case is. If the application be disapproved
by the Building Inspector or Chief of the Fire Department, or if any citizen of
the municipality shall file objections in writing to the issuance of such
permit before the same is issued, the Municipal Clerk shall present said
application, together with all plans and specifications and findings, to the
Mayor and City Council, who then shall determine whether the permit shall be
issued; provided, if the application for a building permit concerns a building,
structure or addition within the fire limits, then the Building Inspector shall
in each instance refer said application, with all supporting documents
attached, to the Mayor and City Council, who shall, in each case, order the
Municipal Clerk either to issue the building permit or to refuse the issuance
thereof.
(1999 Code, § 9-202)
§ 150.022 FEES; CERTIFICATE OF SATISFACTORY CONSTRUCTION.
   The City Clerk, on behalf of the Building Inspector, shall at the time of
the filing of any application for the issuance of any building permit, charge
and collect a fee in the following amount: $20 for the first $2,000 of the
valuation of the building project, and an additional $1 for each additional
$1,000 of valuation of the building project. The permit fee shall cover the
issuance of the permit and all inspection of the premises required. The fee
shall be paid to the City Treasurer for credit to the City General Fund. The
Building Inspector shall deliver to the applicant a certificate of satisfactory
construction when the building is completed in accordance with this chapter,
and no utility shall be made available for use in the building until the
certificate is issued and delivered.
(1999 Code, § 9-203)
§ 150.023 PERMIT LIMITATIONS.
   (A)   If the work described in any building permit has not begun within 180
days from the date of issuance thereof, said permit shall expire and be
canceled by the Municipal Clerk, and written notice thereof shall be given to
the persons affected.
   (B)   If the work described in any building permit has not been
substantially completed within two years of the date of issuance thereof, said
permit shall expire and be canceled by the Municipal Clerk, and written notice
thereof shall be given to the persons affected, together with notice that
further work as described in the canceled permit shall not proceed unless and
until a new building permit has been obtained.
(1999 Code, § 9-204)
§ 150.024 WORK WITHOUT REQUIRED PERMIT; VIOLATION.
   It shall be unlawful for any contractor or any other person engaged in the
actual work of constructing, improving, repairing, relocating or demolishing
any building or other structure within the corporate limits of the municipality
or of making any improvements or repairs on any building or structure within
the corporate limits of the municipality to proceed with the work until he or
she knows the owner has obtained the permit as provided for in this chapter.
The Building Inspector shall order cessation of any work so started before
issuance of said permit.
(1999 Code, § 9-205) Penalty, see §
10.99
BUILDING CODE
§ 150.035 ADOPTION; SUBSEQUENT EDITIONS; CONFLICTS: DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   The State Building Code adopted pursuant to Neb. RS 71-6403 as amended
is hereby adopted by the city; one copy of each such code of which is on file
in the office of the Municipal Clerk are hereby incorporated in and made a part
of the provisions of this code the same as though spread at large herein.
   (B)   Subsequent editions or revisions of the code adopted by the provisions
of this subchapter by state law shall be considered adopted and of full force
and effect within the municipality.
   (C)   In the event of any conflict between the provisions of the codes
adopted by this subchapter and the specific provisions of this code, state law
or city ordinances, rules or regulations, the provisions of this code, state
law or city ordinances, rules or regulations shall prevail and be controlling.
   (D)   (1)   Whenever the word MUNICIPALITY or the word CITY is used in the
code adopted by this subchapter, it shall be construed to mean the City of
Henderson, Nebraska, and the area within one mile outside of the city limits.
      (2)   Whenever the term CORPORATE COUNSEL or CITY ATTORNEY is used in the
code adopted by this subchapter, it shall be construed to mean the City
Attorney of the municipality.
(Ord. 338, passed 10-14-2003)
§ 150.036 INTERNATIONAL CODES.
   The International Building Code, 2009 Edition, including all appendices, and
the International Property Maintenance Code, 2009 Edition, for one- and two-
family dwellings, as published by the International Code Council, Inc., one
copy of which is on file in the office of the City Clerk, are hereby adopted as
the Building Code, incorporated in and made a part of the provisions of this
Code, as though spread at large herein. All subsequent editions of said code
that are adopted shall be likewise adopted as part of this code upon the
subsequent editions being placed on file in the office of the City Clerk.
(Ord. 383, passed 7-13-2010)
PLUMBING AND DRAINLAYING
§ 150.050 PLUMBING INSPECTOR; OFFICE CREATED.
   The office of Plumbing Inspector is hereby created. The Building Inspector
is hereby designated as ex-officio Plumbing Inspector. The Plumbing Inspector
is hereby authorized and directed to enforce all of the provisions of this
subchapter.
(1999 Code, § 9-401)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-604
§ 150.051 REGISTRATION AND LICENSE REQUIRED.
   No person shall hereafter engage in or work at the business, trade or
calling of a plumber in the municipality until he or she shall have registered
and obtained a license as such plumber as hereinafter provided.
(1999 Code, § 9-402) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 150.052 APPLICATION FOR REGISTRATION.
   Application for registration required by this subchapter shall be made in
writing at the office of the Municipal Clerk, upon blanks furnished by the
Municipal Clerk, which shall show the name and residence of the applicant, the
business location of the applicant and such other information as may be
required.
(1999 Code, § 9-403)
§ 150.053 LICENSE ISSUANCE.
   (A)   A plumbing license shall not be issued unless the applicant for such
license shall have first paid a license fee in the amount of $5.
   (B)   All applicants shall satisfy the Plumbing Inspector that he or she
possesses qualifications and fitness to install plumbing, and if the Plumbing
Inspector is satisfied, he or she shall recommend the issuance of such license
to the Mayor and City Council.
   (C)   If the applicant is a plumbing contractor, the license shall cover
employees under the supervision of the applicant. All licenses shall be signed
by the Mayor and countersigned by the Municipal Clerk. All licenses issued to
plumbers shall continue in force until revoked.
(1999 Code, § 9-404)
§ 150.054 ANNUAL REGISTRATION REQUIRED; RENEWAL.
   (A)   Upon the payment of the required registration fee, any person granted
a license under this subchapter to engage in or work at the business, trade or
calling of a plumber in this municipality shall be registered by the Municipal
Clerk who shall deliver to said licensee a certificate of registration signed
by the Mayor and Municipal Clerk.
   (B)   All registrations issued under the provisions of this subchapter shall
continue in force to January 1 of each year first after the date on which they
are granted, unless sooner revoked.
   (C)   Certificates of registration issued under this subchapter, at the time
of their expiration, may be renewed upon the recommendation of the Plumbing
Inspector and upon payment of the required registration fee.
(1999 Code, § 9-405)
§ 150.055 REGISTRATION FEES.
   The following fees shall be charged for registration under the provisions of
this subchapter:
   (A)   Master plumber, original registration: $25;
   (B)   Master plumber, renewal: $10; and
   (C)   Each journeyman plumber or plumber’s apprentice or helper: $1.
(1999 Code, § 9-406)
§ 150.056 LICENSE RECORD; LICENSES NON-TRANSFERABLE.
   The Municipal Clerk shall keep a record of all licenses issued, lapsed or
revoked. No license shall be transferable.
(1999 Code, § 9-407)
§ 150.057 LICENSE REVOCATION.
   Every license issued pursuant to this subchapter may be revoked, after
reasonable notice and hearing, by the Mayor and City Council, whenever the
licensee fails, neglects or refuses to comply with the provisions of this
subchapter.
(1999 Code, § 9-408)
§ 150.058 NON-RESIDENCE; SCOPE; REAPPLICATION; FEES; APPLICATION OF SUBCHAPTER.
   (A)   Non-resident plumbers may be granted a one-job license for plumbing
work within the municipality upon their satisfying the Mayor and City Council
of their qualifications to do such work.
   (B)   Should a non-resident plumber reapply for a job license within a
period of one year after obtaining his or her first such license, the Plumbing
Inspector may waive any showing as to qualifications and fitness to install
plumbing upon the approval of the Mayor and City Council and upon payment of
the registration fees.
   (C)   The following fees shall be charged for registration for a non-
resident one-job license:
      (1)   Master Plumbers one-job registration fee: $20; and
      (2)   Master Plumbers one-job examination fee: $5.
   (D)   Non-resident, one-job, license holders shall be subject to the
provisions of this subchapter.
(1999 Code, § 9-409)
§ 150.059 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   No plumbing shall be installed within or on any building, structure or
premises within the municipality nor shall any alteration or addition be made
in any such existing plumbing, without first securing a permit therefor from
the Plumbing Inspector.
(1999 Code, § 9-410) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 150.060 PERMIT APPLICATION; FEES.
   Application for a plumbing permit, describing the work to be done, shall be
made to the Municipal Clerk by a licensed plumber who is responsible for the
installation of the work. The application shall be accompanied by such plans
and schedules as may be necessary to determine whether the installation as
described will be in conformity with the requirements of this subchapter and
shall be approved by the Plumbing Inspector. No fee shall be charged for
issuing said permit.
(1999 Code, § 9-411)
§ 150.061 PERMIT ISSUANCE.
   If it shall be found that the installation as described will conform to the
requirements of this subchapter, a permit for such installation shall be issued
by the Municipal Clerk.
(1999 Code, § 9-412)
§ 150.062 MINOR REPAIRS.
   (A)   No permit shall be required for minor repair work.
   (B)   Minor repair work as used in this subchapter is hereby defined to be
repairing leaks in pipes, traps or opening up wastes or supply pipes, traps or
trenches or repairing broken fixtures or frozen pipes inside of the walls of
buildings, but where alterations are made in either soil waste or vent pipes or
where the location or kind of fixtures is changed, permits will be required.
(1999 Code, § 9-413)
§ 150.063 INSPECTION AND CERTIFICATE.
   (A)   Upon the completion of any installation of plumbing which has been
made under a permit, it shall be the duty of the person, firm or corporation
making the installation to notify the Plumbing Inspector, who shall inspect the
installation as soon thereafter as practicable.
   (B)   Where the Plumbing Inspector finds the installation to be in
conformity with the provisions of this subchapter, he or she shall issue, upon
demand, to the person, firm or corporation making the installation, a
certificate of approval,
   (C)   (1)   If, upon inspection, the installation is not found to be fully
in conformity with the provisions of this subchapter, the Plumbing Inspector
shall notify the licensee responsible for the installation, stating the defects
which have been found to exist.
      (2)   If such licensee fails to correct such defects within such
reasonable time as may be specified in the notice thereof by the Plumbing
Inspector, said licensee shall be deemed in violation of this subchapter and
subject to the penalties prescribed.
(1999 Code, § 9-414)
§ 150.064 NATIONAL PLUMBING CODE; ADOPTED AND INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE.
   The Plumbing Code known as the National Plumbing Code ASAA40.8-1955,
published by the American Society of Mechanical Engineers, of which not less
than one copy is now on file in the office of the Municipal Clerk, is hereby
adopted and incorporated as fully as if set out at length herein, and is made a
part of this chapter.
(1999 Code, § 9-415)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 18-132
§ 150.065 CIVIL LIABILITY.
   (A)   In no case shall any damages caused by tests which shall be made by
the Plumbing Inspector in the discharge of his or her duties, as provided by
this subchapter, be charged as damages to the municipality or to the Plumbing
Inspector thereof.
   (B)   In all cases where damages are caused in making such tests, the master
plumber or drainlayer in charge of the work so tested shall be responsible
therefor; provided, this subchapter shall not be construed to remove or lessen
the liability of any person owning, operating, controlling or installing any
plumbing or drainlaying work for damages to person or property injured by any
defect in said work, nor shall the said municipality be held as assuming any
such liability by reason of any inspection authorized herein or of any license
or permit issued hereunder.
(1999 Code, § 9-416)
§ 150.066 PROHIBITION OF LEAD PIPES, SOLDER AND FLUX.
   (A)   Any pipe, solders or flux used in the installation or repair of any
residential or non-residential facility which is connected to the public water
supply system shall be lead free.
   (B)   For purposes of this section, LEAD-FREE shall mean:
      (1)   Solders and flux: not more than 0.2% lead; and
      (2)   Pipe and pipe fittings: not more than 8% lead.
(1999 Code, § 9-417)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 71-5301
BUILDING MOVING
§ 150.080 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BUILDING. A structure designed, built or occupied as a shelter or roofed
enclosure for persons, animals or property and used for residential, business,
mercantile, storage, commercial, industrial, institutional, assembly,
educational or recreational purposes. A structure of the following dimensions
shall not fall within this definition: 12 feet wide, 24 feet long, 15 feet
high.
   PERSON. Any person, firm, partnership, association, corporation, company or
organization of any kind.
(1999 Code, § 9-501)
§ 150.081 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   No person shall move any building over, along or across any highway, street
or alley in the municipality without first obtaining a permit from the
Municipal Clerk.
(1999 Code, § 9-502) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 150.082 APPLICATION; FORM; CONTENTS; FEE.
   (A)   A person seeking issuance of a permit hereunder shall file an
application for such permit with the Municipal Clerk. The application shall be
made in writing, upon forms provided by the Municipal Clerk, and shall be filed
in the office of the Municipal Clerk.
   (B)   The application shall set forth:
      (1)   A description of the building proposed to be moved, giving street
number, construction materials, dimensions, number of rooms and condition of
exterior and interior;
      (2)   A legal description of the lot from which the building is to be
moved, giving the lot, block and tract number, if located in the municipality;
      (3)   A legal description of the lot to which it is proposed such
building be removed, giving lot, block and tract number, if located in the
municipality;
      (4)   The portion of the lot to be occupied by the building when moved;
      (5)   The highways, streets and alleys over, along or across which the
building is proposed to be moved;
      (6)   Proposed moving date and hours; and
      (7)   Any additional information which the Municipal Clerk shall find
necessary to a fair determination of whether a permit should be issued.
   (C)   The owner of the building to be moved shall file with the application
sufficient evidence that the building and lot from which it is to be removed
are free of any entanglement and that all taxes and any Municipal charges
against the same are paid in full.
   (D)   The applicant, if other than the owner, shall file with the
application a written statement or bill of sale signed by the owner, or other
sufficient evidence, that he or she is entitled to move the building.
   (E)   The application shall be accompanied by a permit fee in the amount of
$1 which shall be paid over by the Municipal Clerk to the Municipal Treasurer,
who shall credit it to the General Fund.
(1999 Code, § 9-503)
§ 150.083 INTERFERENCE WITH UTILITIES; NOTICE REQUIRED.
   (A)   Whenever it shall be necessary for any licensed housemover in moving a
building to interfere with any electric, telephone or telegraph poles or wires,
the public service company or companies owning, using or operating such poles
or wires, shall, upon such notice as is provided in their respective
franchises, or if no provision for notice is made therein, then upon 24 hours’
notice, be present and assist, or, if necessary, move such poles and wires; and
the expense of said removal, as estimated, shall be paid in advance by
applicant, unless it is otherwise provided in said companies’ franchises.
   (B)   Whenever the moving of any building necessitates interference with any
water main or sewer main, belonging to the municipality, notice in writing of
the time and route of such building moving operations shall be given to the
Municipal Water Commissioner, who shall proceed on behalf of the municipality
as the managing officers of public service companies are required to proceed in
the premises in behalf of their companies.
   (C)   The notice herein provided for shall be given to said municipal
official or public service company or companies, as case is, by the licensed
housemover.
(1999 Code, § 9-504)
§ 150.084 DUTIES OF PERMITTEE.
   Every permittee under this subchapter shall:
   (A)   Move a building only over streets designated for such use in the
written permit;
   (B)   Notify the Municipal Clerk in writing of a desired change in moving
date and hours as proposed in the application;
   (C)   Notify the Municipal Clerk in writing of any and all damage done to
property belonging to the municipality within 24 hours after the damage or
injury has occurred;
   (D)   Cause red lights to be displayed during the night time on every side
of the building, while standing on a street, in such manner as to warn the
public of the obstruction, and shall at all times erect and maintain barricades
across the streets in such manner as to protect the public from damage or
injury by reason of the removal of the building;
   (E)   Remove the building from the municipal streets after four days of such
occupancy, unless an extension is granted by the Mayor;
   (F)   Comply with the Building Code, the Fire Zone, and any zoning ordinance
now existing or hereinafter adopted and all other applicable ordinances and
laws upon relocating the building in the municipality;
   (G)   Remove all rubbish and materials and fill all excavations to existing
grade at the original building site so that the premises are left in a safe and
sanitary condition; and
   (H)   See that the sewer line is plugged with a concrete stopper, the water
shut off and the meter returned to the municipal water office. The permittee
shall notify the gas and electric service companies to remove their services.
(1999 Code, § 9-505)
§ 150.085 NO GENERAL LICENSE GRANTED.
   There shall be no license issued or general permit given to any one to move
buildings at will or generally within the municipality.
(1999 Code, § 9-506)
UNSAFE BUILDINGS
§ 150.100 DEFINITION.
   (A)   The term UNSAFE BUILDING as used in this subchapter is hereby defined
to mean and include any building, shed, fence or other human-made structure:
      (1)   Which is dangerous to the public health because of its condition,
and which may cause or aid in the spread of disease or injury to the health of
the occupants of it or neighboring structures;
      (2)   Which because of faulty construction, age, lack of proper repair or
any other cause is especially liable to fire and constitutes or creates a fire
hazard; and/or
      (3)   Which by reason of faulty construction or any other cause is liable
to cause injury or damage by the collapse or fall of all or any part of such
structure.
   (B)   Any such unsafe building in the municipality is hereby declared to be
a nuisance.
(1999 Code, § 9-601)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 18-1720, 18-1722, 18-1722.01
§ 150.101 PROHIBITION.
   It shall be unlawful to maintain or permit the existence of any unsafe
building in the municipality and it shall be unlawful for the owner, occupant
or person in custody of any dangerous building to permit the same to remain in
an unsafe condition or to occupy such building or permit it to be occupied
while it is in an unsafe condition.
(1999 Code, § 9-602) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 18-1720, 18-1722, 18-1722.01
§ 150.102 DETERMINATION AND NOTICE.
   (A)   Whenever the Building Inspector, the Chief of the Fire Department, the
Health Official or the Board of Health shall be of the opinion that any
building or structure in the municipality is an unsafe building, he or she
shall file a written statement to this effect with the Municipal Clerk. The
Clerk shall thereupon cause the property to be posted accordingly, and shall
file a copy of such determination in the office of the County Register of
Deeds, and shall serve written notice upon the owner thereof, and upon the
occupant thereof, if any, by certified mail or by personal service. Such notice
shall state that the building has been declared to be in an unsafe condition;
and that such dangerous condition must be removed or remedied by repairing or
altering the building or by demolishing it; and that the condition must be
remedied within 60 days from the date of receipt.
   (B)   Such notice may be in the following terms:
   “To ___________________ (owner-occupant of premises) of the premise known
and described as _____________________________________.
   “You are hereby notified that ______________________________ (describe
building) on the premises above mentioned has been determined to be an unsafe
building and a nuisance after inspection by . The causes for this decision are
______________________________ (here insert the facts as to the dangerous
condition).
   “You must remedy this condition or demolish the building within sixty (60)
days from the date of receipt of this notice or the municipality will proceed
to do so. Appeal of this determination may be made to the governing body,
acting as the Board of Appeals, by filing with the Municipal Clerk within ten
(10) days from the date of receipt of this notice a request for a hearing.”
   (C)   If the person receiving the notice has not complied therewith within
60 days from the date of receipt of such notice, or taken an appeal from the
determination of the officer or employee finding that a dangerous building
exists within ten days from the time when this notice is served upon such
person by personal service or certified mail, the Building Inspector may, upon
orders of the governing body, proceed to remedy the condition or demolish the
unsafe building.
(1999 Code, § 9-603)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 18-1720, 18-1722, 18-1722.01
§ 150.103 HEARING AND APPEAL.
   Upon receiving the notice to repair or demolish the building, the owner of
the building, within the time stipulated, may in writing to the Municipal Clerk
request a hearing before the governing body, sitting as the Board of Appeals,
to present reasons why the building should not be repaired or demolished. The
governing body shall grant such hearing within ten days from the date of
receiving the request. A written notice of the governing body’s decision
following the hearing shall be sent to the property owner by certified mail. If
the governing body rejects the appeal, the owner shall have 60 days from the
sending of the decision to begin repair or demolition and removal. If after the
60-day period the owner has not begun work, the governing body shall proceed to
cause such work to be done; provided, the property owner may appeal such
decision to the appropriate court for adjudication during which proceedings the
decision of the governing body shall be stated. Where the municipality has not
adopted a building code, the statutes of the state relating to bonded
indebtedness and collection of delinquent taxes shall apply.
(1999 Code, § 9-604)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 18-1720, 18-1722, 18-1722.01
§ 150.104 EMERGENCY.
   Where any unsafe building or structure poses an immediate danger to the
health, safety or general welfare of any person or persons, and the owner fails
to remedy the situation in a reasonable time after notice by the Building
Inspector to do so, the municipality may summarily repair or demolish and
remove such building or structure.
(1999 Code, § 9-605)
§ 150.105 SPECIAL ASSESSMENTS.
   (A)   If any owner of any building or structure fails, neglects or refuses
to comply with notice by or on behalf of the municipality to repair,
rehabilitate or demolish and remove a building or structure which is unsafe and
a public nuisance, the municipality may proceed with the work specified in the
notice to the property owner.
   (B)   A statement of the cost of such work shall be transmitted to the
governing body. The governing body may:
      (1)   Levy the cost as a special assessment against the lot or real
estate upon which the building or structure is located; or
      (2)   Collect the cost from the owner of the building or structure and
enforce the collection by civil action in any court of competent jurisdiction.
   (C)   Such special assessment shall be a lien on the real estate and shall
be collected in the manner provided for special assessments.
(1999 Code, § 9-606)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 18-1720, 18-1722, 18-1722.01, 77-1725
CHAPTER 151: FLOOD HAZARD AREAS
Section
   
151.01   Regulations adopted by reference
§ 151.01 REGULATIONS ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   There is hereby floodplain regulations for the city, which shall be
designated as “Floodplain Regulations for the City of Henderson.” These
floodplain regulations for the city were created in accordance with all
pertinent state and federal law. These floodplain regulations for the city
shall be determined, established and enforced, and from time to time amended,
supplemented or changed; by making certain exceptions; by creating the Office
of Floodplain Administrator; by providing for the enforcement of and the
penalties for the violation of any of its provisions; for the purpose of
promoting health, safety, morals and general welfare of the community.
(Ord. 428, passed 8-13-2019)
CHAPTER 152: ADDITIONS AND CITY LIMITS
Section
Additions
   
152.01   Original plat, plats, additions, subdivisions, outlots, approved
   
152.02   Laying out additions or subdivisions; conditions
   
152.03   Streets, avenues and alleys
   
152.04   Additions, plats, vacation of
   
152.05   Approval by City Council
   
152.06   Subdivision of lots
City Limits
   
152.20   City limits; present, defined
 
   
152.99   Penalty
ADDITIONS
§ 152.01 ORIGINAL PLAT, PLATS, ADDITIONS, SUBDIVISIONS, OUTLOTS, APPROVED.
   Each and all plots, lots, blocks, additions, subdivisions, outlots and
parcels of ground included within the corporate limits of the city, and not
vacated of record prior to the enactment of this chapter, including the
original plat of the city, are hereby accepted, approved and confirmed as
valid, and each and all of said lots, blocks, additions, subdivisions and
outlots as heretofore platted and recorded in the office of the County Clerk,
and not heretofore vacated, and all other parcels of ground included within
said corporate limits, are hereby declared to be within the city.
(1999 Code, § 11-101)
§ 152.02 LAYING OUT ADDITIONS OR SUBDIVISIONS; CONDITIONS.
   The owner of any tracts or parcels of land within the corporate limits of
the city or contiguous thereto, who shall subdivide the same into two or more
parts for the purpose of laying out any addition to the city, shall cause a
plat of such subdivision to be made and filed for record in conformance with
the laws of the state.
(1999 Code, § 11-102)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-415 through 17-417
§ 152.03 STREETS, AVENUES AND ALLEYS.
   The streets, avenues and alleys in all tracts or parcels of land, hereafter
subdivided or laid out as an addition or which may heretofore have been
subdivided or laid out as an addition but not submitted to or approved by the
Mayor and Council, shall correspond in width and direction and be continuations
of the streets, avenues and alleys of the city or any addition contiguous to or
near the proposed addition.
(1999 Code, § 11-103)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-418
§ 152.04 ADDITIONS, PLATS, VACATION OF.
   Any plat or a part thereof of any addition to the city may be vacated by the
proprietors thereof, at any time before the sale of lots therein by a written
instrument declaring the same to be vacated, duly executed and recorded in
conformance with the laws of the state.
(1999 Code, § 11-104)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-419 through 17-422
§ 152.05 APPROVAL BY CITY COUNCIL.
   No owner of any real property located within one mile of the corporate
limits of the city shall be permitted to subdivide, plat or lay out such real
property in building lots and streets or other portions of the same intended to
be dedicated to public use or for the use of the purchasers or owners of lots
adjoining thereon or adjacent thereto without first having obtained the
approval thereof by the City Council. The fact that such real property is
located in a different county or counties than some or all portions of the
municipality shall not be construed as affecting the necessity of obtaining the
approval of the City Council. No plat of such real property shall be recorded
or of any force or effect unless the same be approved by the City Council;
provided, this section shall be construed as prohibiting the use of property
within said area for purposes other than those approved by the City Council or
those uses existing at the time of the enactment of this subchapter.
(1999 Code, § 11-105)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-1002
§ 152.06 SUBDIVISION OF LOTS.
   All those subdivisions created by any instruments effecting the division of
a lot, tract or parcel of land into two or more lots, sites or other divisions
of land for the purpose, whether immediate or future, of ownership or building
development executed after the effective date of this subchapter, or executed
prior to the effective date of this subchapter but not filed in the office of
the Register of Deeds of the county, prior to the effective date of this
subchapter.
(1999 Code, § 11-106)
CITY LIMITS
§ 152.20 CITY LIMITS; PRESENT, DEFINED.
   All the additions, lots, lands, subdivisions and parcels of ground included
within the official city map and plat, a copy of which is on file in the office
of the City Clerk and is hereby incorporated herein by reference, having been
by act or ordinance of the City Council or by law duly annexed to or made a
part of this city, or having been by the act, authority, acquiescence, consent,
platting and dedication of their respective owners, created either as an
original town site or as additions to the city, are hereby declared to be
within the corporate limits of the city. Lawfully constituted additions or
changes in said city limits shall be indicated upon said maps and plat by the
City Clerk after such addition or change has been completed in accordance with
the ordinances of this city and the laws of the state.
(1999 Code, § 11-201)
§ 152.99 PENALTY.
   Any person whether as owner, proprietor or as the agent, attorney or
representative of any owner or proprietor of land, who shall plat or subdivide
any tract of land within the corporate limits of the city, or adjoining and
contiguous to the same, except as herein authorized, or who shall sell,
transfer, deed or convey, contract or agree to sell, transfer or offer for sale
any lot or piece of ground in any addition or subdivision of three or more
parts within said corporate limits, or adjoining and contiguous thereto without
having first obtained the acceptance and approval of the plat or map thereof by
the Mayor and Council, and any person who shall violate or who shall fail or
neglect or refuse to comply with any of the provisions of this chapter, shall,
upon conviction, be fined in any sum not less than $10 nor exceeding $100.
(1999 Code, § 11-301)
CHAPTER 153: SUBDIVISIONS
Section
   
153.01   Adoption
§ 153.01 ADOPTION.
   The City Council adopts Ord. 449, incorporating the zoning and subdivision
ordinances for the city, including the zoning jurisdiction of the city, as
recommended by the City Planning Commission after the completion of the
required public hearings.
(Ord. 385, passed 9-14-2010; Ord. 449, passed 11-11-2022)
CHAPTER 154: COMPREHENSIVE DEVELOPMENT PLAN
Section
   
154.01   Adoption
§ 154.01 ADOPTION.
   The City Council adopts Ord. 448, incorporating the Comprehensive
Development Plan for the city, including the zoning jurisdiction extending one
mile from the corporate limits of the city, as recommended by the City Planning
Commission after the completion of the required public hearings.
(Ord. 384, passed 9-14-2010; Ord. 448, passed 11-11-2022)
CHAPTER 155: ZONING CODE
Section
   
155.01   Adoption
§ 155.01 ADOPTION.
   The City Council adopts Ord. 449, incorporating the zoning and subdivision
ordinances for the city, including the zoning jurisdiction of the city, as
recommended by the City Planning Commission after the completion of the
required public hearings.
(Ord. 385, passed 9-14-2010; Ord. 386, passed 9-14-2010; Ord. 387, passed 9-14-
2010; Ord. 388, passed 11-9-2010; Ord. 389, passed 11-9-2010; Ord. 406, passed
11-12-2014; Ord. 409, passed 1-10-2017; Ord. 414, passed 2-27-2018; Ord. 449,
passed 11-11-2022)
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
   Table
      
I.   FRANCHISES
TABLE I: FRANCHISES
 
Ord. No. Date Passed  Description
                        Grants to Kansas-Nebraska Energy, Inc. a gas system
-        - -            franchise
                        (1999 Code, § 10-401)
                        Grants to Mainstay Communications for the term of ten
442      1-11-2022      years the right to maintain, construct, and operate a
                        telephone system within the city.
                       
 
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to Nebraska Revised Statutes
References to 1999 Code
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO NEBRASKA REVISED STATUTES
Neb. RS Reference Code Section
Neb. RS Reference                 Code Section
10-201 through 10-411             34.18
10-601 through 10-614             34.18
11-101                            30.51
11-103 through 11-118             30.50
12-1001                           34.18
13-403                            92.005
13-504                            34.02
13-505                            34.02
13-506                            34.03
13-508                            34.04
13-510                            34.13
13-511                            34.13
13-804                            35.06
13-1802                           35.21
                                  51.15 through
13-2020                           51.20,
                                  51.99
                                  51.15 through
13-2023                           51.20,
                                  51.99
17-103                            30.03,
                                  33.03
                                  30.03,
17-104                            30.04,
                                  33.03
17-105                            31.04
17-106                            31.05
                                  30.06,
17-107                            30.20,
                                  30.29,
                                  35.22
17-107.02(9)                      31.02
                                  30.21,
17-108.02                         34.21,
                                  34.22
17-110 through 17-117             30.01
17-115                            30.06
                                  30.28,
                                  30.29,
17-121                            35.03,
                                  51.01,
                                  51.02
17-129                            130.12
17-148                            30.02
17-149                            53.01
17-150                            30.30
17-202                            33.02
17-405                            30.30,
                                  30.31
17-415 through 17-417             152.02
17-418                            152.03
17-419 through 17-422             152.04
17-502                            11.01
17-503                            92.003
17-503.01                         92.003
                                  10.99,
                                  32.01,
                                  113.01,
                                  113.02,
                                  113.03,
                                  113.04,
                                  113.05,
                                  113.07,
                                  113.08,
                                  113.09,
                                  113.10,
17-505                            113.11,
                                  113.12,
                                  113.13,
                                  113.15,
                                  113.16,
                                  113.17,
                                  113.18,
                                  113.19,
                                  113.22,
                                  113.23,
                                  130.06,
                                  130.07,
                                  130.08
17-508                            92.058
17-508.01                         92.058
17-508.02                         92.058
17-509                            92.059
                                  92.020 through
                                  92.024,
17-522                            92.026 through
                                  92.028,
                                  92.032
17-522 through 17-524             92.025
17-525                            113.06
                                  90.30 through
17-526                            90.33,
                                  90.36,
                                  90.37
17-529.01                         34.18
17-529.08                         34.18
17-531                            52.01
17-534                            34.18,
                                  52.01
17-536                            52.14
                                  52.03,
                                  52.06,
                                  52.11,
17-537                            52.12,
                                  52.16,
                                  52.17,
                                  52.20
17-538                            50.04
17-539                            52.14
17-540                            52.09
17-541                            30.20
                                  50.01,
17-542                            52.07,
                                  52.08,
                                  52.10
17-548                            90.38
                                  92.031,
17-555                            92.047,
                                  93.04
                                  130.09,
17-556                            130.10,
                                  130.12
                                  92.030,
17-557                            92.045,
                                  92.046
17-563                            130.05
                                  92.002,
17-567                            92.060,
                                  92.061
17-568                            30.31
                                  30.30,
17-568.01                         30.31,
                                  34.09
                                  30.50,
                                  92.088,
17-604                            92.033,
                                  150.001,
                                  150.050
17-605                            30.23
17-606                            30.25
17-606 through 17-609             30.24
17-607                            34.15
17-608                            34.17
17-609                            34.17
17-610                            30.27
17-611                            34.23
17-612                            34.21,
                                  34.22
                                  10.18,
                                  32.04,
17-613                            32.07 through
                                  32.09,
                                  34.09
                                  10.15,
17-614                            32.05,
                                  32.06,
                                  32.10
17-614 (Supp. 2021)               10.18
17-615                            32.08
17-616                            32.06
17-701                            34.01
17-702                            34.07
17-706                            34.06
17-708                            34.08
17-710                            34.14
17-711                            34.12
17-714                            34.11
17-715                            34.11
17-905                            34.18
17-908                            34.18
17-911                            34.18
17-913                            53.03
17-919                            30.30,
                                  30.31
                                  50.01,
17-925.01                         50.04,
                                  53.01
17-925.02                         53.06
17-939                            34.18
17-948                            94.15
17-948 through 17-952             94.01
                                  94.16,
17-949                            94.17,
                                  94.18
17-951                            94.15
17-952                            35.04,
                                  94.15
17-958                            34.18
17-968                            34.18
17-1002                           152.05
18-132                            10.16,
                                  150.064
18-305 through 18-312             34.23
18-416                            50.01
18-503                            50.04
18-801 through 18-807             92.085
18-1001 to 18-1006                92.003
18-1214                           34.19
18-1216                           34.20
                                  10.99,
                                  51.16 through
                                  51.19,
                                  93.01 through
                                  93.06,
                                  93.99,
                                  110.99,
18-1720                           111.99,
                                  112.99,
                                  113.99,
                                  130.02 through
                                  130.05,
                                  130.99,
                                  150.100 through
                                  150.105
                                  10.99,
                                  93.99,
                                  110.99,
                                  111.99,
18-1722                           112.99,
                                  113.99,
                                  130.99,
                                  150.100 through
                                  150.105
18-1722.01                        150.100 through
                                  150.105
18-1755                           92.004
18-1801 through 18-1805           34.18
18-2101 to 18-2144                35.07
18-2101.01                        35.07
18-2147 to 18-2153                35.07
19-901 to 19-914                  35.02
19-903                            35.01
19-908                            35.01
19-930 to 19-933                  35.01
19-1101                           30.26
19-1102                           30.23
19-1104                           30.23
19-1301 through 19-1304           34.15
19-1305                           52.01
19-2701                           52.04
19-3001 to 19-3052                33.01
19-3701                           32.09
21-1316.01                        34.17
23-343.13                         34.18
                                  93.04,
28-1321                           130.02 through
                                  130.04
28-1322                           130.01
29-215                            35.21
29-2280                           130.99
29-4003                           131.02
29-4013                           131.02
32-404(1)                         33.01
32-404(2)                         33.02
32-509                            30.05
32-533                            33.03
32-554                            33.03
32-556                            33.01,
                                  33.02
32-557                            33.04
32-568                            30.05
39-705                            130.03
39-836                            34.18
49-801(16)                        10.05
49-14,103.01 through 49-14,103.03 34.23
53-134                            110.04
54-603                            90.30 through
                                  90.32
54-605                            90.35
60-329 to 60-339                  34.19
Chapter 60, Article 6             70.01
60-606 through 60-676             70.01
60-622.01                         73.01
60-624                            70.08,
                                  73.20
                                  70.03 through
                                  70.06,
60-680                            71.01 through
                                  71.05,
                                  Ch. 72
60-699                            70.08,
                                  73.22
60-1901 through 60-1911           130.13
60-4,126                          70.08
60-6,119 through 60-6,121         70.06,
                                  71.01
60-6,190                          Ch. 72
60-6,250                          92.055
60-6,294(10)                      92.055
60-6,381                          73.01
69-204                            113.20
69-205                            113.21
70-624.04                         34.23
70-1601 to 70-1615                50.03
70-1602 et seq.                   50.02
71-1524 through 71-1526           35.05
71-1552                           35.05
71-4406                           90.39
71-4408                           90.38
71-4412                           90.30
71-5301                           150.066
71-6403                           150.035
77-1601.01                        34.21
77-1601.02                        34.21
77-1725                           150.105
77-2337                           34.15
77-2339                           34.15
77-2341                           34.17
77-2362 through 77-2364           34.15
81-839                            30.30
81-1438                           30.20
84-712                            30.23,
                                  30.24
84-1201 through 84-1220           30.23
84-1400 et seq.                   31.01
86-329 through 86-331             50.03
                                  
 
REFERENCES TO 1999 CODE
1999 Code Reference 2022 Code Section
1999 Code Reference 2022 Code Section
1-101               30.01
1-102               30.02
1-103               30.03
1-104               30.04
1-105               30.05
1-106               30.06
1-107               30.07
1-201               30.20
1-202               30.21
1-203               30.22
1-204               30.23
1-205               30.24
1-206               30.25
1-207               30.26
1-208               30.27
1-209               30.28
1-210               30.29
1-211               30.30
1-212               30.31
1-217               30.39
1-218               30.38
1-219               30.40
1-301               30.50
1-302               30.51
1-401               11.01
1-511               31.02
1-512               31.03
1-513               31.04
1-514               31.05
1-601               32.01
1-602               32.02
1-603               32.03
1-604               32.04
1-605               32.05
1-606               32.06
1-607               32.07
1-608               32.08
1-609               32.09
1-610               32.10
1-701               33.01
1-702               33.02
1-703               33.03
1-704               33.04
1-801               34.01
1-802               34.02
1-803               34.03
1-804               34.04
1-805               34.05
1-806               34.06
1-807               34.07
1-808               34.08
1-809               34.09
1-810               34.10
1-811               34.11
1-812               34.12
1-813               34.13
1-814               34.14
1-815               34.15
1-816               34.16
1-817               34.17
1-818               34.18
1-819               34.19
1-820               34.20
1-821               34.21
1-901               34.22
1-902               34.23
1-1001              30.65
2-102               35.02
2-103               35.03
2-104               35.04
2-105               35.05
2-108               35.06
3-101               52.01
3-102               52.02
3-103               52.03
3-104               52.04
3-105               52.05
3-106               52.06
3-107               52.07
3-108               52.08
3-109               52.09
3-110               52.10
3-111               52.11
3-112               52.12
3-113               52.13
3-114               52.14
3-115               52.15
3-116               52.16
3-117               52.17
3-118               52.18
3-119               52.19
3-120               52.20
3-121               52.35
3-122               52.36
3-123               52.37
3-124               52.38
3-125               52.39
3-126               52.40
3-127               52.41
3-128               52.42
3-129               52.43
3-130               52.44
3-131               52.45
3-132               52.46
3-133               52.99
3-134               52.47
3-135               52.48
3-136               52.49
3-201               53.01
3-202               53.02
3-203               53.03
3-204               53.04
3-205               53.05
3-206               53.06
3-207               53.07
3-208               53.07
3-209               53.07
3-210               53.07
3-211               53.08
3-212               53.08
3-213               53.08
3-214               53.08
3-215               53.08
3-216               53.08
3-217               53.09
3-218               53.09
3-219               53.09
3-220               53.09
3-221               53.09
3-222               53.09
3-223               53.09
3-224               53.09
3-225               53.09
3-226               53.10
3-227               53.11
3-228               53.12
3-229               53.12
3-230               53.12
3-231               53.13
3-232               53.14
3-233               53.15
3-234               53.16
3-235               53.17
3-236               53.18
3-237               53.99
3-301               50.01
3-302               50.02
3-303               50.03
3-304               50.04
3-401               35.20
3-402               35.21
3-403               35.22
3-501               94.01
3-601               94.15
3-602               94.16
3-603               94.17
3-604               94.18
4-101               51.01
4-102               51.02
4-201               51.15
4-202               51.16
4-203               51.17
4-204               51.18
4-205               51.19
4-206               51.20
4-207               51.20
4-208               51.20
4-209               51.20
4-210               51.20
4-211               51.20
4-212               51.20
4-213               51.99
4-301               93.01
4-302               93.02
4-303               93.03
4-304               93.04
4-305               93.05
4-306               93.06
4-401               93.99
4-402               93.99
5-101               70.01
5-102               70.99,
                    Ch. 72, Sch. I
5-103               70.03
5-104               70.02,
                    70.04
5-105               70.05
5-106               70.06
5-107               70.07
5-203               Ch. 72, Sch. I
5-204               Ch. 72, Sch. I
5-303               71.01
5-304               71.02
5-312               71.03
5-314               71.05
5-327               71.06
5-328               71.07
5-329               71.99
6-101               90.30
6-102               90.31
6-103               90.32
6-105               90.33
6-107               90.35
6-110               90.36
6-112               90.37
6-113               90.38
6-114               90.39
6-201               90.01
6-202               90.02
6-203               90.03
6-204               90.04
6-205               90.05
6-206               90.06
6-207               90.07
6-208               90.08
6-209               90.09
6-210               90.10
6-211               90.11
6-212               90.12
6-213               90.13
6-214               90.14
6-301               130.01
6-302               130.02
6-303               130.03
6-304               130.04
6-305               130.05
6-306               130.06
6-307               130.07
6-308               130.08
6-309               130.09
6-310               130.10
6-312               130.11
6-313               130.12
6-315               130.13
6-316               130.14
6-401               130.99
6-402               130.99
6-403               130.99
7-101               91.01
7-102               91.02
7-103               91.03
7-104               91.04
7-105               91.05
7-106               91.06
7-107               91.07
7-108               91.08
7-109               91.99
7-110               91.09
7-111               91.10
7-112               91.11
7-113               91.12
7-114               91.13
7-202               91.26
7-203               91.27
7-204               91.28
7-301               91.40
7-302               91.41
7-303               91.42
7-304               91.43
7-401               91.55
7-402               91.56
7-403               91.57
7-404               91.58
7-405               91.59
7-501               91.99
8-101               92.001
8-102               92.002
8-103               92.003
8-104               92.004
8-105               92.005
8-201               92.020
8-202               92.021
8-203               92.022
8-204               92.023
8-205               92.024
8-206               92.025
8-207               92.026
8-208               92.027
8-209               92.028
8-211               92.030
8-212               92.031
8-213               92.032
8-214               92.033
8-301               92.045
8-302               92.046
8-303               92.047
8-304               92.048
8-305               92.049
8-306               92.050
8-307               92.051
8-308               92.052
8-309               92.053
8-310               92.054
8-311               92.055
8-312               92.056
8-313               92.057
8-314               92.058
8-315               92.059
8-316               92.060
8-317               92.061
8-318               92.062
8-319               92.063
8-320               92.064
8-321               92.065
8-322               92.066
8-323               92.067
8-324               92.068
8-325               92.069
8-326               92.070
8-401               92.085
8-402               92.086
8-403               92.087
8-404               92.088
8-501               92.999
9-101               150.001
9-102               150.002
9-103               150.003
9-104               150.004
9-105               150.005
9-201               150.020
9-202               150.021
9-203               150.022
9-204               150.023
9-205               150.024
9-401               150.050
9-402               150.051
9-403               150.052
9-404               150.053
9-405               150.054
9-406               150.055
9-407               150.056
9-408               150.057
9-409               150.058
9-410               150.059
9-411               150.060
9-412               150.061
9-413               150.062
9-414               150.063
9-415               150.064
9-416               150.065
9-417               150.066
9-501               150.080
9-502               150.081
9-503               150.082
9-504               150.083
9-505               150.084
9-506               150.085
9-601               150.100
9-602               150.101
9-603               150.102
9-604               150.103
9-605               150.104
9-606               150.105
10-101              111.01
10-102              111.02
10-103              111.03
10-104              111.04
10-105              111.05
10-106              111.06
10-107              111.07
10-108              111.08
10-109              111.09
10-110              111.10
10-111              111.11
10-201              112.01
10-202              112.02
10-203              112.03
10-204              112.04
10-205              112.05
10-206              112.06
10-207              112.07
10-208              112.08
10-209              112.09
10-210              112.10
10-211              112.11
10-301              113.01
10-302              113.02
10-303              113.03
10-304              113.04
10-305              113.05
10-306              113.06
10-307              113.07
10-308              113.08
10-309              113.09
10-310              113.10
10-311              113.11
10-312              113.12
10-313              113.13
10-314              113.14
10-315              113.15
10-316              113.16
10-317              113.17
10-318              113.18
10-319              113.19
10-320              113.20
10-321              113.21
10-322              113.22
10-323              113.23
10-401              TSO, Table I
10-601              110.01
10-602              110.02
10-603              110.03
10-604              110.04
10-605              110.05
10-606              110.06
                    110.99,
10-701              111.99,
                    112.99,
                    113.99
                    110.99,
10-702              111.99,
                    112.99,
                    113.99
11-101              152.01
11-102              152.02
11-103              152.03
11-104              152.04
11-105              152.05
11-106              152.06
11-201              152.20
11-301              152.99
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
376      - -         35.02
319      10-10-2000  70.09
323      10-9-2001   150.001
328      11-13-2001  92.029
329      1-8-2002    150.020
332      2-20-2002   92.063,
                     92.064
333      11-12-2002  35.07
                     52.60 through
336      5-13-2003   52.62,
                     52.99
338      10-14-2003  150.035
342      6-8-2004    90.41
343      6-8-2004    92.072
344      6-8-2004    130.14
347      10-12-2004  54.01,
                     54.02
350      12-14-2004  90.42
                     131.01 through
356      6-13-2006   131.04,
                     131.99
365      4-8-2008    92.071
373      11-10-2009  71.04
377      2-9-2010    35.02
378      2-9-2010    35.02
379      2-9-2010    35.01
383      7-13-2010   150.36
384      9-14-2010   154.01
385      9-14-2010   153.01,
                     155.01
386      9-14-2010   155.01
387      9-14-2010   155.01
388      11-9-2010   155.01
389      11-9-2010   155.01
391      6-28-2011   91.25
392      7-19-2011   70.08,
                     70.99
406      11-12-2014  155.01
409      1-10-2017   155.01
412      1-9-2018    90.15
413      1-9-2018    90.16
414      2-27-2018   155.01
417      11-13-2018  90.34,
                     90.99
420      11-13-2018  90.40,
                     90.99
422      3-12-2019   71.06
423      3-12-2019   71.07
                     73.20 through
424      4-9-2019    73.25,
                     73.99
                     73.01 through
425      4-9-2019    73.06,
                     73.99
426      5-14-2019   71.06
427      5-14-2019   71.07,
                     71.99
428      8-13-2019   151.01
442      1-11-2022   TSO, Table I
443      7-12-2022   10.18
448      11-11-2022  154.01
449      11-11-2022  153.01,
                     155.01
450      12-13-2022  90.01
456      8-13-2024   90.50 through
                     90.52
                     114.01,
457      8-13-2024   114.02,
                     114.99
458      9-10-2024   71.08,
                     71.99
                    
 
